# § 412.508   Medical review requirements.

(a) *Admission and quality review.* A long-term care hospital must have an agreement with a QIO to have the QIO review, on an ongoing basis, the following: 


(1) The medical necessity, reasonableness, and appropriateness of hospital admissions and discharges. 


(2) The medical necessity, reasonableness, and appropriateness of inpatient hospital care for which additional payment is sought under the outlier provisions of §§ 412.523(d)(1) and 412.525(a). 


(3) The validity of the hospital's diagnostic and procedural information. 


(4) The completeness, adequacy, and quality of the services furnished in the hospital. 


(5) Other medical or other practices with respect to beneficiaries or billing for services furnished to beneficiaries.


(b) *Physician acknowledgement.* Payment under the long-term care hospital prospective payment system is based in part on each patient's principal and secondary diagnoses and major procedures performed, as evidenced by the physician's entries in the patient's medical record. The hospital must assure that physicians complete an acknowledgement statement to this effect in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section. 


(1) *Content of physician acknowledgement statement.* When a claim is submitted, the hospital must have on file a signed and dated acknowledgement from the attending physician that the physician has received the following notice: 


(2) *Completion of acknowledgement.* The acknowledgement must be completed by the physician at the time that the physician is granted admitting privileges at the hospital, or before or at the time the physician admits his or her first patient. Existing acknowledgements signed by physicians already on staff remain in effect as long as the physician has admitting privileges at the hospital. 


(c) *Denial of payment as a result of admissions and quality review.* (1) If CMS determines, on the basis of information supplied by a QIO, that a hospital has misrepresented admissions, discharges, or billing information, or has taken an action that results in the unnecessary admission or unnecessary multiple admissions of an individual entitled to benefits under Part A, or other inappropriate medical or other practices with respect to beneficiaries or billing for services furnished to beneficiaries, CMS may, as appropriate— 


(i) Deny payment (in whole or in part) under Part A with respect to inpatient hospital services provided for an unnecessary admission or subsequent readmission of an individual; or 


(ii) Require the hospital to take other corrective action necessary to prevent or correct the inappropriate practice. 


(2) When payment with respect to admission of an individual patient is denied by a QIO under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, and liability is not waived in accordance with §§ 411.400 through 411.402 of this chapter, notice and appeals are provided under procedures established by CMS to implement the provisions of section 1155 of the Act, Right to Hearing and Judicial Review. 


(3) A determination under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, if it is related to a pattern of inappropriate admissions and billing practices that has the effect of circumventing the prospective payment system, is referred to the Department's Office of Inspector General for handling in accordance with § 1001.201 of this title. 



---

[N] [67 FR 56049, Aug. 30, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 48140, Aug. 19, 2006]




