# § 1.444-3T   Manner and time of making section 444 election (temporary).

(a) *In general.* A section 444 election shall be made in the manner and at the time provided in this section.


(b) *Manner and time of making election*—(1) *General rule.* A section 444 election shall be made by filing a properly prepared Form 8716, “Election to Have a Tax Year Other Than a Required Tax Year,” with the Service Center indicated by the instructions to Form 8716. Except as provided in paragraphs (b) (2) and (4) of this section, Form 8716 must be filed by the earlier of—


(i) The 15th day of the fifth month following the month that includes the first day of the taxable year for which the election will first be effective, or


(ii) The due date (without regard to extensions) of the income tax return resulting from the section 444 election.


(2) *Special extension of time for making an election.* If, pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the due date for filing Form 8716 is prior to July 26, 1988, such date is extended to July 26, 1988. The provisions of this paragraph (b)(2) may be illustrated by the following examples.


(3) *Corporation electing to be an S corporation*—(i) *In general.* A corporation electing to be an S corporation is subject to the same time and manner rules for filing Form 8716 as any other taxpayer making a section 444 election. Thus, a corporation electing to be an S corporation that desires to make a section 444 election is not required to file Form 8716 with its Form 2553, “Election by a Small Business Corporation.” However, a corporation electing to be an S corporation after September 26, 1988, is required to state on Form 2553 its intention to—


(A) Make a section 444 election, if qualified, or


(B) Make a “back-up section 444 election” as described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.


(ii) *Examples.* The provisions of this paragraph (b)(3) may be illustrated by the following examples.


(4) *Back-up section 444 election*—(i) *General rule.* A taxpayer that has requested (or is planning to request) permission to use a particular taxable year based upon business purpose, may, if otherwise qualified, file a section 444 election (referred to as a “back-up section 444 election”). If the Commissioner subsequently denies the business purpose request, the taxpayer will, if otherwise qualified, be required to activate the back-up section 444 election. See examples (1) and (2) in paragraph (b)(4)(iv) of this section.


(ii) *Procedures for making a back-up section 444 election.* In addition to following the general rules provided in this section, a taxpayer making a back-up section 444 election should, in order to allow the Service to process the affected returns in an efficient manner, type or legibly print the words “BACK-UP ELECTION” at the top of Form 8716, “Election to Have a Tax Year Other Than a Required Tax Year.” However, if such Form 8716 is filed on or after the date a Form 1128, Application for Change in Accounting Period, is filed with respect to a period that begins on the same date, the words “FORM 1128 BACK-UP ELECTION” should be typed or legibly printed at the top of Form 8716.


(iii) *Procedures for activating a back-up section 444 election*—(A) *Partnerships and S corporations*—(*1*) *In general.* A back-up section 444 election made by a partnership or S corporation is activated by filing the return required in § 1.7519-2T (a)(2)(i) and making the payment required in § 1.7519-1T. The due date for filing such return and payment will be the later of—


(*i*) The due dates provided in § 1.7519-2T, or 


(*ii*) 60 days from the date the Commissioner denies the business purpose request. 


(*2*) *Special rule if Form 720 used to satisfy return requirement.* If, pursuant to § 1.7519-2T (a)(3), a partnership or S corporation must use Form 720, “Quarterly Federal Excise Tax Return,” to satisfy the return requirement of § 1.7519-2T (a)(2), then in addition to following the general rules provided in § 1.7519-2T, the partnership or S corporation must type or legibly print the words “ACTIVATING BACK-UP ELECTION” on the top of Form 720. A partnership or S corporation that would otherwise file a Form 720 on or before the date specified in paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(A)(*1*) of this section may satisfy the return requirement by including the necessary information on such Form 720. Alternatively, such partnership or S corporation may file an additional Form 720 (*i.e.,* a Form 720 separate from the Form 720 it would otherwise file). Thus, for example, if the due date for activating an S corporation's back-up election is November 15, 1988, and the S corporation must file a Form 720 by October 31, 1988, to report manufacturers excise tax for the third quarter of 1988, the S corporation may use that Form 720 to activate its back-up election. Alternatively, the S corporation may file its regular Form 720 that is due October 31, 1988, and file an additional Form 720 by November 15, 1988, activating its back-up election. 


(B) *Personal service corporations.* A back-up section 444 election made by a personal service corporation is activated by filing Form 8716 with the personal service corporation's original or amended income tax return for the taxable year in which the election is first effective, and typing or legibly printing the words—“ACTIVATING BACK-UP ELECTION” on the top of such income tax return. 


(iv) *Examples.* The provisions of this paragraph (b)(4) may be illustrated by the following examples. Also see Example 2 in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. 


(c) *Administrative relief*—(1) *Extension of time to file income tax returns*—(i) *Automatic extension.* If a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation makes a section 444 election (or does not make a section 444 election, either because it is ineligible or because it decides not to make the election, and therefore changes to its required taxable year) for its first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1986, the due date for filing its income tax return for such year shall be the later of— 


(A) The due date established under— 


(*1*) Section 6072, in the case of Form 1065, 


(*2*) § 1.6037-1 (b), in the case of Form 1120S, 


(*3*) Section 6072 (b), in the case of other Form 1120 series form; or 


(B) August 15, 1988. 


(ii) *Additional extensions.* If the due date of the income tax return for the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1986, extended as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(B) of this section, occurs before the date that is 6 months after the date specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A) of this section, the partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation may request an additional extension or extensions of time (up to 6 months after the date specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A) of this section) to file its income tax return for such first taxable year. The request must be made by the later of the date specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A) or (c)(1)(i)(B) of this section and must be made on Form 7004, “Application for Automatic Extension of Time To File Corporation Income Tax Return”, or Form 2758, “Application for Extension of Time to File U.S. Partnership, Fiduciary, and Certain Other Returns,” whichever is applicable, in accordance with the form and its instructions. In addition, the following words should be typed or legibly printed at the top of the form—“SECTION 444 REQUEST FOR ADDITIONAL EXTENSION.”


(iii) *Examples.* The provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples.


(2) *No penalty for certain late payments*—(i) *In general.* In the case of a personal service corporation or S corporation described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, no penalty under section 6651 (a)(2) will be imposed for failure to pay income tax (if any) for the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1986, but only for the period beginning with the last date for payment and ending with the later of the date specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i) or paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.


(ii) *Example.* The provisions of paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section may be illustrated by the following example.


(d) *Effective date.* This section is effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986.



---

[N] [T.D. 8205, 53 FR 19703, May 27, 1988]




