# ยง 434.601   General.

601.1 This subpart provides an alternative path for compliance with the standards that allow for greater flexibility in the design of energy efficient buildings using an annual energy use method. This path provides an opportunity for the use of innovative designs, materials, and equipment such as daylighting, passive solar heating, and heat recovery, that may not be adequately evaluated by methods found in subpart D. 


601.2 The Building Energy Compliance Alternative shall be used with subpart C and subpart D, 401.1, 401.2, 401.3.4 and in conjunction with the minimum requirements found in subsections 402.1, 402.2, and 402.3., 403.1, 403.2.1-7, 403.2.9 and 404. 


601.3 Compliance under this section is demonstrated by showing that the calculated annual energy usage for the Proposed Design is less than or equal to a calculated Energy Use Budget. (See Figure 601.3, Building Energy Compliance Alternative). The analytical procedures in this subpart are only for determining design compliance, and are not to be used either to predict, document or verify annual energy consumption. 


601.4 Compliance under the Building Energy Use Budget method requires a detailed energy analysis, using a conventional simulation tool, of the Proposed Design. A life cycle cost analysis shall be used to select the fuel source for the HVAC systems, service hot water, and process loads from available alternatives. The Annual Energy Consumption of the Proposed Design with the life cycle cost-effective fuel selection is calculated to determine the modeled energy consumption, called the Design Energy Use. 


601.5 The Design Energy Use is defined as the energy that is consumed within the five foot line of a proposed building per ft
2 over a 24-hour day, 365-day year period and specified operating hours. The calculated Design Energy Use is then compared to a calculated Energy Use Budget. 


601.6 *Compliance.* The Energy Use Budget is determined by calculating the annual energy usage for a Reference or Prototype Building that is configured to comply with the provisions of subpart E for such buildings, except that the fuel source(s) of the Prototype or Reference Building shall be the same life cycle cost-effective source(s) selected for the Proposed Design. If the Design Energy Use is less than or equal to the Energy Use Budget then the proposed design complies with these standards. 


601.7 This section provides instructions for determining the Design Energy Use and for calculating the Energy Use Budget. The Energy Use Budget is the highest allowable calculated annual energy consumption for a specified building design. Designers are encouraged to design buildings whose Design Energy Use is lower than the Energy Use Budget. 




