# § 42.10   Counsel.

(a) If a party is represented by counsel, the party must designate a lead counsel and at least one back-up counsel who can conduct business on behalf of the lead counsel. Lead counsel must be a registered practitioner. The Board may permit a party to proceed without back-up counsel upon a showing of good cause. A party may show good cause by demonstrating that it lacks the financial resources to retain both lead and back-up counsel.






(b) A power of attorney must be filed with the designation of counsel, except the patent owner should not file an additional power of attorney if the designated counsel is already counsel of record in the subject patent or application.


(c)(1) *Pro hac vice recognition of a person other than a registered practitioner.* The Board may recognize counsel *pro hac vice* during a proceeding upon a showing of good cause, subject to the condition that lead counsel be a registered practitioner and to any other conditions the Board may impose. For example, where the lead counsel is a registered practitioner, a motion to appear *pro hac vice* by counsel who is not a registered practitioner may be granted upon showing that counsel is an experienced litigating attorney and has an established legal familiarity with the subject matter at issue in the proceeding.


(2) *Pro hac vice recognition of provisionally recognized PTAB attorneys.* (i) Any counsel who is not a registered practitioner, who has been previously recognized *pro hac vice* in a Board proceeding, and who has not subsequently been denied permission to appear *pro hac vice* in a Board proceeding shall be considered a provisionally recognized PTAB attorney. Provisionally recognized PTAB attorneys shall be eligible for automatic *pro hac vice* admission in subsequent proceedings, subject to the following conditions.


(ii) If a party seeks to be represented in a proceeding by a provisionally recognized PTAB attorney, that party may file a notice of intent to designate a provisionally recognized PTAB attorney as back-up counsel. No fee is required for such a notice. The notice shall:


(A) Identify a registered practitioner who will serve as lead counsel, and


(B) Be accompanied by a certification in the form of a declaration or affidavit in which the provisionally recognized PTAB attorney attests to satisfying all requirements set forth by the Board for *pro hac vice* recognition of a provisionally recognized PTAB attorney and agrees to be subject to the USPTO Rules of Professional Conduct set forth in §§ 11.101 *et seq.* of this chapter and disciplinary jurisdiction under § 11.19(a) of this chapter.


(iii) Any objection shall be filed by a party within five business days after the filing of the notice. If an objection is not filed within five business days, the provisionally recognized PTAB attorney shall be deemed admitted *pro hac vice* in that proceeding upon filing of updated mandatory notices identifying that counsel as counsel of record. If an objection is filed by a party within 5 business days, unless the Board orders otherwise within 10 business days after the objection is filed, the provisionally recognized PTAB attorney shall be deemed admitted *pro hac vice* after updated mandatory notices identifying that counsel as counsel of record are then filed.


(iv) If a provisionally recognized PTAB attorney is unable to satisfy any of the requirements set forth by the Board, or is unable to make any of the required attestations under oath, this procedure is not available, and *pro hac vice* recognition must instead be sought under the process set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(3) *Continuing duty of persons recognized pro hac vice.* For the entire duration of any proceeding in which counsel who is not a registered practitioner is recognized *pro hac vice* pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section, the counsel who is not a registered practitioner has a continuing duty to notify the Board in writing within five business days if:


(i) The counsel who is not a registered practitioner is sanctioned, cited for contempt, suspended, disbarred, or denied admission by any court or administrative agency;


(ii) The counsel who is not a registered practitioner no longer qualifies as a member in good standing of the Bar of at least one State or the District of Columbia; or


(iii) Any other event occurs that renders materially inaccurate or incomplete any representation that was made to the Board in connection with the request for *pro hac vice* recognition, provided, however, that counsel who is not a registered practitioner is not required to inform the Board of subsequent applications for *pro hac vice* recognition unless such an application is denied.










(d) A panel of the Board may disqualify counsel for cause after notice and opportunity for hearing. A decision to disqualify is not final for the purposes of judicial review until certified by the Chief Administrative Patent Judge.


(e) Counsel may not withdraw from a proceeding before the Board unless the Board authorizes such withdrawal.



---

[N] [77 FR 48669, Aug. 14, 2012, as amended at 80 FR 28565, May 19, 2015; 89 FR 82178, Oct. 10, 2024]








