# § 1.1092(b)-6   Mixed straddles; accrued gain and loss associated with a position that becomes part of a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle that is established after August 18, 2014.

(a) *Treatment of unrealized gain or loss that arose before a position becomes part of an identified mixed straddle.* Except as otherwise provided, if one or more positions of a straddle that is an identified mixed straddle described in section 1092(b)(2)(A)(i)(I) (identified mixed straddle) were held by the taxpayer on the day prior to the day the identified mixed straddle is established, any unrealized gain or loss on the day prior to the day the identified mixed straddle is established with respect to such position or positions is taken into account at the time, and has the character, provided by the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code that would apply to the gain or loss if the identified mixed straddle were not established. Thus, if a non-section 1256 capital asset was held for the long-term capital gain holding period before the identified mixed straddle was established, any unrealized gain or loss on that asset on the day prior to the day the identified mixed straddle was established will be long-term capital gain or loss when that asset is sold or otherwise disposed of in a taxable transaction. Unrealized gain or loss on a section 1256 contract that accrued prior to the day the contract became part of an identified mixed straddle will be recognized no later than the last business day of the taxpayer's taxable year. For each position, unrealized gain or loss is the difference between the fair market value of the position at the close of the day before the day the identified mixed straddle is established and the taxpayer's basis in that position. See § 1.1092(b)-2T and paragraph (b) of this section for the treatment of holding periods with respect to such positions. Changes in value of the position or positions that occur on or after the identified mixed straddle is established are accounted for under the provisions of § 1.1092(b)-3T (other than § 1.1092(b)-3T(b)(6)). The definitions in § 1.1092(b)-5T apply for purposes of this section.


(b) *Holding period after a position becomes part of an identified mixed straddle.* Section 1.1092(b)-2T(a)(1) applies to any position that becomes part of an identified mixed straddle, and the long-term or short-term character of any gain or loss on that position that arises on or after the day the position has become a position in an identified mixed straddle will be determined by beginning the taxpayer's holding period on the day after the identified mixed straddle ceases to exist.


(c) *Application of the loss deferral rules of section 1092(a).* When applying section 1092(a) and § 1.1092(b)-3T(b) (other than § 1.1092(b)-3T(b)(6)) to any loss that arises while a position is part of an identified mixed straddle, the amount of unrecognized gain includes both unrecognized gains described in paragraph (a) of this section that accrued prior to the day the identified mixed straddle is established and unrecognized gains that arise on or after the day the identified mixed straddle identification was made for the position.


(d) *Examples.* The rules of this section may be illustrated by the following examples. It is assumed in each example that the positions described are the only positions held directly or indirectly (through a related person or flowthrough entity) by an individual calendar year taxpayer during the taxable year, and no successor positions are acquired or entered into. It is also assumed that gain or loss recognized on any position in the straddle would be capital gain or loss. The following examples assume that the identified mixed straddle is established after the applicability date of this section.


(e) *Effective/applicability date.* The rules of this section apply to all section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddles established after August 18, 2014.



---

[N] [T.D. 9678, 79 FR 41888, July 18, 2014]




