# § 660.604   Vessel and first receiver responsibilities.

(a) *General.* This section lays out the requirements for catcher vessels to obtain an exemption to use EM in place of 100-percent observer coverage required by the Shorebased IFQ Program (§ 660.140(h)(1)(i)) and MS Co-op Program (§ 660.150(j)(1)(i)(B)). Requirements are also described for first receivers receiving landings from EM trips.


(b) *Vessel owner responsibilities.* To use EM under this section, vessel owners must:


(1) Obtain an EM Authorization from the NMFS West Coast Region Fisheries Permit Office (*see* § 660.604(e));


(2) Install an EM system using a NMFS-permitted EM service provider that meets performance standards under § 660.604(j);


(3) Have a signed EM system certification form (*see* § 660.604(e)(3)(i));


(4) Have a NMFS-accepted vessel monitoring plan (*see* § 660.604(e)(3)(iii));


(5) Ensure that the vessel operator attends a mandatory EM orientation session provided by the NMFS West Coast Region EM Program (NMFS may waive this requirement on a case-by-case basis, such as when the vessel operator has prior EM experience);


(6) Maintain logbooks and other records for three years and provide them to NMFS or authorized officers for inspection (*see* § 660.604(t)).


(7) Obtain EM data processing, reporting, and recordkeeping services from a NMFS-permitted EM service provider (*see* § 660.604(k)).


(c) *Vessel operator responsibilities.* To use EM under this section, vessel operators must:


(1) Maintain a valid EM Authorization and NMFS-accepted vessel monitoring plan onboard the vessel at all times that the vessel is fishing on an EM trip or when fish harvested during an EM trip are onboard the vessel;


(2) Ensure that the EM system is installed, operated, and maintained consistent with performance standards (*see* § 660.604(l));


(3) Comply with a NMFS-accepted vessel monitoring plan (*see* § 660.604(e)(3)(iii);


(4) Make declaration reports to OLE prior to leaving port (*see* § 660.604(m));


(5) Provide advance notice to the NMFS WCGOP at least 48 hours prior to departing port (*see* § 660.604(n));


(6) Comply with observer requirements, if NMFS notifies the vessel owner, operator, or manager that the vessel is required to carry an observer (*see* § 660.604(n));


(7) Ensure retention and handling of all catch as provided under §§ 660.604(p) and 660.604(r); and


(8) Comply with recordkeeping, reporting, and inspection requirements (*see* §§ 660.604(o), (s) and (t)).


(d) *First receiver responsibilities.* First receivers receiving catch from trips taken under EM must follow special disposition and sorting requirements for prohibited and protected species (*see* § 660.604(u)).


(e) *Electronic Monitoring (EM) Authorization.* To obtain an EM Authorization, a vessel owner must submit an initial application to the NMFS West Coast Region Fisheries Permit Office, and then a final application that includes an EM system certification and a vessel monitoring plan (VMP). NMFS will only review complete applications. NMFS will issue a public notice at least 90 calendar days prior to when it will begin accepting applications for EM Authorizations for the first year of the Program. Once NMFS begins accepting applications, vessel owners that want to have their EM Authorizations effective for January 1 of the following calendar year must submit their complete application to NMFS by October 1. Vessel owners that want to have their EM Authorizations effective for the primary whiting season start date must submit their complete application to NMFS by February 1 of the same year.


(1) *Initial application.* To be considered for an EM Authorization, the vessel owner must:


(i) Submit a completed application form provided by NMFS, signed and dated by an authorized representative of the vessel;


(ii) Meet the following eligibility criteria:


(A) The applicant owns the vessel proposed to be used;


(B) The vessel has a valid Pacific Coast Groundfish limited entry, trawl-endorsed permit registered to it;


(C) The vessel is participating in the Pacific whiting IFQ fishery, mothership sector, or the Shorebased IFQ sector;


(D) The vessel is able to accommodate the EM system, including providing sufficient uninterrupted electrical power, suitable camera mounts, adequate lighting, and fittings for hydraulic lines to enable connection of a pressure transducer;


(E) The vessel owner and operator are willing and able to comply with all applicable requirements of this section and to operate under a NMFS-accepted VMP; and


(F) The vessel owner and operator are willing and able to comply with the terms and conditions of a self-enforcing agreement that was submitted as part of a group authorization application, if applicable.


(iii) If applying for a group EM Authorization, submit a complete proposed self-enforcing agreement that describes how the group's operations will be conducted to meet the requirements of this section. NMFS will develop EM Program Guidelines containing best practices and templates and make them available on NMFS's website to assist vessel owners in developing a self-enforcing agreement. The self-enforcing agreement must include descriptions of the following:


(A) A list of all participating vessels, owners, operators, and other parties;


(B) The name and contact information of a designated representative who will be responsible for ensuring that each vessel is complying with the terms and conditions of the agreement and the requirements of this section, and who will promptly inform the appropriate parties and NMFS if any vessel fails to comply;


(C) Eligibility criteria for participating vessels, owners, and operators;


(D) The roles and responsibilities of participating vessels, owners, operators, the designated representative, and any other parties to the agreement;


(E) Procedures for communication between participating vessels, owners, operators, the designated representative, and any other parties to the agreement, NMFS or its designated agent, and EM service providers, for the execution of the agreement and the requirements of this section;


(F) Performance standards or requirements for equipment, if applicable;


(G) Reporting requirements, if applicable;


(H) Time and area restrictions, if applicable;


(I) Provisions for the use and protection of confidential data necessary for execution of the agreement;


(J) Provisions to encourage or enforce the compliance of members with the agreement and the requirements of this section;


(K) Procedures for addressing the non-compliance of members with the agreement and the requirements of this section, including procedures for restricting or terminating vessel's participation in the agreement;


(L) Procedures for notifying NMFS when a participating vessel or its owner(s) or operator(s) are not complying with the terms of the agreement or the requirements of this section;


(M) Procedures for participating vessels, owners, operators, the designated representative, or other parties to the agreement, to exit the agreement;


(N) Any other provisions that the applicants deem necessary for the execution of the agreement; and


(O) Procedures for the designated representative to submit an annual report to the Council prior to applying to renew a group EM authorization containing information about the group's performance from the previous year, including a description of any actions taken by the self-enforcing group in response to the non-compliance of members with the agreement.


(2) *Review of initial application.* Based on a complete initial application, if NMFS determines that the applicant meets the eligibility criteria in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, NMFS will notify the applicant in writing that the initial application has been accepted for further consideration. An applicant who receives such notice may install an EM system on his or her vessel and proceed with submission of a final application as provided under paragraph (e)(3) of this section. If an initial application has not been accepted, NMFS will provide the applicant an explanation of the denial in writing. The applicant may appeal NMFS' determination following the process at § 660.25(g).


(3) *Final application.* A final application must be complete and must include:


(i) *EM system certification.* A certification form, provided by NMFS, signed by a representative of a NMFS-permitted EM service provider that attests that an EM system and associated equipment that meets the performance standards at paragraph (k) of this section was installed on the vessel, that the system was tested while the vessel was underway, and that the vessel operator was briefed on the EM system operation and maintenance. NMFS will maintain a list of permitted EM service providers on its website.


(ii) *Tentative fishing plan.* A description of the vessel owner's fishing plans for the year, including which fishery the vessel owner plans to participate in, from what ports, and when the vessel owner intends to use EM and observers. This information is for purposes of planning observer deployments and is not binding.


(iii) *Vessel monitoring plan.* A complete vessel monitoring plan for the vessel that accurately describes how fishing operations on the vessel will be conducted and how the EM system and associated equipment will be configured to meet the performance standards at paragraph (k) of this section. NMFS will develop EM Program Guidelines containing best practices and templates and make them available on NMFS' website to assist vessel owners in developing VMPs (*see* § 660.600(b)). NMFS may consider alternative, but equivalent, methods proposed by EM service providers and vessel owners in their plans to meet the requirements of this subpart, if they achieve the purpose of the EM program. An EM service provider may prepare and submit a VMP on behalf of the applicant. The VMP must include descriptions of the following (using pictures and diagrams where appropriate):


(A) General vessel information including the vessel name, hull number, gear type(s), home port, captain name, and target fishery or sector;


(B) The coordinates of the home port box, if a geo-referenced port box will be used to trigger data collection;


(C) A diagram of the vessel layout with measurements of the deck and denoting the location of any designated discard control points;


(D) The number and location of cameras and with images of corresponding views;


(E) The location of lighting, control center, GPS, sensors, monitor, and other EM equipment;


(F) Frame rates, image resolution, frequency of data logging, sensor trigger threshold values, and other EM system specifications;


(G) The location and procedures for any catch handling, including designated discard control points within camera view, procedures for sorting and measuring discards, the number of crew sorting catch, and what steps will be taken to ensure that all catch remains in camera view;


(H) The measurements of all bins, baskets, compartments, and other tools that will be used to calculate estimates of weight;


(I) The detailed steps that will be taken to minimize the potential for EM system malfunctions and the steps that will be taken, when malfunctions occur, to ensure the adequate monitoring of catch;


(J) The name, address, phone number, and email address of a primary point of contact for vessel operations;


(K) The name, address, and phone number of the vessel's EM service provider, and contact information for a primary point of contact at the EM service provider;


(L) The name, address, phone number, and signature of the applicant, and the date of the application; and,


(M) Any other information required by NMFS.


(iv) Any updates to information submitted in the initial application, including updates to proposed, self-enforcing agreements, if applicable (*see* paragraph (e)(5) of this section).


(4) *Review of final application.* NMFS may request additional information or revisions from the applicant until NMFS is satisfied that the application is complete. Based on a complete application, if NMFS determines that the applicant has met the requirements of this section, NMFS will issue an IAD and an EM Authorization. If the application is denied, the IAD will provide an explanation of the denial in writing. The applicant may appeal NMFS' determination following the process at § 660.25(g). NMFS will evaluate an application based on the EM Program Guidelines (*see* § 660.600(b)) and the following criteria, at a minimum:


(i) Review of the vessel owner's and operator's eligibility based on the eligibility criteria at paragraph (e)(1);


(ii) Review of the proposed VMP; and,


(iii) Review of the proposed self-enforcing agreement, if applicable.


(f) *Changes to a NMFS-accepted VMP or NMFS-approved self-enforcing agreement.* A vessel owner may make changes to a NMFS-accepted VMP by submitting a revised plan or plan addendum to NMFS in writing. A group may make changes to an approved self-enforcing agreement by submitting a revised agreement or agreement addendum to NMFS in writing. NMFS will review and accept the change if it meets all the requirements of this section. A VMP or self-enforcing agreement addendum must contain:


(1) The date and the name and signature of the vessel owner, or designated representative for a self-enforcing agreement;


(2) Address, telephone number, fax number and email address of the person submitting the revised plan or addendum; and


(3) A complete description of the proposed change.


(g) *Change in ownership of a vessel.* If a vessel changed ownership, the new owner must apply for a new EM Authorization.


(h) *Effective dates.* (1) The EM Authorization is valid from the effective date identified on the Authorization until the expiration date of December 31. EM Authorization holders must renew annually by following the renewal process specified in paragraph (e) of this section. Failure to renew annually will result in expiration of the EM Authorization and endorsements on the Authorization expiration date.


(2) NMFS may invalidate an EM Authorization if NMFS determines that the vessel, vessel owner, and/or operator no longer meets the eligibility criteria specified at paragraph (e)(1) of this section. NMFS would first notify the vessel owner of the deficiencies in writing and the vessel owner must correct the deficiencies following the instructions provided. If the deficiencies are not resolved upon review of the first trip following the notification, NMFS will notify the vessel owner in writing that the EM Authorization is invalid and that the vessel is no longer exempt from observer coverage at §§ 660.140(h)(1)(i) and 660.150(j)(1)(i)(B) for that authorization period. The holder may reapply for an EM Authorization for the following authorization period.


(3) A vessel owner holding an expired or invalidated authorization may reapply for a new EM Authorization at any time consistent with paragraph (e) of this section.


(i) *Renewing an EM Authorization.* To maintain a valid EM Authorization, vessel owners must renew annually prior to the permit expiration date. NMFS will mail EM Authorization renewal forms to existing EM Authorization holders each year on or about: September 1 for non-trawl shorebased IFQ vessels and January 1 for Pacific whiting IFQ and MS/CV vessels. Vessel owners who want to have their EM Authorizations effective for January 1 of the following calendar year must submit their complete renewal form to NMFS by October 15. Vessel owners who want to have their EM Authorizations effective for the primary whiting season start date of the following calendar year must submit their complete renewal form to NMFS by February 1.


(j) *EM System Performance Standards.* The specifications (*e.g.,* image resolution, frame rate, user interface) and configuration of an EM system and associated equipment (*e.g.,* number and placement of cameras, lighting) used to meet the requirements of this section must be sufficient to:


(1) Allow easy and complete viewing, identification, and quantification, of catch items discarded at sea, including during low light conditions;


(2) Continuously record vessel location (latitude/longitude coordinates), velocity, course, and sensor data (*i.e,* hydraulic and winch activity);


(3) Allow the identification of the time, date, and location of a haul/set or discard event;


(4) Record and store image data from all hauls/sets and the duration that fish are onboard the vessel until offloading begins;


(5) Continuously record and store raw sensor data (*i.e.,* GPS and gear sensors) for the entire fishing trip;


(6) Prevent radio frequency interference (RFI) with vessel monitoring systems (VMS) and other equipment;


(7) Allow the vessel operator to test and monitor the functionality of the EM system prior to and during the fishing trip to ensure it is fully functional;


(8) Prevent tampering or, if tampering does occur, show evidence of tampering; and,


(9) Provide image and sensor data in a format that enables their integration for analysis.


(k) *EM data services.* A vessel owner with a valid EM Authorization must obtain EM data processing, reporting, and record retention services from a NMFS-permitted EM service provider, as described at § 660.603(m). If the vessel owner changes EM service providers, the vessel owner must ensure the continuity of EM data retention for the entire duration of the required retention period as specified § 660.603(m)(6). NMFS will maintain a list of permitted EM service providers on its website.


(l)* EM system operation and maintenance.* The EM system must be recording imagery and sensor data at all times that fish harvested during an EM trip are onboard the vessel until offloading begins. For the purposes of this section, a fully functional EM system is defined as an EM system and associated equipment that meets the performance standards listed in paragraph (j) of this section.


(1) *Duties of care.* The operator of a vessel with a valid EM Authorization must maintain the EM system in good working order, including:


(i) Ensuring the EM system is powered continuously during the fishing trip;


(ii) Ensuring the system is functioning for the entire fishing trip and that camera views are unobstructed and clear in quality, such that the performance standards listed in paragraph (j) of this section are met; and,


(iii) Ensuring EM system components are not tampered with, disabled, destroyed, operated or maintained improperly.


(2) *Pre-departure test.* Prior to departing port, the operator of a vessel with a valid EM Authorization must turn the EM system on and conduct a system function test following the instructions from the EM service provider. The vessel operator must verify that the EM system has adequate memory to record the entire trip and that the vessel is carrying one or more spare hard drives with sufficient capacity to record the entire trip.


(3) *EM system malfunctions.* The operator of a vessel with a valid EM Authorization is prohibited from fishing on an EM trip without a fully functional EM system, unless an alternate arrangement has been specified in the NMFS-accepted VMP. In the event of an EM system malfunction, the vessel operator may voluntarily obtain observer coverage and revise the vessel's declaration following the process at § 660.13(d)(4), in which case the vessel operator is no longer exempt from the observer requirements at §§ 660.140(h) and 660.150(j).


(m) *Declaration reports.* The operator of a vessel with a valid EM Authorization must make a declaration report to NMFS OLE prior to leaving port following the process described at § 660.13(d)(4). A declaration report will be valid until another declaration report revising the existing gear or monitoring declaration is received by NMFS OLE.


(n) *Observer requirements.* The operator of a vessel with a valid EM Authorization must provide advanced notice to NMFS, at least 48 hours prior to departing port, of the vessel operator's intent to take a trip under EM, including: vessel name, permit number; contact name and telephone number for coordination of observer deployment; date, time, and port of departure; and the vessel's trip plan, including area to be fished, gear type to be used, and whether the vessel will use maximized or optimized retention rules for the trip as defined at paragraphs (p)(3) and (4) of this section. NMFS may waive this requirement for vessels declared into the Pacific whiting IFQ fishery or mothership sector with prior notice. If NMFS notifies the vessel owner, operator, or manager of any requirement to carry an observer, the vessel may not be used to fish for groundfish without carrying an observer. The vessel operator must comply with the following requirements on a trip that the vessel owner, operator, or manager has been notified is required to carry an observer.


(o) *Inspection.* The operator of a vessel with a valid EM Authorization must make the EM system and associated equipment available for inspection immediately upon request by NMFS or any authorized officer.


(p) *Retention requirements*—(1) *Pacific whiting IFQ and MS/CV vessels.* The operator of a vessel on a declared limited entry midwater trawl, Pacific whiting shorebased IFQ trip or limited entry midwater trawl, Pacific whiting mothership sector (catcher vessel or mothership) trip, EM trip must retain all fish until landing, with exceptions listed in paragraphs (p)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) Minor operational discards are permitted. Minor operational discards include mutilated fish; fish vented from an overfull codend, fish spilled from the codend during preparation for transfer to the mothership; and fish removed from the deck and fishing gear during cleaning. Minor operational discards do not include discards that result when more catch is taken than is necessary to fill the hold or catch from a tow that is not delivered.


(ii) Large individual marine organisms (*i.e.,* all marine mammals, sea turtles, and non-ESA-listed seabirds, and fish species longer than 6 ft (1.8 m) in length) may be discarded. For any ESA-listed seabirds that are brought on board, vessel operators must follow any relevant instructions for handling and disposition under § 660.21(c)(1)(v).


(iii) Crabs, starfish, coral, sponges, and other invertebrates may be discarded.


(iv) Trash, mud, rocks, and other inorganic debris may be discarded.


(v) A discard that is the result of an event that is beyond the control of the vessel operator or crew, such as a safety issue or mechanical failure, is permitted.


(2) *Non-trawl shorebased IFQ.* A vessel operator on a declared limited entry groundfish non-trawl, shorebased IFQ trip must retain all salmon and must discard Dungeness crab caught seaward of Washington or Oregon, Pacific halibut, green sturgeon, eulachon, sea turtles, and marine mammals. All other catch may be discarded following instructions in the VMP, except as required by the Seabird Avoidance Program at § 660.21(c)(1)(v).


(3) *Maximized retention bottom trawl and non-whiting midwater trawl trips.* A vessel operator on a declared maximized retention trip using bottom trawl gear, or midwater trawl gear in which Pacific whiting constitutes less than 50 percent of the catch by weight at landing, the vessel must not sort catch at sea and must retain all catch until landing, with exceptions listed below in paragraphs (p)(3)(i) through (v) of this section. All discards must be discarded following instructions in the VMP per paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section. All discards, regardless of the source, must be reported in a discard logbook, as defined at § 660.604(s)(1), including the species (where possible), estimated weight, and reason for discard. The vessel operator is responsible for ensuring that all catch is handled in a manner that enables the EM system to record it.


(i) Minor operational discards are permitted. Minor operational discards include mutilated fish; fish vented from an overfull codend; and fish removed from the deck and fishing gear during cleaning. Minor operational discards do not include discards that result when more catch is taken than is necessary to fill the hold or catch from a tow that is not delivered.


(ii) Large individual marine organisms (*i.e.,* all marine mammals, sea turtles, and non-ESA-listed seabirds, and fish species longer than 6 ft (1.8 m) in length) may be discarded. For any ESA-listed seabirds that are brought on board, vessel operators must follow any relevant instructions for handling and disposition under § 660.21(c)(1)(v).


(iii) Crabs, starfish, coral, sponges, and other invertebrates may be discarded.


(iv) Trash, mud, rocks, and other inorganic debris may be discarded.


(v) A discard that is the result of an event that is beyond the control of the vessel operator or crew, such as a safety issue or mechanical failure, is permitted.


(4) *Optimized retention bottom trawl and non-whiting midwater trawl trips.* On a declared optimized retention trip using bottom trawl gear, or midwater trawl gear in which Pacific whiting constitutes less than 50 percent of the catch by weight at landing, the vessel owner and operator are responsible for the following:


(i) The vessel must retain IFQ species (as defined at § 660.140(c)), except for Arrowtooth flounder, English sole, Dover sole, deep sea sole, Pacific sanddab, Pacific whiting, lingcod, sablefish, starry flounder, and rex sole; must retain salmon and eulachon; and must retain the following non-IFQ species: Greenland turbot, slender sole, hybrid sole, c-o sole, bigmouth sole, fantail sole, hornyhead turbot, spotted turbot, northern rockfish, black rockfish, blue rockfish, shortbelly rockfish, olive rockfish, Puget Sound rockfish, semaphore rockfish, walleye pollock, slender codling, and Pacific tom cod, with exceptions listed in paragraphs (p)(4)(i)(A) and (B) of this section.


(B) A discard that is the result of an event that is beyond the control of the vessel operator or crew, such as a safety issue or mechanical failure, is permitted.


(ii) The vessel must discard Pacific halibut, green sturgeon, California halibut (except as allowed by state regulations), and nearshore groundfish species below state commercial minimum size limits, following instructions in the NMFS-accepted VMP.


(iii) Incidentally caught marine mammals, non-ESA-listed seabirds, sea turtles, other ESA-listed fish, and Dungeness crab caught seaward of Washington or Oregon or south of Point Reyes, California, as described at § 660.11 *Prohibited species,* must be discarded following instructions in the NMFS-accepted VMP per paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section. For any ESA-listed seabirds that are brought on board, vessel operators must follow any relevant instructions for handling and disposition under § 660.21(c)(1)(v).


(iv) Crabs, starfish, coral, sponges, and other invertebrates may be discarded.


(v) Trash, mud, rocks, and other inorganic debris may be discarded.


(vi) All discards must be discarded following instructions in the VMP per paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section. All discards, regardless of the source, must be reported in a discard logbook, as defined at § 660.604(s)(1), including the species (where possible), estimated weight, and reason for discard. The vessel operator is responsible for ensuring that all catch is handled in a manner that enables the EM system to record it.


(q) *Changes to retention requirements.* NMFS may specify alternate retention requirements in a NMFS-accepted VMP through the process described in paragraph (f) of this section, after consultation with the Council and issuance of a public notice notifying the public of the changes. Alternate retention requirements must be sufficient to provide NMFS with the best available information to determine individual accountability for catch, including discards, of IFQ species and compliance with requirements of the Shorebased IFQ Program (§ 660.140) and MS Co-op Program (§ 660.150).


(r) *Catch handling.* The vessel operator of a vessel on an EM trip must ensure that all catch is handled in a manner that enables the EM system to record it and that is consistent with the specific catch handling instructions in the NMFS-accepted VMP.


(s) *Reporting requirements*—(1) *Discard logbook.* The operator of a vessel with a valid EM Authorization must complete, submit, and maintain onboard the vessel an accurate federal discard logbook for each EM trip on forms supplied by or approved by NMFS. If authorized in writing by NMFS, a vessel owner or operator may submit reports electronically, for example by using a VMS or other media. A state logbook that contains all the required information may be submitted in place of a federal discard logbook. If operating an MS/CV vessel, the vessel operator must provide logbook information to the mothership observer by transmitting the logbook information via radio or email to the mothership at the completion of each haul.


(2) *Submission of logbooks.* Vessel operators must submit copies of the discard logbooks as described at § 660.604(s)(1) and if applicable, the trawl logbook as described at § 660.13 (a)(1), to the vessel owner's contracted EM service provider and to NMFS or its agent within 24 hours of the end of each EM trip.


(3) *Submission of EM data.* Vessel operators must submit EM data to the vessel owner's contracted EM service provider using a method that documents time, date, and location of transmission and receipt. Deadlines for submission are as follows:


(i) *Shorebased IFQ vessels.* EM data from an EM trip must be submitted within 72 hours after the beginning of the offload (and no more than 10 days after the end of the first trip on the hard drive).


(ii) *Mothership catcher vessels.* EM data from an EM trip must be submitted within 72 hours of the catcher vessel's return to port.


(t) *Retention of records.* The operator of a vessel with a valid EM Authorization must maintain federal discard logbooks onboard the vessel until the end of the fishing year during which the EM trips were conducted, and make the report forms available to observers, NMFS staff, or authorized officers, immediately upon request. The vessel owner must maintain the federal discard logbooks and other records specified in this section, or used in the preparation of records or reports specified in this section or corrections to these reports, for a period of not less than three years after the date of landing from an EM trip. The vessel owner must make such records available for inspection by NMFS staff or authorized officers, immediately upon request.


(u) *First receiver requirements*—(1) *Prohibited species handling and disposition.* To ensure compliance with fishery regulations at 50 CFR part 300, subparts E and F, and part 600, subpart H; with the Pacific Salmon Fishery Management Plan; and with the Pacific Halibut Catch Share Plan; the handling and disposition of all prohibited species in EM trip landings are the responsibility of the first receiver and must be consistent with the following requirements:


(i) Any prohibited species landed at first receivers must not be transferred, processed, or mixed with another landing until the catch monitor has: Recorded the number and weight of salmon by species; inspected all prohibited species for tags or marks; and, collected biological data, specimens, and genetic samples.


(ii) No part of any prohibited species may be retained for personal use by a vessel owner or crew member, or by a first receiver or processing crew member. No part of any prohibited species may be allowed to reach commercial markets.


(iii) Prohibited species suitable for human consumption at landing must be handled and stored to preserve the quality. Priority in disposition must be given to the donation to surplus food collection and distribution system operated and established to assist in bringing donated food to nonprofit charitable organizations and individuals for the purpose of reducing hunger and meeting nutritional needs.


(iv) The first receiver must report all prohibited species landings on the electronic fish ticket and is responsible for maintaining records verifying the disposition of prohibited species. Records on catch disposition may include, but are not limited to: Receipts from charitable organizations that include the organization's name and amount of catch donated; cargo manifests setting forth the origin, weight, and destination of all prohibited species; or disposal receipts identifying the recipient organization and amount disposed. Any such records must be maintained for a period not less than three years after the date of disposal and such records must be provided to NMFS or authorized officers immediately upon request.


(2) *Protected Species handling and disposition.* All protected species must be abandoned to NMFS or the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service or disposed of consistent with paragraphs (u)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. No part of any protected species may be retained for personal use by a vessel owner or crew member, or by a first receiver or processing crew member. No part of any protected species may be allowed to reach commercial markets.


(i) *Eulachon and green sturgeon.* Must be sorted and reported by species on electronic fish tickets and state landing receipts and may not be reported in unspecified categories. Whole body specimens of green sturgeon must be retained, frozen, stored separately by delivery, and labeled with the vessel name, electronic fish ticket number, and date of landing. Arrangements for transferring the specimens must be made by contacting NMFS Southwest Fisheries Science Center at 831-420-3903 within 72 hours after the completion of the offload.


(ii) *Seabirds, marine mammals, and sea turtles.* Albatross must reported to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (541-867-4558 extension 237 or 503-231-6179 as soon as possible and directions for surrendering must be followed. Marine mammals and sea turtles must be reported to NMFS as soon as possible (206-526-6550) and directions for surrendering or disposal must be followed. Whole body specimens must be labeled with the vessel name, electronic fish ticket number, and date of landing. Whole body specimens must be kept frozen or on ice until arrangements for surrendering or disposing are completed. Unless directed otherwise, after reporting is completed, seabirds, marine mammals, and sea turtles may be disposed by incinerating, rendering, composting, or returning the carcasses to sea.



---

[N] [84 FR 31160, June 28, 2019; 84 FR 36035, July 26, 2019, as amended at 84 FR 67680, Dec. 11, 2019; 85 FR 74614, Nov. 23, 2020; 86 FR 55527, Oct. 6, 2021; 87 FR 59714, Oct. 3, 2022; 87 FR 77007, Dec. 16, 2022; 88 FR 81358, Nov. 22, 2023; 89 FR 101544, Dec. 16, 2024]




