# ยง 161.006-6   Procedure for approval.

(a) *General.* Motor lifeboat searchlights are approved only by the Commandant (CG-ENG-4), Attn: Lifesaving and Fire Safety Division, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7509, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20593-7509. Correspondence relating to the subject matter of this specification shall be addressed to the Commander of the Coast Guard District in which the factory is located.


(b) *Manufacturer's plans and specifications.* In order to obtain approval of motor lifeboat searchlights, submit detailed plans and specifications, including a complete bill of material, assembly drawings, and parts drawings descriptive of the arrangement and construction of the device, to the Commander of the Coast Guard District in which the factory is located. Each drawing shall have an identifying drawing number, date, and an identification of the device; and the general arrangement for assembly drawing shall include a list of all drawings applicable, together with drawing numbers and alteration numbers. The manufacturer will be advised whether or not the drawings and specifications appear satisfactory or what corrections appear necessary and then he may proceed with the construction of the pre-approval sample in accordance therewith. The pre-approval sample, together with four copies of the plans and specifications corrected as may be required, shall be forwarded to the Commandant via the Commander of the Coast Guard District in which the factory is located for inspection and tests. The cost of the tests is to be borne by the manufacturer.



---

[N] [CGFR 49-43, 15 FR 127, Jan. 11, 1950, as amended by USCG-2013-0671, 78 FR 60160, Sept. 30, 2013]




