# § 488.450   Continuation of payments to a facility with deficiencies.

(a) *Criteria.* (1) CMS may continue payments to a facility not in substantial compliance for the periods specified in paragraph (c) of this section if the following criteria are met: 


(i) The State survey agency finds that it is more appropriate to impose alternative remedies than to terminate the facility; 


(ii) The State has submitted a plan and timetable for corrective action approved by CMS; and 


(iii) The facility, in the case of a Medicare SNF, or the State, in the case of a Medicaid NF, agrees to repay the Federal government payments received under this provision if corrective action is not taken in accordance with the approved plan and timetable for corrective action. 


(2) CMS or the State may terminate the SNF or NF agreement before the end of the correction period if the criteria in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are not met. 


(b) *Cessation of payments.* If termination is not sought, either by itself or along with another remedy or remedies, or any of the criteria set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are not met or agreed to by either the facility or the State, the facility or State will receive no Medicare or Federal Medicaid payments, as applicable, from the last day of the survey. 


(c) *Period of continued payments*—(1) *Non-compliance.* If the conditions in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are met, CMS may continue payments to a Medicare facility or the State for a Medicaid facility with noncompliance that does not constitute immediate jeopardy for up to 6 months from the last day of the survey.


(2) *Facility closure.* In the case of a facility closure, the Secretary may, as the Secretary determines appropriate, continue to make payments with respect to residents of a long-term care facility that has submitted a notification of closure during the period beginning on the date such notification is submitted to CMS and ending on the date on which the residents are successfully relocated. 


(d) *Failure to achieve substantial compliance.* If the facility does not achieve substantial compliance by the end of the period specified in paragraph (c) of this section, 


(1) CMS will—


(i) Terminate the provider agreement of the Medicare SNF in accordance with § 488.456; or 


(ii) Discontinue Federal funding to the SNF for Medicare; and 


(iii) Discontinue FFP to the State for the Medicaid NF. 


(2) The State may terminate the provider agreement for the NF. 



---

[N] [59 FR 56243, Nov. 10, 1994; 60 FR 50119, Sept. 28, 1995, as amended at 76 FR 9511, Feb. 18, 2011; 78 FR 16805, Mar. 19, 2013]




