# ยง 12.1   Definitions.

(a) *Act* means the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, 63 Stat. 377 (40 U.S.C. 471 *et seq.*). Terms defined in the Act and not defined in this section have the meanings given to them in the Act.


(b) *Accredited* means having the approval of a recognized accreditation board or association on a regional, State, or national level, such as a State Board of Health. *Approval* as used above describes the formal process carried out by State Agencies and institutions in determining that health organizations or programs meet minimum acceptance standards.


(c) *Administrator* means the Administrator of General Services.


(d) *Assigned property* means real and related personal property which, in the discretion of the Administrator or his designee, has been made available to the Department for transfer for public health purposes.


(e) *Department* means the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.


(f) *Disposal agency* means the executive agency of the Government which has authority to assign property to the Department for transfer for public health purposes.


(g) *Excess* means any property under the control of any Federal agency which is not required for its needs and the discharge of its responsibilities, as determined by the head thereof.


(h) *Fair market value* means the highest price which the property will bring by sale in the open market by a willing seller to a willing buyer.


(i) *Holding agency* means the Federal agency which has control over and accountability for the property involved.


(j) *Nonprofit institution* means any institution, organization, or association, whether incorporated or unincorporated, no part of the net earnings of which inures or may lawfully inure to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and (except for institutions which lease property to assist the homeless under Title V of Pub. L. 100-77) which has been held to be tax-exempt under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.


(k) *Off-site property* means surplus buildings, utilities and all other removable improvements, including related personal property, to be transferred by the Department for removal and use away from the site for public health purposes.


(l) *On-site* means surplus real property, including related personal property, to be transferred by the Department for use in place for public health purposes.


(m) *Public benefit allowance* means a discount on the sale or lease price of real property transferred for public health purposes, representing any benefit determined by the Secretary which has accrued or may accrue to the United States thereby.


(n) *Related personal property* means any personal property: (1) Which is located on and is (i) an integral part of, or (ii) useful in the operation of real property; or (2) which is determined by the Administrator to be otherwise related to the real property.


(o) *Secretary* means the Secretary of Health and Human Services.


(p) *State* means a State of the United States, and includes the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the Territories and possessions of the United States.


(q) *Surplus* when used with respect to real property means any excess real property not required for the needs and the discharge of the responsibilities of all Federal agencies as determined by the Administrator.



---

[N] [45 FR 72173, Oct. 31, 1980, as amended at 53 FR 7745, Mar. 10, 1988]




