# § 0.34   General functions.

The following functions are assigned to, and shall be conducted, handled, or supervised by, the Chief of the United States National Central Bureau, International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL—U.S. National Central Bureau), as authorized by statute and within guidelines prescribed by the Department of Justice, in conjunction with the Department of Treasury:


(a) Facilitate international law enforcement cooperation as the United States representative with the International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL), on behalf of the Attorney General, pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 263a.


(b) Represent the U.S. National Central Bureau at criminal law enforcement and international law enforcement conferences and symposia.


(c) Serve as a member of the Executive Committee of INTERPOL-United States National Central Bureau (INTERPOL-USNCB).


(d) Transmit information of a criminal justice, humanitarian, or other law enforcement related nature between National Central Bureaus of INTERPOL member countries, and law enforcement agencies within the United States and abroad; and respond to requests by law enforcement agencies, and other legitimate requests by appropriate organizations, institutions and individuals, when in agreement with the INTERPOL constitution.


(e) Coordinate and integrate information for investigations of an international nature and identify those involving patterns and trends of criminal activities.


(f) Conduct analyses of patterns of international criminal activities, when specific patterns are observed.


(g) Establish and collect user fees to process name checks and background records for licensing, humanitarian and other non-law enforcement purposes.



---

[N] [Order No. 960-81, 46 FR 52343, Oct. 27, 1981, as amended by Order No. 1295-88, 53 FR 30990, Aug. 17, 1988; Order No. 1441-90, 55 FR 32403, Aug. 9, 1990; Order No. 1491-91, 56 FR 21600, May 10, 1991]




