# ยง 214.212   Extension of T nonimmigrant status.

(a) *Eligibility.* USCIS may grant extensions of T-1 nonimmigrant status beyond 4 years from the date of approval in 1-year periods from the date the T-1 nonimmigrant status ends if:


(1) An LEA detecting, investigating, or prosecuting activity related to acts of trafficking certifies that the presence of the applicant in the United States is necessary to assist in the detection, investigation, or prosecution of such activity; or


(2) USCIS determines that an extension is warranted due to exceptional circumstances.


(b) *Application for a discretionary extension of status.* Upon application, USCIS may extend T-1 nonimmigrant status based on law enforcement need or exceptional circumstances. A T-1 nonimmigrant may apply for an extension by submitting the form designated by USCIS in accordance with form instructions. A derivative T nonimmigrant may file for an extension of status independently if the T-1 nonimmigrant remains in valid T nonimmigrant status, or the T-1 nonimmigrant may file for an extension of T-1 status and request that this extension be applied to the derivative family members in accordance with the form instructions.


(c) *Timely filing.* An applicant should file the application to extend nonimmigrant status before the expiration of T nonimmigrant status. If T nonimmigrant status has expired, the applicant must explain in writing the reason for the untimely filing. USCIS may exercise its discretion to approve an untimely filed application for extension of T nonimmigrant status.


(d) *Evidence.* In addition to the application, a T nonimmigrant must include evidence to support why USCIS should grant an extension of T nonimmigrant status. The nonimmigrant bears the burden of establishing eligibility for an extension of status and that a favorable exercise of discretion is warranted.


(e) *Evidence of law enforcement need.* An applicant may demonstrate law enforcement need by submitting evidence that comes directly from an LEA, including:


(1) A new LEA declaration;


(2) Evidence from a law enforcement official, prosecutor, judge, or other authority who can detect, investigate, or prosecute acts of trafficking, such as a letter on the agency's letterhead, email, or fax; or


(3) Any other credible evidence.


(f) *Exceptional circumstances.* (1) USCIS may, in its discretion, extend status beyond the 4-year period if it determines the extension of the period of such nonimmigrant status is warranted due to exceptional circumstances as described in section 214(o)(7)(iii) of the Act. (2) USCIS may approve an extension of status for a principal applicant, based on exceptional circumstances, when an approved eligible family member is awaiting initial issuance of a T visa by an embassy or consulate and the principal applicant's T-1 nonimmigrant status is soon to expire.


(g) *Evidence of exceptional circumstances.* An applicant may demonstrate exceptional circumstances by submitting:


(1) The applicant's affirmative statement; or


(2) Any other credible evidence, including but not limited to:


(i) Medical records;


(ii) Police or court records;


(iii) News articles;


(iv) Correspondence with an embassy or consulate; and


(v) Affidavits from individuals with direct knowledge of or familiarity with the applicant's circumstances.


(h) *Mandatory extensions of status for adjustment of status applicants.* USCIS will automatically extend T nonimmigrant status when a T nonimmigrant properly files an application for adjustment of status during the period of T nonimmigrant status, in accordance with 8 CFR 245.23. No separate application for extension of T nonimmigrant status, or supporting evidence, is required.






