# § 3280.511   Comfort cooling certificate and information.

(a) The manufactured home manufacturer shall permanently affix a “Comfort Cooling Certificate” to an interior surface of the home that is readily visible to the home owner. This certificate may be combined with the heating certificate required in § 3280.510. The manufacturer shall comply with one of the following three alternatives in providing the certificate and additional information concerning the cooling of the manufactured home: 


(1) *Alternative I.* If a central air conditioning system is provided by the home manufacturer, the heat gain calculation necessary to properly size the air conditioning equipment shall be in accordance with procedures outlined in chapter 22 of the 1989 ASHRAE Handbook of Fundamentals, with an assumed location and orientation. The following shall be supplied in the Comfort Cooling Certificate:


(2) *Alternative 2.* For each home suitable for a central air cooling system, the manufacturer shall provide the following statement: “This air distribution system of this home is suitable for the installation of a central air conditioning system.” 


(3) *Alternative 3.* If the manufactured home is not equipped with an air supply duct system, or if the manufacturer elects not to designate the home as being suitable for the installation of a central air conditioning system, the manufacturer shall provide the following statement: “This air distribution system of this home has not been designed in anticipation of its use with a central air conditioning system.” 


(b) For each home designated as suitable for central air conditioning the manufacturer shall provide the maximum central manufactured home air conditioning capacity certified in accordance with the ARI Standard 210/240-89 Unitary Air-Conditioning and Air-Source Heat Pump Equipment and in accordance with § 3280.715(a)(3). If the capacity information provided is based on entrances to the air supply duct at other than the furnace plenum, the manufacturer shall indicate the correct supply air entrance and return air exit locations. 


(c) *Comfort cooling information.* For each manufactured home designated, either “suitable for” or “provided with” a central air conditioning system, the manufacturer shall provide comfort cooling information specific to the manufactured home necessary to complete the cooling load calculations. The comfort cooling information shall include a statement to read as follows: 



---

[N] [40 FR 58752, Dec. 18, 1975. Redesignated at 44 FR 20679, Apr. 6, 1979, as amended at 58 FR 55012, Oct. 25, 1993]




