# ยง 2556.135   What is suspension and when may AmeriCorps suspend a VISTA project?

(a) Suspension is any action by AmeriCorps that temporarily suspends or curtails assistance, in whole or in part, to all or any part of a VISTA project, prior to the time that the project term is concluded. Suspension does not include the denial or reduction of new or additional VISTA assistance.


(b) In an emergency situation for up to 30 consecutive days, AmeriCorps may suspend assistance to a sponsor, in whole or in part, for the sponsor's material failure or threatened material failure to comply with an applicable term(s) or condition(s) of the DVSA, the regulations in this part, VISTA program policy, or an applicable Memorandum of Agreement. Such suspension in an emergency situation will be pursuant to notice and opportunity to show cause why assistance should not be suspended.


(c) To initiate suspension proceedings, AmeriCorps will notify the sponsor in writing that AmeriCorps is suspending assistance in whole or in part. The written notice will contain the following:


(1) The grounds for the suspension and the effective date of the suspension;


(2) The sponsor's right to submit written material in response to the suspension to show why the VISTA assistance should not be suspended, or should be reinstated, as appropriate; and


(3) The opportunity to adequately correct the deficiency, or deficiencies, which led to AmeriCorps' notice of suspension.


(d) In deciding whether to continue or lift the suspension, as appropriate, AmeriCorps will consider any timely material presented in writing, any material presented during the course of any informal meeting, as well as any showing that the sponsor has adequately corrected the deficiency which led to the initiation of suspension.


(e) During the period of suspension of a sponsor, no new expenditures, if applicable, may be made by the sponsor's VISTA project at issue and no new obligations may be incurred in connection with the VISTA project at issue except as specifically authorized in writing by AmeriCorps.


(f) AmeriCorps may, at its discretion, modify the terms, conditions, and nature of the suspension or rescind the suspension action at any time, on its own initiative or upon a showing that the sponsor has adequately corrected the deficiency or deficiencies which led to the suspension and that repetition is not foreseeable.






