# § 1300.20   General.

(a) *Scope.* This subpart establishes criteria, in accordance with Section 405 for awarding grants to States that adopt and implement programs and statutes to address national priorities for reducing highway deaths and injuries and, in accordance with Section 1906, for awarding grants to States that maintain and allow public inspection of race and ethnicity information on motor vehicle stops.


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this subpart—


*Blood alcohol concentration* or *BAC* means grams of alcohol per deciliter or 100 milliliters blood, or grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath.


*Majority* means greater than 50 percent.


*Passenger motor vehicle* means a passenger car, pickup truck, van, minivan or sport utility vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating of less than 10,000 pounds.


*Primary offense* means an offense for which a law enforcement officer may stop a vehicle and issue a citation in the absence of evidence of another offense.


(c) *Eligibility and application*—(1) *Eligibility.* Except as provided in § 1300.25(c), the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, and the U.S. Virgin Islands are each eligible to apply for grants identified under this subpart.


(2) *Application.* For all grants under Section 405 and Section 1906 -


(i) The Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, on behalf of the State, shall sign and submit with the annual grant application, the information required under appendix B to this part.


(ii) If the State is relying on specific elements of the annual grant application or triennial HSP as part of its application materials for grants under this subpart, the State shall identify the specific location where that information is located in the relevant document.


(d) *Qualification based on State statutes.* Whenever a qualifying State statute is the basis for a grant awarded under this subpart, such statute shall have been enacted by the application due date and be in effect and enforced, without interruption, by the beginning of and throughout the fiscal year of the grant award.


(e) *Transfer of funds.* If it is determined after review of applications that funds for a grant program under Section 405 will not all be awarded and distributed, such funds shall be transferred to Section 402 and shall be distributed in proportion to the amount each State received under Section 402 for fiscal year 2022 to ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that all funding is distributed.


(f) *Matching.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the Federal share of the costs of activities or programs funded with grants awarded under this subpart may not exceed 80 percent.


(2) The Federal share of the costs of activities or programs funded with grants awarded to the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands shall be 100 percent.






