# § 25.52   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart B:


*Acquiring* means owning, possessing, handling, directing, or controlling.


*Automobile* has the same meaning given that term in 49 U.S.C. 32901(a).


*Certificate of title* means a document issued by a state showing ownership of an automobile.


*Insurance carrier* means an individual or entity engaged in the business of underwriting automobile insurance.


*Junk automobile* means an automobile that—


(1) Is incapable of operating on public streets, roads, and highways; and


(2) Has no value except as a source of parts or scrap.


*Junk yard* means an individual or entity engaged in the business of acquiring or owning junk automobiles for—


(1) Resale in their entirety or as spare parts; or


(2) Rebuilding, restoration, or crushing.


*Motor vehicle* has the same meaning given that term in 49 U.S.C. 30102(6).


*NMVTIS* means the National Motor Vehicle Title Information System.


*Operator* means the individual or entity authorized or designated as the operator of NMVTIS under 49 U.S.C. 30502(b), or the office designated by the Attorney General, if there is no authorized or designated individual or entity.


*Purchaser* means the individual or entity buying an automobile or financing the purchase of an automobile. For purposes of this subpart, purchasers include dealers, auction companies or entities engaged in the business of purchasing used automobiles, lenders financing the purchase of new or used automobiles, and automobile dealers.


*Salvage automobile* means an automobile that is damaged by collision, fire, flood, accident, trespass, or other event, to the extent that its fair salvage value plus the cost of repairing the automobile for legal operation on public streets, roads, and highways would be more than the fair market value of the automobile immediately before the event that caused the damage. Salvage automobiles include automobiles determined to be a total loss under the law of the applicable jurisdiction or designated as a total loss by an insurer under the terms of its policies, regardless of whether or not the ownership of the vehicle is transferred to the insurance carrier.


*Salvage yard* means an individual or entity engaged in the business of acquiring or owning salvage automobiles for—


(1) Resale in their entirety or as spare parts; or


(2) Rebuilding, restoration, or crushing.


Note to definition of “Salvage yard”: For purposes of this subpart, vehicle remarketers and vehicle recyclers, including scrap vehicle shredders and scrap metal processors as well as “pull- or pick-apart yards,” salvage pools, salvage auctions, and other types of auctions handling salvage or junk vehicles (including vehicles declared a “total loss”), are included in the definition of “junk or salvage yards.”


*State* means a state of the United States or the District of Columbia.


*Total loss* means that the cost of repairing such vehicles plus projected supplements plus projected diminished resale value plus rental reimbursement expense exceeds the cost of buying the damaged motor vehicle at its pre-accident value, minus the proceeds of selling the damaged motor vehicle for salvage.


*VIN* means the vehicle identification number;



---

[N] [74 FR 5776, Jan. 30, 2009, as amended at 77 FR 18916, Mar. 29, 2012]




