# § 47.6   Procedures.

(a) *Submitting group applications.* Applications on behalf of a civilian or contractual group shall be submitted to the Secretary of the Air Force using the instructions in appendix A to this part.


(b) *Processing group applications.* (1) When received, the recorder shall review the application for sufficiency and either return it for more information or accept it for consideration and announce acceptance in the _Federal Register._

(2) The recorder shall send the application to the appropriate advisory panel for historical review and analysis.


(3) When received, the recorder shall send the advisory panel's report to the applicant for comment. The applicant's comments shall be referred to the advisory panel if significant disagreement requires resolution. Additional comments from the historians also shall be referred to the applicant for comment.


(4) The DoD Civilian/Military Service Board shall consider the group application, as established, in paragraph (a) and paragraphs (b) (1) through (3) of this section.


(5) After the Secretary of the Air Force makes a decision, the recorder shall notify the applicant of the decision and announce it in the “_Federal Register._”


(c) *Submitting individual applications.* When a group is recognized, individual members may apply to the appropriate Military Department or to the Coast Guard for discharge documents. Submit applications on DD Form 2168, “Application for Discharge of Member or Survivor of Member of Group Certified to Have Performed Active Duty with the Armed Forces of the United States.” An application on behalf of a deceased or incompetent member submitted by the next of kin must be accompanied by proof of death or incompetence.




