# ยง 4.07-10   Report of investigation.

(a) At the conclusion of the investigation the investigating officer shall submit to the Commandant via the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, and the District Commander, a full and complete report of the facts as determined by his investigation, together with his opinions and recommendations in the premises. The Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, and the District Commander shall forward the investigating officer's report to the Commandant with an endorsement stating: 


(1) Approval or otherwise of the findings of fact, conclusions and recommendations; 


(2) Any action taken with respect to the recommendations; 


(3) Whether or not any action has been or will be taken under part 5 of this subchapter to suspend or revoke credentials; and, 


(4) Whether or not violations of laws or regulations relating to vessels have been reported. 


(b) At the conclusion of the investigation, the investigating officer shall submit the report described in paragraph (a) of this section, to the Commandant via the Merchant Marine Detail Officer or the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, and the Commander, Coast Guard MIO Europe for a European port or Commander, Fourteenth Coast Guard for an Asian or Pacific port. The Merchant Marine Detail Officer or the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, and Commander, Coast Guard MIO Europe or Commander, Fourteenth Coast Guard District shall forward the investigating officer's report to the Commandant with the endorsement described in paragraphs (a) (1) through (4) of this section. 



---

[N] [CGD 74-119, 39 FR 33317, Sept. 17, 1974, as amended by CGD 75-196, 41 FR 18655, May 6, 1976; CGD 97-057, 62 FR 51042, Sept. 30, 1997; USCG-2006-24371, 74 FR 11214, Mar. 16, 2009; USCG-2016-0498, 82 FR 35089, July 28, 2017]




