# ยง 225.3   Administration.

(a) *Responsibility within the Department.* FNS shall act on behalf of the Department in the administration of the Program.


(b) *State administered programs.* Within the State, responsibility for the administration of the Program must be in the State agency. Each State agency must notify the Department by January 1 of the fiscal year regarding its intention to administer the Program. Each State agency desiring to take part in the Program must enter into a written agreement with FNS for the administration of the Program in accordance with the provisions of this part. The agreement must cover the operation of the Program during the period specified therein and may be extended by written consent of both parties. The agreement must contain an assurance that the State agency will comply with the Department's nondiscrimination regulations (7 CFR part 15) issued under title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and any Instructions issued by FNS pursuant to 7 CFR part 15, title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, and section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. However, if a State educational agency is not permitted by law to disburse funds to any of the nonpublic schools in the State, the Secretary must disburse the funds directly to such schools within the State for the same purposes and subject to the same conditions as the disbursements to public schools within the State by the State educational agency.


(c) *Regional office administered programs.* The Secretary shall not administer the Program in the States, except that if a FNSRO has continuously administered the Program in any State since October 1, 1980, FNS shall continue to administer the Program in that State. In States in which FNSRO administers the Program, it shall have all of the responsibilities of a State agency and shall earn State administrative and Program funds as set forth in this part. A State in which FNS administers the Program may, upon request to FNS, assume administration of the Program.


(d) *Authority to waive statute and regulations.* (1) As authorized under section 12(l) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, FNS may waive provisions of such Act or the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended, and the provisions of this part with respect to a State agency or eligible service provider. The provisions of this part required by other statutes may not be waived under this authority. FNS may only approve requests for a waiver that are submitted by a State agency and comply with the requirements at section 12(l)(1) and the limitations at section 12(l)(4), including that FNS may not grant a waiver that increases Federal costs.


(2)(i) A State agency may submit a request for a waiver under paragraph (d)(1) of this section in accordance with section 12(l)(2) and the provisions of this part.


(ii) A State agency may submit a request to waive specific statutory or regulatory requirements on behalf of eligible service providers that operate in the State. Any waiver where the State concurs must be submitted to the appropriate FNSRO.


(3)(i) An eligible service provider may submit a request for a waiver under paragraph (e)(1) of this section in accordance with section 12(l) and the provisions of this part. Any waiver request submitted by an eligible service provider must be submitted to the State agency for review. A State agency must act promptly on such a waiver request and must deny or concur with a request submitted by an eligible service provider.


(ii) If a State agency concurs with a request from an eligible service provider, the State agency must promptly forward to the appropriate FNSRO the request and a rationale, consistent with section 12(l)(2), supporting the request. By forwarding the request to the FNSRO, the State agency affirms:


(A) The request meets all requirements for waiver submissions; and,


(B) The State agency will conduct all monitoring requirements related to regular Program operations and the implementation of the waiver.


(iii) If the State agency denies the request, the State agency must notify the requesting eligible service provider and state the reason for denying the request in writing within 30 calendar days of the State agency's receipt of the request. The State agency response is final and may not be appealed to FNS.


(e) *Coordinated Services Plan.* (1) Each State agency must establish, and update annually as needed, a plan to coordinate the statewide availability of services offered through the Summer Food Service Program described in this part and the Summer Electronic Benefits Transfer (EBT) Program regulations (7 CFR part 292).


(2) Only one plan must be established for each State in which both the Summer Food Service Program and the Summer EBT Program is administered. If more than one agency administers the Summer Food Service Program and Summer EBT within a respective State, they must work together to develop and implement the plan. States should also ensure that plans include the National School Lunch Program's Seamless Summer Program if appropriate.


(3) The plan must include, at minimum, the following information:


(i) A description of the roles and responsibilities of each State administering agency, and, as applicable, any other agencies, Indian Tribal Organizations, or public or private organizations which will be involved in administering the Programs;


(ii) A description of how the State agency and any other organizations included in the plan will coordinate outreach and programmatic activities to maximize the reach of the Summer Food Service Program and Summer EBT Program;


(iii) Metrics to assess Program reach and coverage; and


(iv) The State agency's plans to partner with other Federal, State, Tribal, or local programs to aid participants in accessing all Federal, State, Tribal, or local programs for which they are eligible.


(4) States must notify the public about their plan and make it available to the public through a website, and should, to the maximum extent practicable, solicit and consider input on plan development and implementation from other State, Tribal, and local agencies; organizations involved in the administration of nutrition and human services programs; participants; and other stakeholders.


(5) States must consult with FNS on the development of and any significant subsequent updates to their plan. Initial Plans must be submitted to FNS no later than January 1, 2025. States must submit updates annually when significant changes are made to the plan, and otherwise no less than every 3 years.



---

[N] [54 FR 18208, Apr. 27, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 13466, Apr. 10, 1990; 64 FR 72483, Dec. 28, 1999; 87 FR 57356, Sept. 19, 2022; 88 FR 90348, Dec. 29, 2023]




