# ยง 127.7   Debarment.

(a) *Administrative debarment.* In implementing section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act, the Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs may debar and thereby prohibit any person from participating directly or indirectly in any activities that are subject to this subchapter for any of the reasons listed below. Any such prohibition is referred to as an administrative debarment for purposes of this subchapter. The Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs shall determine the appropriate period of time for administrative debarment, which generally shall be for a period of three years. Reinstatement is not automatic, however, and in all cases the debarred persons must submit a request for reinstatement and be approved for reinstatement before engaging in any activities subject to this subchapter. (*See* part 128 of this subchapter for administrative procedures.)


(b) *Statutory debarment.* It is the policy of the Department of State not to consider applications for licenses or requests for approvals involving any person who has been convicted of violating the Arms Export Control Act or convicted of conspiracy to violate that Act for a three year period following conviction and to prohibit that person from participating directly or indirectly in any activities that are subject to this subchapter. Such individuals shall be notified in writing that they are statutorily debarred pursuant to this policy. A list of persons who have been convicted of such offenses and debarred for this reason shall be published periodically in the _Federal Register._ Statutory debarment in such cases is based solely upon the outcome of a criminal proceeding, conducted by a court of the United States, which established guilt beyond a reasonable doubt in accordance with due process. Reinstatement is not automatic, and in all cases the debarred person must submit a request for reinstatement to the Department of State and be approved for reinstatement before engaging in any activities subject to this subchapter. The procedures of part 128 of this subchapter are not applicable in such cases.


(c) *Grounds.* (1) The basis for statutory debarment, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, is any conviction for violating the Arms Export Control Act (*see* ยง 127.3) or any conspiracy to violate the Arms Export Control Act.


(2) The basis for administrative debarment, as described in paragraph (a) of this section and in part 128 of this subchapter, is any violation of 22 U.S.C. 2778 or any rule or regulation issued thereunder when such a violation is of such a character as to provide a reasonable basis for the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls to believe that the violator cannot be relied upon to comply with the statute or these rules or regulations in the future, and when such violation is established in accordance with part 128 of this subchapter.


(d) *Appeals.* Any person who is ineligible pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section may appeal to the Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security for reconsideration of the ineligibility determination. The procedures specified in ยง 128.13 of this subchapter will be used in submitting a reconsideration appeal.



---

[N] [78 FR 52689, Aug. 26, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 87430, Dec. 5, 2016]




