# ยง 210.41   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, the following definitions apply:


*Article 4A* means Article 4A of the Uniform Commercial Code as set forth in appendix A of this part, which is incorporated into this subpart in accordance with ยง 210.40(b).


*Beneficiary* has the same meaning as in Article 4A, except that the term is limited to a beneficiary in a funds transfer that is sent through the FedNow Service.


*Beneficiary's bank* has the same meaning as in Article 4A, except that:


(1) The term is limited to a beneficiary's bank in a funds transfer that is sent through the FedNow Service;


(2) A Federal Reserve Bank need not be identified in the payment order in order to be the beneficiary's bank; and


(3) The term includes a Federal Reserve Bank when that Federal Reserve Bank is the beneficiary of a payment order.


*Federal Reserve Bank* with respect to an entity means the Federal Reserve Bank in whose District the entity is located, as determined under the procedure described in Part 204 of this chapter (Regulation D), even if the entity is not otherwise subject to that section, or, if the entity maintains an account on the books of a different Federal Reserve Bank, the Federal Reserve Bank at which the entity maintains an account.


*FedNow Service* means the funds-transfer system owned and operated by the Federal Reserve Banks to support instant payments that is used primarily for the transmission and settlement of payment orders governed by this subpart. The FedNow Service does not include the Fedwire Funds Service.


*Interdistrict transfer* means a funds transfer involving entries to settlement accounts maintained at two Federal Reserve Banks.


*Payment order* has the same meaning as in Article 4A, except that the term includes only instructions sent or received through the FedNow Service, and does not include automated clearing house transfers or any communication designated as not being a payment order in an Operating Circular issued by a Federal Reserve Bank under this subpart.


*Receiving bank* has the same meaning as in Article 4A, except that the term is limited to a receiving bank in a funds transfer that is sent through the FedNow Service.


*Sender* has the same meaning as in Article 4A, except that the term is limited to a sender in a funds transfer that is sent through the FedNow Service.


*Sender's settlement account, receiving bank's settlement account,* and *beneficiary's settlement account* mean an account on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank maintained by the sender, receiving bank, or beneficiary, respectively. The term also includes any account on a Federal Reserve Bank's books used with respect to the FedNow Service by the sender, receiving bank, or beneficiary, respectively, by agreement with its Federal Reserve Bank, any other Federal Reserve Bank on whose books the settlement account is maintained, and the account-holder.






