# § 650.4   What definitions apply to the Jacob K. Javits Fellowship Program?

The following definitions apply to terms used in this part:


*Academic year* means the 12-month period beginning with the fall instructional term of the institution of higher education.


*Act* means the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended.


*Department* means any program, unit or any other administrative subdivision of an institution of higher education that—


(1) Directly administers or supervises post-baccalaureate instruction in a specific discipline; and


(2) Has the authority to award academic course credit acceptable to meet degree requirements at an institution of higher education.


*Fellow* means a recipient of a Jacob K. Javits fellowship under this part.


*Fellowship* means an award made to a person for graduate study under this part.


*Fellowship Board* means the Jacob K. Javits Fellowship Program Fellowship Board, composed of individual representatives of both public and private institutions of higher education who are appointed by the Secretary to establish general policies for the program and oversee its operation.


*Financial need* means the fellow's financial need as determined under part F of title IV of the HEA, for the period of the fellow's enrollment in the approved academic field of study for which the fellowship was awarded.


*Grantee* means an institution of higher education that administers a fellowship award under this part.


*HEA* means the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended.


*Institution* means an institution of higher education.


*Institution of higher education* means an institution of higher education as defined in section 1201(a) of the HEA.


*Institutional payment* means the amount paid by the Secretary to the institution of higher education in which the fellow is enrolled to be applied against the tuition and fees required of the fellow by the institution as part of the fellow's instructional program.


*Knows or has reason to know* means that a person with respect to a statement—


(1) Has actual knowledge that the statement is false or fictitious;


(2) Acts in deliberate ignorance of the truth or falsity of the statement; or


(3) Acts in reckless disregard of the truth or falsity of the statement.


*Recipient* means an institution of higher education that administers a fellowship award under this part.


*Satisfactory progress* means that the fellow meets or exceeds the institution's criteria and standards established for all doctoral students' continued status as applicants for the doctoral degree in the academic field of study for which the fellowship was awarded.


*Secretary* means Secretary of the Department of Education or an official or employee of the Department acting for the Secretary under a delegation of authority.


*Stipend* means the amount paid to an individual awarded a fellowship, including an allowance for subsistence and other expenses for the individual and his or her dependents.



---

[N] [58 FR 58084, Oct. 28, 1993, as amended at 64 FR 3199, Jan. 20, 1999]




