# § 7.84   Channel Islands National Park.

(a) [Reserved]


(b) *Wrecks.* No person shall destroy, molest, remove, deface, displace, or tamper with wrecked and abandoned water or airborne craft or any cargo pertaining thereto. 


(c) *Fishing.* The taking of any fish, crustaceans, mollusk, or other marine life shall be in compliance with State regulations except that: 


(1) No invertebrates may be taken in water less than five (5) feet in depth. 


(2) The taking of abalone and lobsters for commercial purposes is prohibited in the following areas: 


(i) *Anacapa Island.* Northside to exterior boundary of the monument between east end of Arch Rock 119°21′-34°01′ and west end of island, 119°27′-34°01′. 


(ii) *Santa Barbara Island.* Eastside to exterior boundary of monument 119°02′-33°28′ and 119°02′-33°29′30″. 


(3)(i) The use of all nets is prohibited within the outer edge of the kelp line surrounding Anacapa and Santa Barbara Islands. 


(ii) The use of trammel or gill nets is prohibited in less than 20 fathoms of water in all areas surrounding Anacapa and Santa Barbara Islands. 


(4) The Superintendent shall require all persons fishing commercially within Channel Islands National Monument, on waters open for this purpose, to obtain an annual permit from him. Such permits shall be issued on request except that: 


(i) Lobster permits for Anacapa and Santa Barbara Islands will be issued only to applicants who filed with the California State Department of Fish and Game fish receipts for lobsters caught at Anacapa and Santa Barbara Islands during the period July 1, 1968, to July 1, 1971. 


(ii) Abalone permits for Anacapa and Santa Barbara Islands will be issued only to applicants who filed with the California State Department of Fish and Game fish receipts for abalone caught at Anacapa and Santa Barbara Islands during the period July 1, 1968, to July 1, 1971. 



---

[N] [38 FR 5622, Mar. 17, 1973, as amended at 48 FR 30296, June 30, 1983] 




