# § 3715.7-1   What types of enforcement action can BLM take if I do not meet the requirements of this subpart?

BLM has four types of orders that it can issue depending on the circumstances: 


(a) *Immediate suspension.* (1) BLM may order an immediate, temporary suspension of all or any part of your use or occupancy if: 


(i) All or part of your use or occupancy is not reasonably incident or is not in compliance with §§ 3715.2, 3715.2-1, 3715.3-1(b), 3715.5 or 3715.5-1, and 


(ii) an immediate, temporary suspension is necessary to protect health, safety or the environment. 


(2) BLM will presume that health, safety or the environment are at risk and will order your use or occupancy to be immediately and temporarily suspended if: 


(i) You are conducting an occupancy under a determination of concurrence under this section; and 


(ii) You fail at any time to meet any of the standards in § 3715.3-1(b) or § 3715.5(b), (c), or (e). 


(3) The suspension order will describe— 


(i) How you are failing or have failed to comply with the requirements of this subpart; and 


(ii) The actions, in addition to suspension of the use or occupancy, that you must take to correct the noncompliance and the time by which you must suspend the use or occupancy. It will also describe the time, not to exceed 30 days, within which you must complete corrective action. 


(4) The suspension order will not be stayed by an appeal. 


(b) *Cessation order.* (1) BLM may order a temporary or permanent cessation of all or any part of your use or occupancy if: 


(i) All or any part of your use or occupancy is not reasonably incident but does not endanger health, safety or the environment, to the extent it is not reasonably incident; 


(ii) You fail to timely comply with a notice of noncompliance issued under paragraph (c) of this section; 


(iii) You fail to timely comply with an order issued under paragraph (d) of this section; or 


(iv) You fail to take corrective action during a temporary suspension ordered under paragraph (a) of this section. 


(2) The cessation order will describe—


(i) The ways in which your use or occupancy is not reasonably incident; is in violation of a notice of noncompliance issued under paragraph (c) of this section; or is in violation of an order issued under paragraphs (a) or (d) of this section, as appropriate; 


(ii) The actions, in addition to cessation of the use or occupancy, that you must take to correct the noncompliance; 


(iii) The time by which you must cease the use or occupancy, not to exceed 30 days from the date the Interior Board of Land Appeals affirms BLM's order; and 


(iv) The length of the cessation. 


(c) *Notice of noncompliance.* (1) If your use or occupancy is not in compliance with any requirements of this subpart, and BLM has not invoked paragraph (a) of this section, BLM will issue an order that describes—


(i) How you are failing or have failed to comply with the requirements of this subpart; 


(ii) The actions that you must take to correct the noncompliance and the time, not to exceed 30 days, within which you must start corrective action; and 


(iii) The time within which you must complete corrective action. 


(2) If you do not start and complete corrective action within the time allowed, BLM may order an immediate suspension under paragraph (a) of this section, if necessary, or cessation of the use or occupancy under paragraph (b) of this section. 


(d) *Other.* If you are conducting an activity that is not reasonably incident but may be authorized under 43 CFR Group 2900 or 8300, or, as to sites in Alaska, 43 CFR part 2560, BLM may order you to apply within 30 days from the date you receive the order for authorization under the listed regulations. 



---

[N] [61 FR 37125, July 16, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 59822, Nov. 5, 1997]




