# § 158.6   Guidance for contractor medical and dental fitness.

(a) *General.* (1) DoD contracts requiring the deployment of CAAF must include medical and dental fitness standards as specified in this section. Under the terms and conditions of their contracts, contractors will employ personnel who meet such medical and dental fitness standards. With respect to contractor personnel covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 791, *et seq.* or the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 12101, *et seq.,* these medical and dental fitness standards do not alter the legal obligations of DoD Components and contractors (as employers). Replacement of non-medically qualified contractor personnel already deployed to theater will be at the contractor's cost.


(2) The GCC concerned will establish force health protection policies and programs for the protection of all forces assigned or attached to the command in accordance with applicable force health protection (FHP) requirements and medical and dental fitness standards in order to promote and sustain a healthy and ready force. For more information, see paragraph (kk) of appendix A to this part. The GCC concerned will establish a process for reviewing requests for exceptions to such requirements, on an individualized basis, and will ensure that a mechanism is in place to appropriately maintain records related to all approved and denied waivers, including any medical records.


(3) The GCC concerned will ensure that medical fitness processes and procedures, to include those pertaining to removal of contractor personnel from the theater who are no longer medically qualified, at the contractor's expense, are posted on the GCC OCS web page. Contracting officers will incorporate the language concerning these processes and procedures into clauses for all contracts for performance in the AOR.


(4) Unless otherwise stated in the contract terms and conditions, all medical evaluations and treatment are the contractor's responsibility.


(b) *Medical and dental evaluations.* (1) All CAAF deploying in support of an applicable operation are subject to medical and dental fitness standards pursuant to paragraph (kk) of appendix A to this part and CCDR guidance. Fitness standards pertain to the individual's ability to accomplish the tasks and duties unique to a particular operation and the ability to tolerate the environmental and operational conditions of the deployed location.


(2) All CAAF must undergo a screening medical and dental assessment within 12 months before arrival at the designated deployment center or U.S. Government-authorized contractor-performed deployment processing facility. This screening assessment, conducted by the contractor's medical health provider, should emphasize diagnosing system disease conditions (*e.g.,* cardiovascular, pulmonary, orthopedic, neurologic, endocrinologic, dermatologic, psychological, visual, auditory, dental) that may preclude the CAAF from performing the functional requirements of the contract, especially in the austere work environments encountered in some applicable operations.


(3) CAAF will receive a health threat and countermeasures briefing from the applicable Military Service before deployment to the operational area. For more information, see paragraph (bb) of appendix A to this part.


(4) CAAF whose initial screening assessment or subsequent medical evaluation identifies any of the medical conditions listed in paragraph (j) of this section or identifies a requirement for extensive preventive dental case (see paragraph (j)(2)(xxv) of this section) are considered “not medically fit” for deployment unless their deployment is approved by a waiver.


(5) Individuals who are deemed “not medically fit,” including those whose request for a waiver has been denied, following an individual assessment by a licensed medical provider are not authorized to deploy.


(6) Non-CAAF shall be medically screened by a U.S. Government designee when required by the requiring activity and the contract, for the class of labor under consideration (*e.g.,* LNs working in a dining facility).


(7) Contracts will require contractors to replace individuals who develop conditions that cause them to become medically unqualified to perform contractual requirements at any time during contract performance.


(8) Contracts will require that CAAF complete a post-deployment health assessment in the Defense Medical Surveillance System at the end of their deployment or within 30 days of redeployment. For more information, see paragraph (bb) of appendix A to this part.


(c) *Glasses and contact lenses.* (1) If contractor personnel require vision correction, they must have two pairs of glasses, and if applicable, eyeglass inserts for a chemical protective mask. The contractor personnel may also provide a written prescription to the supporting military medical component in order to prepare eyeglass inserts for use in a compatible chemical protective mask. If the type of protective mask to be issued is known and time permits, the military medical component should attempt to complete the preparation of eyeglass inserts before deployment.


(2) Wearing contact lenses in a field environment is not recommended and is at the contractor personnel's own risk due to the potential for irreversible eye damage caused by debris, chemical or other hazards present, and the lack of ophthalmologic care in a field environment.


(d) *Medications.* Other than those force health protection prescription products provided by the U.S. Government to CAAF and selected non-CAAF, contracts must require that contractor personnel deploy with a minimum 90-day supply of any required medications obtained at their own expense. For more information, see paragraph (bb) of appendix A to this part.


(1) Contractor personnel must be informed that deployed medical units are equipped and staffed to provide emergency care to healthy adults and are unable to provide or replace many medications required for routine treatment of chronic medical conditions, such as high blood pressure, heart conditions, and arthritis.


(2) The contract must require contractor personnel to review both the amount of the medication and its suitability in the foreign area with their personal physician and make any necessary adjustments before deploying. The contract must also hold the contractor personnel responsible for the re-supply of required medications.


(e) *Comfort items.* The contract must require that contractor personnel take spare hearing-aid batteries, sunglasses, insect repellent, sunscreen, and any other supplies related to their individual physical requirements. DoD sources will not provide these items.


(f) *Immunizations.* A list of immunizations, including those required for entry into the designated area of operations and those recommended by medical authorities, will be produced by the cognizant medical authority for each deployment; posted to the GCC OCS web page and DoD FCG; and incorporated in contracts for performance in the designated AOR.


(1) The GCC, upon the recommendation of the cognizant medical authority, will provide contractor personnel who are deploying to the applicable theater of operation a list of the immunizations necessary to protect against the communicable diseases assessed to be a potential hazard in the applicable theater. The cognizant medical authority will prepare and maintain this list.


(2) The contract must require that CAAF complete any mandatory immunizations, subject to any legally required exemptions, to complete the pre-deployment process.


(3) During pre-deployment processing, the DoD will provide contractor personnel, at no cost to the contractor, any theater-specific immunizations and medications not available to the general public. Contractor personnel must obtain all other immunizations before arrival at the deployment center, documented on the International Certificate of Vaccinations of Prophylaxis as approved by the World Health Organization or the Department of Health and Human Services Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Form 731. However, the contract must stipulate that CAAF and selected non-CAAF obtain all other necessary immunizations before their arrival at the deployment center. The TB skin test is required for all contractor personnel within three months before they are deployed.


(4) The DoD will provide theater-specific medical supplies and force health protection prescription products to CAAF and selected non-CAAF. Additionally, these personnel will receive deployment medication information sheets for all vaccines or deployment-related medications that are to be dispensed or administered.


(5) Contractors will ensure that individuals with a positive TB skin test be evaluated for targeted diagnosis and treatment of latent TB infection in accordance with the procedures outlined in the World Health Organization Guidelines on the Management of Latent Tuberculosis Infection.


(6) The contract must stipulate that CAAF and selected non-CAAF bring a current copy of the International Certificate of Vaccination or Prophylaxis to the pre-deployment processing center and to the operational area.


(g) *Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Testing.* HIV testing is not mandatory for contractor personnel unless specified by the GCC CCDR or by host nation requirements. HIV testing, if required, must occur within one year before deployment.


(h) *Armed Forces Repository of Specimen Samples for the Identification of Remains (AFRSSIR).* For identification of remains purposes, contractors whose CAAF members are U.S. citizens will obtain a dental panograph and will forward a specimen sample suitable for DNA analysis to, and ensure it is on file with, the AFRSSIR before or during deployment processing and recorded in SPOT-ES. The DoD Components must ensure that all contracts require CAAF who are U.S. citizens to provide DNA specimen samples for AFRSSIR as a condition of deployment. For more information, see paragraph (ll) of appendix A to this part.


(1) All CAAF who are U.S. citizens processing through a deployment center will have a DNA specimen sample collected and forwarded to the AFRSSIR for storage. Contracts must require contractors to verify in SPOT-ES or its successor that AFRSSIR has received the DNA specimen sample or that the contractor has collected the DNA specimen sample.


(2) If CAAF who are U.S. citizens do not process through a deployment center, or the contractor is authorized to process its own personnel, the contract must require that the contractor collect and forward DNA specimen samples for all contractor personnel who are deployed as CAAF to the AFRSSIR. Regardless of what specimen collection and storage arrangements are made, all contractors deploying CAAF who are U.S. citizens must provide the CAAF's name and Social Security number, location of the DNA specimen sample, facility contact information, and retrieval plan to AFRSSIR. If the AFRSSIR is not used and a CAAF who is a U.S. citizen becomes a casualty, the contractor must be able to retrieve identification media for use by the Armed Forces Medical Examiner (AFME) or other competent authority to conduct a medical-legal investigation of the incident and identification of the victim or victims. These records must be retrievable within 24 hours for forwarding to the AFME when there is a reported incident that would necessitate their use for identifying human remains. The contractor shall have access to the location of its employees' fingerprint, medical, and dental records, including panographs.


(3) AFRSSIR is responsible for implementing special rules and procedures to ensure the protection of privacy interests in regards to the specimen samples and any DNA analysis of those samples. Specimen samples shall only be used for the purposes outlined in paragraph (ll) of appendix A to this part.


(i) *Waivers related to medical and dental fitness standards.* Based on an individualized assessment, waivers may be appropriate for contractor personnel who have potentially disqualifying medical conditions if, with or without a reasonable accommodation:


(1) The condition is not of such a nature it is likely to have a medically grave outcome or a negative impact on mission execution if it unexpectedly worsens.


(2) The condition is stable and reasonably anticipated by the medical evaluator not to worsen during the deployment under contractor-provided medical care in-theater in light of the physical, physiological, psychological, environmental, and nutritional effects of the duties and location.


(3) Any required ongoing health care or medications must be available or accessible to contractor personnel, independent of the military health system, and not be subject to special handling, storage, or other requirements (*e.g.,* refrigeration requirements and/or cold chain, electrical power requirements) that cannot be met in the specific theater of operations.


(4) The condition does not and is not anticipated to require duty limitations that would preclude performance of contractual requirements or to require accommodation by the DoD component or requiring activity. When necessary, the cognizant medical authority (or delegated representative) is the appropriate authority to evaluate the suitability of an individual's limitations in theater.


(5) There is no need for routine out-of-theater evacuation for continuing diagnostics or other evaluations.


(j) *Conditions usually precluding medical clearance.* This section is not intended to be comprehensive. A list of all possible diagnoses would be too expansive to list in this part. These are minimum requirements. Contractor personnel may have additional medical clearance requirements based on their occupation and local laws. It is the responsibility of the contractor to ensure that its employees' medical clearances comply with any applicable local occupation-specific medical requirements.


(1) In general, the conditions in paragraph (b) of this section, based on an individual assessment pursuant to paragraph (bb) of appendix A to this part, are disqualifying. The medical evaluator will carefully consider whether climate; altitude; the nature of available food and housing available; the nature of medical, behavioral health, and dental services; or other environmental or operational factors may prove hazardous to the deploying person's heath because of a known physical or mental condition.


(2) Medical clearance for deployment of persons with any of the conditions in this section may be granted by the contracting officer only after consultation with and approval of a waiver by the appropriate cognizant medical authority on behalf of the CCDR. The cognizant medical authority makes recommendations and serves as the CCDR's advisor on conditions precluding the medial clearance of deploying personnel; however, the CCDR is the final approval or disapproval authority except as provided in paragraph (k)(3) of this section. The cognizant medical authority or designated representative may determine if adequate treatment facilities and specialist support are available at the duty station for:


(i) Physical or psychological conditions resulting in the inability to wear IPE effectively, if wearing IPE may be reasonably anticipated or required in the deployed location.


(ii) Conditions that prevent safe administration of applicable immunizations, prescription products, or other health protection measures, including atropine, epinephrine, and/or 2-pam chloride auto-injectors, certain antimicrobials, antimalarials, and/or pyridostigmine bromide.


(iii) Any chronic medical conditions that require frequent clinical visits, fail to respond to adequate conservative treatment, or necessitate significant limitation of physical activity.


(iv) Any medical conditions that require durable medical equipment or appliances or periodic evaluation or treatment by medical specialists not readily available in theater (*e.g.,* Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) machine for sleep apnea).


(v) Any unresolved acute or chronic illness or injuries that would impair duty performance in a deployed environment during the duration of the deployment.


(vi) Active TB or known blood-borne diseases that may be transmitted to others in a deployed environment. (For HIV infections, see paragraph (j)(2)(xvii) of this section.)


(vii) An acute exacerbation of a physical or mental health condition that could affect duty performance.


(viii) Recurrent loss of consciousness for any reason.


(ix) Any medical condition that could result in sudden incapacitation including a history of stroke within the last 24 months, seizure disorders, and diabetes mellitus type I or II, treated with insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents.


(x) Hypertension not controlled with medication or that requires frequent monitoring to achieve control.


(xi) Pregnancy.


(xii) Cancers for which individuals are receiving continuing treatment or that require periodic specialty medical evaluations during the anticipated duration of the deployment.


(xiii) Precancerous lesions that have not been treated or evaluated and that require treatment or evaluation during the anticipated duration of the deployment.


(xiv) Any medical conditions that require surgery or for which surgery has been performed that requires rehabilitation or additional surgery to remove devices.


(xv) Asthma that has a Forced Expiratory Volume-1 (FEV-1) of less than or equal to 50 percent of predicted FEV-1 despite appropriate therapy, that has required hospitalization at least two times in the last 12 months, or that requires daily systemic oral or injectable steroids.


(xvi) Any musculoskeletal conditions that significantly impair performance of duties in a deployed environment.


(xvii) HIV antibody positive with the presence of progressive clinical illness or immunological deficiencies. The contracting officer should consult the cognizant medical authority in all instances of HIV seropositivity before medical clearance for deployment.


(xviii) Hearing loss. The requirement for use of a hearing aid does not necessarily preclude deployment. However, the individual must have sufficient unaided hearing to perform duties safely.


(xix) Loss of vision. Best corrected visual acuity must meet job requirements to perform duties safely.


(xx) Symptomatic coronary artery disease.


(xxi) History of myocardial infarction within one year of deployment.


(xxii) History of coronary artery bypass graft, coronary artery angioplasty, carotid endarterectomy, other arterial stenting, or aneurysm repair within one year of deployment.


(xxiii) Cardiac dysrhythmias or arrhythmias, either symptomatic or requiring medical or electrophysiologic control, such as the presence of an implanted defibrillator and/or pacemaker.


(xxiv) Heart failure.


(xxv) Individuals without a dental exam within the last 12 months or who are likely to require dental treatment or reevaluation for oral conditions that are likely to result in dental emergencies within 12 months.


(xxvi) Psychotic and/or bipolar disorders. For detailed guidance on deployment-limiting psychiatric conditions or psychotropic medications, see paragraph (mm) of appendix A to this part.


(xxvii) Psychiatric disorders under treatment with fewer than three months of demonstrated stability.


(xxviii) Clinical psychiatric disorders with residual symptoms that impair duty performance.


(xxix) Mental health conditions that pose a substantial risk for deterioration or recurrence of impairing symptoms in the deployed environment.


(xxx) Chronic medical conditions that require ongoing treatment with antipsychotics, lithium, or anticonvulsants.


(k) *Exceptions to medical standards (waivers).* If a contractor believes an individual CAAF with one of the conditions listed in paragraphs (j)(2)(i) through (xxx) of this section can, with or without reasonable accommodation, accomplish the essential duties of his or her tasks and duties and tolerate the environmental and operational conditions of the deployed location, the contractor may request a waiver for that individual through the contracting officer, using the process and procedures established by the GCC.


(1) Contractors will include a summary of a detailed medical evaluation or consultation concerning the medical condition or conditions in the requests for waivers. Since maximization of mission accomplishment and the protection of the health of personnel are the ultimate goals, justification for the waiver will include:


(i) Statement indicating the CAAF individual's qualifications and experience.


(ii) The position the CAAF individual will occupy and the nature and scope of contractual duties assigned.


(iii) Any known specific hazards of the position.


(iv) Anticipated availability and need for care while deployed.


(2) Waivers to deploy or permit continued service in a deployed environment by persons with any of the conditions in paragraphs (j)(2)(i) through (xxx) of this section require an individualized assessment and a recommendation from a cognizant medical authority. The GCC, or designee, is the final decision authority for medical waiver requests, except as provided in paragraph (k)(3) of this section.


(3) For CAAF individuals working with Special Operations Forces personnel, the Theater Special Operations Command Commander is the final decision authority for medical waiver requests.




