# § 6.11   Conduct of investigations.

(a) *Filing a complaint*—(1) *Who may file.* Any person who believes that he or she has been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this part may file, or may have an authorized representative file on his or her behalf, a complaint with the Responsible Official. Any person who believes that any specific class of persons has been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this part and who is a member of that class or who is the authorized representative of a member of that class may file a complaint with the Responsible Official.


(2) *Confidentiality.* Generally, the Responsible Official shall hold in confidence the identity of any person submitting a complaint, unless the person submits written authorization otherwise. However, an exception to maintaining confidentiality of the identity of the person may be required to carry out the purposes of this part, including the conduct of any investigation, hearing, or proceeding under this part.


(3) *When to file.* Complaints shall be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination, unless the Responsible Official waives this time limit for good cause. For purposes of determining when a complaint is filed under this part, a complaint mailed to the Responsible Official via the U.S. Postal Service will be deemed filed on the date it is postmarked. A complaint delivered to the Responsible Official in any other manner will be deemed filed on the date it is received by the Responsible Official.


(4) *Where to file complaints.* Complaints must be in writing, signed, addressed to the Responsible Official, and filed with (mailed to or otherwise delivered to) the Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity at any HUD Office.


(5) *Content of complaints.* Each complaint should contain the complainant's name, address, and phone number; a description or name, if available, of the Recipient alleged to have violated this part; an address where the violation occurred; and a description of the Recipient's alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the Responsible Official of the nature and date of the alleged violation of this part.


(6) *Amendments to complaints.* Amendments to complaints, such as clarification and amplification of allegations in a complaint or the addition of other Recipients, may be made by the complainant or the complainant's authorized representative at any time while the complaint is being considered, and any amendment shall be deemed to be made as of the original filing date.


(7) *Notification.* To the extent practicable, the Responsible Official will notify the complainant and the Recipient of the Responsible Official's receipt of a complaint within 10 calendar days of receipt of a complete complaint. If the Responsible Official receives a complaint that is not complete, the Responsible Official will notify the complainant and specify the additional information that is needed to make the complaint complete. If the complainant fails to complete the complaint, the Responsible Official will close the complaint without prejudice and notify the complainant. When a complete complaint has been received, the Responsible Official, or his or her designee, will assess the complaint for acceptance, rejection, or referral to an appropriate Federal agency within 20 calendar days.


(8) *Resolution of complaints.* After the acceptance of a complete complaint, the Responsible Official will investigate the complaint, attempt informal resolution, and, if resolution is not achieved, the Responsible Official will notify the Recipient and complainant, to the extent practicable within 180 days of the receipt of the complete complaint, of the results of the investigation in a letter of findings sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, containing the following:


(i) Findings of fact and a finding of compliance or noncompliance;


(ii) A description of an appropriate remedy for each violation believed to exist; and


(iii) A notice of the right of the Recipient and the complainant to request a review of the letter of findings by the Responsible Official. A copy of the final investigative report will be made available upon request.


(b) *Compliance reviews*—(1) *Periodic compliance reviews.* The Responsible Official may periodically review the practices of Recipients to determine whether they are complying with this part and may conduct on-site reviews. The Responsible Official will initiate an on-site review by sending to the Recipient a letter advising the Recipient of the practices to be reviewed; the programs affected by the review; and the opportunity, at any time before a final determination, to submit information that explains, validates, or otherwise addresses the practices under review. In addition, the Award Official will include, in normal program compliance reviews and monitoring procedures, appropriate actions to review and monitor compliance with general or specific program requirements designed to implement the requirements of this part.


(2) *Time period of the review.* (i) For the Entitlement program, compliance reviews will cover the three years before the date of the review.


(ii) For the Urban Development Action Grant (UDAG) program, the compliance review is applicable only to UDAG loan repayments or other payments or revenues classified as program income. UDAG repayments or other payments or revenues classified as miscellaneous revenue are not subject to compliance review under this part. (*See* 24 CFR 570.500(a).) The compliance review will cover the time period that program income is being repaid.


(iii) For the State and HUD-Administered Small Cities programs, the compliance review will cover the four years before the date of the review.


(iv) For all other programs, the time period covered by the review will be four years before the date of the review.


(v) On a case-by-case basis, at the discretion of the Responsible Official, the above time frames for review can be expanded where facts or allegations warrant further investigation.


(3) *Early compliance resolution.* On the last day of the on-site visit, after the compliance review, the Recipient will be given an opportunity to supplement the record. Additionally, a prefinding conference may be held and a summary of the proposed findings may be presented to the Recipient. In those instances where the issue(s) cannot be resolved at a prefinding conference or with the supplemental information, a meeting will be scheduled to attempt a voluntary settlement.


(4) *Notification of findings.* (i) The Assistant Secretary will notify the Recipient of Federal financial assistance of the results of the compliance review in a letter of findings sent by certified mail, return receipt requested.


(ii) *Letter of findings.* The letter of findings will include the findings of fact and the conclusions of law; a description of a remedy for each violation found; and a notice that a copy of HUD's final report concerning its compliance review will be made available, upon request, to the Recipient.


(c) *Right to a review of the letter of findings.* (1) Within 30 days of receipt of the letter of findings, any party may request that a review be made of the letter of findings, by mailing or delivering to the Responsible Official, Room 5100, Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, HUD, Washington, DC 20410, a written statement of the reasons why the letter of findings should be modified.


(2) The Responsible Official will send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a copy of the request for review to all parties. Parties other than the party requesting review and HUD shall have 20 days from receipt to respond to the request for review.


(3) The Responsible Official will either sustain or modify the letter of findings or require that further investigation be conducted, within 60 days of the request for review. The Responsible Official's decision shall constitute the formal determination of compliance or noncompliance.


(4) If no party requests that the letter of findings be reviewed, the Responsible Official, within 14 calendar days of the expiration of the time period in paragraph (a)(9)(i) of this section, will send a formal written determination of compliance or noncompliance to all parties.


(d) *Voluntary compliance time limits.* The Recipient will have 10 calendar days from receipt of the letter of findings of noncompliance, or such other reasonable time as specified in the letter, within which to agree, in writing, to come into voluntary compliance or to contact the Responsible Official for settlement discussions. If the Recipient fails to meet this deadline, HUD will proceed in accordance with §§ 6.12 and 6.13.


(e) *Informal resolution/voluntary compliance*—(1) *General.* It is the policy of HUD to encourage the informal resolution of matters. A complaint or a compliance review may be resolved by informal means at any time. If a letter of findings is issued, and the letter makes a finding of noncompliance, the Responsible Official will attempt to resolve the matter through a voluntary compliance agreement.


(2) *Objectives of informal resolution/voluntary compliance.* In attempting informal resolution, the Responsible Official will attempt to achieve a just resolution of the matter and to obtain assurances, where appropriate, that the Recipient will satisfactorily remedy any violations of the rights of any complainant, and will take such action as will assure the elimination of any violation of this part or the prevention of the occurrence of such violation in the future. If a finding of noncompliance has been made, the terms of such an informal resolution shall be reduced to a written voluntary compliance agreement, signed by the Recipient and the Responsible Official, and be made part of the file. Such voluntary compliance agreements shall seek to protect the interests of the complainant (if any), other persons similarly situated, and the public.


(3) *Right to file a private civil action.* At any time in the process, the complainant has the right to file a private civil action. If the complainant does so, the Responsible Official has the discretion to administratively close the investigation or continue the investigation, if he or she decides that it is in the best interests of the Department to do so. If the Responsible Official makes a finding of noncompliance and an agreement to voluntarily comply is not obtained from the Recipient, the procedures at §§ 6.12 and 6.13 for effecting compliance shall be followed.


(f) *Intimidatory or retaliatory acts prohibited.* No Recipient or other person shall intimidate, threaten, coerce, or discriminate against any person for the purpose of interfering with any right or privilege secured by this part, or because he or she has made a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in an investigation, compliance review, proceeding, or hearing under this part.




