# § 1627.5   Applicability of restrictions, recordkeeping, and recipient priorities; private attorney involvement subgrants.

(a) *Applicability of restrictions.* The prohibitions and requirements set forth in 45 CFR part 1610 apply both to the subgrant and to the subrecipient's non-LSC funds, except as modified by paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section.


(b) *Priorities.* Subrecipients must either:


(1) Use the subgrant consistent with the recipient's priorities; or


(2) Establish their own priorities for the use of the subgrant consistent with 45 CFR part 1620.


(c) *Recordkeeping.* A recipient must be able to account for how its subrecipients spend LSC funds or use property or services funded in whole or in part with LSC funds. A subrecipient must provide to the recipient records as described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) A subrecipient that handles matters as defined at 45 CFR 1635.2(b) must maintain adequate records to demonstrate that its attorneys and paralegals used the LSC funds or property or services funded in whole or in part with LSC funds:


(i) To carry out the activities described in the subgrant agreement; and


(ii) Consistent with the restrictions set forth at 45 CFR part 1610.


(2) A subrecipient that handles cases as defined at 45 CFR 1635.2(a):


(i) Must require its attorneys and paralegals to maintain records for each case that show the amount of time spent on the case and the activity conducted by date, and a unique client name or case number; and


(ii) Either the subrecipient or the recipient must maintain records for each case that show the problem type and the closing code for the case.


(iii) This requirement does not apply to subrecipients described in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section.


(3) A subrecipient who handles both cases and matters must maintain the types of records described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2).


(d) *Subgrants for engaging private attorneys*—(1) *Subgrants of funds.* The prohibitions and requirements set forth in 45 CFR part 1610 apply *only* to the subgranted funds when the subrecipient is a bar association, *pro bono* program, private attorney or law firm, or other entity that receives a subgrant for the sole purpose of funding private attorney involvement activities (PAI) pursuant to 45 CFR part 1614.


(2) *In-kind subgrants.* The prohibitions and requirements set forth in 45 CFR part 1610 apply *only* to the subgranted property or services acquired in whole or in part with LSC funds when the subrecipient is a bar association, *pro bono* program, private attorney or law firm, or other entity that receives a subgrant for the sole purpose of:


(i) Conducting private attorney involvement activities (PAI) pursuant to 45 CFR part 1614; or


(ii) Providing legal information or legal assistance on a *pro bono* or reduced fee basis to individuals who have been screened and found eligible to receive legal assistance from an LSC recipient.


(3) *Treatment of non-LSC funds.* Any funds or property or services acquired in whole or in part with LSC funds and used by a recipient as payment for a PAI subgrant are deemed LSC funds for purposes of this paragraph (d).


(4) *Recordkeeping exception.* The recordkeeping requirement in paragraph (c) of this section does not apply to private attorneys providing legal assistance on a pro bono or reduced fee basis.




