# ยง 16.42   Responsibility for responding to Privacy Act requests for access to records.

(a) *In general.* Except as stated in paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section, the component that first receives a Privacy Act request for access is the component responsible for responding to the request. In determining which records are responsive to a request, a component ordinarily will include only those records it maintained as of the date the component begins its search. If any other date is used, the component shall inform the requester of that date.


(b) *Authority to grant or deny requests.* The head of a component, or the component head's designee, is authorized to grant or deny any Privacy Act request for access to records maintained by that component.


(c) *Re-routing of misdirected requests.* When a component's FOIA/Privacy Act office determines that a request was misdirected within the Department, the receiving component's FOIA/Privacy Act office shall route the request to the FOIA/Privacy Act office of the proper component(s).


(d) *Consultations, referrals, and coordination.* When a component receives a Privacy Act request for access to a record in its possession, it shall determine whether another component, or another agency of the Federal Government, is better able to determine whether the record is exempt from access under the Privacy Act. If the receiving component determines that it is best able to process the record in response to the request, then it shall do so. If the receiving component determines that it is not best able to process the record, then it shall follow the consultation, referral, and coordination procedures under ยง 16.4, subject to the requirements in this section. Components may make agreements with other components or agencies to eliminate the need for consultations or referrals for particular types of records.


(e) *Consultations, referrals, and coordination concerning law enforcement information.* When a component receives a Privacy Act request for access to a record in its possession containing information that relates to an investigation of a possible violation of law and that originated with another component or agency of the Federal Government, the receiving component shall either refer the responsibility for responding to the request regarding that information to that other component or agency or shall consult with that other component or agency.


(f) *Consultations, referrals, and coordination concerning classified information.* (1) When a component receives a Privacy Act request for access to a record containing information that has been classified or may be appropriate for classification by another component or agency under any applicable Executive order concerning the classification of records, the receiving component shall consult with or refer the responsibility for responding to the request regarding that information to the component or agency that classified the information, or that should consider the information for classification.


(2) When a component receives a Privacy Act request for access to a record containing information that has been derivatively classified, the receiving component shall consult with or refer the responsibility for responding to that portion of the request to the component or agency that classified the underlying information.






