# ยง 126.27   Deliberations and action.

(a) *Deliberations.* TSOB Review Panel deliberations are closed proceedings. Any materials created by Review Panel members, the TSOB Docket Clerk, and the Review Panel's appointed counsel for use in deliberations are not part of the final administrative record.


(b) *Action.* A TSOB Review Panel may affirm, modify, or reverse the ALJ's decision. It may also remand the matter to the ALJ with instructions to address particular issues or consider additional testimony or evidence.


(1) A TSOB Review Panel requires a simple majority to decide an action.


(2) In case of a disagreement among TSOB Review Panel members, a dissenting report may be served with the written explanation of the Review Panel's action. A dissenting report must be prepared in accordance with the requirements for the Review Panel's written explanation.


(c) *Written explanation.* A TSOB Review Panel will explain its action in writing to the maximum extent permitted by prudent concern for the national security interests of the United States and applicable laws and regulations governing information disclosure. If necessary, the Review Panel may prepare its written explanation in both a protected format (which may contain classified information, SSI, and other protected information) and a non-protected format (which must not contain classified information, SSI, and other protected information). The Review Panel serves non-government parties with the non-protected written explanation and government parties with the protected written explanation. The Review Panel is prohibited from providing the protected written explanation to non-government parties; however, the protected written explanation, if any, is part of the final administrative record that TSA must submit to a U.S. Court of Appeals in the event that a party seeks judicial review of the Review Panel's action.


(d) *Timing.* A TSOB Review Panel endeavors to resolve an appeal and issue a written explanation of its action to the parties no later than 60 calendar days after the last of the following events:


(1) Receipt of a timely filed appellant brief;


(2) receipt of a timely filed appellee brief; or


(3) Oral argument.






