# § 63.1354   Reporting requirements.

(a) The reporting provisions of subpart A of this part that apply and those that do not apply to owners or operators of affected sources subject to this subpart are listed in Table 1 of this subpart. If any State requires a report that contains all of the information required in a report listed in this section, the owner or operator may send the Administrator a copy of the report sent to the State to satisfy the requirements of this section for that report.


(b) The owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with the reporting requirements specified in § 63.10 of the general provisions of this part 63, subpart A as follows:


(1) As required by § 63.10(d)(2), the owner or operator shall report the results of performance tests as part of the notification of compliance status.


(2) As required by § 63.10(d)(3), the owner or operator of an affected source shall report the opacity results from tests required by § 63.1349.


(3) As required by § 63.10(d)(4), the owner or operator of an affected source who is required to submit progress reports as a condition of receiving an extension of compliance under § 63.6(i) shall submit such reports by the dates specified in the written extension of compliance.


(4)-(5) [Reserved] 


(6) As required by § 63.10(e)(2), the owner or operator shall submit a written report of the results of the performance evaluation for the continuous monitoring system required by § 63.8(e). The owner or operator shall submit the report simultaneously with the results of the performance test.


(7) As required by § 63.10(e)(2), the owner or operator of an affected source using a continuous opacity monitoring system to determine opacity compliance during any performance test required under § 63.7 and described in § 63.6(d)(6) shall report the results of the continuous opacity monitoring system performance evaluation conducted under § 63.8(e).


(8) As required by § 63.10(e)(3), the owner or operator of an affected source equipped with a continuous emission monitor shall submit an excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report for any event when the continuous monitoring system data indicate the source is not in compliance with the applicable emission limitation or operating parameter limit.


(9) The owner or operator shall submit a summary report semiannually within 60 days of the reporting period to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI). (CEDRI can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*). You must use the appropriate electronic report in CEDRI for this subpart. Instead of using the electronic report in CEDRI for this subpart, you may submit an alternate electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the CEDRI website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/compliance-and-emissions-data-reporting-interface-cedri*), once the XML schema is available. If the reporting form specific to this subpart is not available in CEDRI at the time that the report is due, you must submit the report the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13. You must begin submitting reports via CEDRI no later than 90 days after the form becomes available in CEDRI. The excess emissions and summary reports must be submitted no later than 60 days after the end of the reporting period, regardless of the method in which the reports are submitted. The report must contain the information specified in § 63.10(e)(3)(vi). In addition, the summary report shall include:


(i) All exceedances of maximum control device inlet gas temperature limits specified in § 63.1346(a) and (b);


(ii) Notification of any failure to calibrate thermocouples and other temperature sensors as required under § 63.1350(g)(1)(iii) of this subpart; and


(iii) Notification of any failure to maintain the activated carbon injection rate, and the activated carbon injection carrier gas flow rate or pressure drop, as applicable, as required under § 63.1346(c)(2).


(iv) Notification of failure to conduct any combustion system component inspections conducted within the reporting period as required under § 63.1347(a)(3).


(v) Any and all failures to comply with any provision of the operation and maintenance plan developed in accordance with § 63.1347(a).


(vi) For each PM CPMS, HCl, Hg, and THC CEMS, SO_2_ CEMS, or Hg sorbent trap monitoring system, within 60 days after the reporting periods, you must report all of the calculated 30-operating day rolling average values derived from the CPMS, CEMS, CMS, or Hg sorbent trap monitoring systems.


(vii) In response to each violation of an emissions standard or established operating parameter limit, the date, duration and description of each violation and the specific actions taken for each violation including inspections, corrective actions and repeat performance tests and the results of those actions.


(10) If the total continuous monitoring system downtime for any CEM or any CMS for the reporting period is 10 percent or greater of the total operating time for the reporting period, the owner or operator shall submit an excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report along with the summary report.


(11)(i) You must submit the information specified in paragraphs (b)(11)(i)(A) and (B) of this section no later than 60 days following the initial performance test. All reports must be signed by a responsible official.


(A) The initial performance test data as recorded under § 63.1349(a).


(B) The values for the site-specific operating limits or parameters established pursuant to § 63.1349(b)(1), (3), (6), (7), and (8), as applicable, and a description, including sample calculations, of how the operating parameters were established during the initial performance test.


(C) As of December 31, 2011, and within 60 days after the date of completing each performance evaluation or test, as defined in § 63.2, conducted to demonstrate compliance with any standard covered by this subpart, you must submit the relative accuracy test audit data and performance test data, except opacity data, to the EPA by successfully submitting the data electronically via CEDRI and by using the Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) (see *https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert*). For any performance evaluations with no corresponding RATA pollutants listed on the ERT website, you must submit the results of the performance evaluation to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13.


(ii) For PM performance test reports used to set a PM CPMS operating limit, the electronic submission of the test report must also include the make and model of the PM CPMS instrument, serial number of the instrument, analytical principle of the instrument (*e.g.* beta attenuation), span of the instruments primary analytical range, milliamp value equivalent to the instrument zero output, technique by which this zero value was determined, and the average milliamp signals corresponding to each PM compliance test run.


(12) All reports required by this subpart not subject to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(9) introductory text and (b)(11)(i) of this section must be sent to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13. The Administrator or the delegated authority may request a report in any form suitable for the specific case (*e.g.,* by commonly used electronic media such as Excel spreadsheet, on CD or hard copy). The Administrator retains the right to require submittal of reports subject to paragraphs (b)(9) introductory text and (b)(11)(i) of this section in paper format.


(c) For each failure to meet a standard or emissions limit caused by a malfunction at an affected source, you must report the failure in the semi-annual compliance report required by § 63.1354(b)(9). The report must contain the date, time and duration, and the cause of each event (including unknown cause, if applicable), and a sum of the number of events in the reporting period. The report must list for each event the affected source or equipment, an estimate of the amount of each regulated pollutant emitted over the emission limit for which the source failed to meet a standard, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.1348(d), including actions taken to correct a malfunction.



---

[N] [64 FR 31925, June 14, 1999, as amended at 75 FR 55063, Sept. 9, 2010; 78 FR 10053, Feb. 12, 2013; 80 FR 44790, July 27, 2015; 83 FR 35135, July 25, 2018]




