# § 4211.22   Requests for PBGC approval.

(a) *Filing of request*—(1) *In general.* A plan shall submit a request for approval of an alternative allocation method or modification to an allocation method to the PBGC in accordance with the requirements of this section as soon as practicable after the adoption of the amendment. 


(2) *Method of filing.* The PBGC applies the rules in subpart A of part 4000 of this chapter to determine permissible methods of filing with the PBGC under this subpart.


(b) *Who shall submit.* The plan sponsor, or a duly authorized representative acting on behalf of the plan sponsor, shall sign the request. 


(c) *Where to submit.* See § 4000.4 of this chapter for information on where to file.


(d) *Content.* Each request shall contain the following information: 


(1) The name, address and telephone number of the plan sponsor, and of the duly authorized representative, if any, of the plan sponsor. 


(2) The name of the plan.


(3) The nine-digit Employer Identification Number (EIN) that the Internal Revenue Service assigned to the plan sponsor and the three-digit Plan Identification Number (PIN) that the plan sponsor assigned to the plan, and, if different, also the EIN-PIN that the plan last filed with the PBGC. If the plan has no EIN-PIN, the request shall so indicate. 


(4) The date the amendment was adopted. 


(5) A copy of the amendment, setting forth the full text of the alternative allocation method or modification. 


(6) The allocation method that the plan currently uses and a copy of the plan amendment (if any) that adopted the method. 


(7) A statement certifying that notice of the adoption of the amendment has been given to all employers that have an obligation to contribute under the plan and to all employee organizations that represent employees covered by the plan. 


(e) *Additional information.* In addition to the information listed in paragraph (d) of this section, the PBGC may require the plan sponsor to submit any other information that the PBGC determines is necessary for the review of an alternative allocation method or modification to an allocation method.



---

[N] [61 FR 34097, July 1, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 61355, Oct. 28, 2003]




