# § 54.516   Auditing and inspections.

(a) *Recordkeeping requirements*—(1) *Schools, libraries, and consortia.* Schools, libraries, and any consortium that includes schools or libraries shall retain all documents related to the application for, receipt, and delivery of supported services for at least 10 years after the latter of the last day of the applicable funding year or the service delivery deadline for the funding request. Any other document that demonstrates compliance with the statutory or regulatory requirements for the schools and libraries mechanism shall be retained as well. Subject to paragraph (e) of this section, schools, libraries, and consortia shall maintain asset and inventory records for a period of 10 years after purchase.




(2) *Service providers.* Service providers shall retain documents related to the delivery of supported services for at least 10 years after the latter of the last day of the applicable funding year or the service delivery deadline for the funding request. Any other document that demonstrates compliance with the statutory or regulatory requirements for the schools and libraries mechanism shall be retained as well.




(b) *Production of records.* Schools, libraries, consortia, and service providers shall produce such records at the request of any representative (including any auditor) appointed by a State education department, the Administrator, the FCC, or any local, State or Federal agency with jurisdiction over the entity. Where necessary for compliance with Federal or State privacy laws, E-Rate participants may produce records regarding students, school staff, and library patrons in an anonymized or deidentified format. When requested by the Administrator or the Commission, as part of an audit or investigation, schools, libraries, and consortia must seek consent to provide personally identifiable information from a student who has reach age of majority, the relevant parent/guardian of a minor student, or the school staff member or library patron prior to disclosure.






(c) *Audits.* Schools, libraries, consortia, and service providers shall be subject to audits and other investigations to evaluate their compliance with the statutory and regulatory requirements for the schools and libraries universal service support mechanism, including those requirements pertaining to what services and products are purchased, what services and products are delivered, and how services and products are being used. Schools, libraries, and consortia receiving discounted services must provide consent before a service provider releases confidential information to the auditor, reviewer, or other representative.


(d) *Inspections.* Schools, libraries, consortia and service providers shall permit any representative (including any auditor) appointed by a state education department, the Administrator, the Commission or any local, state or federal agency with jurisdiction over the entity to enter their premises to conduct E-rate compliance inspections.



---

[N] [79 FR 49203, Aug. 19, 2014, as amended at 89 FR 67325, Aug. 20, 2024]




