# § 24.250   Application for use of new treating material or process.

(a) *General.* If the proprietor desires to use a material or process which is not specifically authorized in §§ 24.246, 24.247, 24.248, or elsewhere in this part, an application shall be filed with the appropriate TTB officer to show that the proposed material or process is a cellar treatment consistent with good commercial practice.


(b) *Data required.* The application will include the following:


(1) The name and description of the material or process;


(2) The purpose, the manner, and the extent to which the material or process is to be used together with any technical bulletin or other pertinent information relative to the material or process;


(3) A sample, if a proposed material;


(4) Documentary evidence from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration that the material is consistent with the food additive requirements under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act for its intended purpose in the amounts proposed for the particular treatment contemplated;


(5) The test results of any laboratory-scale pilot study conducted by the winemaker in testing the material and an evaluation of the product and of the treatment including the results of tests of the shelf life of the treated wine;


(6) A tabulation of pertinent information derived from the testing program conducted by the chemical manufacturer demonstrating the function of the material or process;


(7) A list of all chemicals used in compounding the treating material and the quantity of each component;


(8) The recommended maximum and minimum amounts, if any, of the material proposed to be used in the treatment and a statement as to the volume of water required, if any, to facilitate the addition of the material or operation of the process; and


(9) Two 750-milliliter samples representative of the wine before and after treatment. Information of a confidential or proprietary nature to the manufacturer or supplier of the treating material or process may be forwarded by the manufacturer or supplier to the appropriate TTB officer with a reference to the application filed by the winemaker. Information contained within the winemaker's application can be disclosed to the public, subject to the limitations of 26 U.S.C. 6103 and 7213.




(c) *Use of cellar treatment.* The proprietor may not use the proposed treating material or process until a determination has been made by the appropriate TTB officer that the intended use of the material or process is acceptable in good commercial practice.


(d) *Processing of application.* After evaluation of the data submitted with the application, the appropriate TTB officer will make a decision regarding the acceptability of the proposed treatment in good commercial practice. The appropriate TTB officer will notify the proprietor of the approval or disapproval of the application.





---

[N] [T.D. ATF-299, 55 FR 24989, June 19, 1990, as amended by T.D. ATF-409, 64 FR 13683, 13685, Mar. 22, 1999; T.D. TTB-185, 87 FR 51903, Aug. 24, 2022; T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87942, Nov. 6, 2024]




