# ยง 80.70   Special conditions relative to coast station VHF facilities.

(a) Coast stations which transmit on the same radio channel above 150 MHz must minimize interference by reducing radiated power, by decreasing antenna height or by installing directional antennas. Coast stations at locations separated by less than 241 kilometers (150 miles) which transmit on the same radio channel above 150 MHz must also consider a time-sharing arrangement. The Commission may order station changes if agreement cannot be reached between the involved licensees.


(b) Coast stations which transmit on a radio channel above 150 MHz and are located within interference range of any station within Canada or Mexico must minimize interference to the involved foreign station(s), and must notify the Commission of any station changes.


(c) A VHF (156-162 MHz) public coast licensee initially authorized on any of the channels listed in the table in ยง 80.371(c)(1), or an AMTS licensee initially authorized on any of the channel blocks listed in the table in ยง 80.385(a)(2), may transfer or assign its channel(s), or channel block(s), to another entity. If the proposed transferee or assignee is the geographic area licensee for the geographic area to which the frequency block is allocated, such transfer or assignment will be deemed to be in the public interest. However, such presumption will be rebuttable.



---

[N] [51 FR 31213, Sept. 2, 1986, as amended at 63 FR 40063, July 27, 1998; 67 FR 48564, July 25, 2002]




