# § 4280.312   Loan approval and closing.

(a) *Loan approval and obligating funds.* The loan will be considered approved on the date the signed copy of Form RD 1940-1, “Request for Obligation of Funds,” is executed by the Agency. Form RD 1940-1 authorizes funds to be obligated and may be executed by the Agency after the microlender has signed the document, provided that the microlender has the legal authority to contract for a loan and to enter into required agreements, including an Agency-approved loan agreement, and meets all program loan requirements.


(b) *Letter of conditions.* Upon reviewing the conditions and requirements in the letter of conditions, the applicant must complete, sign, and return Form RD 1942-46, “Letter of Intent to Meet Conditions,” to the Agency; or if certain conditions cannot be met, the applicant may propose alternate conditions. The Agency will review any requests for changes to the letter of conditions and may approve only minor changes that do not materially affect the microlender and remain within the program requirements. Changes in legal entities prior to loan closing will not be approved.


(c) *Loan closing.* (1) Prior to loan closing, microlenders must provide evidence that the RMRF and LLRF bank accounts have been set up and the LLRF has been or will be funded as described in § 4280.311(g)(4). Such evidence shall consist of:


(i) A pre-authorized debit form allowing the Agency to withdraw payments from the RMRF account, and in the event of a repayment workout, from the LLRF account;


(ii) An Agency-approved automatic deposit authorization form, from the depository institution providing the Agency with the RMRF account number, into which funds may be deposited at time of disbursement to the microlender;


(iii) A statement from the depository institution as to the amount of cash in the LLRF account;


(iv) An Agency-approved promissory note and a loan agreement for each loan to the MDO must be executed at loan closing. The loan agreement will be prepared by the Agency using Form RD 4274-4, “Intermediary Relending Program/Rural Microentrepreneur Assistance Program Loan Agreement,” and reviewed by the MDO prior to loan closing; and


(v) An appropriate security agreement on the LLRF and RMRF accounts must be executed at loan closing.


(2) At loan closing, the microlender must certify that:


(i) All requirements of the letter of conditions have been met; and


(ii) There has been no material adverse change in the microlender, its key personnel, or its financial condition since the issuance of the letter of conditions. If one or more adverse changes have occurred, the microlender must explain the changes and the Agency must determine that the microlender remains eligible and qualified to participate as an MDO.


(3) The microlender will provide sufficient evidence that no lawsuits or other legal issues are pending or threatened that would adversely affect the security of the microlender when Agency security instruments are filed.






