# § 63.1106   Wastewater provisions.

(a) *Process wastewater.* Except as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(16) and paragraph (d) of this section, the owner or operator of each affected source shall comply with the HON process wastewater requirements in §§ 63.132 through 63.148.


(1) When terms used in §§ 63.132 through 63.148 are defined in § 63.1101, the definition in § 63.1101 shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart. For terms used in §§ 63.132 through 63.148 that are not defined in § 63.1101, the definitions in §§ 63.101 and 63.111 shall apply.


(2) When the term chemical manufacturing production process unit, or CMPU, is used in §§ 63.132 through 63.148, the phrase “a process unit whose primary product is a product produced by a source category subject to this subpart” shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.


(3) Owners and operators of affected sources are not required to comply with § 63.132(b)(1) and (d) and § 63.138(c). Further, owners and operators are exempt from all requirements in §§ 63.132 through 63.148 that pertain solely and exclusively to organic HAP listed in Table 8 of subpart G of this part.


(4) When the determination of equivalence criteria in § 63.102(b) is referred to in §§ 63.132, 63.133, and 63.137, the alternative nonopacity emission standard provisions in § 63.6(g) shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.


(5) When the HON storage vessel requirements for internal floating roofs contained in § 63.119(b) are referred to in § 63.133(a)(2)(ii), the requirements in § 63.1063(a)(1)(i), (2), and (b) shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.


(6) When the HON storage vessel requirements for external floating roofs in §§ 63.119(c) and 63.120(b)(5) and (6) are referred to in § 63.133(a)(2)(iii) and (d), the requirements in § 63.1063(a)(1)(ii), (2), and (b) shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.


(7) For the purposes of this subpart, § 63.1063(c)(2)(iv) shall apply instead of § 63.133(e).


(8) When §§ 63.143(c), (d), (e)(3) and 63.146(a) require the submission of a request for approval to monitor alternative parameters according to the procedures specified in § 63.151(f) or (g), the owner or operator requesting to monitor alternative parameters shall follow the procedures specified in § 63.1108(c) or as specified in a referenced subpart.


(9) When § 63.147(d) requires the owner or operator to keep records of the daily average value of each continuously monitored parameter for each operating day as specified in § 63.152(f), the owner or operator shall keep records of each continuously monitored parameter for each operating day as specified in § 63.998(b).


(10) When § 63.132(a) and (b) refer to the “applicable dates specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part,” the applicable compliance dates specified in § 63.1102 shall apply, for purposes of this subpart.


(11) Where § 63.152(b) and/or the Notification of Compliance Status is referred to in §§ 63.132 through 63.148, the Notification of Compliance Status requirements contained in § 63.1110(a)(4) shall apply, for purposes of this subpart.


(12) Where § 63.152(c) and/or the Periodic Report requirements are referred to §§ 63.132 through 63.148, the Periodic Report requirements contained in § 63.1110(a)(5) shall apply, for purposes of this subpart.


(13) When Method 18 of Appendix A to part 60 of this chapter is specified in § 63.139(c)(1)(ii), § 63.145(d)(4), or § 63.145(i)(2), either Method 18 or Method 25A may be used. The use of Method 25A of appendix A to part 60 of this chapter shall comply with paragraphs (a)(13)(i) and (a)(13)(ii) of this section.


(i) The organic HAP used as the calibration gas for Method 25A of appendix A of part 60 of this chapter shall be the single organic HAP representing the largest percent by volume of the emissions.


(ii) The use of Method 25A of appendix A of part 60 of this chapter is acceptable if the response from the high-level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.


(14) When the HON recordkeeping requirements for by-pass lines in § 63.118(a)(3) is referred to in § 63.148(f), the requirements in § 63.998(d)(1)(ii)(A) shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.


(15) When the Initial Notification requirements in § 63.182(b) are referred to in § 63.148(j), the requirements in § 63.1110(c) shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.


(16) For the purposes of this subpart, § 63.148(k) shall not apply.


(b) *Maintenance wastewater.* The owner or operator of each affected source shall comply with the HON maintenance wastewater requirements in § 63.105. When terms used in § 63.105 are defined in § 63.1101, the definition in § 63.1101 shall apply, for the purpose of this subpart. For terms used in § 63.105 that are not defined in § 63.1101, the definitions in §§ 63.101 and 63.111 shall apply.


(c) *Liquid streams in open systems.* The owner or operator shall comply with the provisions of Table 35 of subpart G of this part for each item of equipment meeting the criteria specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section and either paragraph (c)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section, with the exceptions provided in paragraphs (c)(5) and (6) of this section.


(1) The item of equipment is one of the types of equipment identified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section.


(i) Drain or drain hub;


(ii) Manhole (including sumps and other points of access to a conveyance system);


(iii) Lift station;


(iv) Trench;


(v) Pipe;


(vi) Oil/water separator; and


(vii) Tanks with capacities of 38 m
3 or greater.


(2) The item of equipment is part of an affected source that is subject to this subpart.


(3) The item of equipment is controlled less stringently than in Table 35 of subpart G of this part, and the item of equipment is not otherwise exempt from the provisions of this subpart, or a referenced subpart.


(4) The item of equipment:


(i) Is a drain, drain hub, manhole, lift station, trench, pipe, or oil/water separator that conveys water with a total annual average concentration greater than or equal to 10,000 parts per million by weight of Table 9 compounds (as defined under this subpart) at any flow rate; or a total annual average concentration greater than or equal to 1,000 parts per million by weight of Table 9 compounds (as defined under this subpart) at an annual average flow rate greater than or equal to 10 liters per minute.


(ii) Is a tank that receives one or more streams that contain water with a total annual average concentration greater than or equal to 1,000 parts per million by weight of Table 9 compounds (as defined under this subpart) at an annual average flow rate greater than or equal to 10 liters per minute. The owner or operator shall determine the characteristics of the stream as specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.


(A) The characteristics of the stream being received shall be determined at the inlet to the tank.


(B) The characteristics shall be determined according to the procedures in § 63.144(b) and (c).


(5) When terms used in Table 35 of subpart G of this part are defined in § 63.1101, the definition in § 63.1101 shall apply, for the purpose of this subpart. For terms used in Table 35 of subpart G of this part that are not defined in § 63.1101, the definitions in § 63.101 and § 63.111 shall apply.


(6) When Table 35 of subpart G of this part refers to 40 CFR 63.119(e)(1) or (e)(2) in the requirements for tanks, the owner or operator shall reduce emissions of total organic HAP by 95 weight-percent by venting emissions through a closed vent system to any combination of control devices meeting the requirements in § 63.982(a)(1), for the purposes of this subpart.


(d) The compliance date for the affected sources subject to the provisions of this section is specified in § 63.1102. 



---

[N] [64 FR 63701, Nov. 22, 1999, as amended at 79 FR 60926, Oct. 8, 2014]




