# ยง 661.3   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Act* means the Federal Public Transportation Law (49 U.S.C. Chapter 53).


*Administrator* means the Administrator of FTA, or designee.


*Component* means any article, material, or supply, whether manufactured or unmanufactured, that is directly incorporated into the end product at the final assembly location.


*Contractor* means a party to a third party contract other than the grantee.


*End product* means any vehicle, structure, product, article, material, supply, or system, which directly incorporates constituent components at the final assembly location, that is acquired for public use under a federally-funded third-party contract, and which is ready to provide its intended end function or use without any further manufacturing or assembly change(s). A list of representative end products is included at Appendix A to this section.


*FTA* means the Federal Transit Administration.


*Grantee* means any entity that is a recipient of FTA funds.


*Manufactured product* means an item produced as a result of the manufacturing process.


*Manufacturing process* means the application of processes to alter the form or function of materials or of elements of the product in a manner adding value and transforming those materials or elements so that they represent a new end product functionally different from that which would result from mere assembly of the elements or materials.


*Negotiated procurement* means a contract awarded using other than sealed bidding procedures.


*Rolling stock* means transit vehicles such as buses, vans, cars, railcars, locomotives, trolley cars and buses, and ferry boats, as well as vehicles used for support services.


*System* means a machine, product, or device, or a combination of such equipment, consisting of individual components, whether separate or interconnected by piping, transmission devices, electrical cables or circuitry, or by other devices, which are intended to contribute together to a clearly defined function. Factors to consider in determining whether a system constitutes an end product include: Whether performance warranties apply to an integrated system (regardless of whether components are separately warranteed); whether products perform on an integrated basis with other products in a system, or are operated independently of associated products in the system; or whether transit agencies routinely procure a product separately (other than as replacement or spare parts).


*United States* means the several States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, Guam, American Samoa, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.



---

[N] [72 FR 53696, Sept. 20, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 30239, June 25, 2009]




