# § 1951.222   Subordination of security.

When a borrower requests Rural Development to subordinate a security instrument so that another creditor or lender can refinance, extend, reamortize, or increase the amount of a prior lien; be on parity with; or place a lien ahead of the Rural Development lien, it will submit a written request to the servicing office as provided below. For purposes of this subpart, subordination is defined to include cases where a parity security position is being considered.


(a) *General.* The following requirements must normally be met:


(1) The request must be for subordination of a specific amount of the Rural Development indebtedness.


(2) It must be determined that the borrower cannot refinance its Rural Development debt in accordance with subpart F of part 1951 of this chapter.


(3) The transaction will further the purposes for which the Rural Development loan was made, not adversely affect the borrower's debt-paying ability, and result in the Rural Development debt being adequately secured.


(4) The terms and conditions of the prior lien will be such that the borrower can reasonably be expected to meet them as well as the requirements of all other debts.


(5) Any proposed development work will be planned and performed according to § 1942.18 of subpart A of part 1942 of this chapter or in a manner directed by the creditor which reasonably attains the objectives of that section.


(6) All contracts, pay estimates, and change orders will be reviewed and concurred in by the State Director.


(7) In cases involving land purchase, the Rural Development will obtain a mortgage on the purchased land.


(8) When the transaction involves more than $10,000 or the approval official considers it necessary, a present market value appraisal report will be obtained. However, a new report need not be obtained if there is an appraisal report not over one year old which permits a proper determination of the present market value of the total property after the transaction.


(9) The proposed action must not change the nature of the borrower's activities so as to make it ineligible for Rural Development loan assistance.


(10) Necessary consent and subordination of all other outstanding security interests must be obtained.


(b) *Authorities.* Proposals not meeting one or more of the above requirements will be submitted to the Administrator, Attention (appropriate program division) for prior concurrence. All other proposals may be approved by the official with loan approval authority under subpart A of part 1901 of this chapter.


(c) *Processing.* The case file is to include:


(1) The borrower's written request on Form RD 465-1, “Application for Partial Release, Subordination, or Consent,” if appropriate, or in other acceptable format. The request must contain the purpose of the subordination; exact amount of money or property involved; description of security property involved; type of security instrument; name, address, line of business and other general information pertaining to the party in favor of which the request is made; and other pertinent information to evaluate the need for the request;


(2) Current balance sheet;


(3) If development work is involved, an operating budget on Form RD 442-7, “Operating Budget,” or similar form which projects income and expenses through the first full year of operation following completion of planned improvements; or if no development work is involved, an income statement and budget on Form RD 442-2, “Statement of Budget, Income, and Equity,” schedules 1 and 2, or similar form;


(4) Copy of proposed security instrument;


(5) Appraisal report, when applicable;


(6) OGC opinion on the request;


(7) Exhibit A of this subpart (available in any Rural Development office), appropriately completed;


(8) Appropriate environmental review; and


(9) Any other necessary supporting information.


(d) *Closing.* All requests for subordination will be closed according to instructions from OGC except those which affect only chattel liens other than pledges of revenue. Rural Development's consent on Form RD 465-1 will be signed concurrently with Form RD 460-2, “Subordination by the Government,” when applicable.



---

[N] [55 FR 4399, Feb. 8, 1990, as amended at 66 FR 1569, Jan. 9, 2001; 69 FR 70884, Dec. 8, 2004]




