# § 642.6   What definitions apply?

(a) *General definitions.* The following terms are defined in 2 CFR part 200, subpart A, or 34 CFR 77.1:


(b) *Definitions that apply to this part.*

*Act* means the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended.


*Federal TRIO programs* means those programs authorized under section 402A of the Act: the Upward Bound, Talent Search, Student Support Services, Educational Opportunity Centers, and Ronald E. McNair Postbaccalaureate Achievement programs.


*Foster care youth* means youth who are in foster care or who are aging out of the foster care system.


*Homeless children and youth* means persons defined in section 725 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11434a).


*Individual with a disability* means a person who has a disability, as that term is defined in section 12102 of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12101 *et seq.*).


*Institution of higher education* means an educational institution as defined in sections 101 and 102 of the Act.


*Leadership personnel* means project directors, coordinators, and other individuals involved with the supervision and direction of projects funded under the Federal TRIO programs.


*Veteran* means a person who—


(1) Served on active duty as a member of the Armed Forces of the United States for a period of more than 180 days and was discharged or released under conditions other than dishonorable;


(2) Served on active duty as a member of the Armed Forces of the United States and was discharged or released because of a service connected disability;


(3) Was a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces of the United States and was called to active duty for a period of more than 30 days; or


(4) Was a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces of the United States who served on active duty in support of a contingency operation (as that term is defined in section 101(a)(13) of title 10, United States Code) on or after September 11, 2001.



---

[N] [47 FR 17788, Apr. 23, 1982, as amended at 54 FR 7737, Feb. 22, 1989; 57 FR 9005, Mar. 13, 1992; 58 FR 51519, Oct. 1, 1993; 75 FR 65771, Oct. 26, 2010; 79 FR 76102, Dec. 19, 2014]




