# § 412.533   Transition payments.

(a) *Duration of transition periods.* Except for a long-term care hospital that makes an election under paragraph (c) of this section or for a long-term care hospital that is defined as new under § 412.23(e)(4), for cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2002, and before October 1, 2006, a long-term care hospital receives a payment comprised of a blend of the adjusted Federal prospective payment as determined under § 412.523, and the payment determined under the cost-based reimbursement rules under Part 413 of this subchapter. 


(1) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2002 and before October 1, 2003, payment is based on 20 percent of the Federal prospective payment rate and 80 percent of the cost-based reimbursement rate. 


(2) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2003 and before October 1, 2004, payment is based on 40 percent of the Federal prospective payment rate and 60 percent of the cost-based reimbursement rate. 


(3) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2004 and before October 1, 2005, payment is based on 60 percent of the Federal prospective payment rate and 40 percent of the cost-based reimbursement rate. 


(4) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2005 and before October 1, 2006, payment is based on 80 percent of the Federal prospective payment rate and 20 percent of the cost-based reimbursement rate. 


(5) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2006, payment is based entirely on the adjusted Federal prospective payment rate. 


(b) *Adjustments based on reconciliation of cost reports.* The cost-based percentage of the provider's total Medicare payment under paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section are subject to adjustments based on reconciliation of cost reports. 


(c) *Election not to be paid under the transition period methodology.* A long-term care hospital may elect to be paid based on 100 percent of the Federal prospective rate at the start of any of its cost reporting periods during the 5-year transition periods specified in paragraph (a) of this section. Once a long-term care hospital elects to be paid based on 100 percent of the Federal prospective payment rate, it may not revert to the transition blend. 


(1) *General requirement.* A long-term care hospital must notify its fiscal intermediary of its intent to elect to be paid based on 100 percent of the Federal prospective rate at the start of any of its cost reporting periods during the 5-year transition period specified in paragraph (a) of this section. 


(2) *Notification requirement to make election.* (i) The request by the long-term care hospital to make the election under paragraph (c)(1) of this section must be made in writing to the Medicare fiscal intermediary. 


(ii) For cost reporting periods that begin on or after October 1, 2002 through November 30, 2002, the fiscal intermediary must receive the notification of the election before November 1, 2002. 


(iii) For cost reporting periods that begin on or after December 1, 2002 through September 30, 2006, the fiscal intermediary must receive the notification of the election on or before the 30th day before the applicable cost reporting period begins. 


(iv) The fiscal intermediary must receive the notification by the dates specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii) and (c)(2)(iii) of this section, regardless of any postmarks or anticipated delivery dates. Requests received, postmarked, or delivered by other means after the dates specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii) and (c)(2)(iii) of this section will not be accepted. If the date specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii) and (c)(2)(iii) of this section falls on a day that the postal service or other delivery sources are not open for business, the long-term care hospital is responsible for allowing sufficient time for the delivery of the notification before the deadline. 


(v) If a long-term care hospital's notification is not received by the dates specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii) and (c)(2)(iii) of this section, payment will be based on the transition period rates specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section. 


(d) *Payments to new long-term care hospitals.* A new long-term care hospital, as defined in § 412.23(e)(4), will be paid based on 100 percent of the standard Federal rate, as described in § 412.523, with no transition payments, as described in § 412.533(a)(1) through (a)(5). 




