# § 1700.7   Administrative appeals.

(a) A requester may appeal any adverse determination to a person designated by the Director of National Intelligence (the “Designee”). The Designee will act on behalf of the Director of National Intelligence on all appeals under this section.


(b) An appeal ordinarily will not be adjudicated if the request becomes subject to litigation.


(c) The appeal must be transmitted if sent by email, or postmarked if sent by U.S. mail, within 90 days after the date of the adverse determination letter. The appeal shall clearly identify the ODNI determination that is being appealed, including the assigned ODNI case request number. For the most expeditious handling, the subject line of the electronic transmission, or appeal letter and envelope, should be marked “Freedom of Information Act Appeal.”


(d) On receipt of any appeal involving classified information, the Designee must take appropriate action to ensure compliance with applicable classification rules.


(e) ODNI's decision on an appeal shall be in writing. A decision upholding ODNI's original determination will contain a statement that identifies the reasons for affirmance, including any FOIA exemptions applied. The decision will provide the requester with notification of the statutory right to file a lawsuit and will inform the requester of the mediation services offered by OGIS as a non-exclusive alternative to litigation. If ODNI's decision is remanded or modified on appeal, the requester will be notified of that determination in writing. ODNI will thereafter further process the request in accordance with that appeal determination.






