# ยง 192.473   External corrosion control: Interference currents.

(a) Each operator whose pipeline system is subjected to stray currents shall have in effect a continuing program to minimize the detrimental effects of such currents. 


(b) Each impressed current type cathodic protection system or galvanic anode system must be designed and installed so as to minimize any adverse effects on existing adjacent underground metallic structures. 


(c) For onshore gas transmission pipelines, the program required by paragraph (a) of this section must include:


(1) Interference surveys for a pipeline system to detect the presence and level of any electrical stray current. Interference surveys must be conducted when potential monitoring indicates a significant increase in stray current, or when new potential stray current sources are introduced, such as through co-located pipelines, structures, or high voltage alternating current (HVAC) power lines, including from additional generation, a voltage up-rating, additional lines, new or enlarged power substations, or new pipelines or other structures;


(2) Analysis of the results of the survey to determine the cause of the interference and whether the level could cause significant corrosion, impede safe operation, or adversely affect the environment or public;


(3) Development of a remedial action plan to correct any instances where interference current is greater than or equal to 100 amps per meter squared alternating current (AC), or if it impedes the safe operation of a pipeline, or if it may cause a condition that would adversely impact the environment or the public; and


(4) Application for any necessary permits within 6 months of completing the interference survey that identified the deficiency. An operator must complete remedial actions promptly, but no later than the earliest of the following: within 15 months after completing the interference survey that identified the deficiency; or as soon as practicable, but not to exceed 6 months, after obtaining any necessary permits.



---

[N] [Amdt. 192-4, 36 FR 12302, June 30, 1971, as amended by Amdt. 192-33, 43 FR 39390, Sept. 5, 1978; Amdt. 192-132, 87 FR 92269, Aug. 24, 2022; Amdt. 192-133, 88 FR 24711, Apr. 24, 2023]


