# ยง 878.4685   Extracorporeal shock wave device for treatment of chronic wounds.

(a) *Identification.* An extracorporeal shock wave device for treatment of chronic wounds is a prescription device that focuses acoustic shock waves onto the dermal tissue. The shock waves are generated inside the device and transferred to the body using an acoustic interface.


(b) *Classification.* Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:


(1) Non-clinical performance testing must be conducted to demonstrate that the system produces anticipated and reproducible acoustic pressure shock waves.


(2) The patient-contacting components of the device must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.


(3) Performance data must demonstrate that the reusable components of the device can be reprocessed for subsequent use.


(4) Performance data must be provided to demonstrate the electromagnetic compatibility and electrical safety of the device.


(5) Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be performed.


(6) Performance data must support the use life of the system by demonstrating continued system functionality over the labeled use life.


(7) Physician labeling must include:


(i) Information on how the device operates and the typical course of treatment;


(ii) A detailed summary of the device's technical parameters;


(iii) Validated methods and instructions for reprocessing of any reusable components; and


(iv) Instructions for preventing hearing loss by use of hearing protection.


(8) Patient labeling must include:


(i) Relevant contraindications, warnings, precautions, adverse effects, and complications;


(ii) Information on how the device operates and the typical course of treatment;


(iii) The probable risks and benefits associated with the use of the device;


(iv) Post-procedure care instructions; and


(v) Alternative treatments.



---

[N] [83 FR 9699, Mar. 7, 2018]




