# ยง 489.30   Allowable charges: Deductibles and coinsurance.

(a) *Part A deductible and coinsurance.* The provider may charge the beneficiary or other person on his or her behalf: 


(1) The amount of the inpatient hospital deductible or, if less, the actual charges for the services; 


(2) The amount of inpatient hospital coinsurance applicable for each day the individual is furnished inpatient hospital services after the 60th day, during a benefit period; and 


(3) The posthospital SNF care coinsurance amount. 


(4) In the case of durable medical equipment (DME) furnished as a home health service, 20 percent of the customary charge for the service.


(b) *Part B deductible and coinsurance.* (1) The basic allowable charges are the Part B annual deductible and 20 percent of the customary (insofar as reasonable) charges in excess of that deductible, except as specified in paragraphs (b)(6) and (7) of this section.


(2) For hospital outpatient services, the allowable deductible charges depend on whether the hospital can determine the beneficiary's deductible status.


(i) If the hospital is unable to determine the deductible status, it may charge the beneficiary its full customary charges up to $75.


(ii) If the beneficiary provides official information as to deductible status, the hospital may charge only the unmet portion of the deductible.


(3) In either of the cases discussed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the hospital is required to file with the intermediary, on a form prescribed by CMS, information as to the services, charges, and amounts collected. 


(4) The intermediary must reimburse the beneficiary if reimbursement is authorized and credit the expenses to the beneficiary's deductible if the deductible has not yet been met. 


(5) In the case of DME furnished as a home health service under Medicare Part B, the coinsurance is 20 percent of the customary (insofar as reasonable) charge for the services, with the following exception: If the DME is used DME purchased by or on behalf of the beneficiary at a price at least 25 percent less than the reasonable charge for comparable new equipment, no coinsurance is required.


(6) In the case of a rebatable drug (as defined in section 1847A(i)(2)(A) of the Act), including a selected drug (as defined in section 1192(c) of the Act), furnished on or after April 1, 2023, in a calendar quarter in which the payment amount for such drug as specified in section 1847A(i)(3)(A)(ii)(I)(aa) or (bb), as applicable, exceeds the inflation-adjusted amount (as defined in section 1847A(i)(3)(C) of the Act) for such drug, the basic allowable charges are the Part B annual deductible and 20 percent of the inflation-adjusted payment amount for the rebatable drug in excess of that deductible, which is applied as a percent to the payment amount for such calendar quarter.


(7) In the case of insulin furnished on or after July 1, 2023 through an item of durable medical equipment covered under section 1861(n) of the Act, the coinsurance amount shall not exceed $35 for a month's supply of such insulin each calendar month. This limitation on the coinsurance amount shall apply for the duration of the calendar month in which the date of service (or services) occurs. In addition, the coinsurance amount shall not exceed $105.00 for 3 months' supply of insulin. This limitation on the coinsurance amount shall apply for the duration of the calendar month in which the date of service (or services) occurs and the 2 following calendar months.



---

[N] [45 FR 22937, Apr. 4, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 41350, Nov. 14, 1986; 88 FR 79552, Nov. 16, 2023]




