# § 1.6081-7   Automatic extension of time to file Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduit (REMIC) income tax return.

(a) *In general.* A Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduit (REMIC) required to file an income tax return on Form 1066, “U.S. Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduit Income Tax Return,” or Form 8831, “Excise Tax on Excess Inclusions of REMIC Residual Interests,” for any taxable year will be allowed an automatic 6-month extension of time to file the return after the date prescribed for filing the return if the REMIC files an application under this section in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Requirements.* To satisfy this paragraph (b), a REMIC must—


(1) Submit a complete application on Form 7004, “Application for Automatic Extension of Time to File Certain Business Income Tax, Information, and Other Returns,” or in any other manner prescribed by the Commissioner;


(2) File the application on or before the date prescribed for filing the return with the Internal Revenue Service office designated in the application's instructions; and


(3) Show the full amount properly estimated as tax for the REMIC for the taxable year.


(c) *No extension of time for the payment of tax.* An automatic extension of time for filing a return granted under paragraph (a) of this section will not extend the time for payment of any tax due on such return.


(d) *Effect of extension on residual or regular interest holders.* An automatic extension of time to file a REMIC income tax return under this section will not extend the time for filing the income tax return of a residual or regular interest holder of the REMIC or the time for the payment of any tax due on the residual or regular interest holder's income tax return. An automatic extension will also not extend the time for payment of any excise tax on excess inclusions of REMIC residual interests.


(e) *Termination of automatic extension.* The Commissioner may terminate an automatic extension at any time by mailing to the REMIC a notice of termination at least 10 days prior to the termination date designated in such notice. The Commissioner must mail the notice of termination to the address shown on the Form 7004 or to the REMIC's last known address. For further guidance regarding the definition of last known address, see § 301.6212-2 of this chapter.


(f) *Penalties.* See sections 6698 and 6651 for failure to file a REMIC income tax return or failure to pay an amount shown as tax on the return.


(g) *Effective/applicability dates.* This section applies to applications for an automatic extension of time to file REMIC income and excise tax returns listed in paragraph (a) of this section filed after July 1, 2008.



---

[N] [T.D. 9407, 73 FR 37367, July 1, 2008]




