# ยง 93.900   Definitions.

Wherever in this subpart the following terms are used, unless the context otherwise requires, they shall be construed, respectively, to mean:


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any person authorized to act for the Administrator.


*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture (APHIS).


*APHIS representative.* A veterinarian or other individual employed by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, United States Department of Agriculture, who is authorized to perform the services required by this part.


*Certifying official.* An individual authorized by the competent authority of a country to sign health certificates for aquatic animals.


*Competent authority.* The national veterinary services or other authority of a country, having the responsibility and competence for ensuring or supervising the implementation of aquatic animal health measures.


*Container.* A transport receptacle that is specially constructed to facilitate transportation of aquatic animals or aquatic animal products by one or several means of transport.


*Department.* The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA).


*Fertilized egg.* A viable fertilized ovum of an aquatic animal.


*Gamete.* The sperm or unfertilized egg of aquatic animals that is held or transported separately.


*Inspector.* An employee of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service authorized to perform duties required under this subpart.


*Person.* Any individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society or joint stock company.


*Port veterinarian.* A veterinarian employed by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service to perform duties required under this subpart at a port of entry.


*Region.* Any defined geographic land area identifiable by geological, political, or surveyed boundaries. A region may consist of any of the following:


(1) A national entity (country);


(2) Part of a national entity (zone, county, department, municipality, parish, Province, State, etc.);


(3) Parts of several national entities combined into an area; or


(4) A group of national entities (countries) combined into a single area.


*Spring viremia of carp (SVC).* A disease caused by infection with spring viremia of carp virus, a rhabodivrus capable of infecting several carp species, in addition to some other cyprinid and ictalurid fish species.


*SVC-susceptible species.* Common carp (*Cyprinus carpio*), grass carp (*Ctenopharyngodon idellus*), silver carp (*Hypophthalmichthys molitrix*), bighead carp (*Aristichthys nobilis*), Crucian carp (*Carassius carassius*), goldfish (*Carassius auratus*), tench (*Tinca tinca*), and sheatfish (*Silurus glanis*).


*United States.* All of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and all other territories and possessions of the United States.




