# § 2.62   Procedure for submitting response.

(a) *Deadline.* Each Office action shall set forth the deadline for response.


(1) *Response periods.* Unless the applicant is notified otherwise in an Office action, the response periods for an Office action are as follows:


(i) Three months from the issue date, for an Office action in an application under section 1 and/or section 44 of the Act; and


(ii) Six months from the issue date, for an Office action in an application under section 66(a) of the Act.


(2) *Extensions of time.* Unless the applicant is notified otherwise in an Office action, the time for response designated in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section may be extended by three months up to a maximum of six months from the Office action issue date, upon timely request and payment of the fee set forth in § 2.6(a)(28). To be considered timely, a request for extension of time must be received by the Office on or before the deadline for response set forth in the Office action.




(b) *Signature.* The response must be signed by the applicant, someone with legal authority to bind the applicant (*e.g.,* a corporate officer or general partner of a partnership), or a practitioner qualified to practice under § 11.14 of this chapter, in accordance with the requirements of § 2.193(e)(2).


(c) *Form.* Responses and requests for extensions of time to respond must be submitted through TEAS pursuant to § 2.23(a). Responses and requests for extensions of time to respond sent via email or facsimile will not be accorded a date of receipt.



---

[N] [84 FR 37095, July 31, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 64326, Nov. 17, 2021]




