# ยง 9.10   Occupational Health and Safety Program (OHSP) and biosafety requirements.

(a) *How are employee Occupational Health and Safety Program risks and concerns addressed?* The sanctuary shall assure that an Occupational Health and Safety Program (OHSP) is developed and implemented in accordance with current veterinary medical practices and the guidelines and standards found in the *Guide* (incorporated by reference, see paragraph (a) of section 9.4);


(b) *How are biosafety concerns addressed?* The sanctuary shall institute and administer an effective biosafety program that addresses the biosafety hazards at that particular site. The program shall include identifying biohazards, outlining practices and procedures to be followed, providing personal safety equipment or protective clothing and equipment, and establishing a description of the facility requirements for working with hazardous agents or materials. Policies and procedures must be implemented to avoid exposure to environmental and animal hazards. Biosafety must be included in the training program for all Sanctuary employees. In establishing a program, the Sanctuary must use current accepted practices and publications prepared by the CDC, NIH, and professional societies specializing in biosafety. The input and guidance of personnel trained or experienced in biosafety are essential. Complete records of both clinical and experimental agent exposure must accompany each chimpanzee sent to the sanctuary. The donating facility must also provide recent testing (for example, serology, virus culture, histology) so that the sanctuary staff is fully aware of the health condition of the arriving chimpanzee. The records may be created and retained in electronic form. 




