# § 302.203   Service of documents.

(a) *General requirements.* (1) Applicants shall serve on the persons listed in paragraph (b) of this section a notice that an application has been filed, and upon request shall promptly provide those persons with copies of the application and supporting documents. The notice must clearly state the authority sought and the due date for other pleadings. 


(2) Applicants shall serve a complete copy of the application on the Manager of the FAA Flight Standards District Office responsible for processing the application for any FAA authority needed to conduct the proposed operations. 


(3) After an order under § 302.210 has been issued, parties need only serve documents on those persons listed in the service list accompanying the order. 


(4) In the case of an application sought to be consolidated, the applicant shall serve the notice required in paragraph (a)(1) of this section on all persons served by the original applicant. 


(b) *Persons to be served*—(1) *U.S. air carriers.* (i) In certificate proceedings, except for those proceedings that involve charter-only authority under section 41102(a)(3) of 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII: 


(A) Applicants for certificates to engage in interstate air transportation and other persons who file a pleading in the docket shall serve: 


(*1*) The airport authority of each airport that the applicant initially proposes to serve, and 


(*2*) Any other person who has filed a pleading in the docket. 


(B) Applicants for certificates to engage in foreign air transportation and other persons who file a pleading in the docket shall serve: 


(*1*) All U.S. air carriers (including commuter air carriers) that publish schedules in the *Official Airline Guide* or in the *Air Cargo Guide* for the country-pair market(s) specified in the application, 


(*2*) The airport authority of each U.S. airport that the applicant initially proposes to serve, and 


(*3*) Any other person who has filed a pleading in the docket. 


(ii) In certificate proceedings involving charter-only authority under 41102(a)(3) of 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII, applicants and other persons who file a pleading in the docket shall serve any other person who has filed a pleading in the docket. 


(2) *Foreign air carriers.* (i) In permit proceedings, except for those proceedings involving charter-only authority, applicants and other persons who have filed a pleading in the docket shall serve: 


(A) All U.S. air carriers (including commuter air carriers) that publish schedules in the *Official Airline Guide* or the *Air Cargo Guide* for the country-pair market(s) specified in the application,


(B) The U.S. Department of State, 


(C) The airport authority of each U.S. airport that the applicant initially proposes to serve, and 


(D) Any other person who has filed a pleading in the docket. 


(ii) In foreign air carrier permit proceedings for charter-only authority, applicants and other persons who file a pleading in the docket shall serve the U.S. Department of State and any other person who has filed a pleading in the docket. 


(c) *Additional service.* The Department may, at its discretion, order additional service upon such persons as the facts of the situation warrant. Where only notices are required, parties are encouraged to serve copies of their actual pleadings where feasible. In any proceeding directly involving air transportation to the Federated States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands or Palau, the Department and any party or participant in the proceeding shall serve all documents on the President and the designated authorities of the government(s) involved. 




