# § 293.502   Definitions.

For the purpose of this Subpart—


*Employee* is defined at 5 U.S.C. 2105 and excludes student volunteers and contractor employees.


*Employee Assistance and Counseling Record* means the record created when an employee participates in an agency assistance/counseling program (e.g., drug or alcohol abuse or personal counseling programs under Pub. L. 91-616, 92-255, and 79-658, respectively).


*Employee Exposure Record* (which is to be interpreted consistent with the term as it is defined at 29 CFR 1910.20(c)(8)) means a record containing any of the following kinds of information concerning employee exposure to toxic substances or harmful physical agents (as defined at 29 CFR 1910.20(c)(11)):


(a) Environmental (workplace) monitoring or measuring, including personal, area, grab, wipe, or other form of sampling, as well as related collection and analytical methodologies, calculations, and other background data relevant to interpretation of the results obtained;


(b) Biological monitoring results which directly assess the absorption of a substance or agent by body systems (e.g., the level of a chemical in the blood, urine, breath, hair, fingernails, etc.) but not including results which assess the biological effect of a substance or agent;


(c) Material safety data sheets; or


(d) Any other record, in the absence of the above, which reveals the identity (e.g., chemical, common, or trade name) of a toxic substance of harmful physical agent.


*Employee Medical File System (EMFS)* means the agency's complete system (automated, microformed, and paper records) for employee occupational medical records.


*Employee Medical Folder (EMF)* means a separate file folder (normally SF 66-D) established to contain all of the occupational medical records (both long-tern and short-term records) designated for retention, which will be maintained by the employing agency during the employee's Federal service.


*Epidemiological Record* means a record maintained by an agency or subelement thereof as a result of an official medical research study conducted under the authority of the agency.


*Implementing instructions* means any form of internal agency issuance that provides the guidance required in § 293.503 and any other guidance the agency deems appropriate.


*Occupational Medical Record* means an occupation-related, chronological, cumulative record, regardless of the form or process by which it is maintained (e.g., paper document, microfiche, microfilm, or automatic data processing media), of information about health status developed on an employee, including personal and occupational health histories and the opinions and written evaluations generated in the course of diagnosis and/or employment-related treatment/examination by medical health care professionals and technicians. This definition includes the definition of medical records at 29 CFR 1910.20(c)(6); when the term “Occupational Medical Record” is used in these regulations, it includes “Employee Exposure Records” (as that term is defined in this section) and occupational illness, accident, and injury records.


*Non-occupational/Patient Record* means a record of treatment or examination, created and maintained by a health care facility, when the person is admitted to or voluntarily seeks treatment at the health care facility for non-job-related reasons. Records maintained by an agency dispensary are patient records for the purposes of these regulations except when such records result as a condition of employment or relate to an on-the-job occurrence. In these cases, the records are “Occupational Medical Records” as defined herein.


*Non-personal Record* means any agency aggregate or statistical record or report resulting from studies covering employees or resulting from studies or the work-site environment.




