# § 201.450   Briefs filed with the Commission.

(a) *Briefing schedule order.* Other than review ordered pursuant to § 201.431, if review of a determination is mandated by statute, rule, or judicial order or the Commission determines to grant review as a matter of discretion, the Commission shall issue a briefing schedule order directing the party or parties to file opening briefs and specifying particular issues, if any, as to which briefing should be limited or directed. Unless otherwise provided, opening briefs shall be filed within 30 days of the date of the briefing schedule order. Opposition briefs shall be filed within 30 days after the date opening briefs are due. Reply briefs shall be filed within 14 days after the date opposition briefs are due. No briefs in addition to those specified in the briefing schedule order may be filed except with leave of the Commission. The briefing schedule order shall be issued: 


(1) At the time the Commission orders review on its own initiative pursuant to §§ 201.411 or 201.421, or orders interlocutory review on its own motion pursuant to § 201.400(a); or 


(2) Within 21 days, or such longer time as provided by the Commission, after: 


(i) The last day permitted for filing a petition for review pursuant to § 201.410(b) or a brief in opposition to a petition for review pursuant to § 201.410(d); 


(ii) Receipt by the Commission of an index to the record of a determination of a self-regulatory organization filed pursuant to § 201.420(d); 


(iii) Receipt by the Commission of an index to the record of a determination by the Board filed pursuant to § 201.440(d); 


(iv) Receipt by the Commission of an index to the record of a determination by a security-based swap execution facility filed pursuant to § 201.442(d).




(v) Receipt by the Commission of the mandate of a court of appeals with respect to a judicial remand; or 


(vi) Certification of a ruling for interlocutory review pursuant to § 201.400(c). 


(b) *Contents of briefs.* Briefs shall be confined to the particular matters at issue. Each exception to the findings or conclusions being reviewed shall be stated succinctly. Exceptions shall be supported by citation to the relevant portions of the record, including references to the specific pages relied upon, and by concise argument including citation of such statutes, decisions and other authorities as may be relevant. If the exception relates to the admission or exclusion of evidence, the substance of the evidence admitted or excluded shall be set forth in the brief, or by citation to the record. Reply briefs shall be confined to matters in opposition briefs of other parties; except as otherwise determined by the Commission in its discretion, any argument raised for the first time in a reply brief shall be deemed to have been waived.


(c) *Length limitation.* Except with leave of the Commission, opening and opposition briefs shall not exceed 14,000 words and reply briefs shall not exceed 7,000 words, exclusive of pages containing the table of contents, table of authorities, and any addendum that consists solely of copies of applicable cases, pertinent legislative provisions or rules, and exhibits. Incorporation of pleadings or filings by reference into briefs submitted to the Commission is not permitted. Motions to file briefs in excess of these limitations are disfavored.


(d) *Certificate of compliance.* An opening or opposition brief that does not exceed 30 pages in length, exclusive of pages containing the table of contents, table of authorities, and any addendum that consists solely of copies of applicable cases, pertinent legislative provisions, or rules and exhibits, is presumptively considered to contain no more than 14,000 words. A reply brief that does not exceed 15 pages in length, exclusive of pages containing the table of contents, table of authorities, and any addendum that consists solely of copies of applicable cases, pertinent legislative provisions, or rules and exhibits is presumptively considered to contain no more than 7,000 words. Any brief that exceeds these page limits must include a certificate by the party's representative, or an unrepresented party, stating that the brief complies with the requirements set forth in paragraph (c) of this section and stating the number of words in the brief. The person preparing the certificate may rely on the word count of the word-processing system used to prepare the brief.



---

[N] [60 FR 32796, June 23, 1995, as amended at 68 FR 35789, June 17, 2003; 69 FR 13180, Mar. 19, 2004; 81 FR 50241, July 29, 2016; 88 FR 87283, Dec. 15, 2023]




