# ยง 202.14   Rules on providing appraisal reports.

(a) *Providing appraisals.* A creditor shall provide a copy of an appraisal report used in connection with an application for credit that is to be secured by a lien on a dwelling. A creditor shall comply with either paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section.


(1) *Routine delivery.* A creditor may routinely provide a copy of an appraisal report to an applicant (whether credit is granted or denied or the application is withdrawn).


(2) *Upon request.* A creditor that does not routinely provide appraisal reports shall provide a copy upon an applicant's written request.


(i) *Notice.* A creditor that provides appraisal reports only upon request shall notify an applicant in writing of the right to receive a copy of an appraisal report. The notice may be given at any time during the application process but no later than when the creditor provides notice of action taken under ยง 202.9 of this regulation. The notice shall specify that the applicant's request must be in writing, give the creditor's mailing address, and state the time for making the request as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.


(ii) *Delivery.* A creditor shall mail or deliver a copy of the appraisal report promptly (generally within 30 days) after the creditor receives an applicant's request, receives the report, or receives reimbursement from the applicant for the report, whichever is last to occur. A creditor need not provide a copy when the applicant's request is received more than 90 days after the creditor has provided notice of action taken on the application under ยง 202.9 of this regulation or 90 days after the application is withdrawn.


(b) *Credit unions.* A creditor that is subject to the regulations of the National Credit Union Administration on making copies of appraisal reports available is not subject to this section.


(c) *Definitions.* For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the term dwelling means a residential structure that contains one to four units whether or not that structure is attached to real property. The term includes, but is not limited to, an individual condominium or cooperative unit, and a mobile or other manufactured home. The term *appraisal report* means the document(s) relied upon by a creditor in evaluating the value of the dwelling.




