# § 930.320   Data rights.

(a) For provisions regarding data rights for any awardee entity type, the data rights requirements at 2 CFR 910.362(d), Rights in data-general rule, normally apply when the Government is to be provided with unlimited rights in data and should be used as a starting point for such other transaction (OT) agreements. Here, the “Rights in Data—General” provision in appendix A to subpart D of 10 CFR part 910 typically applies. However, if the awardee is to receive special data protection, the data requirements at 2 CFR 910.362(e), Rights in data—programs covered under special protected data statutes normally apply and should be used as a starting point for such OT agreements. Here, the “Rights in Data—Programs Covered Under Special Protected Data Statutes” provision in appendix A to subpart D of 10 CFR part 910 typically applies. Consistent with 42 U.S.C. 7256(g)(5), data protection can be provided typically for a period of up to 5 years but may be extended up to a total of 30 years in particular circumstances.


(b) However, while maintaining compliance with 42 U.S.C. 7256(g), the Agreements Officer, meaning the cognizant warranted Department of Energy (DOE) or National Nuclear Security Administration official authorized to execute and administer OT agreements, may negotiate data rights requirements that vary from those listed above. Use of or modifications to the standard rights in data provisions must be approved by cognizant DOE intellectual property counsel.






