# § 1003.1   Organization, jurisdiction, and powers of the Board of Immigration Appeals.

(a)(1) *Organization.* There shall be in the Department of Justice a Board of Immigration Appeals, subject to the general supervision of the Director, Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR). The Board members shall be attorneys appointed by the Attorney General to act as the Attorney General's delegates in the cases that come before them. The Board shall consist of 28 members. A vacancy, or the absence or unavailability of a Board member, shall not impair the right of the remaining members to exercise all the powers of the Board. The Board members shall also be known as Appellate Immigration Judges.


(2) *Chairman.* The Attorney General shall designate one of the Board members to serve as Chairman. The Attorney General may designate one or two Vice Chairmen to assist the Chairman in the performance of his duties and to exercise all of the powers and duties of the Chairman in the absence or unavailability of the Chairman. The Chairman of the Board of Immigration Appeals shall also be known as the Chief Appellate Immigration Judge, and a Vice Chairman of the Board of Immigration Appeals shall also be known as a Deputy Chief Appellate Immigration Judge. 


(i) The Chairman, subject to the supervision of the Director, shall direct, supervise, and establish internal operating procedures and policies of the Board. The Chairman shall have authority to:


(A) Issue operational instructions and policy, including procedural instructions regarding the implementation of new statutory or regulatory authorities; 


(B) Provide for appropriate training of Board members and staff on the conduct of their powers and duties; 


(C) Direct the conduct of all employees assigned to the Board to ensure the efficient disposition of all pending cases, including the power, in his discretion, to set priorities or time frames for the resolution of cases; to direct that the adjudication of certain cases be deferred, to regulate the assignment of Board members to cases, and otherwise to manage the docket of matters to be decided by the Board; 


(D) Evaluate the performance of the Board by making appropriate reports and inspections, and take corrective action where needed; 


(E) Adjudicate cases as a Board member, including the authorities described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section; and 


(F) Exercise such other authorities as the Director may provide. 


(ii) The Chairman shall have no authority to direct the result of an adjudication assigned to another Board member or to a panel; provided, however, that nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the management authority of the Chairman under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section. 


(3) *Panels.* The Chairman shall divide the Board into three-member panels and designate a presiding member of each panel if the Chairman or Vice Chairman is not assigned to the panel. The Chairman may from time to time make changes in the composition of such panels and of presiding members. Each three-member panel shall be empowered to decide cases by majority vote, and a majority of the Board members assigned to the panel shall constitute a quorum for such panel. In addition, the Chairman shall assign any number of Board members, as needed, to serve on the screening panel to implement the case management process as provided in paragraph (e) of this section. 


(4) *Temporary Board members.* Upon the recommendation of the Director, the Attorney General may in his discretion appoint immigration judges, retired Board members, retired immigration judges, and administrative law judges employed within, or retired from, EOIR to serve as temporary Board members for renewable terms not to exceed six months. In addition, upon the recommendation of the Director and with the approval of the Deputy Attorney General, the Attorney General may in his discretion appoint one or more senior EOIR attorneys with at least ten years of experience in the field of immigration law to serve as temporary Board members for renewable terms not to exceed six months. A temporary Board member shall have the authority of a Board member to adjudicate assigned cases, except that temporary Board members shall not have the authority to vote on any matter decided by the Board *en banc.* Temporary Board members shall also be known as temporary Appellate Immigration Judges.


(5) *En banc process.* A majority of the permanent Board members shall constitute a quorum for purposes of convening the Board *en banc.* The Board may on its own motion by a majority vote of the permanent Board members, or by direction of the Chairman, consider any case *en banc,* or reconsider as the Board *en banc* any case that has been considered or decided by a three-member panel. En banc proceedings are not favored, and shall ordinarily be ordered only where necessary to address an issue of particular importance or to secure or maintain consistency of the Board's decisions. 


(6) *Board staff.* There shall also be attached to the Board such number of attorneys and other employees as the Deputy Attorney General, upon recommendation of the Director, shall from time to time direct. 


(7) [Reserved] 


(b) *Appellate jurisdiction.* Appeals may be filed with the Board of Immigration Appeals from the following: 


(1) Decisions of Immigration Judges in exclusion cases, as provided in 8 CFR part 240, subpart D.


(2) Decisions of Immigration Judges in deportation cases, as provided in 8 CFR part 1240, subpart E, except that no appeal shall lie seeking review of a length of a period of voluntary departure granted by an Immigration Judge under section 244E of the Act as it existed prior to April 1, 1997.


(3) Decisions of Immigration Judges in removal proceedings, as provided in 8 CFR part 1240, except that no appeal shall lie seeking review of the length of a period of voluntary departure granted by an immigration judge under section 240B of the Act or part 240 of this chapter.


(4) Decisions involving administrative fines and penalties, including mitigation thereof, as provided in part 280 of this chapter. 


(5) Decisions on petitions filed in accordance with section 204 of the act (except petitions to accord preference classifications under section 203(a)(3) or section 203(a)(6) of the act, or a petition on behalf of a child described in section 101(b)(1)(F) of the act), and decisions on requests for revalidation and decisions revoking the approval of such petitions, in accordance with section 205 of the act, as provided in parts 204 and 205, respectively, of 8 CFR chapter I or parts 1204 and 1205, respectively, of this chapter. 


(6) Decisions on applications for the exercise of the discretionary authority contained in section 212(d)(3) of the act as provided in part 1212 of this chapter. 


(7) Determinations relating to bond, parole, or detention of an alien as provided in 8 CFR part 1236, subpart A.


(8) Decisions of Immigration Judges in rescission of adjustment of status cases, as provided in part 1246 of this chapter. 


(9) Decisions of Immigration Judges in asylum proceedings pursuant to § 1208.2(b) and (c) of this chapter.


(10) Decisions of Immigration Judges relating to Temporary Protected Status as provided in 8 CFR part 1244.


(11) [Reserved]


(12) Decisions of Immigration Judges on applications for adjustment of status referred on a Notice of Certification (Form I-290C) to the Immigration Court in accordance with §§ 1245.13(n)(2) and 1245.15(n)(3) of this chapter or remanded to the Immigration Court in accordance with §§ 1245.13(d)(2) and 1245.15(e)(2) of this chapter.


(13) Decisions of adjudicating officials in disciplinary proceedings involving practitioners or recognized organizations as provided in subpart G of this part.


(14) Decisions of immigration judges regarding custody of aliens subject to a final order of removal made pursuant to § 1241.14 of this chapter. 


(c) *Jurisdiction by certification.* The Secretary, or any other duly authorized officer of DHS, an immigration judge, or the Board may in any case arising under paragraph (b) of this section certify such case to the Board for adjudication. The Board, in its discretion, may review any such case by certification without regard to the provisions of § 1003.7 if it determines that the parties have already been given a fair opportunity to make representations before the Board regarding the case, including the opportunity to request oral argument and to submit a brief.


(d) *Powers of the Board*—(1) *Generally.* The Board shall function as an appellate body charged with the review of those administrative adjudications under the Act that the Attorney General may by regulation assign to it. The Board shall resolve the questions before it in a manner that is timely, impartial, and consistent with the Act and regulations. In addition, the Board, through precedent decisions, shall provide clear and uniform guidance to DHS, the immigration judges, and the general public on the proper interpretation and administration of the Act and its implementing regulations. 


(i) The Board shall be governed by the provisions and limitations prescribed by applicable law, regulations, and procedures, and by decisions of the Attorney General (through review of a decision of the Board, by written order, or by determination and ruling pursuant to section 103 of the Act). 


(ii) Subject to the governing standards set forth in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, Board members shall exercise their independent judgment and discretion in considering and determining the cases coming before the Board, and a panel or Board member to whom a case is assigned may take any action consistent with their authorities under the Act and the regulations as necessary or appropriate for the disposition or alternative resolution of the case. Such actions include administrative closure, termination of proceedings, and dismissal of proceedings. The standards for the administrative closure, dismissal, and termination of cases are set forth in paragraph (l) of this section, 8 CFR 1239.2(c), and paragraph (m) of this section, respectively. 


(2) *Summary dismissal of appeals*—(i) *Standards.* A single Board member or panel may summarily dismiss any appeal or portion of any appeal in any case in which:


(A) The party concerned fails to specify the reasons for the appeal on Form EOIR-26 or Form EOIR-29 (Notices of Appeal) or other document filed therewith;


(B) The only reason for the appeal specified by the party concerned involves a finding of fact or a conclusion of law that was conceded by that party at a prior proceeding; 


(C) The appeal is from an order that granted the party concerned the relief that had been requested;


(D) The Board is satisfied, from a review of the record, that the appeal is filed for an improper purpose, such as to cause unnecessary delay, or that the appeal lacks an arguable basis in fact or in law unless the Board determines that it is supported by a good faith argument for extension, modification, or reversal of existing law; 


(E) The party concerned indicates on Form EOIR-26 or Form EOIR-29 that he or she will file a brief or statement in support of the appeal and, thereafter, does not file such brief or statement, or reasonably explain his or her failure to do so, within the time set for filing;


(F) The appeal does not fall within the Board's jurisdiction, or lies with the Immigration Judge rather than the Board;


(G) The appeal is untimely, or barred by an affirmative waiver of the right of appeal that is clear on the record; or


(H) The appeal fails to meet essential statutory or regulatory requirements or is expressly excluded by statute or regulation. 


(ii) *Action by the Board.* The Board's case management screening plan shall promptly identify cases that are subject to summary dismissal pursuant to this paragraph. An order dismissing any appeal pursuant to this paragraph (d)(2) shall constitute the final decision of the Board. 


(iii) *Disciplinary consequences.* The filing by a practitioner, as defined in § 1003.101(b), of an appeal that is summarily dismissed under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, may constitute frivolous behavior under § 1003.102(j).Summary dismissal of an appeal under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section does not limit the other grounds and procedures for disciplinary action against attorneys or representatives. 


(3) *Scope of review.* (i) The Board will not engage in *de novo* review of findings of fact determined by an immigration judge. Facts determined by the immigration judge, including findings as to the credibility of testimony, shall be reviewed only to determine whether the findings of the immigration judge are clearly erroneous. 


(ii) The Board may review questions of law, discretion, and judgment and all other issues in appeals from decisions of immigration judges *de novo.*

(iii) The Board may review de novo all questions arising in appeals from decisions issued by DHS officers.


(iv) Except for taking administrative notice of commonly known facts such as current events or the contents of official documents, the Board will not engage in factfinding in the course of deciding cases. A party asserting that the Board cannot properly resolve an appeal without further factfinding must file a motion for remand. If new evidence is submitted on appeal, that submission may be deemed a motion to remand and considered accordingly. If further factfinding is needed in a particular case, the Board may remand the proceeding to the immigration judge or, as appropriate, to DHS.


(4) *Rules of practice.* The Board shall have authority, with the approval of the Director, EOIR, to prescribe procedures governing proceedings before it. 


(5) *Discipline of practitioners and recognized organizations.* The Board shall have the authority pursuant to § 1003.101 *et seq.* to impose sanctions upon practitioners who appear in a representative capacity before the Board, the Immigration Courts, or DHS, and upon recognized organizations. The Board shall also have the authority pursuant to § 1003.107 to reinstate disciplined practitioners to appear in a representative capacity before the Board and the Immigration Courts, or DHS, or all three authorities.


(6) *Identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations.* (i) The Board shall not issue a decision affirming or granting to an alien an immigration status, relief or protection from removal, or other immigration benefit, as provided in 8 CFR 1003.47(b), that requires completion of identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations if:


(A) Identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations have not been completed during the proceedings;


(B) DHS reports to the Board that the results of prior identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations are no longer current under the standards established by DHS and must be updated; or


(C) Identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations have uncovered new information bearing on the merits of the alien's application for relief.


(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(6)(iv) of this section, if identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations are necessary in order to adjudicate the appeal or motion, the Board will provide notice to both parties that the case is being placed on hold until such time as all identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations are completed or updated and the results have been reported to the Board. The Board's notice will notify the noncitizen that DHS will contact the noncitizen with instructions, consistent with § 1003.47(d), to take any additional steps necessary to complete or update the identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations only if DHS is unable to independently update the necessary identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations. The Board's notice will also advise the noncitizen of the consequences for failing to comply with the requirements of this section. DHS is responsible for obtaining biometrics and other biographical information to complete or update the identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations with respect to any noncitizen in detention.


(iii) In any case placed on hold under paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section, DHS shall report to the Board promptly when the identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations have been completed or updated. If DHS obtains relevant information as a result of the identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations, or if the noncitizen fails to comply with the necessary procedures for collecting biometrics or other biographical information after receiving instructions from DHS under paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section, DHS may move the Board to remand the record to the immigration judge for consideration of whether, in view of the new information, or the noncitizen's failure to comply with the necessary procedures for collecting biometrics or other biographical information after receiving instructions from DHS under paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section, immigration relief or protection should be denied, either on grounds of ineligibility as a matter of law or as a matter of discretion. If DHS fails to report the results of timely completed or updated identity, law enforcement or security investigations or examinations within 180 days from the date of the Board's notice under paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section, the Board may continue to hold the case under paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section, as needed, or remand the case to the immigration judge for further proceedings under § 1003.47(h).


(iv) The Board is not required to hold a case pursuant to paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section if the Board decides to dismiss the respondent's appeal or deny the relief or protection sought.


(v) The immigration relief or protection described in § 1003.47(b) and granted by the Board shall take effect as provided in § 1003.47(i). 


(7) *Finality of decision.* (i) The decision of the Board shall be final except in those cases reviewed by the Attorney General in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section. The Board may return a case to DHS or an immigration judge for such further action as may be appropriate without entering a final decision on the merits of the case.


(ii) In cases involving voluntary departure, the Board may issue an order of voluntary departure under section 240B of the Act, with an alternate order of removal, if the noncitizen requested voluntary departure before an immigration judge, the noncitizen's notice of appeal specified that the noncitizen is appealing the immigration judge's denial of voluntary departure and identified the specific factual and legal findings that the noncitizen is challenging, and the Board finds that the noncitizen is otherwise eligible for voluntary departure, as provided in 8 CFR 1240.26(k). In order to grant voluntary departure, the Board must find that all applicable statutory and regulatory criteria have been met, based on the record and within the scope of its review authority on appeal, and that the noncitizen merits voluntary departure as a matter of discretion. If the record does not contain sufficient factual findings regarding eligibility for voluntary departure, the Board may remand the decision to the immigration judge for further factfinding.


(e) *Case management system.* The Chairman shall establish a case management system to screen all cases and to manage the Board's caseload. Unless a case meets the standards for assignment to a three-member panel under paragraph (e)(6) of this section, all cases shall be assigned to a single Board member for disposition. The Chairman, under the supervision of the Director, shall be responsible for the success of the case management system. The Chairman shall designate, from time to time, a screening panel comprising a sufficient number of Board members who are authorized, acting alone, to adjudicate appeals as provided in this paragraph (e). The provisions of this paragraph (e) shall apply to all cases before the Board, regardless of whether they were initiated by filing a Notice of Appeal, filing a motion, or receipt of a remand from Federal court or the Attorney General.


(1) *Initial screening.* All cases shall be referred to the screening panel for review. Appeals subject to summary dismissal as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section should be promptly dismissed.


(2) *Miscellaneous dispositions.* A single Board member may grant an unopposed motion or a motion to withdraw an appeal pending before the Board. In addition, a single Board member may adjudicate a DHS motion to remand any appeal from the decision of a DHS officer where DHS requests that the matter be remanded to DHS for further consideration of the appellant's arguments or evidence raised on appeal; a case where remand is required because of a defective or missing transcript; and other procedural or ministerial issues as provided by the case management plan.


(3) *Merits review.* In any case that has not been summarily dismissed, the case management system shall arrange for the prompt completion of the record of proceeding and transcript, and the issuance of a briefing schedule, as appropriate. A single Board member assigned under the case management system shall determine the appeal on the merits as provided in paragraph (e)(4) or (5) of this section, unless the Board member determines that the case is appropriate for review and decision by a three-member panel under the standards of paragraph (e)(6) of this section. The Board member may summarily dismiss an appeal after completion of the record of proceeding.


(4) *Affirmance without opinion.* (i) The Board member to whom a case is assigned shall affirm the decision of the DHS officer or the immigration judge without opinion if the Board member determines that the result reached in the decision under review was correct; that any errors in the decision under review were harmless or nonmaterial; and that 


(A) The issues on appeal are squarely controlled by existing Board or federal court precedent and do not involve the application of precedent to a novel factual situation; or 


(B) The factual and legal issues raised on appeal are not so substantial that the case warrants the issuance of a written opinion in the case. 


(ii) If the Board member determines that the decision should be affirmed without opinion, the Board shall issue an order that reads as follows: “The Board affirms, without opinion, the result of the decision below. The decision below is, therefore, the final agency determination. *See* 8 CFR 1003.1(e)(4).” An order affirming without opinion issued under authority of this provision shall not include further explanation or reasoning. Such an order approves the result reached in the decision below; it does not necessarily imply approval of all of the reasoning of that decision but does signify the Board's conclusion that any errors in the decision of the immigration judge or DHS were harmless or nonmaterial. 


(5) *Other decisions on the merits by single Board member.* If the Board member to whom an appeal is assigned determines, upon consideration of the merits, that the decision is not appropriate for affirmance without opinion, the Board member shall issue a brief order affirming, modifying, or remanding the decision under review, unless the Board member designates the case for decision by a three-member panel under paragraph (e)(6) of this section under the standards of the case management plan. A single Board member may reverse the decision under review if such reversal is plainly consistent with and required by intervening Board or judicial precedent, by an intervening Act of Congress, or by an intervening final regulation. A motion to reconsider or to reopen a decision that was rendered by a single Board member may be adjudicated by that Board member unless the case is reassigned to a three-member panel as provided under the standards of the case management plan. 


(6) *Panel decisions.* Cases may only be assigned for review by a three-member panel if the case presents one of these circumstances: 


(i) The need to settle inconsistencies among the rulings of different immigration judges; 


(ii) The need to establish a precedent construing the meaning of laws, regulations, or procedures; 


(iii) The need to review a decision by an immigration judge or DHS that is not in conformity with the law or with applicable precedents; 


(iv) The need to resolve a case or controversy of major national import; 


(v) The need to review a clearly erroneous factual determination by an immigration judge; 


(vi) The need to reverse the decision of an immigration judge or DHS, other than a reversal under § 1003.1(e)(5); or


(vii) The need to resolve a complex, novel, unusual, or recurring issue of law or fact.


(7) *Oral argument.* When an appeal has been taken, a request for oral argument if desired shall be included in the Notice of Appeal. A three-member panel or the Board en banc may hear oral argument, as a matter of discretion, at such date and time as is established under the Board's case management plan. Oral argument shall be held at the offices of the Board unless the Deputy Attorney General or the Deputy Attorney General's designee authorizes oral argument to be held elsewhere. DHS may be represented before the Board by an officer or counsel of DHS designated by DHS. No oral argument will be allowed in a case that is assigned for disposition by a single Board member.


(8) *Timeliness.* As provided under the case management system, the Board shall promptly enter orders of summary dismissal, or other miscellaneous dispositions, in appropriate cases consistent with paragraph (e)(1) of this section. In all other cases, after completion of the record on appeal, including any briefs, motions, or other submissions on appeal, the Board member or panel to which the case is assigned shall issue a decision on the merits as soon as practicable, with a priority for cases or custody appeals involving detained noncitizens.


(i) Except in exigent circumstances as determined by the Chairman, or as provided in paragraph (d)(6) of this section, the Board shall dispose of all cases assigned to a single Board member within 90 days of completion of the record, or within 180 days after a case is assigned to a three-member panel (including any additional opinion by a member of the panel).


(ii) In exigent circumstances, the Chairman may grant an extension in particular cases of up to 60 days as a matter of discretion. Except as provided in paragraph (e)(8)(iii) or (iv) of this section, in those cases where the panel is unable to issue a decision within the established time limits, as extended, the Chairman shall either self-assign the case or assign the case to a Vice Chairman for final decision within 14 days or shall refer the case to the Attorney General for decision. If a dissenting or concurring panel member fails to complete the member's opinion by the end of the extension period, the decision of the majority will be issued without the separate opinion.


(iii) In rare circumstances, such as when an impending decision by the United States Supreme Court or a United States Court of Appeals, or impending Department regulatory amendments, or an impending en banc Board decision may substantially determine the outcome of a case or group of cases pending before the Board, the Chairman may hold the case or cases until such decision is rendered, temporarily suspending the time limits described in this paragraph (e)(8). 


(iv) [Reserved] 


(v) The Chairman shall notify the Director of EOIR and the Attorney General if a Board member consistently fails to meet the assigned deadlines for the disposition of appeals, or otherwise fails to adhere to the standards of the case management system. The Chairman shall also prepare a report assessing the timeliness of the disposition of cases by each Board member on an annual basis.


(vi) The provisions of this paragraph (e)(8) establishing time limits for the adjudication of appeals reflect an internal management directive in favor of timely dispositions, but do not affect the validity of any decision issued by the Board and do not, and shall not be interpreted to, create any substantive or procedural rights enforceable before any immigration judge or the Board, or in any court of law or equity. 


(9) The provisions of paragraphs (e)(4)(i) and (e)(5) and (6) of this section are internal agency directives for the purpose of efficient management and disposition of cases pending before the Board and are not intended to create any substantive or procedural rights to a particular form of Board decision. A decision by the Board under paragraph (e)(4), (5), or (6) of this section carries the presumption that the Board properly and thoroughly considered all issues, arguments, and claims raised or presented by the parties on appeal or in a motion that were deemed appropriate to the disposition of the appeal or motion, whether or not specifically mentioned in the decision. A decision by the Board under paragraph (e)(4), (5), or (6) also carries the presumption that the Board did not need to consider any issue, argument, or claim not raised or presented by the parties on appeal or in a motion to the Board. In any decision under paragraph (e)(5) or (6) of this section, the Board may rule, in the exercise of its discretion as provided under this part, on any issue, argument, or claim not raised by the parties, and the Board may solicit supplemental briefing from the parties on the issues to be considered before rendering a decision.


(f) *Service of Board decisions.* The decision of the Board shall be in writing. The Board shall transmit a copy to DHS and serve a copy upon the noncitizen or the noncitizen's representative, as provided in 8 CFR part 1292.


(g) *Decisions as precedents*—(1) *In general*. Except as Board decisions may be modified or overruled by the Board or the Attorney General, decisions of the Board and decisions of the Attorney General are binding on all officers and employees of DHS or immigration judges in the administration of the immigration laws of the United States.


(2) *Precedent decisions.* Selected decisions designated by the Board, decisions of the Attorney General, and decisions of the Secretary of Homeland Security as provided in paragraph (h)(2)(i) of this section will be published and serve as precedents in all proceedings involving the same issue or issues.


(3) *Designation of precedents.* By majority vote of the permanent Board members, or as directed by the Attorney General or his designee, selected decisions of the Board issued by a three-member panel or by the Board *en banc* may be designated to be published and to serve as precedents in all proceedings involving the same issue or issues. In determining whether to publish a precedent decision, the Board may take into account relevant considerations, in the exercise of discretion, including among other matters:


(i) Whether the case involves a substantial issue of first impression;


(ii) Whether the case involves a legal, factual, procedural, or discretionary issue that can be expected to arise frequently in immigration cases;


(iii) Whether the issuance of a precedent decision is needed because the decision announces a new rule of law, or modifies, clarifies, or distinguishes a rule of law or prior precedent;


(iv) Whether the case involves a conflict in decisions by immigration judges, the Board, or the federal courts;


(v) Whether there is a need to achieve, maintain, or restore national uniformity of interpretation of issues under the immigration laws or regulations; and


(vi) Whether the case warrants publication in light of other factors that give it general public interest. 


(h) *Referral of cases to the Attorney General.* (1) The Board shall refer to the Attorney General for review of its decision all cases that: 


(i) The Attorney General directs the Board to refer to him. 


(ii) The Chairman or a majority of the Board believes should be referred to the Attorney General for review. 


(iii) The Secretary of Homeland Security, or specific officials of the Department of Homeland Security designated by the Secretary with the concurrence of the Attorney General, refers to the Attorney General for review. 


(2) In any case the Attorney General decides, the Attorney General's decision shall be stated in writing and shall be transmitted to the Board or Secretary, as appropriate, for transmittal and service as provided in paragraph (f) of this section. 


(i) *Publication of Secretary's precedent decisions.* The Secretary of Homeland Security, or specific officials of the Department of Homeland Security designated by the Secretary with the concurrence of the Attorney General, may file with the Attorney General decisions relating to the administration of the immigration laws of the United States for publication as precedent in future proceedings, and, upon approval of the Attorney General as to the lawfulness of such decision, the Director of the Executive Office for Immigration Review shall cause such decisions to be published in the same manner as decisions of the Board and the Attorney General. 


(j) *Continuation of jurisdiction and procedure.* The jurisdiction of, and procedures before, the Board of Immigration Appeals in exclusion, deportation, removal, rescission, asylum-only, and any other proceedings, shall remain in effect as in effect on February 28, 2003, until the regulations in this chapter are further modified by the Attorney General. Where a decision of an officer of the Immigration and Naturalization Service was, before March 1, 2003, appealable to the Board or to an immigration judge, or an application denied could be renewed in proceedings before an immigration judge, the same authority and procedures shall be followed until further modified by the Attorney General. 


(k) [Reserved]


(l) *Administrative closure and recalendaring.* Administrative closure is the temporary suspension of a case. Administrative closure removes a case from the Board's docket until the case is recalendared. Recalendaring places a case back on the Board's docket.


(1) *Administrative closure before the Board.* Board Members may, in the exercise of discretion, administratively close a case upon the motion of a party, after applying the standard set forth at paragraph (l)(3) of this section. The administrative closure authority described in this section is not limited by the authority provided in any other provisions in this title that separately authorize or require administrative closure in certain circumstances, including 8 CFR 214.15(l), 245.15(p)(4), 1214.2(a), 1214.3, 1240.62(b), 1240.70(f) through (h), 1245.13, 1245.15(p)(4)(i), and 1245.21(c).


(2) *Recalendaring before the Board.* At any time after a case has been administratively closed under paragraph (l)(1) of this section, the Board may, in the exercise of discretion, recalendar the case pursuant to a party's motion to recalendar. In deciding whether to grant such a motion, the Board shall apply the standard set forth at paragraph (l)(3) of this section.


(3) *Standard for administrative closure and recalendaring.* The Board shall grant a motion to administratively close or recalendar filed jointly by both parties, or filed by one party where the other party has affirmatively indicated its non-opposition, unless the Board articulates unusual, clearly identified, and supported reasons for denying the motion. In all other cases, in deciding whether to administratively close or to recalendar a case, the Board shall consider the totality of the circumstances, including as many of the factors listed under paragraphs (l)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section as are relevant to the particular case. The Board may also consider other factors where appropriate. No single factor is dispositive. The Board, having considered the totality of the circumstances, may grant a motion to administratively close or to recalendar a particular case over the objection of a party. Although administrative closure may be appropriate where a petition, application, or other action is pending outside of proceedings before the Board, such a pending petition, application, or other action is not required for a case to be administratively closed.


(i) As the circumstances of the case warrant, the factors relevant to a decision to administratively close a case include:


(A) The reason administrative closure is sought;


(B) The basis for any opposition to administrative closure;


(C) Any requirement that a case be administratively closed in order for a petition, application, or other action to be filed with, or granted by, DHS;


(D) The likelihood the noncitizen will succeed on any petition, application, or other action that the noncitizen is pursuing, or that the noncitizen states in writing or on the record at a hearing that they plan to pursue, outside of proceedings before the Board;


(E) The anticipated duration of the administrative closure;


(F) The responsibility of either party, if any, in contributing to any current or anticipated delay;


(G) The ultimate anticipated outcome of the case pending before the Board; and


(H) The ICE detention status of the noncitizen.


(ii) As the circumstances of the case warrant, the factors relevant to a decision to recalendar a case include:


(A) The reason recalendaring is sought;


(B) The basis for any opposition to recalendaring;


(C) The length of time elapsed since the case was administratively closed;


(D) If the case was administratively closed to allow the noncitizen to file a petition, application, or other action outside of proceedings before the Board, whether the noncitizen filed the petition, application, or other action and, if so, the length of time that elapsed between when the case was administratively closed and when the noncitizen filed the petition, application, or other action;


(E) If a petition, application, or other action that was pending outside of proceedings before the Board has been adjudicated, the result of that adjudication;


(F) If a petition, application, or other action remains pending outside of proceedings before the Board, the likelihood the noncitizen will succeed on that petition, application, or other action;


(G) The ultimate anticipated outcome if the case is recalendared; and


(H) The ICE detention status of the noncitizen.


(m) *Termination.* The Board shall have the authority to terminate cases before it as set forth in paragraphs (m)(1) and (2) of this section. A motion to dismiss a case in removal proceedings before the Board for a reason other than authorized by 8 CFR 1239.2(c) shall be deemed a motion to terminate under paragraph (m)(1) of this section.


(1) *Removal, deportation, and exclusion proceedings*—(i) *Mandatory termination.* In removal, deportation, and exclusion proceedings, the Board shall terminate the case where at least one of the requirements in paragraphs (m)(1)(i)(A) through (G) of this section is met.


(A) No charge of deportability, inadmissibility, or excludability can be sustained.


(B) Fundamentally fair proceedings are not possible because the noncitizen is mentally incompetent and adequate safeguards are unavailable.


(C) The noncitizen has, since the initiation of proceedings, obtained United States citizenship.


(D) The noncitizen has, since the initiation of proceedings, obtained at least one status listed in paragraphs (m)(1)(i)(D)(*1*) through (*4*) of this section, provided that the status has not been revoked or terminated, and the noncitizen would not have been deportable, inadmissible, or excludable as charged if the noncitizen had obtained such status before the initiation of proceedings.


(*1*) Lawful permanent resident status.


(*2*) Refugee status.


(*3*) Asylee status.


(*4*) Nonimmigrant status as defined in section 101(a)(15)(S), (T), or (U) of the Act.


(E) Termination is required under 8 CFR 1245.13(l).


(F) Termination is otherwise required by law.


(G) The parties jointly filed a motion to terminate, or one party filed a motion to terminate and the other party affirmatively indicated its non-opposition, unless the Board articulates unusual, clearly identified, and supported reasons for denying the motion.


(ii) *Discretionary termination.* In removal, deportation, or exclusion proceedings, the Board may, in the exercise of discretion, terminate the case upon the motion of a party where at least one of the requirements listed in paragraphs (m)(1)(ii)(A) through (F) of this section is met. The Board shall consider the reason termination is sought and the basis for any opposition to termination when adjudicating the motion to terminate.


(A) The noncitizen has filed an asylum application with USCIS pursuant to section 208(b)(3)(C) of the Act pertaining to unaccompanied children, as defined in 8 CFR 1001.1(hh).


(B) The noncitizen is prima facie eligible for naturalization, relief from removal, or a lawful status; USCIS has jurisdiction to adjudicate the associated petition, application, or other action if the noncitizen were not in proceedings; and the noncitizen has filed the petition, application, or other action with USCIS. However, no filing is required where the noncitizen is prima facie eligible for adjustment of status or naturalization. Where the basis of a noncitizen's motion for termination is that the noncitizen is prima facie eligible for naturalization, the Board shall not grant the motion if it is opposed by DHS. The Board shall not terminate a case for the noncitizen to pursue an asylum application before USCIS, except as provided for in paragraph (m)(1)(ii)(A) of this section.


(C) The noncitizen is a beneficiary of Temporary Protected Status, deferred action, or Deferred Enforced Departure.


(D) USCIS has granted the noncitizen's application for a provisional unlawful presence waiver pursuant to 8 CFR 212.7(e).


(E) Termination is authorized by 8 CFR 1216.4(a)(6) or 1238.1(e).


(F) Due to circumstances comparable to those described in paragraphs (m)(1)(ii)(A) through (E) of this section, termination is similarly necessary or appropriate for the disposition or alternative resolution of the case. However, the Board may not terminate a case for purely humanitarian reasons, unless DHS expressly consents to such termination, joins in a motion to terminate, or affirmatively indicates its non-opposition to a noncitizen's motion.


(2) *Other proceedings*—(i) *Mandatory termination.* In proceedings other than removal, deportation, or exclusion proceedings, the Board shall terminate the case where the parties have jointly filed a motion to terminate, or one party has filed a motion to terminate and the other party has affirmatively indicated its non-opposition, unless the Board articulates unusual, clearly identified, and supported reasons for denying the motion. In addition, the Board shall terminate such a case where required by law.


(ii) *Discretionary termination.* In proceedings other than removal, deportation, or exclusion proceedings, the Board may, in the exercise of discretion, terminate the case upon the motion of a party where terminating the case is necessary or appropriate for the disposition or alternative resolution of the case. However, the Board may not terminate a case for purely humanitarian reasons, unless DHS expressly consents to such termination, joins in a motion to terminate, or affirmatively indicates its non-opposition to a noncitizen's motion.


(iii) *Limitation on termination.* Nothing in paragraphs (m)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section authorizes the Board to terminate a case where prohibited by another regulatory provision. Further, nothing in paragraphs (m)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section authorizes the Board to terminate a case for the noncitizen to pursue an asylum application before USCIS, unless the noncitizen has filed an asylum application with USCIS pursuant to section 208(b)(3)(C) of the Act pertaining to unaccompanied children, as defined in 8 CFR 1001.1(hh).



---

[N] [23 FR 9117, Nov. 26, 1958] 


