# § 97.10   Authorization and responsibilities of NO

(a) Except as provided under § 97.11, each NO_X_ Budget source, including all NO_X_ Budget units at the source, shall have one and only one NO_X_ authorized account representative, with regard to all matters under the NO_X_ Budget Trading Program concerning the source or any NO_X_ Budget unit at the source. 


(b) The NO_X_ authorized account representative of the NO_X_ Budget source shall be selected by an agreement binding on the owners and operators of the source and all NO_X_ Budget units at the source. 


(c) Upon receipt by the Administrator of a complete account certificate of representation under § 97.13, the NO_X_ authorized account representative of the source shall represent and, by his or her representations, actions, inactions, or submissions, legally bind each owner and operator of the NO_X_ Budget source represented and each NO_X_ Budget unit at the source in all matters pertaining to the NO_X_ Budget Trading Program, not withstanding any agreement between the NO_X_ authorized account representative and such owners and operators. The owners and operators shall be bound by any decision or order issued to the NO_X_ authorized account representative by the permitting authority, the Administrator, or a court regarding the source or unit. 


(d) No NO_X_ Budget permit shall be issued, and no NO_X_ Allowance Tracking System account shall be established for a NO_X_ Budget unit at a source, until the Administrator has received a complete account certificate of representation under § 97.13 for a NO_X_ authorized account representative of the source and the NO_X_ Budget units at the source. 


(e) (1) Each submission under the NO_X_ Budget Trading Program shall be submitted, signed, and certified by the NO_X_ authorized account representative for each NO_X_ Budget source on behalf of which the submission is made. Each such submission shall include the following certification statement by the NO_X_ authorized account representative: “I am authorized to make this submission on behalf of the owners and operators of the NO_X_ Budget sources or NO_X_ Budget units for which the submission is made. I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined, and am familiar with, the statements and information submitted in this document and all its attachments. Based on my inquiry of those individuals with primary responsibility for obtaining the information, I certify that the statements and information are to the best of my knowledge and belief true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false statements and information or omitting required statements and information, including the possibility of fine or imprisonment.” 


(2) The permitting authority and the Administrator will accept or act on a submission made on behalf of owner or operators of a NO_X_ Budget source or a NO_X_ Budget unit only if the submission has been made, signed, and certified in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section. 




