# § 1060.201   What are the general requirements for obtaining a certificate of conformity?

Manufacturers of engines, equipment, or fuel-system components may need to certify their products with respect to evaporative emission standards as described in §§ 1060.1 and 1060.601. See § 1060.202 for requirements related to certifying with respect to the requirements specified in § 1060.101(f). The following general requirements apply for obtaining a certificate of conformity:


(a) You must send us a separate application for a certificate of conformity for each emission family. A certificate of conformity for equipment is valid starting with the indicated effective date but it is not valid for any production after December 31 of the model year for which it is issued. No certificate will be issued after December 31 of the model year. A certificate of conformity for a component is valid starting with the indicated effective date but it is not valid for any production after the end of the *production period* for which it is issued.


(b) The application must contain all the information required by this part and must not include false or incomplete statements or information (see § 1060.255).


(c) We may ask you to include less information than we specify in this subpart as long as you maintain all the information required by § 1060.250. For example, equipment manufacturers might use only components that are certified by other companies to meet applicable emission standards, in which case we would not require submission of emission data already submitted by the component manufacturer.


(d) You must use good engineering judgment for all decisions related to your application (see 40 CFR 1068.5).


(e) An authorized representative of your company must approve and sign the application.


(f) See § 1060.255 for provisions describing how we will process your application.


(g) We may specify streamlined procedures for small-volume equipment manufacturers.




