# ยง 483.50   Laboratory, radiology, and other diagnostic services.

(a) *Laboratory services.* (1) The facility must provide or obtain laboratory services to meet the needs of its residents. The facility is responsible for the quality and timeliness of the services.


(i) If the facility provides its own laboratory services, the services must meet the applicable requirements for laboratories specified in part 493 of this chapter.


(ii) If the facility provides blood bank and transfusion services, it must meet the applicable requirements for laboratories specified in part 493 of this chapter.


(iii) If the laboratory chooses to refer specimens for testing to another laboratory, the referral laboratory must be certified in the appropriate specialties and subspecialties of services in accordance with the requirements of part 493 of this chapter.


(iv) If the facility does not provide laboratory services on site, it must have an agreement to obtain these services from a laboratory that meets the applicable requirements of part 493 of this chapter.


(2) The facility must:


(i) Provide or obtain laboratory services only when ordered by a physician; physician assistant; nurse practitioner or clinical nurse specialist in accordance with State law, including scope of practice laws.


(ii) Promptly notify the ordering physician, physician assistant, nurse practitioner, or clinical nurse specialist of laboratory results that fall outside of clinical reference ranges in accordance with facility policies and procedures for notification of a practitioner or per the ordering physician's orders.


(iii) Assist the resident in making transportation arrangements to and from the source of service, if the resident needs assistance; and


(iv) File in the resident's clinical record laboratory reports that are dated and contain the name and address of the testing laboratory.


(b) *Radiology and other diagnostic services.* (1) The facility must provide or obtain radiology and other diagnostic services to meet the needs of its residents. The facility is responsible for the quality and timeliness of the services.


(i) If the facility provides its own diagnostic services, the services must meet the applicable conditions of participation for hospitals contained in ยง 482.26 of this subchapter.


(ii) If the facility does not provide its own diagnostic services, it must have an agreement to obtain these services from a provider or supplier that is approved to provide these services under Medicare.


(2) The facility must:


(i) Provide or obtain radiology and other diagnostic services only when ordered by a physician; physician assistant; nurse practitioner or clinical nurse specialist in accordance with State law, including scope of practice laws.


(ii) Promptly notify the ordering physician, physician assistant, nurse practitioner, or clinical nurse specialist of results that fall outside of clinical reference ranges in accordance with facility policies and procedures for notification of a practitioner or per the ordering physician's orders.


(iii) Assist the resident in making transportation arrangements to and from the source of service, if the resident needs assistance; and


(iv) File in the resident's clinical record signed and dated reports of x-ray and other diagnostic services.



---

[N] [81 FR 68863, Oct. 4, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 32259, July 13, 2017]




