# § 37.5   Obligations of Transmission Providers and Responsible Parties.

(a) Each Transmission Provider is required to provide for the operation of an OASIS, either individually or jointly with other Transmission Providers, in accordance with the requirements of this Part. The Transmission Provider may delegate this responsibility to a Responsible Party such as another Transmission Provider, an Independent System Operator, a Regional Transmission Group, or a Regional Reliability Council. 


(b) A Responsible Party must provide access to an OASIS providing standardized information relevant to the availability of transmission capacity, prices, and other information (as described in this part) pertaining to the transmission system for which it is responsible.


(c) A Responsible Party may not deny or restrict access to an OASIS user merely because that user makes automated computer-to-computer file transfers or queries, or extensive requests for data.


(d) In the event that an OASIS user's grossly inefficient method of accessing an OASIS node or obtaining information from the node seriously degrades the performance of the node, a Responsible Party may limit a user's access to the OASIS node without prior Commission approval. The Responsible Party must immediately contact the OASIS user to resolve the problem. Notification of the restriction must be made to the Commission within two business days of the incident and include a description of the problem. A closure report describing how the problem was resolved must be filed with the Commission within one week of the incident.


(e) In the event that an OASIS user makes an error in a query, the Responsible Party can block the affected query and notify the user of the nature of the error. The OASIS user must correct the error before making any additional queries. If there is a dispute over whether an error has occurred, the procedures in paragraph (d) of this section apply.


(f) Transmission Providers must provide “read only” access to the OASIS to Commission staff and the staffs of State regulatory authorities, at no cost, after such staff members have complied with the requisite registration procedures. 



---

[N] [Order 889, 61 FR 21764, May 10, 1996, as amended by Order 605, 64 FR 34124, June 25, 1999; Order 638, 65 FR 17400, Mar. 31, 2000; Order 676, 71 FR 26212, May 4, 2006]




