# § 146.53   Terminology and classification; slaughter plants and premises.

Participating slaughter plants and flocks which have met the respective requirements specified in this section may be designated by the following terms and the corresponding designs illustrated in § 146.9:


(a) *U.S. H5/H7 Avian Influenza Monitored.* The program in this paragraph (a) is intended to be the basis from which the egg/meat-type game bird and egg/meat-type waterfowl industry may conduct a program to monitor for the H5/H7 subtypes of avian influenza. It is intended to determine the presence of the H5/H7 subtypes of avian influenza in egg/meat-type game birds and egg/meat-type waterfowl through routine surveillance of each participating slaughter plant or, in the case of egg-producing flocks, the regular surveillance of these flocks. A slaughter plant or flock will qualify for the classification in this paragraph (a) when the Official State Agency determines that it has met one of the following requirements:


(1) It is a meat-type game bird slaughter plant or meat-type waterfowl slaughter plant where a minimum of 11 birds per shift are tested negative for the H5/H7 subtypes of avian influenza, as provided in § 146.13(b), at slaughter;


(2) It is a meat-type game bird slaughter plant or meat-type waterfowl slaughter plant that only accepts egg/meat-type game birds or egg/meat-type waterfowl from flocks where a minimum of 11 birds per flock have been tested negative for the H5/H7 subtypes of avian influenza, as provided in § 146.13(b), no more than 21 days prior to slaughter;


(3) It is a meat-type game bird slaughter plant or meat-type waterfowl slaughter plant that has an ongoing active and passive surveillance program for H5/H7 subtypes of avian influenza that is approved by the Official State Agency and the Service.


(4) It is an egg-type game bird or egg-type waterfowl flock that produces eggs for human consumption where a minimum of 11 birds per flock have been tested negative to the H5/H7 subtypes of avian influenza as provided in § 146.13(b) within 30 days of disposal or within a 12 month period.


(5) It is an egg-type game bird or egg-type waterfowl flock that has an on-going active and passive surveillance program for H5/H7 subtypes of avian influenza that is approved by the Official State Agency and the Service.


(b) [Reserved]



---

[N] [74 FR 14717, Apr. 1, 2009, as amended at 76 FR 15797, Mar. 22, 2011; 81 FR 53250, Aug. 12, 2016; 85 FR 62571, Oct. 5, 2020]




