# § 110.216   Pacific Ocean at Santa Catalina Island, Calif.

(a) *The anchorage grounds*—(1) *Descanso Bay.* Shoreward of a line connecting the promontories known as White Rock and Casino Point. 


(2) *Isthmus Cove.* All the waters bounded by a line connecting the following coordinates, beginning at 33°-27′-12″ N, 118°-30′-05″ W (the promontory known as Lion Head); thence southeast to 33°-26′-55.5″ N, 118°-28′-44″ W; thence west-southwest to 33°-26′50″ N, 118°-29′-08″ W; thence southwest to 33°-26′-39″ N, 118°-29′-19″ W; thence along the shoreline returning to the point of origin, excluding the following-described non-anchorage area: an area 300 feet wide (170 feet west and 130 feet east of the centerline of the Catalina Island Steamship Line pier), extending 1600 feet from the foot of the pier, and an area 150 feet seaward of the shoreline extending approximately 1500 feet east and 1500 feet northwest of the centerline of said pier.


(3) *Avalon Bay*—(i) *Anchorage A.* The waters within an area described as follows: A circle of 1350 feet radius centered at 33°20′59.0″ N, 118°18′56.2″ W.


(ii) *Anchorage B.* The waters within an area described as follows: A circle of 1350 feet radius centered at 33°20′38.3″ N, 118°18′35.8″ W.


(iii) *Anchorage C.* The waters within an area described as follows: A circle of 1350 feet radius centered at 33°21′21.0″ N, 118°19′16.7″ W.


(b) *The regulations.* (1) The Descanso Bay anchorage is reserved for yachts and other small craft. Floats or buoys for marking anchors or moorings in place will be allowed in this area. Fixed mooring piles or stakes are prohibited. 


(2) The Isthmus Cove anchorage shall be available for anchorage of all types of craft. Temporary floats or buoys for marking anchors or moorings in place will be allowed in this area. Fixed mooring piles or stakes are prohibited. 


(3) The non-anchorage area described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall be used only by commercial vessels. Commercial vessels of 15 feet draft or over may anchor in this area seaward of the Catalina Island Steamship Line pier during hours between sunrise and sunset. The use of this area for anchorage is forbidden to all other craft at all times. Fixed mooring piles or stakes and floats or buoys for marking anchors or moorings in place are prohibited. 


(4) The instructions of the Captain of the Port requiring vessels to anchor bow and stern, or with two bow anchors, or requiring shifting the anchorage of any vessel within the anchorage grounds for the common safety or convenience, or for otherwise enforcing the regulations in this section, shall be promptly complied with by owners, masters, and persons in charge of vessels. 


(5) Nothing in this section shall be construed as relieving the owner or person in charge of any vessels or plant from the penalties of law for obstructing navigation or for obstructing or interfering with range lights, or for not complying with the navigation laws in regard to lights, fog signals, or for otherwise violating law. 


(6) The Avalon Bay anchorage is reserved for large passenger vessels of over 1600 gross tons, unless otherwise authorized by the Captain of the Port Los Angeles-Long Beach.



---

[N] [CGFR 67-46, 32 FR 17728, Dec. 12, 1967, as amended by CGD11-95-001, 60 FR 29759, June 6, 1995; GCD11-04-006, 70 FR 28426, May 18, 2005]




