# § 800.172   Applications for licenses.

(a) *General.* An application for a license, the renewal of a license, or the return of a suspended license shall be made to the Service on forms furnished by the Service. Each application shall (1) be in English, (2) be typewritten or legibly written in ink, (3) show all information prescribed by the application form, and (4) be signed by the applicant.


(b) *Additional information.* An applicant shall furnish any additional information considered necessary by the Service for consideration of an application.


(c) *Withdrawal.* An application for a license may be withdrawn by an applicant at any time.


(d) *Review of applications*—(1) *General procedure.* Each application shall be reviewed to determine whether the applicant and the application comply with the Act and the regulations.


(2) *Application and applicant in compliance.* If it is determined that the applicant and the application comply with the Act and the regulations, the requested license shall be granted.


(3) *Application not in compliance.* If an application does not comply with this section and the noncompliance prevents a satisfactory review by the Service, the applicant shall be provided an opportunity to submit any needed information. If the needed information is not submitted by the applicant within a reasonable time, the application may be dismissed.


(4) *Applicant not in compliance.* If it is determined that an applicant does not comply with the provisions of the Act and §§ 800.171, 800.173, and 800.187 at the time the application is submitted, the applicant shall be provided an opportunity to comply. If the applicant cannot comply within a reasonable period of time, the application shall be dismissed.


(e) *Procedure for dismissal.* If a dismissal involves an application for a renewal of a license or for the return of a suspended license, the dismissal shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of § 800.179. All other dismissals shall be performed by promptly notifying the applicant and the employer of the applicant of the reasons for the dismissal.



---

[N] [45 FR 15810, Mar. 11, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 44453, Sept. 29, 1983; 54 FR 5924, Feb. 7, 1989]




