# § 4208.9   Plan adoption of additional abatement conditions.

(a) *General rule.* A plan may by amendment, subject to the approval of the PBGC, adopt rules for the reduction or waiver of partial withdrawal liability under conditions other than those specified in § 4208.4, provided that such conditions relate to events occurring or factors existing subsequent to a partial withdrawal year. The request for PBGC approval shall be filed after the amendment is adopted. PBGC approval shall also be required for any subsequent modification of the amendment, other than repeal of the amendment. A plan amendment under this section may not be put into effect until it is approved by the PBGC. An amendment that is approved by the PBGC may apply retroactively. 


(b) *Who may request.* The plan sponsor, or a duly authorized representative acting on behalf of the plan sponsor, shall sign and submit the request. 


(c) *Where to file.* See § 4000.4 of this chapter for information on where to file. 


(d) *Information.* Each request shall contain the following information: 


(1) The name and address of the plan for which the plan amendment is being submitted and the telephone number of the plan sponsor or its duly authorized representative. 


(2) The nine-digit Employer Identification Number (EIN) assigned to the plan sponsor by the IRS and the three-digit Plan Identification Number (PIN) assigned to the plan by the plan sponsor, and, if different, also the EIN-PIN last filed with the PBGC. If an EIN-PIN has not been assigned, that should be indicated. 


(3) A copy of the executed amendment, including—


(i) The date on which the amendment was adopted; 


(ii) The proposed effective date; 


(iii) The full text of the rules on the reduction or waiver of partial withdrawal liability; and 


(iv) The full text of the rules adjusting the reduction in the employer's liability for a subsequent partial or complete withdrawal, as required by section 4206(b)(1) of ERISA. 


(4) A copy of the most recent actuarial valuation report of the plan. 


(5) A statement certifying that notice of the adoption of the amendment and of the request for approval filed under this section has been given to all employers that have an obligation to contribute under the plan and to all employee organizations representing employees covered under the plan. 


(e) *Supplemental information.* In addition to the information described in paragraph (d) of this section, a plan may submit any other information that it believes is pertinent to its request. The PBGC may require the plan sponsor to submit any other information that the PBGC determines that it needs to review a request under this section. 


(f) *Criteria for PBGC approval.* The PBGC shall approve a plan amendment authorized by paragraph (a) of this section if it determines that the rules therein are consistent with the purposes of ERISA. An abatement amendment is not consistent with the purposes of ERISA unless the PBGC determines that—


(1) The amendment is not adverse to the interests of plan participants and beneficiaries in the aggregate; and 


(2) The amendment would not significantly increase the PBGC's risk of loss with respect to the plan.



---

[N] [61 FR 34093, July 1, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 61355, Oct. 28, 2003]




