# ยง 19.3   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Act* means the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, (68 Stat. 919) including any amendments thereto.


*Commission* means the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission.


*Exclusion* means the removal of counsel representing multiple interests from an interview whenever the NRC official conducting the interview has concrete evidence that the presence of the counsel would obstruct and impede the particular investigation or inspection.


*License* means a license issued under the regulations in parts 30 through 36, 39, 40, 60, 61, 63, 70, or 72 of this chapter, including licenses to manufacture, construct and/or operate a production or utilization facility under parts 50, 52, or 54 of this chapter.


*Licensee* means the holder of such a license.


*Regulated activities* means any activity carried on which is under the jurisdiction of the NRC under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, or any title of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1972, as amended.


*Regulated entities* means any individual, person, organization, or corporation that is subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the NRC, including (but not limited to) an applicant for or holder of a standard design approval under subpart E of part 52 of this chapter or a standard design certification under subpart B of part 52 of this chapter.


*Restricted area* means an area, access to which is limited by the licensee for the purpose of protecting individuals against undue risks from exposure to radiation and radioactive materials. Restricted area does not include areas used as residential quarters, but separate rooms in a residential building may be set apart as a restricted area.


*Sequestration* means the separation or isolation of witnesses and their attorneys from other witnesses and their attorneys during an interview conducted as part of an investigation, inspection, or other inquiry.


*Worker* means an individual engaged in activities licensed or regulated by the Commission and controlled by a licensee or regulated entity, but does not include the licensee or regulated entity.



---

[N] [38 FR 22217, Aug. 17, 1973, as amended at 40 FR 8783, Mar. 3, 1975; 53 FR 31680, Aug. 19, 1988; 55 FR 247, Jan. 4, 1990; 56 FR 23470, May 21, 1991; 56 FR 65948, Dec. 19, 1991; 57 FR 61785, Dec. 29, 1992; 58 FR 7736, Feb. 9, 1993; 66 FR 55789, Nov. 2, 2001; 69 FR 76600, Dec. 22, 2004; 72 FR 49484, Aug. 28, 2007]




