# § 409.3   Definitions.

As used in this part, unless the context indicates otherwise—


*Arrangements* means arrangements which provide that Medicare payment made to the provider that arranged for the services discharges the liability of the beneficiary or any other person to pay for those services.


*Covered* refers to services for which the law and the regulations authorize Medicare payment.


*Nominal charge provider* means a provider that furnishes services free of charge or at a nominal charge and is either a public provider, or another provider that (1) demonstrates to CMS's satisfaction that a significant portion of its patients are low-income, and (2) requests that payment for its services be determined accordingly. 


*Participating* refers to a hospital or other facility that meets the conditions of participation and has in effect a Medicare provider agreement.


*Qualified hospital* means a facility that—


(a) Is primarily engaged in providing, by or under the supervision of doctors of medicine or osteopathy, inpatient services for the diagnosis, treatment, and care or rehabilitation of persons who are sick, injured, or disabled;


(b) Is not primarily engaged in providing skilled nursing care and related services for inpatients who require medical or nursing care;


(c) Provides 24-hour nursing service in accordance with Sec. 1861(e)(5) of the Act;


(d) If it is a U.S. hospital, is licensed, or approved as meeting the standards for licensing, by the State or local licensing agency; and


(e) If it is a foreign hospital, is licensed, or approved as meeting the standard for licensing, by the appropriate foreign licensing agency, and for purposes of furnishing nonemergency services to U.S. residents, is accredited by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO), or by a foreign program under standards that CMS finds to be equivalent to those of JCAHO.



---

[N] [48 FR 12541, Mar. 25, 1983, as amended at 50 FR 33033, Aug. 16, 1985; 51 FR 41338, Nov. 14, 1986; 71 FR 48135, Aug. 18, 2006]




