# § 188.05-10   Application to vessels on an international voyage.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, the regulations in this subchapter that apply to a vessel on an “international voyage” apply to a vessel that—


(1) Is mechanically propelled and of at least 500 gross tons; and 


(2) Is engaged on a voyage—


(i) From a country to which the International Convention for Safety of Life at Sea, 1974, (SOLAS 74) applies, to a port outside that country or the reverse;


(ii) From any territory, including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, all possessions of the United States, and all lands held by the United States under a protectorate or mandate, whose international relations are the responsibility of a contracting SOLAS 74 government, or which is administered by the United Nations, to a port outside that territory or the reverse; or 


(iii) Between the contiguous states of the United States and the states of Hawaii or Alaska or between the states of Hawaii and Alaska. 


(b) The regulations that apply to a vessel on an “international voyage” in this subchapter do not apply to a vessel that—


(1) Solely navigates the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence River as far east as a straight line drawn from Cap des Rosiers to West Point, Anticosti Island and, on the north side of Anticosti Island, the 63rd Meridian; or 


(2) Is numbered in accordance with 46 U.S.C. Chapter 123. 


(c) The Commandant or his authorized representative may exempt any vessel on an international voyage from the requirements of this subchapter if the vessel—


(1) Makes a single international voyage in exceptional circumstances; and 


(2) Meets safety requirements prescribed for the voyage by the Commandant. 


(d) The Commandant or his authorized representative may exempt any vessel from the construction requirements of this subchapter if the vessel does not proceed more than 20 nautical miles from the nearest land in the course of its voyage.



---

[N] [CGD 72-131R, 38 FR 29320, Oct. 24, 1973, as amended by CGD 80-123, 45 FR 64586, Sept. 30, 1980; CGD 90-008, 55 FR 30664, July 26, 1990; CGD 84-069, 61 FR 25312, May 20, 1996; CGD 95-028, 62 FR 51219, Sept. 30, 1997]




