# 227.7102-4   Contract clauses.

(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, use the clause at 252.227-7015, Technical Data—Commercial Products and Commercial Services, in solicitations and contracts, including solicitations and contracts using FAR part 12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services, when the contractor will be required to deliver technical data pertaining to commercial products, commercial components, commercial services, or commercial processes.


(2) Use the clause at 252.227-7015 with its Alternate I in solicitations and contracts, including solicitations and contracts using FAR part 12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services, for the development or delivery of a vessel design or any useful article embodying a vessel design.


(b) In accordance with the clause prescription at 227.7103-6(a), use the clause at 252.227-7013, Rights in Technical Data- Other Than Commercial Products and Commercial Services, in addition to the clause at 252.227-7015, if the Government will have paid for any portion of the development costs of a commercial item. The clause at 252.227-7013 will govern the technical data pertaining to any portion of a commercial product or commercial service that was developed in any part at Government expense, and the clause at 252.227-7015 will govern the technical data pertaining to any portion of a commercial item that was developed exclusively at private expense.


(c) Use the clause at 252.227-7037, Validation of Restrictive Markings on Technical Data, in solicitations and contracts using FAR part 12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services that include the clause at 252.227-7015 or the clause at 252.227-7013.



---

[N] [76 FR 58147, Sept. 20, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 37988, June 25, 2013; 88 FR 6586, Jan. 31, 2023]






