# ยง 1640.11   EEOC review of deferred charges.

(a) *Deferral by the EEOC.* When it is determined that a section 504 agency is the agency that shall process a dual-filed complaint or charge under ยง 1640.8(a)(2) or ยง 1640.8(e), the EEOC shall defer further action until the section 504 agency takes one of the following actions:


(1) Makes a finding that a violation has not occurred;


(2) Enters into a voluntary compliance agreement;


(3) Following a finding that a violation has occurred, refers the complaint to the Civil Rights Division for judicial enforcement and the Civil Rights Division resolves the complaint;


(4) Following a finding that a violation has occurred, resolves the complaint through final administrative enforcement action; or


(5) Otherwise resolves the charge.


(b) *Notification of the EEOC.* The section 504 agency shall notify the EEOC upon resolution of any dual-filed complaint or charge.


(c) *Agency review.* After receipt of notification that the section 504 agency has resolved the complaint, the EEOC shall promptly determine what further action by the EEOC is warranted. In reaching that determination, the EEOC shall give due weight to the section 504 agency's findings and conclusions. If the EEOC proposes to take an action inconsistent with the section 504 agency's findings and conclusions as to whether a violation has occurred, the EEOC shall notify in writing the Assistant Attorney General, the Chairman of the EEOC, and the head of the section 504 agency that processed the complaint. In the written notification, the EEOC shall state the action that it proposes to take and the basis of its decision to take such action.


(d) *Provision of information.* Upon written request, the section 504 agency shall provide the EEOC with any materials relating to its resolution of the complaint, including its conclusions, investigative reports and files, and any voluntary compliance agreement.




