# ยง 33.2   Definitions.

As used in this part: 


(a) *Permissible,* as applied to a dust collector, means that it conforms to the requirements of this part, and that a certificate of approval to that effect has been issued. 


(b) *Bureau* means the United States Bureau of Mines. 


(c) *Certificate of approval* means a formal document issued by MSHA stating that the dust collector unit or combination unit has met the requirements of this part, and authorizing the use and attachment of an official approval plate or a marking so indicating. 


(d) *Certificate of performance* means a formal document issued by MSHA stating that a dust-collecting system has met the test requirements of Subpart C of this part and therefore is suitable for use as part of permissible units. 


(e) *Dust-collector unit* means a complete assembly of parts comprising apparatus for collecting the dust that results from drilling in rock in coal mines, and is independent of the drilling equipment. 


(f) *Combination unit* means a rock-drilling device with an integral dust-collecting system, or mining equipment with an integral rock-drilling device and dust-collecting system. 


(g) *Dust-collecting system* means an assembly of parts comprising apparatus for collecting the dust that results from drilling in rock and is dependent upon attachment to other equipment for its operation. 


(h) *Applicant* means an individual, partnership, company, corporation, association, or other organization that designs and manufactures, assembles or controls the assembly of a dust-collecting system, dust-collector unit, or a combination unit, and seeks certification thereof. 


(i) *MSHA* means the United States Department of Labor, Mine Safety and Health Administration. 



---

[N] [Sched. 25B, 25 FR 6473, July 9, 1960, as amended at 39 FR 24005, June 28, 1974; 43 FR 12317, Mar. 24, 1978]




