# § 7.24   Certificates of label approval (COLAs) for malt beverages imported in containers.

(a) *Application requirement.* Any person removing malt beverages in containers from customs custody for consumption must first apply for and obtain a certificate of label approval (COLA) covering the malt beverages from the appropriate TTB officer, or obtain authorization to use the COLA from the person to whom the COLA is issued.


(b) *Release of malt beverages from customs custody.* Malt beverages, imported in containers, are not eligible for release from customs custody for consumption, and no person may remove such malt beverages from customs custody for consumption, unless the person removing the malt beverages has obtained a COLA covering the malt beverages and is able to provide it (either electronically or on paper) upon request. Products imported under another person's COLA are eligible for release only if each bottle or individual container to be imported bears the name (or trade name) and address of the person to whom the COLA was issued by TTB, and only if the importer using the COLA to obtain release of a shipment can substantiate that the person to whom the COLA was issued has authorized its use by the importer.


(c) *Filing requirements.* If filing electronically, the importer must file with U.S Customs and Border Protection (CBP), at the time of filing the customs entry, the TTB-assigned identification number of the valid COLA that corresponds to the label on the product or lot of malt beverages being imported. If the importer is not filing electronically, the importer must provide a copy of the COLA to CBP at the time of entry. In addition, the importer must provide a copy of the applicable COLA, and proof of the COLA holder's authorization if applicable, upon request by the appropriate TTB officer or a customs officer.


(d) *Evidence of COLA.* Upon request by the appropriate TTB officer, an importer must provide evidence of label approval for a label used on a container of malt beverages that is subject to the COLA requirements of this part. This requirement may be satisfied by providing original COLAs, photocopies, or electronic copies of COLAs, or records showing the TTB identification number assigned to the approved COLA.


(e) *Scope of this section.* The COLA requirement imposed by this section applies only to malt beverages that are removed for sale or any other commercial purpose. See 27 CFR 27.49, 27.74, and 27.75 for labeling exemptions applicable to certain imported samples of malt beverages.


(f) *Relabeling in customs custody.* Containers of malt beverages in customs custody that are required to be covered by a COLA but are not labeled in conformity with a COLA must be relabeled, under the supervision and direction of customs officers, prior to their removal from customs custody for consumption.


(g) *State law.* Paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section apply only if the laws or regulations of the State in which the malt beverages are withdrawn require that all malt beverages sold or otherwise disposed of in such State be labeled in conformity with the requirements of subparts D through I of this part. A State requires that malt beverages be labeled in conformity with the requirements of subparts D through I of this part when the State has either adopted subparts D through I of this part in their entireties or has adopted requirements identical in effect to those set forth in subparts D through I in this part. In accordance with §§ 7.3 and 7.4, malt beverages that are not subject to the COLA requirements of this section may still be subject to the substantive labeling provisions of subparts D through I of this part to the extent that the State into which the malt beverages are being shipped has similar State law or regulation.




