# § 1201.1   Definitions.

As used throughout this chapter, the following basic terms relating to the Federal Housing Finance Agency, the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, the Federal Home Loan Banks, the Office of Finance, and related entities have the meanings set forth below, unless otherwise indicated in a particular subchapter, part, section, or paragraph:


*1934 Act* means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a *et seq.*).


*Acquired member assets* or *AMA* means assets acquired in accordance with, and satisfying the applicable requirements of, part 1268 of this chapter.


*Advance* means a loan from a Bank that is:


(1) Provided pursuant to a written agreement;


(2) Supported by a note or other written evidence of the borrower's obligation; and


(3) Fully secured by collateral in accordance with the Bank Act and part 1266 of this chapter.


*Affordable Housing Program or AHP* means the Affordable Housing Program that each Bank is required to establish pursuant to section 10(j) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430(j)) and part 1291 of this chapter.


*Appropriate Federal banking agency* has the meaning set forth in section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(q)) and, for federally-insured credit unions, means the NCUA.


*Appropriate state regulator* means any state officer, agency, supervisor or other entity that has regulatory authority over, or is empowered to institute enforcement action against, a particular institution.


*Authorizing Statutes* means the Federal National Mortgage Association Charter Act, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act, and the Federal Home Loan Bank Act.


*Bank,* written in title case, means a Federal Home Loan Bank established under section 12 of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1432).


*Bank Act* means the Federal Home Loan Bank Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1421 *et seq.*).


*Bank System* means the Federal Home Loan Bank System, consisting of all of the Banks and the Office of Finance.


*Capital plan* means the capital structure plan required for each Bank by section 6(b) of the Bank Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1426(b)).


*CIP* means the Community Investment Program, an advance program under CICA required to be offered pursuant to section 10(i) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430(i)).


*Community Investment Cash Advance or CICA* means any advance made through a program offered by a Bank under section 10 of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430) and parts 1291 and 1292 of this chapter to provide funding for targeted community lending and affordable housing, including advances made under a Bank's Rural Development Funding (RDF) program, offered under section 10(j)(10) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(10)); a Bank's Urban Development Funding (UDF) program, offered under section 10(j)(10) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(10)); a Bank's Affordable Housing Program (AHP), offered under section 10(j) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430(j)); a Bank's Community Investment Program (CIP), offered under section 10(i) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430(i)); or any other program offered by a Bank that meets the requirements of part 1292 of this chapter.


*Community lending* means providing financing for economic development projects for targeted beneficiaries, and, for community financial institutions (as defined in § 1263.1 of this chapter), purchasing or funding small business loans, small farm loans, small agri-business loans, or community development loans (as defined in § 1266.1 of this chapter).


*Consolidated obligation or CO* means any bond, debenture, or note on which the Banks are jointly and severally liable and which was issued under section 11 of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1431) and any implementing regulations, whether or not such instrument was originally issued jointly by the Banks or by the Federal Housing Finance Board on behalf of the Banks.


*Data Reporting Manual or DRM* means a manual issued by FHFA and amended from time to time containing reporting requirements for the Regulated Entities.


*Director,* written in title case, means the Director of FHFA or his or her designee.


*Enterprise* means Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (collectively, Enterprises) and any affiliate thereof.


*Excess stock* means that amount of a Bank's capital stock owned by a member or other institution in excess of that member's or other institution's minimum investment in capital stock required under the Bank's capital plan, the Bank Act, or FHFA's regulations, as applicable.


*Fannie Mae* means the Federal National Mortgage Association and any affiliate thereof.


*FDIC* means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.


*FHFA* means the Federal Housing Finance Agency established by Section 1311(a) of the Safety and Soundness Act. (12 U.S.C. 4511(a)).


*Financing Corporation or FICO* means the Financing Corporation established and supervised by the Director under section 21 of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441) and part 1271 of this chapter.


*FRB* means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.


*Freddie Mac* means the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and any affiliate thereof.


*Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP* means accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.


*Ginnie Mae* means the Government National Mortgage Association.


*GLB Act* means the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (Pub. L. 106-102 (1999)).


*HERA* means the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, Public Law No. 110-289, 122 Stat. 2654.


*Housing associate* means an entity that has been approved as a housing associate pursuant to part 1264 of this chapter.


*HUD* means the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.


*Member* means an institution that has been approved for membership in a Bank and has purchased capital stock in the Bank in accordance with §§ 1263.20 or 1263.24(b) of this chapter.


*NCUA* means the National Credit Union Administration.


*NRSRO* means a credit rating organization registered with the SEC as a nationally recognized statistical rating organization by the Securities and Exchange Commission.


*OCC* means the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.


*Office of Finance or OF* means the Office of Finance, a joint office of the Banks established under part 1273 of this chapter and referenced in the Bank Act and the Safety and Soundness Act.


*President,* when referring to an officer of a Bank only, means a Bank's principal executive officer.


*Regulated Entity* means the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and any affiliate thereof, the Federal National Mortgage Association and any affiliate thereof, and any Federal Home Loan Bank.


*Resolution Funding Corporation or REFCORP* means the Resolution Funding Corporation established by section 21B of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441b).


*Safety and Soundness Act* means the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992, as amended (12 U.S.C. 4501 *et seq.*).


*SBIC* means a small business investment company formed pursuant to section 301 of the Small Business Investment Act (15 U.S.C. 681).


*SEC* means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.


*State* means a state of the United States, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, or the United States Virgin Islands.



---

[N] [78 FR 2322, Jan. 11, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 64665, Oct. 31, 2014; 81 FR 76295, Nov. 2, 2016; 81 FR 91688, Dec. 19, 2016]




