# ยง 400.49   Monitoring and reviews of zone operations and activity.

(a) *In general.* Ongoing zone operation(s) and activity may be reviewed by the Board or the Executive Secretary at any time to determine whether they are in the public interest and in compliance and conformity with the Act and regulations, as well as authority approved by the Board. Reviews involving production activity may also be conducted to determine whether there are changed circumstances that raise questions as to whether the activity is detrimental to the public interest, taking into account the factors enumerated in ยง 400.27. The Board may prescribe special monitoring requirements in its decisions when appropriate.


(b) *Conduct of reviews.* Reviews may be initiated by the Board, the Commerce Department's Assistant Secretary for Enforcement and Compliance, or the Executive Secretary; or, they may be undertaken in response to requests from parties directly affected by the activity in question showing good cause based on the provision of information that is probative and substantial in addressing the matter in issue. After initiation of a review, any affected party shall provide in a timely manner any information requested as part of the conduct of the review. If a party fails to timely provide information requested as part of such a review, a presumption unfavorable to that party may be made.


(c) *Prohibition or restriction.* Upon review, if a finding is made that zone activity is no longer in the public interest (taking into account the factors enumerated in ยง 400.27 where production activity is involved), the Board or the Commerce Department's Assistant Secretary for Enforcement and Compliance may prohibit or restrict the activity in question. Such prohibitions or restrictions may be put in place after a preliminary review (e.g., prior to potential steps such as a public comment period) if circumstances warrant such action until further review can be completed. The procedures of ยง 400.34(a)(5)(iv)(A) shall be followed to notify the grantee of the affected zone and allow for a response prior to the final imposition of a prohibition or restriction. The appropriateness of a delayed effective date shall be considered.




