# § 63.7821   When must I conduct subsequent performance tests?

(a) You must conduct subsequent performance tests to demonstrate compliance with all applicable emission and opacity limits in table 1 to this subpart at the frequencies specified in paragraphs (b) through (m) of this section.


(b) For each sinter cooler at an existing sinter plant and each emissions unit equipped with a control device other than a baghouse, you must conduct subsequent particulate matter and opacity performance tests no less frequently than twice (at mid-term and renewal) during each term of your title V operating permit.


(c) For each emissions unit equipped with a baghouse, you must conduct subsequent particulate matter and opacity performance tests no less frequently than once during each term of your title V operating permit.


(d) For sources without a title V operating permit, you must conduct subsequent particulate matter and opacity performance tests every 2.5 years.


(e) For each BOPF Group, if demonstrating compliance with the mercury emission limit in table 1 to this subpart through performance testing under §§ 63.7825 and 63.7833, you must conduct subsequent performance tests twice per permit cycle (*i.e.,* mid-term and initial/final) for sources with title V operating permits, and every 2.5 years for sources without a title V operating permit, at the outlet of the control devices for the BOPF Group.


(f) For each sinter plant windbox, you must conduct subsequent mercury, hydrogen chloride, carbonyl sulfide, dioxin/furan, and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon performance tests every 5 years.


(g) For each blast furnace stove and BOPF shop primary emission control device, you must conduct subsequent hydrogen chloride and total hydrocarbon testing every 5 years. For the BOPF shop primary emission control device, you must also conduct subsequent dioxin/furan testing every 5 years.


(h) For each blast furnace casthouse and BOPF shop, you must conduct subsequent opacity tests two times per month during a cast, or during a full heat cycle, as appropriate.


(i) For planned bleeder valve openings on each blast furnace, you must conduct opacity tests according to § 63.7823(f) for each planned opening.


(j) For slag processing, handling, and storage operations for each blast furnace or BOPF, you must conduct subsequent opacity tests once per week for a minimum of 18 minutes for each: BF pit filling; BOPF slag pit filling; BF pit digging; BOPF slag pit digging; and one slag handling (either truck loading or dumping slag to slag piles).


(k) For large bells on each blast furnace, you must conduct visible emissions testing on the interbell relief valve according to EPA Method 22 in appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter, unless specified in paragraphs (k)(1) through (3) of this section. Testing must be conducted monthly, for 15 minutes.


(1) If visible emissions are detected for a large bell during the monthly visible emissions testing, you must conduct EPA Method 9 (in appendix A-4 to part 60 of this chapter) opacity tests in place of EPA Method 22 testing on that bell once per month, taking 3-minute averages for 15 minutes, until the large bell seal is repaired or replaced.


(2) If the average of 3 instantaneous visible emission readings taken while the interbell relief valve is exhausting exceeds 20 percent, you must initiate corrective action within five business days.


(3) Ten business days after the initial opacity exceedance of 20 percent, you must conduct an EPA Method 9 opacity test, taking 3-minute averages for 15 minutes. If the average of 3 instantaneous visible emissions readings from this test exceeds 20 percent, you must repair or replace that bell seal within 4 months.


(l) For small bells on each blast furnace, you must conduct visible emissions testing according to EPA Method 22 in appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter. Testing must be conducted monthly for 15 minutes. If visible emissions are observed, you must compare the period between the visible emissions being present and the most recent bell seal repair or replacement. If this time period or throughput is shorter or lower than the period or throughput stated in the O&M plan required by 63.7800, this new shorter period or lower limit shall be placed in the O&M plan as the work practice limit.


(m) For each blast furnace casthouse, you must conduct subsequent hydrogen chloride and total hydrocarbon testing every 5 years.



---

[N] [89 FR 23323, Apr. 3, 2024]










