# § 141.702   Sampling schedules.

(a) Systems required to conduct source water monitoring under § 141.701 must submit a sampling schedule that specifies the calendar dates when the system will collect each required sample.


(1) Systems must submit sampling schedules no later than 3 months prior to the applicable date listed in § 141.701(c) for each round of required monitoring.


(2)(i) Systems serving at least 10,000 people must submit their sampling schedule for the initial round of source water monitoring under § 141.701(a) to EPA electronically at *https://intranet.epa.gov/lt2/.*

(ii) If a system is unable to submit the sampling schedule electronically, the system may use an alternative approach for submitting the sampling schedule that EPA approves.


(3) Systems serving fewer than 10,000 people must submit their sampling schedules for the initial round of source water monitoring § 141.701(a) to the State.


(4) Systems must submit sampling schedules for the second round of source water monitoring § 141.701(b) to the State.


(5) If EPA or the State does not respond to a system regarding its sampling schedule, the system must sample at the reported schedule.


(b) Systems must collect samples within two days before or two days after the dates indicated in their sampling schedule (*i.e.*, within a five-day period around the schedule date) unless one of the conditions of paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section applies.


(1) If an extreme condition or situation exists that may pose danger to the sample collector, or that cannot be avoided and causes the system to be unable to sample in the scheduled five-day period, the system must sample as close to the scheduled date as is feasible unless the State approves an alternative sampling date. The system must submit an explanation for the delayed sampling date to the State concurrent with the shipment of the sample to the laboratory.


(2)(i) If a system is unable to report a valid analytical result for a scheduled sampling date due to equipment failure, loss of or damage to the sample, failure to comply with the analytical method requirements, including the quality control requirements in § 141.704, or the failure of an approved laboratory to analyze the sample, then the system must collect a replacement sample.


(ii) The system must collect the replacement sample not later than 21 days after receiving information that an analytical result cannot be reported for the scheduled date unless the system demonstrates that collecting a replacement sample within this time frame is not feasible or the State approves an alternative resampling date. The system must submit an explanation for the delayed sampling date to the State concurrent with the shipment of the sample to the laboratory.


(c) Systems that fail to meet the criteria of paragraph (b) of this section for any source water sample required under § 141.701 must revise their sampling schedules to add dates for collecting all missed samples. Systems must submit the revised schedule to the State for approval prior to when the system begins collecting the missed samples.




