# § 5.43   National bank director residency and citizenship waivers.

(a) *Authority.* 12 U.S.C. 72 and 93a.


(b) *Scope.* This section describes the procedures for the OCC to waive the residency and citizenship requirements for national bank directors set forth at 12 U.S.C. 72.


(c) *Application Procedures*—(1) *Residency.* A national bank may request a waiver of the residency requirement for any number of directors by filing a written application with the OCC. The OCC may grant a waiver on an individual basis or for any number of director positions. The waiver is valid until the OCC revokes it in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, or, if granted on an individual basis, until the individual no longer serves on the board.


(2) *Citizenship.* A national bank may request a waiver of the citizenship requirements for individuals who comprise up to a minority of the total number of directors by filing a written application with the OCC. The OCC may grant a waiver on an individual basis. A citizenship waiver is valid until the individual no longer serves on the board or the OCC revokes the waiver in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.


(3) *Biographical and Financial Reports.* (i) Each subject of a citizenship waiver application must submit to the appropriate OCC licensing office the information prescribed in the Interagency Biographical and Financial Report, available at *www.occ.gov.*

(ii) The OCC may require additional information about any subject of a citizenship waiver application, including legible fingerprints, if appropriate. The OCC may waive any of the information requirements of paragraph (c)(3)(i) if the OCC determines that doing so is in the public interest.


(4) *Exceptions to rules of general applicability.* Sections 5.8, 5.9, 5.10, and 5.11 do not apply to this section.


(d) *Revocation of waiver*—(1) *Procedure.* The OCC may revoke a residency or citizenship waiver. Before revocation, the OCC will provide written notice to the national bank and affected director(s) of its intention to revoke a residency or citizenship waiver and the basis for its intention. The bank and affected director(s) may respond in writing to the OCC within 10 calendar days, unless the OCC determines that a shorter period is appropriate in light of relevant circumstances. The OCC will consider the written responses of the bank and affected director(s), if any, prior to deciding whether or not to revoke a residency or citizenship waiver. The OCC will notify the national bank and the director of the OCC's decision to revoke a residency or citizenship waiver in writing.


(2) *Effective date.* The OCC's decision to revoke a residency or citizenship waiver is effective:


(i) If the director or national bank, or both, appeals pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, upon the director's receipt of the decision of the Comptroller, an authorized delegate, or the appellate official, to uphold the initial decision to revoke the residency or citizenship waiver; or


(ii) If neither the director nor national bank appeals pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, upon the expiration of the period to appeal.


(e) *Appeal.* (1) A director or national bank, or both, may seek review by appealing the OCC's decision to revoke a residency or citizenship waiver to the Comptroller, or an authorized delegate, within 15 days of the receipt of the OCC's written decision to revoke. The director or national bank, or both, may appeal on the grounds that the reasons for revocation are contrary to fact or arbitrary and capricious. The appellant must submit all documents and written arguments that the appellant wishes to be considered in support of the appeal.


(2) The Comptroller, or an authorized delegate, may designate an appellate official who was not previously involved in the decision leading to the appeal at issue. The Comptroller, an authorized delegate, or the appellate official considers all information submitted with the original application for the residency or citizenship waiver, the material before the OCC official who made the initial decision, and any information submitted by the appellant at the time of appeal.


(3) The Comptroller, an authorized delegate, or the appellate official will independently determine whether the reasons given for the initial decision to revoke are contrary to fact or arbitrary and capricious. If they determine either to be the case, the Comptroller, an authorized delegate, or the appellate official may reverse the initial decision to revoke the waiver.


(4) Upon completion of the review, the Comptroller, an authorized delegate, or the appellate official will notify the appellant in writing of the decision. If the initial decision is upheld, the decision to revoke the waiver is effective pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section.


(f) *Prior waivers.* Any waiver granted by the OCC before January 11, 2021 remains in effect unless revoked pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section or, for a waiver granted to an individual, until the individual no longer serves on the board.



---

[N] [85 FR 80462, Dec. 11, 2020]




