# § 42.32   Employment-based preference immigrants.

Aliens subject to the worldwide level specified in section 201(d) for employment-based immigrants in a fiscal year shall be allotted visas as indicated below. 


(a) *First preference—Priority workers*—(1) *Entitlement to status.* An alien shall be classifiable as an employment-based first preference immigrant under INA 203(b)(1) if the consular office has received from DHS a Petition for Immigrant Worker approved in accordance with INA 204 to accord the alien such Preference status, or official notification of such an approval, and the consular officer is satisfied that the alien is within one of the classes described in INA 203(b)(1). 


(2) *Entitlement to derivative status.* Pursuant to INA 203(d), and whether or not named in the petition, the child or spouse of an employment-based first preference immigrant, if not otherwise entitled to an immigrant status and the immediate issuance of a visa, is entitled to a derivative status corresponding to the classification and priority date of the beneficiary of the petition. 


(b) *Second preference—Professionals with advanced degrees or persons of exceptional ability*—(1) *Entitlement to status.* An alien shall be classifiable as an employment-based second preference immigrant under INA 203(b)(2) if the consular officer has received from DHS a Petition for Immigrant Worker approved in accordance with INA 204 to accord the alien such preference status, or official notification of such an approval, and the consular officer is satisfied that the alien is within one of the classes described in INA 203(b)(2). 


(2) *Entitlement to derivative status.* Pursuant to INA 203(d), and whether or not named in the petition, the child or spouse of an employment-based second preference immigrant, if not otherwise entitled to an immigrant status and the immediate issuance of a visa, is entitled to a derivative status corresponding to the classification and priority date of the beneficiary of the petition. 


(c) *Third preference—Skilled workers, professionals, other workers*—(1) *Entitlement to status.* An alien shall be classifiable as an employment-based third preference immigrant under INA 203(b)(3) if the consular officer has received from DHS a Petition for Immigrant Worker approved in accordance with INA 204 to accord the alien such preference status, or official notification of such an approval, and the consular officer is satisfied that the alien is within one of the classes described in INA 203(b)(3). 


(2) *Entitlement to derivative status.* Pursuant to INA 203(d), and whether or not named in the petition, the child or spouse of an employment-based third preference immigrant, if not otherwise entitled to an immigrant status and the immediate issuance of a visa, is entitled to a derivative status corresponding to the classification and priority date of the beneficiary of the petition. 




(d) *Fourth preference—Special immigrants*—(1) *Religious workers*—(i) *Classification based on qualifications under INA 101(A)(27)(C).* An alien shall be classifiable under INA 203(b)(4) as a special immigrant described in INA 101(a)(27)(C) if: 


(A) The consular officer has received a petition approved by DHS to accord such classification, or an official notification of such approval; and 


(B) The consular officer is satisfied from the evidence presented that the alien qualifies under that section; or 


(C) The consular officer is satisfied the alien is the spouse or child of a religious worker so classified and is accompanying or following to join the principal alien. 


(ii) *Timeliness of application.* An immigrant visa issued under INA 203(b)(4) to an alien described in INA 101(a)(27)(C), other than a minister of religion, who qualifies as a “religious worker” as defined in 8 CFR 204.5, shall bear the usual validity except that in no case shall it be valid later than September 30, 2003.


(2) See 22 CFR 42.34.




(3) *Panama Canal employees*—(i) *Entitlement to status.* An alien who is subject to the numerical limitations specified in section 3201(c) of the Panama Canal Act of 1979, Public Law 96-70, is classifiable under INA 203(b)(4) as a special immigrant described in INA 101(a)(27) (E), (F) or (G) if the consular officer has received a petition approved by DHS to accord such classification, or official notification of such an approval, and the consular officer is satisfied that the alien is within one of the classes described in INA 101(a)(27) (E), (F), or (G). 


(ii) *Entitlement to derivative status.* Pursuant to INA 203(d), and whether or not named in the petition, the spouse or child of any alien classified under INA 203(b)(4) as a special immigrant qualified under this section, if not otherwise entitled to an immigrant status and the immediate issuance of a visa, is entitled to a derivative status corresponding to the classification and priority date of the beneficiary of the petition. 


(4) *Spouse and children of certain foreign medical graduates.* The accompanying spouse and children of a graduate of a foreign medical school or of a person qualified to practice medicine in a foreign state who has adjusted status as a special immigrant under the provisions of INA 101(a)(27)(H) are classifiable under INA 203(b)(4) as special immigrants defined in INA 101(a)(27)(H) if the consular officer has received an approved petition from DHS which accords such status and the consular officer is satisfied that the alien is within the class described in INA 101(a)(27)(H). 


(5) *Certain international organization and NATO civilian employees*—(i) *Entitlement to status.* An alien is classifiable under INA 203(b)(4) as a special immigrant defined in INA 101(a)(27)(I) or (L) if the consular officer has received a petition approved by the DHS to accord such classification, or official notification of such approval, and the consular officer is satisfied from the evidence presented that the alien is within one of the classes described therein.


(ii) *Timeliness of application.* An alien accorded status under INA 203(b)(4) because of qualification under INA 101(a)(27)(I) or (L) must appear for the final visa interview and issuance of the immigrant visa within six months of establishing entitlement to status.


(6) *Certain juvenile court dependents.* An alien shall be classifiable under INA 203(b)(4) as a special immigrant defined in INA 101(a)(27)(J) if the consular officer has received from DHS an approved petition to accord such status, or an official notification of such an approval, and the consular officer is satisfied the alien is within the class described in that section. 


(7) *Certain members of the United States Armed Forces recruited abroad*—(i) *Entitlement to status.* An alien is classifiable under INA 203(b)(4) as a special immigrant described in INA 101(a)(27)(K) if the consular office has received a petition approved by the DHS to accord such classification, or official notification of such an approval, and the consular officer is satisfied from the evidence presented that the alien is within the class described in INA 101(a)(27)(K). 


(ii) *Entitlement to derivative status.* Pursuant to INA 203(d), and whether or not named in the petition, the spouse or child of any alien classified under INA 203(b)(4) as a special immigrant qualified under this section, if not otherwise entitled to an immigrant status and the immediate issuance of a visa, is entitled to a derivative status corresponding to the classification and priority date of the beneficiary of the petition. 


(8) *Certain United States international broadcasting employees*—(i) *Entitlement to status.* An alien is classifiable as a special immigrant under INA 203(b)(4) as described in INA 101(a)(27)(M), if the consular office has received a petition approved by the DHS to accord such classification, or official notification of such an approval, and the consular officer is satisfied from the evidence presented that the alien is within the class described in INA 101(a)(27)(M). 


(ii) *Entitlement to derivative status.* Pursuant to INA 203(d), and whether or not named in the petition, the spouse or child of any alien classified under INA 203(b)(4) as a special immigrant qualified under this section, if not otherwise entitled to an immigrant status and the immediate issuance of a visa, is entitled to derivative status corresponding to the classification and priority date of the beneficiary of the petition.


(9) *Certain victims of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks*—(i) *Entitlement to status.* An alien shall be classifiable as a special immigrant under INA 203(b)(4) as specified in section 421 of Public Law 107-56, if: 


(A) The consular officer has received a petition approved by the DHS to accord such classification, or official notification of such an approval, and the consular officer is satisfied from the evidence presented that the alien is entitled to that classification; or 


(B) The alien is the spouse or child of an alien so classified in paragraph (d)(9)(i) of this section and is accompanying or following to join the principal alien. 


(ii) *Ineligibility exemption.* An alien classified under paragraph (d)(9)(i) of this section shall not be subject to the provisions of INA 212(a)(4). 


(iii) *Priority date.* Aliens entitled to status under paragraph (d)(9)(i) of this section shall be assigned a priority date as of the date the petition was filed under INA 204 for classification under section INA 203(b)(4) and visas shall be issued in the chronological order of application submission. However, in the event that the annual limit for immigrants under INA 203 is reached, the alien may retain the earlier priority date of the petition that was revoked. 


(e) *Fifth preference—Employment-creation immigrants*—(1) *Entitlement to status.* An alien shall be classifiable as a fifth preference employment-creation immigrant if the consular officer has received from DHS an approved petition to accord such status, or official notification of such an approval, and the consular officer is satisfied that the alien is within the class described in INA 203(b)(5). 


(2) *Entitlement to derivative status.* Pursuant to INA 203(d), and whether or not named in the petition, the spouse or child of an employment-based fifth preference immigrant, if not otherwise entitled to an immigrant status and the immediate issuance of a visa, is entitled to a derivative status corresponding to the classification and priority date of the beneficiary of the petition. 



---

[N] [56 FR 49676, Oct. 1, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 51172, Oct. 10, 1991; 56 FR 55077, Oct. 24, 1991; 60 FR 35839, July 12, 1995; 63 FR 4394, Jan. 29, 1998; 63 FR 68393, Dec. 11, 1998; 65 FR 80745, Dec. 22, 2000; 66 FR 15350, Mar. 19, 2001; 68 FR 24639, May 8, 2003; 85 FR 36326, June 16, 2020]




