# § 1.642(c)-6   Valuation of a remainder interest in property transferred to a pooled income fund.

(a) *In general.* (1) For purposes of sections 170, 2055, 2106, and 2522, the fair market value of a remainder interest in property transferred to a pooled income fund is its present value determined under paragraph (d) of this section. 


(2) The present value of a remainder interest at the time of the transfer of property to the pooled income fund is determined by computing the present value (at the time of the transfer) of the life income interest and subtracting that value from the fair market value of the transferred property on the valuation date. The fact that the income beneficiary may not receive the last income payment, as provided in paragraph (b)(7) of § 1.642(c)-5, is not taken into account for purposes of determining the value of the life income interest. For purposes of this section, the valuation date is the date on which property is transferred to the fund by the donor except that, for purposes of section 2055 or 2106, it is the alternate valuation date, if elected, under the provisions and limitations set forth in section 2032 and the regulations thereunder. 


(3) Any claim for a deduction on any return for the value of the remainder interest in property transferred to a pooled income fund must be supported by a statement attached to the return showing the computation of the present value of the interest. 


(b) *Actuarial computations by the Internal Revenue Service.* The regulations in this and in related sections provide tables of actuarial factors and examples that illustrate the use of the tables in determining the value of remainder interests in property. Section 1.7520-1(c)(2) refers to government publications that provide additional tables of factors and examples of computations for more complex situations. If the computation requires the use of a factor that is not provided in this section, the Commissioner may supply the factor upon a request for a ruling. A request for a ruling must be accompanied by a recitation of the facts including the pooled income fund's highest yearly rate of return for the 3 taxable years immediately preceding the date of transfer, the date of birth of each measuring life, and copies of the relevant documents. A request for a ruling must comply with the instructions for requesting a ruling published periodically in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see §§ 601.201 and 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(*b*) of this chapter) and include payment of the required user fee. If the Commissioner furnishes the factor, a copy of the letter supplying the factor should be attached to the tax return in which the deduction is claimed. If the Commissioner does not furnish the factor, the taxpayer must furnish a factor computed in accordance with the principles set forth in this section. 


(c) *Computation of pooled income fund's yearly rate of return.* (1) For purposes of determining the present value of the life income interest, the yearly rate of return earned by a pooled income fund for a taxable year is the percentage obtained by dividing the amount of income earned by the pooled income fund for the taxable year by an amount equal to—


(i) The average fair market value of the property in such fund for that taxable year; less 


(ii) The corrective term adjustment. 


(2) The average fair market value of the property in a pooled income fund for a taxable year shall be the sum of the amounts of the fair market value of all property held by the pooled income fund on each determination date, as defined in paragraph (a)(5)(vi) of § 1.642(c)-5, of such taxable year divided by the number of determination dates in such taxable year. For such purposes the fair market value of property held by the fund shall be determined without including any income earned by the fund. 


(3)(i) The corrective term adjustment shall be the sum of the products obtained by multiplying each income payment made by the pooled income fund within its taxable year by the percentage set forth in column (2) of the following table opposite the period within such year, set forth in column (1), which includes the date on which that payment is made: 


(ii) If the taxable year of the fund consists of less than 12 months, the corrective term adjustment shall be the sum of the products obtained by multiplying each income payment made by the pooled income fund within such taxable year by the percentage obtained by subtracting from 1 a fraction the numerator of which is the number of days from the first day of such taxable year to the date of such income payment and the denominator of which is 365. 


(4) A pooled income fund's method of calculating its yearly rate of return must be supported by a full statement attached to the income tax return of the pooled income fund for each taxable year. 


(5) The application of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples: 


(d) *Valuation.* The present value of the remainder interest in property transferred to a pooled income fund on or after June 1, 2023, is determined under paragraph (e) of this section. The present value of the remainder interest in property transferred to a pooled income fund for which the valuation date is before June 1, 2023, is determined (subject to paragraph (e)(2) of this section) under the following sections:


(e) *Present value of the remainder interest in the case of transfers to pooled income funds for which the valuation date is on or after June 1, 2023*—(1) *In general.* In the case of transfers to pooled income funds for which the valuation date is on or after June 1, 2023, the present value of a remainder interest is determined under this section. See, however, § 1.7520-3(b) (relating to exceptions to the use of prescribed tables under certain circumstances). The present value of a remainder interest that is dependent on the termination of the life of one individual is computed by using the formula in § 20.2031-7(d)(2)(ii)(B) of this chapter to derive a remainder factor from the appropriate mortality table to at least five decimal places. For the convenience of taxpayers, actuarial factors have been computed by the IRS and appear in Table S. Table S currently is available, at no charge, electronically via the IRS website at *https://www.irs.gov/retirement-plans/actuarial-tables* (or a corresponding URL as may be updated from time to time). Table S is referenced and explained by IRS Publication 1457, *Actuarial Valuations Version 4A,* which will be available within a reasonable time after June 1, 2023. For purposes of the computations under this section, the age of an individual is the age at the individual's nearest birthday.


(2) *Transitional rule for valuation of transfers to pooled income funds.* For purposes of section 170, 2055, 2106, 2522, or 2624, in the case of transfers to a pooled income fund for which the valuation date is after April 30, 2019, and on or before June 1, 2023, the present value of the remainder interest under this section is determined by using the section 7520 interest rate for the month in which the valuation date occurs (see §§ 1.7520-1(b) and 1.7520-2(a)(2)) and the appropriate actuarial factors derived from the selected mortality table, either Table 2010CM in § 20.2031-7(d)(7)(ii) of this chapter or Table 2000CM in § 20.2031-7A(g)(4) of this chapter, at the option of the donor or the decedent's executor, as the case may be. If any previously filed income tax return is amended to use the actuarial factors based on Table 2010CM, the amended return must state at the top “AMENDED PURSUANT TO TD 9974.” If any previously filed gift or estate tax return is supplemented to use the actuarial factors based on Table 2010CM, the supplemental return must state at the top “SUPPLEMENTED PURSUANT TO TD 9974.” For the convenience of taxpayers, actuarial factors based on Table 2010CM appear in the current version of Table S, and actuarial factors based on Table 2000CM appear in the previous version of Table S. Both versions of Table S currently are available, at no charge, electronically via the IRS website at *https://www.irs.gov/retirement-plans/actuarial-tables* (or a corresponding URL as may be updated from time to time). The donor or decedent's executor must consistently use the same mortality basis with respect to each interest (income, remainder, partial, etc.) in the same property, and with respect to all transfers occurring on the same valuation date. For example, gift and income tax charitable deductions with respect to the same transfer must be determined based on factors with the same mortality basis, and all assets includible in the gross estate and/or estate tax deductions claimed must be valued based on factors with the same mortality basis.


(3) *Present value of a remainder interest.* The present value of a remainder interest in property transferred to a pooled income fund is computed on the basis of—


(i) Life contingencies determined from the values of l_X_ that are set forth in Table 2010CM in § 20.2031-7(d)(7)(ii) of this chapter (see § 20.2031-7A of this chapter for certain prior periods); and


(ii) Discount at a rate of interest, compounded annually, equal to the highest yearly rate of return of the pooled income fund for the three taxable years immediately preceding its taxable year in which the transfer of property to the fund is made. For purposes of this paragraph (e), the yearly rate of return of a pooled income fund is determined as provided in paragraph (c) of this section unless the highest rate of return is deemed to be the rate described in paragraph (e)(4) of this section for funds in existence less than 3 taxable years. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(3)(ii), the first taxable year of a pooled income fund is considered a taxable year even though the taxable year consists of less than 12 months. However, appropriate adjustments must be made to annualize the rate of return earned by the fund for that period. Where it appears from the facts and circumstances that the highest yearly rate of return of the fund for the three taxable years immediately preceding the taxable year in which the transfer of property is made has been purposely manipulated to be substantially less than the rate of return that otherwise would be reasonably anticipated with the purpose of obtaining an excessive charitable deduction, that rate of return may not be used. In that case, the highest yearly rate of return of the fund is determined by treating the fund as a pooled income fund that has been in existence for less than three preceding taxable years.


(4) *Pooled income funds in existence less than three taxable years.* If a pooled income fund has been in existence less than three taxable years immediately preceding the taxable year in which the transfer is made to the fund and the transfer to the fund is made on or after May 1, 1989, the highest rate of return is deemed to be the interest rate (rounded to the nearest two-tenths of one percent) that is one percent less than the highest annual average of the monthly section 7520 rates for the three calendar years immediately preceding the calendar year in which the transfer to the pooled income fund is made. The deemed rate of return for transfers to new pooled income funds is recomputed each calendar year using the monthly section 7520 rates for the three year period immediately preceding the calendar year in which each transfer to the fund is made until the fund has been in existence for three taxable years and can compute its highest rate of return for the three taxable years immediately preceding the taxable year in which the transfer of property to the fund is made in accordance with the rules set forth in the first sentence of paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section.


(5) *Computation of value of remainder interest*—(i) *Factor.* The factor that is used in determining the present value of a remainder interest that is dependent on the termination of the life of one individual is the factor obtained through use of the formula in § 20.2031-7(d)(2)(ii)(B) of this chapter to derive a remainder factor from the appropriate mortality table to at least five decimal places. For the convenience of taxpayers, actuarial factors have been computed by the IRS and appear in Table S. Table S currently is available, at no charge, electronically via the IRS website at *https://www.irs.gov/retirement-plans/actuarial-tables.* Table S is referenced and explained in IRS Publication 1457, *Actuarial Valuations Version 4A,* which will be available within a reasonable time after June 1, 2023. In using the section of Table S for the interest rate equal to the appropriate yearly rate of return, the appropriate remainder factor is opposite the number that corresponds to the age of the individual upon whose life the value of the remainder interest is based (See § 1.642(c)-6A for certain prior periods). The tables referenced by IRS Publication 1457, *Actuarial Valuations Version 4A,* include factors for yearly rates of return from 0.2 to 20 percent, inclusive, in increments of two-tenths of one percent. For other situations, see paragraph (b) of this section. If the yearly rate of return is a percentage that is between the yearly rates of return for which factors are provided by Table S, an exact method of obtaining the applicable factors (such as through software using the actual rate of return and the actuarial formulas provided in § 20.2031-7(d)(2)(ii)(B) of this chapter) or a linear interpolation must be used, provided whichever method used is applied consistently in valuing all interests in the same property. The applicable remainder factors derived by an exact method or by interpolation must be expressed to at least five decimal places. The present value of the remainder interest is determined by multiplying the fair market value of the property on the valuation date by the appropriate remainder factor.


(ii) *Sample factors from actuarial Table S.* For purposes of the example in paragraph (e)(5)(iii) of this section, the following factors from Table S will be used:


(iii) *Example of interpolation.* After June 1, 2023, A, whose age is 54 years and 8 months, transfers $100,000 to a pooled income fund, and retains a life income interest in the property. The highest yearly rate of return earned by the fund for its 3 preceding taxable years is 5.43 percent. In Table S, the remainder factor opposite 55 years under 5.4 percent is 0.28442 and under 5.6 percent is 0.27363. The present value of the remainder interest is $28,280, computed as illustrated in Figure 1 to this paragraph (e)(5)(iii).





(6) *Actuarial tables.* In the case of transfers for which the valuation date is on or after June 1, 2023, the present value of a remainder interest dependent on the termination of one life in the case of a transfer to a pooled income fund is determined by using the formula in § 20.2031-7(d)(2)(ii)(B) of this chapter to derive a remainder factor from the appropriate mortality table to at least five decimal places. For the convenience of taxpayers, actuarial factors have been computed by the IRS and appear in Table S. Table S currently is available, at no charge, electronically via the IRS website at *https://www.irs.gov/retirement-plans/actuarial-tables.* Table S is referenced and explained in IRS Publication 1457, *Actuarial Valuations Version 4A,* which will be available within a reasonable time after June 1, 2023.




(f) *Applicability date.* This section applies on and after June 1, 2023.



---

[N] [T.D. 7105, 36 FR 6480, Apr. 6, 1971; 36 FR 9512, May 26, 1971; 36 FR 12290, June 30, 1971, as amended by T.D. 7955, 49 FR 19976, May 11, 1984; T.D. 8540, 59 FR 30105, June 10, 1994; T.D. 8819, 64 FR 23190, Apr. 30, 1999; T.D. 8886, 65 FR 36910, June 12, 2000; T.D. 9448, 74 FR 21440, May 7, 2009; T.D. 9540, 76 FR 49572, Aug. 10, 2011; T.D. 9974, 88 FR 37429, June 7, 2023]




