# § 208.12   Maximum Pay Rate Table.

(a) *Purpose.* This section establishes the process for creating and updating the Maximum Pay Rate Table (Table), and the Table's use to reimburse Affiliated Personnel (Task Force Physicians, Task Force Engineers, and Canine Handlers) and Backfill for Activated System Members employed by or otherwise associated with a for-profit Participating Agency. Section 208.32 defines the “Maximum Pay Rate Table” as “the DHS-issued table that identifies the maximum pay rates for selected System positions that may be used for reimbursement of Affiliated Personnel compensation and Backfill for Activated System Members employed by or otherwise associated with a for-profit Participating Agency.” In that same section, the term “Affiliated Personnel” is defined as “individuals not normally employed by a Sponsoring Agency or Participating Agency and individuals normally affiliated with a Sponsoring Agency or Participating Agency as volunteers.” 


(b) *Scope of this section.* (1) The Maximum Pay Rate Table applies to those individuals who are not normally employed by a Sponsoring Agency or Participating Agency, or whose affiliation with a Sponsoring Agency or Participating Agency is as a volunteer; that is, an individual whom the Sponsoring Agency or Participating Agency does not normally compensate in any way, at any rate. 


(2) The Table also applies to Backfill for Activated System Members employed by or otherwise associated with a for-profit Participating Agency. 


(c) *Method for determining maximum pay rates.* (1) DHS uses the United States Office of Personnel Management's salary rates, computed under 5 U.S.C. 5504, as the basis for the maximum pay rate schedule. DHS considers System members' experience and sets maximum pay rates at the maximum grade, middle step for each position, which demonstrates an experience level of five years. 


(2) The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) publishes salary and locality pay schedules each calendar year. 


(i) *Physicians.* DHS uses the latest Special Salary Rate Table Number 0290 for Medical Officers (Clinical) Worldwide for physicians. The rates used in the initial Table can be found at *http://www.opm.gov/oca/03 tables/SSR/HTML/0290.asp.*

(ii) *Engineers and Canine Handlers.* DHS uses the latest General Schedule pay scale for both positions. Both specialties are compared to the General Schedule pay scale to ensure parity with like specialties on a task force (canine handlers are equated with rescue specialists). The rates used in the initial Table can be found at *http://www.opm.gov/oca/03tables/html/gs.asp.*

(iii) *Locality Pay.* To determine adjustments for locality pay DHS uses the latest locality pay areas (including the “Rest of U.S.” area) established by OPM. The rates used in the initial Table can be found at *http://www.opm.gov/oca/03tables/locdef.asp.*

(3) *Review and update.* DHS will review and update the Table periodically, at least annually. The comments of Sponsoring and Participating Agencies and their experience with the Table will be considered and evaluated in the course of the reviews. 


(4) *Initial rates and subsequent revisions.* DHS will publish the initial maximum pay rate table in the _Federal Register_ as a notice with request for comments. Subsequent revisions will be made to the pay rate table as OPM changes salary rates as described in this section. When subsequent revisions are made to the maximum pay rate table DHS will publish the new maximum pay rate table in the _Federal Register._ The rates will be effective for the latest year indicated by OPM. 
1

(d) *Application of the maximum pay rate table*—(1) *Applicability.* The Maximum Pay Rate Table sets forth maximum rates for which DHS will reimburse the Sponsoring Agency for compensation paid to Activated Affiliated Personnel and as Backfill for Activated System Members employed by or otherwise associated with a for-profit Participating Agency. 


(2) *Higher rates.* The Sponsoring Agency may choose to pay Affiliated Personnel at a higher rate, but DHS will not reimburse the increment above the maximum rate specified in the Maximum Pay Rate Table. Likewise, the Sponsoring Agency may choose to enter into a Participating Agency agreement with the individual's employer, rather than use the individual as an Affiliated Personnel, in which case the Maximum Pay Rate Table would not apply. 


(3) *Compensation for Sponsoring Agency employees serving as Affiliated Personnel.* An employee of a Sponsoring Agency serving on a Task Force in a capacity other than his or her normal job, *e.g.*, a fire department dispatcher affiliated with the Task Force as a canine search specialist, as an Affiliated Personnel, would not necessarily be subject to the Maximum Pay Rate Table for reimbursement for salary and benefits for that individual. However, Sponsoring Agencies may use the rates in the Maximum Pay Rate Table as a guide for establishing compensation levels for such individuals. 


(4) *Backfill expenses for Affiliated Personnel under § 208.39(g).* (i) The only way that DHS can reimburse for Backfill costs incurred for Affiliated Personnel is through Participating Agencies. If reimbursement for Backfill expenses is needed for Affiliated Personnel, DHS encourages them to urge their employers or professional association to seek Participating Agency status. 


(ii) *Private, for-profit organizations.* Participating Agency status is available to private, for-profit organizations, *e.g.*, HMOs or medical or engineering professional associations, under the revised definition of “Participating Agency” set forth in this Interim rule. (See Definitions, § 208.2, *Participating Agency.* and § 208.32, *Maximum Pay Rate Tabl.e*). When a for-profit Participating Agency must backfill an Activated System Member's position we will compensate that Participating Agency up to the maximum rate provided in the Table.


(iii) *Compensation costs.* DHS will reimburse for-profit organizations, for purposes of reimbursement and Backfill, for the System Member's actual compensation or the actual compensation of the individual who Backfills a position (which includes salary and benefits, as described in §§ 208.39 and 208.40), but will not reimburse for billable or other rates that might be charged for services rendered to commercial clients or patients. 




