# ยง 1806.403   Estimated award amounts.

(a) *General.* An Applicant must calculate and submit to the CDFI Fund an estimated award amount as part of its BEA Program Award application.


(b) *Award percentages.* The CDFI Fund will establish the award percentage for each category and subcategory of Qualified Activities in the applicable NOFA. Applicable award percentages for Qualified Activities undertaken by Applicants that are CDFIs will be equal to three times the award percentages for Qualified Activities undertaken by Applicants that are not CDFIs.


(c) *Calculating the estimated award amount for Qualified Activities.* (1) The estimated award amount for the CDFI Related Activities category will be equal to the applicable award percentage of the net increase in each activity-type (*i.e.,* Equity Investments/Equity Like-Loans; and CDFI Support Activities) under the CDFI Related Activities category between the Baseline Period and Assessment Period.


(2) The estimated award amount for the Distressed Community Financing Activities category will be equal to the applicable award percentage of the weighted value of each subcategory of Distressed Community Financing Activities (*i.e.,* Consumer Loans; and Commercial Loans and Investments) between the Baseline Period and Assessment Period. The weighted value of the applicable subcategories shall be calculated by:


(i) Subtracting the Baseline Period value of such subcategory from the Assessment Period value of such subcategory to yield a difference; and


(ii) Multiplying the difference by the applicable Priority Factor (as set forth in the applicable NOFA).


(3) The estimated award amount for the Service Activities category will be equal to the applicable award percentage of the weighted value of each activity type between the Baseline Period and Assessment Period. The weighted value of the applicable activity type shall be calculated by:


(i) Subtracting the Baseline Period value of such Qualified Activity from the Assessment Period value of such Qualified Activity to yield a difference; and


(ii) Multiplying the difference by the applicable Priority Factor (as set forth in the applicable NOFA).


(d) *Estimated award eligibility review.* The CDFI Fund will determine the eligibility of each transaction for which an Applicant has applied for a BEA Program Award. Based upon this review, the CDFI Fund will calculate the actual award amount for which such Applicant is eligible.




