# § 334.520   Lake George, Fla.; naval bombing area.

(a) *The danger zone.* An area in the eastern part of Lake George described as follows: Beginning at latitude 29°13′16″, longitude 81°34′28″; thence along a line parallel to the navigation channel to latitude 29°20′05″, longitude 81°36′15″; thence along a line about three-fifths mile southerly from the Putnam-Volusia County line to latitude 29°20′19″, longitude 81°35′12″; thence to latitude 29°18′36″, longitude 81°33′53″; thence to latitude 29°13′22″, longitude 81°32′38″; and thence to the point of beginning. The area will be marked by appropriate warnings signs at the five corners and at the midpoint of the longer side.


(b) *The regulations.* (1) Bombing operations will be confined, as nearly as practicable, to the north-south center line of the danger zone, keeping well clear of the navigation channel.


(2) Prior to each bombing operation the danger zone will be patrolled by naval aircraft which will warn all persons and vessels to leave the area by “zooming” a safe distance to the side and at least 500 feet above the surface. Upon being so warned, such persons and vessels shall leave the danger zone immediately and shall not re-enter the danger zone until bombing operations have ceased.


(3) At intervals of not more than three months, public notices will be issued that bombing operations are continuing. Such notices will appear in the local newspaper and in “Notice to Mariners”.


(4) The regulations in this section shall not deny passage through Lake George by regular cargo-carrying vessels proceeding along established lanes for such vessels. When any such vessel is within the danger zone the officer in charge of the bombing operations will cause the cessation or postponement of such operations until the vessel has cleared the area. The vessel shall proceed on its normal course and shall not delay its progress.


(5) The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commander, Naval Air Bases, Sixth Naval District, Naval Air Station, Jacksonville, Florida, and such agencies as he may designate.



---

[N] [16 FR 10992, Oct. 30, 1951. Redesignated at 50 FR 42696, Oct. 22, 1985, as amended at 62 FR 17554, Apr. 10, 1997]




