# ยง 440.345   EPSDT and other required benefits.

(a) The State must assure access to early and periodic screening, diagnostic and treatment (EPSDT) services through benchmark or benchmark-equivalent plan benefits or as additional benefits provided by the State for any child under 21 years of age eligible under the State plan in a category under section 1902(a)(10)(A) of the Act.


(1) Sufficiency. Any additional EPSDT benefits not provided by the benchmark or benchmark-equivalent plan must be sufficient so that, in combination with the benchmark or benchmark-equivalent benefits plan, these individuals have access to the full EPSDT benefit.


(2) State Plan requirement. The State must include a description of how the additional benefits will be provided, how access to additional benefits will be coordinated and how beneficiaries and providers will be informed of these processes in order to ensure that these individuals have access to the full EPSDT benefit.


(b) *Family planning.* Alternative Benefit Plans must include coverage for family planning services and supplies.


(c) *Mental health parity.* Alternative Benefit Plans that provide both medical and surgical benefits, and mental health or substance use disorder benefits, must comply with the Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act.


(d) *Essential health benefits.* Alternative Benefit Plans must include at least the essential health benefits described in ยง 440.347, and include all updates or modifications made thereafter by the Secretary to the definition of essential health benefits.


(e) *Updating of benefits.* States are not required to update Alternative Benefit Plans that have been determined to include essential health benefits as of January 1, 2014, until December 31, 2015. States will adhere to future guidance for updating benefits beyond that date, as described by the Secretary.


(f) *Covered outpatient drugs.* To the extent states pay for covered outpatient drugs under their Alternative Benefit Plan's prescription drug coverage, states must comply with the requirements under section 1927 of the Act.



---

[N] [75 FR 23101, Apr. 30, 2010, as amended at 78 FR 42306, July 15, 2013]




