# § 97.21   Submission of NO

(a) *Duty to apply.* The NO_X_ authorized account representative of any NO_X_ Budget source required to have a federally enforceable permit shall submit to the permitting authority a complete NO_X_ Budget permit application under § 97.22 by the applicable deadline in paragraph (b) of this section. 


(b)(1) For NO_X_ Budget sources required to have a title V operating permit: 


(i) For any source, with one or more NO_X_ Budget units under § 97.4(a) that commence operation before January 1, 2001, the NO_X_ authorized account representative shall submit a complete NO_X_ Budget permit application under § 97.22 covering such NO_X_ Budget units to the permitting authority at least 18 months (or such lesser time provided by the permitting authority) before May 31, 2004. 


(ii) For any source, with any NO_X_ Budget unit under § 97.4(a) that commences operation on or after January 1, 2001, the NO_X_ authorized account representative shall submit a complete NO_X_ Budget permit application under § 97.22 covering such NO_X_ Budget unit to the permitting authority at least 18 months (or such lesser time provided by the permitting authority) before the later of May 31, 2004 or the date on which the NO_X_ Budget unit commences operation. 


(2) For NO_X_ Budget sources required to have a non-title V permit: 


(i) For any source, with one or more NO_X_ Budget units under § 97.4(a) that commence operation before January 1, 2001, the NO_X_ authorized account representative shall submit a complete NO_X_ Budget permit application under § 97.22 covering such NO_X_ Budget units to the permitting authority at least 18 months (or such lesser time provided by the permitting authority) before May 31, 2004. 


(ii) For any source, with any NO_X_ Budget unit under § 97.4(a) that commences operation on or after January 1, 2001, the NO_X_ authorized account representative shall submit a complete NO_X_ Budget permit application under § 97.22 covering such NO_X_ Budget unit to the permitting authority at least 18 months (or such lesser time provided by the permitting authority) before the later of May 31, 2004 or the date on which the NO_X_ Budget unit commences operation. 


(c) *Duty to reapply.* (1) For a NO_X_ Budget source required to have a title V operating permit, the NO_X_ authorized account representative shall submit a complete NO_X_ Budget permit application under § 97.22 for the NO_X_ Budget source covering the NO_X_ Budget units at the source in accordance with the permitting authority's title V operating permits regulations addressing operating permit renewal. 


(2) For a NO_X_ Budget source required to have a non-title V permit, the NO_X_ authorized account representative shall submit a complete NO_X_ Budget permit application under § 97.22 for the NO_X_ Budget source covering the NO_X_ Budget units at the source in accordance with the permitting authority's non-title V permits regulations addressing permit renewal. 



---

[N] [65 FR 2727, Jan. 18, 2000, as amended at 67 FR 21529, Apr. 30, 2002]




