# § 252.14   Stress test.

(a) *In general.* (1) A state member bank must conduct a stress test as required under this subpart.


(2) *Frequency*—(i) *General.* Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, a state member bank must conduct a stress test according to the frequency in table 1 to § 252.14(a)(2)(i).


(ii) *Change in frequency.* The Board may require a state member bank to conduct a stress test on a more or less frequent basis than would be required under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section based on the company's financial condition, size, complexity, risk profile, scope of operations, or activities, or risks to the U.S. economy.


(3) *Notice and response*—(i) *Notification of change in frequency.* If the Board requires a state member bank to change the frequency of the stress test under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, the Board will notify the state member bank in writing and provide a discussion of the basis for its determination.


(ii) *Request for reconsideration and Board response.* Within 14 calendar days of receipt of a notification under paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, a state member bank may request in writing that the Board reconsider the requirement to conduct a stress test on a more or less frequent basis than would be required under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section. A state member bank's request for reconsideration must include an explanation as to why the request for reconsideration should be granted. The Board will respond in writing within 14 calendar days of receipt of the company's request.


(b) *Scenarios provided by the Board*—(1) *In general.* In conducting a stress test under this section, a state member bank must, at a minimum, use the scenarios provided by the Board. Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section, the Board will provide a description of the scenarios no later than February 15 of each calendar year.


(2) *Additional components.* (i) The Board may require a state member bank with significant trading activity, as determined by the Board and specified in the Capital Assessments and Stress Testing report (FR Y-14), to include a trading and counterparty component in its severely adverse scenario in the stress test required by this section. The Board may also require a state member bank that is subject to 12 CFR part 217, subpart F or that is a subsidiary of a bank holding company that is subject to section § 252.54(b)(2)(i) to include a trading and counterparty component in the state member bank's severely adverse scenario in the stress test required by this section. The data used in this component must be as of a date between October 1 of the previous calendar year and March 1 of the calendar year in which the stress test is performed, and the Board will communicate the as-of date and a description of the component to the company no later than March 1 of that calendar year.


(ii) The Board may require a state member bank to include one or more additional components in its severely adverse scenario in the stress test required by this section based on the state member bank's financial condition, size, complexity, risk profile, scope of operations, or activities, or risks to the U.S. economy.


(3) *Additional scenarios.* The Board may require a state member bank to include one or more additional scenarios in the stress test required by this section based on the state member bank's financial condition, size, complexity, risk profile, scope of operations, or activities, or risks to the U.S. economy.


(4) *Notice and response*—(i) *Notification of additional component or scenario.* If the Board requires a state member bank to include one or more additional components in its severely adverse scenario under paragraph (b)(2) of this section or to use one or more additional scenarios under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the Board will notify the company in writing by December 31 and include a discussion of the basis for its determination.


(ii) *Request for reconsideration and Board response.* Within 14 calendar days of receipt of a notification under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, the state member bank may request in writing that the Board reconsider the requirement that the company include the additional component(s) or additional scenario(s), including an explanation as to why the request for reconsideration should be granted. The Board will respond in writing within 14 calendar days of receipt of the company's request.


(iii) *Description of component.* The Board will provide the state member bank with a description of any additional component(s) or additional scenario(s) by March 1.



---

[N] [84 FR 59100, Nov. 1, 2019]




