# § 744.9   Restrictions on exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of certain cameras, systems, or related components.

(a) *General prohibitions.* (1) In addition to the applicable license requirements for nuclear nonproliferation, national security, regional stability, anti-terrorism, and United Nations embargo reasons in §§ 742.3, 742.4, 742.6, 742.8, 746.1(b), and 746.3 of the EAR, a license is required pursuant to this section for specific exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country) if at the time of export, reexport, or transfer, the exporter, reexporter, or transferor knows or is informed that:


(i) Commodities controlled by ECCN 6A003.a.3, 6A003.a.4, or 6A003.a.6 will be or are intended to be used by a 'military end-user,' as defined in paragraph (d) of this section in all destinations except Australia, Canada, or the United Kingdom.




(ii) Commodities described in ECCNs 0A504 (incorporating commodities controlled by ECCNs 6A002 or 6A003, or commodities controlled by 6A993.a that meet the criterion of Note 3.a to 6A003.b.4), 6A002, 6A003 (other than 6A003.a.3, 6A003.a.4, and 6A003.a.6), or 6A993.a (having a maximum frame rate equal to or less than 9 Hz and thus meeting the criteria of Note 3.a to 6A003.b.4), or 8A002.d will be or are intended to be used by a 'military end-user,' as defined in paragraph (d) of this section in all destinations except those specified in Country Group A:1.


(iii) Commodities described in ECCNs 0A504 (incorporating commodities controlled by ECCNs 6A002 or 6A003, or commodities controlled by 6A993.a that meet the criterion of Note 3.a to 6A003.b.4), 6A002, 6A003, or 6A993.a (having a maximum frame rate equal to or less than 9 Hz and thus meeting the criteria of Note 3.a to 6A003.b.4), or 8A002.d will be or are intended to be incorporated into a “military commodity” controlled by ECCN 0A919 in all destinations except Australia, Canada, or the United Kingdom.




(2) The license requirement described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not apply to exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country) of items described in that paragraph when such items are being reexported or transferred as part of a military deployment by a unit of the government of a country in Country Group A:1 (see Supplement No. 1 to part 740).


(b) *Additional prohibition on exporters, reexporters, or transferors informed by BIS.* BIS may inform an exporter, reexporter, or transferor, either individually by specific notice or through amendment to the EAR, that a license is required for the export, reexport, or transfer of commodities described in ECCNs 0A504 (incorporating commodities controlled by ECCNs 6A002 or 6A003, or commodities controlled by 6A993.a that meet the criterion of Note 3.a to 6A003.b.4), 6A002, 6A003, or 6A993.a (having a maximum frame rate equal to or less than 9 Hz and thus meeting the criteria of Note 3.a to 6A003.b.4), or 8A002.d to specified end users, because BIS has determined that there is an unacceptable risk of diversion to the users or unauthorized incorporation into the “military commodities” described in paragraph (a) of this section. Specific notice is to be given only by, or at the direction of, the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. When such notice is provided orally, it will be followed by a written notice within two working days signed by the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration.


(c) *License review standard.* Applications for licenses required by this section will be reviewed by applying the policies that would be applied under the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (22 CFR Parts 120-130).


(d) *Military end-user.* In this section, the term “military end-user” means the national armed services (army, navy, marine, air force, or coast guard), as well as the national guard and national police, government intelligence or reconnaissance organizations, or any person or entity whose actions or functions are intended to support “military end-uses” as defined in § 744.17(d).


(e) *Exception.* Shipments subject to the prohibitions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section that are consigned to and for the official use of the U.S. Government authorized pursuant to § 740.11(b)(2)(ii) of the EAR may be made under License Exception GOV. No other license exceptions apply to the prohibitions described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.



---

[N] [74 FR 23948, May 22, 2009; 77 FR 39369, July 2, 2012, as amended at 81 FR 70333, Oct. 12, 2016; 83 FR 53751, Oct. 24, 2018; 85 FR 4177, Jan. 23, 2020; 89 FR 13592, Feb. 23, 2024; 89 FR 28601, Apr. 19, 2024]




