# § 301.6224(c)-3   Consistent settlements.

(a) *In general.* If the Internal Revenue Service enters into a settlement agreement with any partner with respect to partnership items, whether comprehensive or partial, the Internal Revenue Service shall offer to any other partner who so requests in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, settlement terms consistent with those contained in the settlement agreement entered into. 


(b) *Requirements for consistent settlement terms*—(1) *In general.* Consistent settlement terms are those based on the same determinations with respect to partnership items. However, consistent settlement terms also may include partnership-level determinations of any penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount that relates to partnership items. Settlements with respect to partnership items shall be self-contained; thus, a concession by one party with respect to a partnership item may not be based upon a concession by another party with respect to any item that is not a partnership item other than a partnership-level determination of any penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount that relates to an adjustment to a partnership item. Consistent agreements must be identical to the original settlement (that is, the settlement upon which the offered settlement terms are based). A consistent agreement must mirror the original settlement and may not be limited to selected items from the original settlement. Once a partner has settled a partnership item, or a partnership-level determination of any penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount that relates to an adjustment to a partnership item, that partner may not subsequently request settlement terms consistent with a settlement that contains the previously settled item. The requirement for consistent settlement terms applies only if— 


(i) The items were partnership items (or a partnership-level determination of any related penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount) for the partner entering into the original settlement immediately before the original settlement; and 


(ii) The items are partnership items (or a partnership-level determination of any related penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount) for the partner requesting the consistent settlement at the time the partner files the request. 


(2) *Effect of consistent agreement.* Consistent settlement terms are reflected in a consistent agreement. A consistent agreement is not a settlement agreement that gives rise to further consistent settlement rights because it is required to be given without volitional agreement of the Secretary. Therefore, a consistent agreement required to be offered to a requesting taxpayer is not a settlement agreement under section 6224(c)(2) or paragraph (c)(3) of this section which starts a new period for requesting consistent settlement terms. For all other purposes of the Internal Revenue Code, however, (e.g., binding effect under section 6224(c)(1) and conversion to nonpartnership items under section 6231(b)(1)(C)), a consistent agreement is treated as a settlement agreement. 


(c) *Time and manner of requesting consistent settlements*—(1) *In general.* A partner desiring settlement terms consistent with the terms of any settlement agreement entered into between any other partner and the Internal Revenue Service shall submit a written statement to the Internal Revenue Service office that entered into the settlement. 


(2) *Contents of statement.* Except as otherwise provided in instructions to the taxpayer from the Internal Revenue Service, the written statement described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall— 


(i) Identify the statement as a request for consistent settlement terms under section 6224(c)(2); 


(ii) Contain the name, address, and taxpayer identification number of the partnership and of the partner requesting the settlement offer (and, in the case of an indirect partner, of the pass-thru partner through which the indirect partner holds an interest); 


(iii) Identify the earlier agreement to which the request refers; and 


(iv) Be signed by the partner making the request. 


(3) *Time for filing request.* The statement shall be filed not later than the later of— 


(i) The 150th day after the day on which the notice of final partnership administrative adjustment is mailed to the tax matters partner; or 


(ii) The 60th day after the day on which the settlement agreement was entered into. 


(d) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the principles of this section:


(e) *Effective date.* This section is applicable to partnership taxable years beginning on or after October 4, 2001. For years beginning prior to October 4, 2001, see § 301.6224(c)-3T contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised April 1, 2001.



---

[N] [T.D. 8965, 66 FR 50552, Oct. 4, 2001]






