# § 391.44   Physical qualification standards for an individual who does not satisfy, with the worse eye, either the distant visual acuity standard with corrective lenses or the field of vision standard, or both.

(a) *General.* An individual who does not satisfy, with the worse eye, either the distant visual acuity standard with corrective lenses or the field of vision standard, or both, in § 391.41(b)(10)(i) is physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle in interstate commerce provided:


(1) The individual meets the other physical qualification standards in § 391.41 or has an exemption or skill performance evaluation certificate, if required; and


(2) The individual has the vision evaluation required by paragraph (b) of this section and the medical examination required by paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) *Evaluation by an ophthalmologist or optometrist.* Prior to the examination required by § 391.45 or the expiration of a medical examiner's certificate, the individual must be evaluated by a licensed ophthalmologist or licensed optometrist.


(1) During the evaluation of the individual, the ophthalmologist or optometrist must complete the Vision Evaluation Report, Form MCSA-5871.


(2) Upon completion of the Vision Evaluation Report, Form MCSA-5871, the ophthalmologist or optometrist must sign and date the Report and provide the ophthalmologist or optometrist's full name, office address, and telephone number on the Report.


(c) *Examination by a medical examiner.* At least annually, an individual who does not satisfy, with the worse eye, either the distant visual acuity standard with corrective lenses or the field of vision standard, or both, in § 391.41(b)(10)(i) must be medically examined and certified by a medical examiner as physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle in accordance with § 391.43. The examination must begin not more than 45 days after an ophthalmologist or optometrist signs and dates the Vision Evaluation Report, Form MCSA-5871.


(1) The medical examiner must receive a completed Vision Evaluation Report, Form MCSA-5871, signed and dated by an ophthalmologist or optometrist for each required examination. This Report shall be treated and retained as part of the Medical Examination Report Form, MCSA-5875.


(2) The medical examiner must determine whether the individual meets the physical qualification standards in § 391.41 to operate a commercial motor vehicle. In making that determination, the medical examiner must consider the information in the Vision Evaluation Report, Form MCSA-5871, signed by an ophthalmologist or optometrist and, utilizing independent medical judgment, apply the following standards in determining whether the individual may be certified as physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle.


(i) The individual is not physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle if, in the better eye, the distant visual acuity is not at least 20/40 (Snellen), with or without corrective lenses, and the field of vision is not at least 70° in the horizontal meridian.


(ii) The individual is not physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle if the individual is not able to recognize the colors of traffic signals and devices showing standard red, green, and amber.


(iii) The individual is not physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle if the individual's vision deficiency is not stable.


(iv) The individual is not physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle if sufficient time has not passed since the vision deficiency became stable to allow the individual to adapt to and compensate for the change in vision.


(d) *Road test.* (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(3), (4), and (5) of this section, an individual physically qualified under this section for the first time shall not drive a commercial motor vehicle until the individual has successfully completed a road test subsequent to physical qualification and has been issued a certificate of driver's road test in accordance with § 391.31. An individual physically qualified under this section for the first time must inform the motor carrier responsible for completing the road test under § 391.31(b) that the individual is required by paragraph (d) of this section to have a road test. The motor carrier must conduct the road test in accordance with § 391.31(b) thorough (g).


(2) For road tests required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the provisions of § 391.33 for the equivalent of a road test do not apply. If an individual required to have a road test by paragraph (d)(1) of this section successfully completes the road test and is issued a certificate of driver's road test in accordance with § 391.31, then any otherwise applicable provisions of § 391.33 will apply thereafter to such individual.


(3) An individual physically qualified under this section for the first time is not required to complete a road test in accordance with § 391.31 if the motor carrier responsible for completing the road test under § 391.31(b) determines the individual possessed a valid commercial driver's license or non-commercial driver's license to operate, and did operate, a commercial motor vehicle in either intrastate commerce or in interstate commerce excepted by § 390.3T(f) of this subchapter or § 391.2 from the requirements of this subpart with the vision deficiency for the 3-year period immediately preceding the date of physical qualification under this section for the first time.


(i) The individual must certify in writing to the motor carrier the date the vision deficiency began.


(ii) If the motor carrier determines the individual possessed a valid commercial driver's license or non-commercial driver's license to operate, and did operate, a commercial motor vehicle in either intrastate commerce or in interstate commerce excepted by either § 390.3T(f) of this subchapter or § 391.2 from the requirements of this subpart with the vision deficiency for the 3-year period immediately preceding the date of physical qualification in accordance with this section for the first time, the motor carrier must—


(A) Prepare a written statement to the effect that the motor carrier determined the individual possessed a valid license and operated a commercial motor vehicle in intrastate or in the specific excepted interstate commerce (as applicable) with the vision deficiency for the 3-year period immediately preceding the date of physical qualification in accordance with this section for the first time and, therefore, is not required by paragraph (d) of this section to complete a road test;


(B) Give the individual a copy of the written statement; and


(C) Retain in the individual's driver qualification file the original of the written statement and the original, or a copy, of the individual's certification regarding the date the vision deficiency began.


(4) An individual physically qualified under this section for the first time is not required to complete a road test in accordance with § 391.31 if the individual held on March 22, 2022, a valid exemption from the vision standard in § 391.41(b)(10)(i) issued by FMCSA under 49 CFR part 381. Such an individual is not required to inform the motor carrier that the individual is excepted from the requirement in paragraph (d)(1) of this section to have a road test.


(5) An individual physically qualified under this section for the first time is not required to complete a road test in accordance with § 391.31 if the individual was medically certified on March 22, 2022, under the provisions of § 391.64(b) for drivers who participated in a previous vision waiver study program. Such an individual is not required to inform the motor carrier that the individual is excepted from the requirement in paragraph (d)(1) of this section to have a road test.



---

[N] [87 FR 3417, Jan. 21, 2022]








