# ยง 429.103   Who may file my claim?

(a) *Claims for damage to or loss of property.* If you are the owner of the property interest that is the subject of the claim, you, your duly authorized agent, or your legal representative may file the claim.


(b) *Claims for personal injury.* If you suffered the injury, you, your duly authorized agent, or your legal representative may file the claim.


(c) *Claims based on death.* The executor or administrator of your estate or any other person legally entitled to do so may file the claim.


(d) *Claims for loss wholly compensated by an insurer with the rights of a subrogee.* The insurer may file the claim. When an insurer presents a claim asserting the rights of a subrogee, the insurer must present with the claim appropriate evidence that it has the rights of a subrogee.


(e) *Claims for loss partially compensated by an insurer with the rights of a subrogee.* You and the insurer may file, jointly or separately. When an insurer presents a claim asserting the rights of a subrogee, the insurer must present with the claim appropriate evidence that it has the rights of a subrogee.


(f) *Claims by authorized agents or other legal representatives.* Your duly authorized agent or other legal representative may submit your claim, provided satisfactory evidence is submitted establishing that person has express authority to act on your behalf. A claim presented by an agent or legal representative must be presented in your name. If the claim is signed by the agent or legal representative, it must show the person's title or legal capacity and must be accompanied by evidence that the person has the authority to file the claim on your behalf as agent, executor, administrator, parent, guardian or other representative.




