# § 170.055   Definitions concerning a vessel.

(a) *Assumed average weight per person* means the weight calculated in accordance with § 170.090 of this part.


(b) *Auxiliary sailing vessel* means a vessel capable of being propelled both by mechanical means and by sails.


(c) *Barge* means a vessel not equipped with a means of self-propulsion.


(d) *Beam* or *B* means the maximum width of a vessel from—


(1) Outside of planking to outside of planking on wooden vessels; and


(2) Outside of frame to outside of frame on all other vessels.


(e) *Bulkhead deck* means the uppermost deck to which watertight bulkheads and the watertight shell extend.


(f) *Constructed* means the date—


(1) The vessel's keel was laid; or


(2) Construction identifiable with the vessel began and assembly of that vessel commenced comprising of 50 metric tons or at least 1 percent of the estimated mass of all structural material, whichever is less.


(g) *Downflooding* means, except as provided in § 174.035(b), the entry of seawater through any opening into the hull or superstructure of an undamaged vessel due to heel, trim, or submergence of the vessel.


(h) *Documented alterations* means changes to the vessel which are reflected in the approved stability information carried on board the vessel.


(i) *Downflooding angle* means, except as specified by §§ 171.055(f), 172.090(d), 173.095(e), 174.015(b), and 174.035(b)(2) of this chapter, the static angle from the intersection of the vessel's centerline and waterline in calm water to the first opening that cannot be closed watertight and through which downflooding can occur.


(j) *Draft* means the vertical distance from the molded baseline amidships to the waterline.


(k) *Length* means the distance between fore and aft points on a vessel. The following specific terms are used and correspond to specific fore and aft points:


(1) *Length between perpendiculars (LBP)* means the horizontal distance measured between perpendiculars taken at the forward-most and after-most points on the waterline corresponding to the deepest operating draft. For a small passenger vessel that has underwater projections extending forward of the forward-most point or aft of the after-most point on the deepest waterline of the vessel, the Commanding Officer, U.S. Coast Guard Marine Safety Center, may include the length or a portion of the length of the underwater projections in the value used for the LBP for the purposes of this subchapter. The length or a portion of the length of projections that contribute more than 2 percent of the underwater volume of the vessel is normally added to the actual LBP.


(2) *Length overall (LOA)* means the horizontal distance between the forward-most and after-most points on the hull.


(3) *Length on the waterline (LWL)* means the horizontal distance between the forward-most and after-most points on a vessel's waterline.


(4) *Length on deck (LOD)* means the length between the forward-most and after-most points on a specified deck measured along the deck, excluding sheer.


(5) *Load line length (LLL)* has the same meaning that is provided for the term *length* in § 42.13-15(a) of this chapter.


(6) *Mean length* is the average of the length between perpendiculars (LBP) and the length on deck (LOD).


(l) *Lightweight* means the displacement of a vessel with fixed ballast and with machinery liquids at operating levels but without any cargo, stores, consumable liquids, water ballast, or persons and their effects.


(m) *Main transverse watertight bulkhead* means a transverse bulkhead that must be maintained watertight in order for the vessel to meet the damage stability and subdivision requirements in this subchapter.


(n) *Major conversion,* as applied to Great Lakes bulk carriers, means a conversion of an existing vessel that substantially changes the dimensions or carrying capacity of the vessel or changes the type of vessel or substantially prolongs its life or that otherwise so changes the vessel that it is essentially a new vessel.


(o) *Permeability* is the percentage of the volume of a space that can be occupied by water.


(p) *Sailing vessel* means a vessel propelled only by sails.


(q) *Ship* means a self-propelled vessel.


(r) *Tank vessel* means a vessel that is specially constructed or converted to carry liquid bulk cargo in tanks.


(s) *Tank barge* means a tank vessel not equipped with a means of self-propulsion.


(t) *Tank ship* means a tank vessel propelled by mechanical means or sails.


(u) *Vessel* means any vessel and includes both ships and barges.


(v) *Weather deck* means the uppermost deck exposed to the weather.


(w) *Existing sailing school vessel* means a sailing vessel whose keel was laid prior to (January 9, 1986), which has an application for initial inspection for certification as a sailing school vessel on file with the Coast Guard prior to (January 9, 1987), and whose initial inspection for certification is completed prior to (January 9, 1988).


(x) *New sailing school vessel* means a sailing school vessel which is not an existing sailing school vessel.


(y) *Small passenger vessel* means a vessel of less than 100 gross tons—


(1) Carrying more than 6 passengers, including at least one passenger for hire;


(2) That is chartered with the crew provided or specified by the owner or owner's representative and carrying more than 6 passengers;


(3) That is chartered with no crew provided or specified by the owner or owner's representative and carrying more than 12 passengers; or


(4) That is a submersible vessel carrying at least one passenger for hire.



---

[N] [CGD 79-023, 48 FR 51010, Nov. 4, 1983]


