# ยง 61.33   Payment of per diem.

(a) *General.* VA will pay per diem to recipients that provide a bed day of care:


(1) For a homeless veteran:


(i) Who VA referred to the recipient; or


(ii) For whom VA authorized the provision of supportive housing or supportive service;


(2) For providers of both supportive housing and services. When the referral or authorization of the homeless veteran will not result in the project exceeding the total number of bed days of care or total obligated funding as indicated in the grant agreement and funding action document; or


(3) For service centers. When the total hours of service or total obligated funding as indicated in the grant agreement and funding action document.


(b) *VA Review.* VA may at any time review the provision of supportive housing and services to individual veterans by the provider to ensure the care provided continues to be needed and appropriate.


(c) *Rate of payments for individual veterans.* The rate of per diem for each veteran in supportive housing will be the lesser of:


(1) The daily cost of care estimated by the per diem recipient minus other sources of payments to the per diem recipient for furnishing services to homeless veterans that the per diem recipient certifies to be correct (other sources include payments and grants from other departments and agencies of the United States, from departments of local and State governments, from private entities or organizations, and from program participants); or


(2) The current VA state home program per diem rate for domiciliary care, as set by the Secretary under 38 U.S.C. 1741(a)(1).


(d) *Rate of payments for service centers.* The per diem amount for service centers shall be 1-8 of the lesser of the amount in paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section, per hour, not to exceed eight (8) hours in any day.


(e) *Reimbursements.* Per diem may be paid retroactively for services provided not more than three (3) days before VA approval is given or where, through no fault of the recipient, per diem payments should have been made but were not made.


(f) *Payments for absent veterans.* VA will pay per diem up to a maximum of seventy-two (72) consecutive hours for the scheduled or unscheduled absence of a veteran, or, in the case of an in-patient hospitalization, will pay per diem up to a maximum of seven (7) days.


(g) *Veterans receiving supportive housing and services.* For circumstances where a veteran is receiving supportive housing and supportive services from the same per diem recipient, VA will not pay a per diem for the supportive services.


(h) *Reporting other sources of income.* At the time of receipt of a federal award from VA, a per diem recipient must report to VA all other sources of income for the project for which per diem was awarded. The report provides a basis for adjustments to the per diem payment under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.



---

[N] [86 FR 33524, June 25, 2021]




