# ยง 880.602   Replacement reserve.

(a) A replacement reserve must be established and maintained in an interest-bearing account to aid in funding extraordinary maintenance and repair and replacement of capital items. 


(1) *Part 880 and 24 CFR part 881 projects.* (i) For this part 880 and 24 CFR part 811 projects, an amount equivalent to .006 of the cost of total structures, including main buildings, accessory buildings, garages and other buildings, or any higher rate as required by HUD from time to time, will be deposited in the replacement reserve annually. This amount will be adjusted each year by the amount of the automatic annual adjustment factor. 


(ii) The reserve must be built up to and maintained at a level determined by HUD to be sufficient to meet projected requirements. Should the reserve achieve that level, the rate of deposit to the reserve may be reduced with the approval of HUD. 


(iii) All earnings including interest on the reserve must be added to the reserve. 


(iv) Funds will be held by the mortgagee or trustee for bondholders, and may be drawn from the reserve and used only in accordance with HUD guidelines and with the approval of, or as directed by, HUD. 


(v) Partially-assisted part 880 and 24 CFR part 881 projects are exempt from the provisions of this section. 


(2) *Part 883 of this chapter projects.* (i) For 24 CFR part 883 projects, an amount equivalent to at least .006 of the cost of total structures, including main buildings, accessory buildings, garages and other buildings, or any higher rate as required from time to time by: 


(A) The Agency, in the case of projects approved under 24 CFR part 883, subpart D; or 


(B) HUD, in the case of all other projects, will be deposited in the replacement reserve annually. For projects approved under 24 CFR part 883, subpart D, this amount may be adjusted each year by up to the amount of the automatic annual adjustment factor. For all projects not approved under 24 CFR part 883, subpart D, this amount must be adjusted each year by the amount of the automatic annual adjustment factor. 


(ii) The reserve must be built up to and maintained at a level determined to be sufficient by the Agency to meet projected requirements. Should the reserve achieve that level, the rate of deposit to the reserve may be reduced with the approval of the Agency. 


(iii) All earnings, including interest on the reserve, must be added to the reserve. 


(iv) Funds will be held by the Agency, other mortgagee or trustee for bondholders, as determined by the Agency, and may be drawn from the reserve and used only in accordance with Agency guidelines and with the approval of, or as directed by, the Agency. 


(v) The Agency may exempt partially-assisted projects approved under 24 CFR part 883, subpart D, from the provisions of this section. All partially-assisted projects not approved under the Fast Track Procedures formerly in 24 CFR part 883, subpart D, are exempt from the provisions of this section. 


(b) In the case of HUD-insured projects, the provisions of this section will apply instead of the otherwise applicable mortgage insurance provisions, except in the case of partially-assisted insured projects which are subject to the applicable mortgage insurance provisions. 



---

[N] [61 FR 13588, Mar. 27, 1996]




