# § 201.154   Motions.

The requirements in this section apply to motions and related filings except where another rule expressly governs.


(a) *Generally.* Unless made during a hearing or conference, a motion shall be in writing, shall state with particularity the grounds therefor, shall set forth the relief or order sought, and shall be accompanied by a written brief of the points and authorities relied upon. All written motions shall be served in accordance with § 201.150, be filed in accordance with § 201.151, meet the requirements of § 201.152, and be signed in accordance with § 201.153. The Commission or the hearing officer may order that an oral motion be submitted in writing. Unless otherwise ordered by the Commission or the hearing officer, if a motion is properly made to the Commission concerning a proceeding to which a hearing officer is assigned, the proceeding before the hearing officer shall continue pending the determination of the motion by the Commission. No oral argument shall be heard on any motion unless the Commission or the hearing officer otherwise directs. 


(b) *Opposing and reply briefs.* Briefs in opposition to a motion shall be filed within five days after service of the motion. Reply briefs shall be filed within three days after service of the opposition. 


(c) *Length limitation.* No motion (together with the brief in support of the motion), brief in opposition to the motion, or reply brief shall exceed 7,000 words, exclusive of any table of contents or table of authorities. The word limit shall not apply to any addendum that consists solely of copies of applicable cases, pertinent legislative provisions or rules, or relevant exhibits. Requests for leave to file motions and briefs in excess of 7,000 words are disfavored. A motion or brief, together with any accompanying brief, that does not exceed 15 pages in length, exclusive of pages containing the table of contents, table of authorities, and any addendum that consists solely of copies of applicable cases, pertinent legislative provisions, or rules and exhibits, but inclusive of pleadings incorporated by reference, is presumptively considered to contain no more than 7,000 words. Any motion or brief that exceeds these page limits must include a certificate by the attorney, or an unrepresented party, stating that the document complies with the length limitation set forth in this paragraph and stating the number of words in the document. The person preparing the certificate may rely on the word count of a word-processing program to prepare the document.



---

[N] [60 FR 32796, June 23, 1995, as amended at 69 FR 13177, Mar. 19, 2004; 70 FR 72569, Dec. 5, 2005; 81 FR 50234, July 29, 2016]




