# § 721.11131   1-Tetradecene, homopolymer, hydrogenated.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-tetradecene, homopolymer, hydrogenated (PMN P-17-5, CAS No. 1857296-89-9) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e) (concentration set at 1.0%), (f), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(ii), and (g)(5). Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k) (base fluid/carrier fluid for additives in motor oil, automatic transmission fluid, and industrial lubricants). It is a significant new use to manufacture the chemical substance more than 9 months. It is a significant new use to manufacture, process, or use the chemical substance to results in inhalation exposure to a vapor, mist or aerosol.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (c), and (f) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [84 FR 55063, Oct. 15, 2019]




