# § 429.72   Alternative methods for determining non-energy ratings.

(a) *General.* Where § 429.14 through § 429.562 authorize the use of an alternative method for determining a physical or operating characteristic other than the energy consumption or efficiency, such characteristics must be determined either by testing in accordance with the applicable test procedure and applying the specified sampling plan provisions established in those sections or as described in the appropriate product-specific paragraph below. In all cases, the computer-aided design (CAD) models, measurements, and calculations used to determine the rating for the physical or operating characteristic shall be retained as part of the test records underlying the certification of the basic model in accordance with § 429.71.


(b) *Testing.* [Reserved]


(c) *Residential refrigerators, refrigerator-freezers, and freezers.* The total refrigerated volume of a basic model of refrigerator, refrigerator-freezer, or freezer may be determined by performing a calculation of the volume based upon computer-aided design (CAD) models of the basic model in lieu of physical measurements of a production unit of the basic model. Any value of total refrigerated volume of a basic model reported to DOE in a certification of compliance in accordance with § 429.14(b)(2) must be calculated using the CAD-derived volume(s) and the applicable provisions in the test procedures in 10 CFR part 430 for measuring volume, and must be within two percent, or 0.5 cubic feet (0.2 cubic feet for compact products), whichever is greater, of the volume of a production unit of the basic model measured in accordance with the applicable test procedure in 10 CFR part 430.


(d) *Miscellaneous refrigeration products.* The total refrigerated volume of a miscellaneous refrigeration product basic model may be determined by performing a calculation of the volume based upon computer-aided design (CAD) models of the basic model in lieu of physical measurements of a production unit of the basic model. Any value of total adjusted volume and value of total refrigerated volume of a basic model reported to DOE in a certification of compliance in accordance with § 429.61(b)(2) must be calculated using the CAD-derived volume(s) and the applicable provisions in the test procedures in part 430 of this chapter for measuring volume. The calculated value must be within two percent, or 0.5 cubic feet (0.2 cubic feet for products with total refrigerated volume less than 7.75 cubic feet (220 liters)), whichever is greater, of the volume of a production unit of the basic model measured in accordance with the applicable test procedure in part 430 of this chapter.


(e) *Commercial instantaneous water heaters (other than storage-type instantaneous water heaters) and hot water supply boilers.* The storage volume of a commercial instantaneous water heater (other than storage-type instantaneous water heaters) or a hot water supply boiler basic model may be determined by performing a calculation of the stored water volume based upon design drawings (including computer-aided design (CAD) models) or physical dimensions of the basic model. Any value of storage volume of a basic model reported to DOE in a certification of compliance in accordance with § 429.44(c)(2)(iv) through (vii) must be calculated using the design drawings or physical dimensions or measured as per the applicable provisions in the test procedures in § 431.106 of this chapter. Calculations to determine storage volume must include all water contained within the water heater from the inlet connection(s) to the outlet connection(s). The storage volume of water contained in the water heater must then be computed in gallons.




(f) *Commercial refrigerators, freezers, and refrigerator-freezers.* The volume of a basic model of a commercial refrigerator, refrigerator-freezer, or freezer may be determined by performing a calculation of the volume based upon computer-aided design (CAD) models of the basic model in lieu of physical measurements of a production unit of the basic model. If volume is determined by performing a calculation of volume based on CAD drawings, any value of volume of the basic model reported to DOE in a certification of compliance in accordance with § 429.42(b)(2)(iii) must be calculated using the CAD-derived volume(s) and the applicable provisions in the test procedures in 10 CFR part 431.64 for measuring volume.





---

[N] [79 FR 22348, Apr. 21, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 4145, Jan. 25, 2016; 81 FR 46790, July 18, 2016; 81 FR 79320, Nov. 10, 2016; 88 FR 66222, Sept. 26, 2023; 89 FR 82070, Oct. 9, 2024]






