# ยง 95.309   Coordination procedures and other restrictions for operation in certain locations.

The operator of a Personal Radio Service station may be required to coordinate operation in advance and/or may be subject to operating restrictions if the station is to be operated in certain locations, described in the following paragraphs in this section.


(a) *In a Quiet Zone or near a protected FCC field office.* Rules for these locations are set forth in ยง 1.924 of this chapter.


(b) *Near a U.S. border or in an area that is or may be subject to an international treaty or agreement.* Treaties and agreements may be viewed or downloaded from the FCC Web site: *http://www.fcc.gov/ib/sand/agree/*.


(c) *At an environmentally sensitive site, or in a manner that may raise environmental concerns.* Rules for these locations are set forth in part 1, subpart I of this chapter (Procedures Implementing the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969).


(d) *In an area administered by the United States Government.* For example, the Department of Defense may impose restrictions on a station transmitting on land under its jurisdiction. Before operating a station at such a point, the operator should consult with the commanding officer in charge of the land.


(e) *Near the Arecibo Observatory.* Anyone planning to operate a Personal Radio Services station on the islands of Puerto Rico, Desecheo, Mona, Vieques, or Culebra in a manner that could pose an interference threat to the Arecibo Observatory must notify the observatory at least 45 days in advance of the planned operation, by mail or email, to the following address: Interference Office, Arecibo Observatory, HC3 Box 53995, Arecibo, Puerto Rico 00612; email: *prcz@naic.edu*.


(1) To determine whether a planned operation could pose an interference threat to the Arecibo Observatory, operators may consult interference guidelines provided by Cornell University.


(2) The notification must include the geographical coordinates of the station, if it is a fixed or base station.


(3) After receipt of such notifications, the FCC will allow the Arecibo Observatory 20 days to comment on or object to the proposed operation. The operator must make reasonable efforts to resolve or mitigate any potential interference concern with the Arecibo Observatory. If the FCC determines that an operator has made reasonable efforts to protect the Observatory from interference, the operator may be allowed to operate the station.




