# § 17.3105   HISA benefit lifetime limits.

(a) *General.* Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, a beneficiary's HISA benefit is limited to the lifetime amount established in paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section, as applicable. A beneficiary may use HISA benefits to pay for more than one home alteration, until the beneficiary exhausts his or her lifetime benefit. HISA benefits approved by VA for use in a particular home alteration but unused by the beneficiary will remain available for future use.


(b) *HISA benefits for a service-connected disability, a disability treated “as if” it were service connected, or for veterans with a service-connected disability rated 50 percent or more.* (1) If a veteran:


(i) Applies for HISA benefits to address a service-connected disability;


(ii) Applies for HISA benefits to address a compensable disability treated “as if” it is a service-connected disability and for which the veteran is entitled to medical services under 38 U.S.C. 1710(a)(2)(C) (*e.g.,* a disability acquired through treatment or vocational rehabilitation provided by VA); or


(iii) Applies for HISA benefits to address a nonservice-connected disability, if the beneficiary has a service-connected disability rated at least 50 percent disabling; and


(2) The veteran first applies for HISA benefits:


(i) Before May 5, 2010, then the veteran's lifetime HISA benefit limit is $4,100.


(ii) On or after May 5, 2010, then the veteran's lifetime HISA benefit limit is $6,800.


(c) *HISA benefits for any other disabilities.* If a veteran who is eligible for medical services under 38 U.S.C. 1710(a) applies for HISA benefits to address a disability that is not covered under paragraph (b) of this section, and the veteran first applies for HISA benefits:


(1) Before May 5, 2010, then the veteran's lifetime HISA benefit limit is $1,200; or


(2) On or after May 5, 2010, then the veteran's lifetime HISA benefit limit is $2,000.


(d) *Servicemembers.* If a servicemember is eligible for HISA benefits under § 17.3102(b), and the servicemember first applies:


(1) Before May 5, 2010, then the servicemember's HISA benefit lifetime limit is $4,100; or


(2) On or after May 5, 2010, then the servicemember's HISA benefit lifetime limit is $6,800.


(e) *Increases to HISA benefit lifetime limit.* (1) A veteran who received HISA benefits under paragraph (c) of this section, and who subsequently qualifies for HISA benefits under paragraph (b)(1) of this section on or after May 5, 2010, due to a new award of disability compensation based on service connection or an increased disability rating, may apply for the increased lifetime benefit amount under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section. The increased amount that will be available is $6,800 minus the amount of HISA benefits previously used by the beneficiary.


(2) A veteran who previously received HISA benefits as a servicemember is not eligible for a new lifetime HISA benefit amount based on his or her attaining veteran status, but the veteran may file a HISA claim for any HISA benefit amounts not used prior to discharge. The veteran's subsequent HISA award cannot exceed the applicable award amount under paragraphs (b), (c), or (e)(1) of this section, as applicable, minus the amount of HISA benefits awarded to the veteran while the veteran was a servicemember.


