# § 1235.1   Definitions.

As used in this part and in section 224 of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, as amended, the following definitions shall apply:


(a) *Director* means the Director of ACTION.


(b) *Locally Generated Contributions* means all contributions generated by the grantee in support of the grant, including non-ACTION Federal, State, local government and privately raised contributions.


(c) *Amount Required by the Director* means the proportion of the non-Federal contribution (including in-kind contributions) for a grant or contract made under the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, as amended, required by the Director in order to receive ACTION funds. This proportion is generally 10% for the Foster Grandparent Program/Senior Companion Program (FGP/SCP) and generally 10%, 20% and 30% for the Retired Senior Volunteer Program (RSVP) in the first, second, and subsequent years respectively. The “amount required by the Director” is also called the “local match.”


(d) *In Excess of the Amount Required by the Director* means of the total locally generated contributions, the amount over and above the percentage match (generally 10% for FGP/SCP and 10%, 20% and 30% for RSVP in the first, second, and subsequent years respectively) required by the Director of ACTION to be raised from non-ACTION sources to support the grant.


(e) *Inconsistent with the Provisions of This Act* means expenditures not in support of ACTION programs, as defined by the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, as amended. For example:


(1) Inconsistency with the age threshold for volunteers for all Older American Volunteer Programs (OAVP);


(2) Inconsistency with the low income test for the FGP and SCP programs;


(3) Variations from the approved stipend levels for the FGP and SCP programs;


(4) Inconsistency with the prohibition against political activity under all the OAVP programs; and/or


(5) Unreasonable cost for a low-cost volunteer program.




