# § 175.320   Fire extinguishing equipment required.

(a) *Recreational vessels 65 feet or less in length.* (1) A recreational vessel 65 feet or less in length must carry at least the minimum number of portable fire extinguishers set forth in table 1 to § 175.320(a)(1). A vessel less than 26 feet in length, propelled by an outboard motor, is not required to carry portable fire extinguishers if the construction of the vessel will not permit the entrapment of explosive or flammable gases or vapors.


(2) Figure 1 to § 175.320(a)(2) illustrates the conditions, identified by table 2 to § 175.320(a)(2), under which fire extinguishers are required to be carried on board. Figure 2 to § 175.320(a)(2) illustrates conditions, identified by table 3 to § 175.320(a)(2), that do not, in themselves, require that fire extinguishers be carried.


(b) *Recreational vessels more than 65 feet in length.* (1) A recreational vessel more than 65 feet in length must carry at least the minimum number of portable fire extinguishers specified for its tonnage as set forth in table 4 to § 175.320(b)(1).




(2) In addition to the portable fire extinguishers required by table 4 to § 175.320(b)(1), the following fire extinguishing equipment must be fitted in the machinery space:


(i) One 20-B fire extinguisher must be carried for each 1,000 brake horsepower of the main engines or fraction. However, not more than six such extinguishers are required to be carried.


(ii) On recreational vessels of more than 300 gross tons, either one 160-B semi-portable fire extinguishing system must be fitted, or alternatively, a fixed fire extinguishing system must be fitted in the machinery space.


(3) The frame or support of each 160-B semi-portable fire extinguisher required by paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section must be welded or otherwise permanently attached to a bulkhead or deck.


(4) If an approved semi-portable fire extinguisher has wheels, it must be securely stowed when not in use to prevent it from rolling out of control under heavy sea conditions.


(c) *Extinguishers with larger numerical ratings or multiple letter designations.* Extinguishers with larger numerical ratings or multiple letter designations may be used to meet the requirements of table 1 to § 175.320(a)(1) and table 4 to § 175.320(b)(1).



---

[N] USCG-2018-0099, 86 FR 58571, Oct. 22, 2021, as amended at 86 FR 59303, Oct. 27, 2021]






