# § 721.10812   Alkylbenzene sulfonic acid (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkylbenzene sulfonic acid (PMN P-12-115) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance that have partitioned into oil or petroleum streams following use as an interfacial tension reducer for enhanced oil recovery applications.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (f), (g)(3), (g)(4)(ii), and (g)(5).


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80. A significant new use is any manufacturing, processing, or use of the PMN substance other than as a chemical intermediate to prepare an interfacial tension reducer for enhanced oil recovery.


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 4).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [80 FR 26457, May 8, 2015]




