# § 77.5   Definitions.

As used in subpart B, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth in this section except as otherwise specified. 


*Accreditation preparatory State or zone.* A State or zone that is or is part of a State that has the authority to enforce and complies with the provisions of the “Uniform Methods and Rules—Bovine Tuberculosis Eradication” and in which tuberculosis is prevalent in less than 0.5 percent of the total number of herds of cattle and bison in the State or zone. 


*Accredited-free State or zone.* A State or zone that is or is part of a State that has the authority to enforce and complies with the provisions of the “Uniform Methods and Rules—Bovine Tuberculosis Eradication,” has zero percent prevalence of affected cattle and bison herds, and has had no findings of tuberculosis in any cattle or bison herds in the State or zone for the previous 5 years. *Except that:* The requirement of freedom from tuberculosis in herds is 2 years from the depopulation of the last affected herd in States or zones that were previously accredited free and in which all herds affected with tuberculosis were depopulated, 3 years in all other States or zones that have depopulated all affected herds, and 3 years in States or zones that have conducted surveillance that demonstrates that other livestock herds and wildlife are not at risk of being infected with tuberculosis, as determined by the Administrator based on a risk assessment conducted by APHIS. 


*Accredited herd.* To establish or maintain accredited herd status, the herd owner must comply with all of the provisions of the “Uniform Methods and Rules—Bovine Tuberculosis Eradication” regarding accredited herds. All cattle and bison in a herd must be free from tuberculosis. 


*Approved feedlot.* A confined area approved jointly by the State animal health official and the Administrator for feeding cattle and bison for slaughter, with no provisions for pasturing or grazing. 


*Cattle and bison not known to be affected.* All cattle and bison except those originating from tuberculosis affected herds or from herds containing tuberculosis suspect cattle or bison.


*Department.* The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). 


*Exposed cattle and bison.* Cattle and bison, except reactor cattle and bison, that are part of an affected herd. 


*Feedlot.* A facility for congregating finished fed cattle prior to their being shipped to slaughter. 


*Finished fed cattle.* Cattle fattened on a ration of feed concentrates to reach a slaughter condition equivalent to that which would be attained on full feed with a high concentrate grain ration for 90 days. 


*Modified accredited advanced State or zone.* A State or zone that is or is part of a State that has the authority to enforce and complies with the provisions of the “Uniform Methods and Rules—Bovine Tuberculosis Eradication” and in which tuberculosis has been prevalent in less than 0.01 percent of the total number of herds of cattle and bison in the State or zone for each of the most recent 2 years. *Except that:* The Administrator, upon his or her review, may allow a State or zone with fewer than 30,000 herds to have up to 3 affected herds for each of the most recent 2 years, depending on the veterinary infrastructure, livestock demographics, and tuberculosis control and eradication measures in the State or zone. 


*Modified accredited State or zone.* A State or zone that is or is part of a State that has the authority to enforce and complies with the provisions of the “Uniform Methods and Rules—Bovine Tuberculosis Eradication” and in which tuberculosis has been prevalent in less than 0.1 percent of the total number of herds of cattle and bison in the State or zone for the most recent year. *Except that:* The Administrator, upon his or her review, may allow a State or zone with fewer than 10,000 herds to have up to 10 affected herds for the most recent year, depending on the veterinary infrastructure, livestock demographics, and tuberculosis control and eradication measures in the State or zone. 


*Negative cattle and bison.* Cattle and bison that are classified negative for tuberculosis in accordance with the “Uniform Methods and Rules—Bovine Tuberculosis Eradication,” based on the results of an official tuberculin test. 


*Nonaccredited State or zone.* A State or zone that is or is part of a State that does not meet the standards of the “Uniform Methods and Rules—Bovine Tuberculosis Eradication” or in which tuberculosis is prevalent in 0.5 percent or more of the total number of herds of cattle and bison in the State or zone. 


*Official tuberculin test.* Any test for tuberculosis conducted on cattle or bison in accordance with the “Uniform Methods and Rules—Bovine Tuberculosis Eradication.” 


*Permit.* An official document issued for movement of cattle or bison under this part by an APHIS representative, State representative, or an accredited veterinarian at the point of origin of a shipment of cattle or bison to be moved directly to slaughter, that shows the tuberculosis status of each animal (reactor, suspect, or exposed), the eartag number of each animal and the name of the owner of such animal, the establishment to which the animals are to be moved, the purpose for which the animals are to be moved, and that they are eligible for such movement under the applicable provisions of §§ 77.17 and 77.18. 


*Quarantined feedlot.* A confined area under the direct supervision and control of a State livestock official who shall establish procedures for the accounting of all livestock entering or leaving the area. The quarantined feedlot shall be maintained for finish feeding of livestock in drylot with no provision for pasturing and grazing. All livestock leaving such feedlot must only move directly to slaughter in accordance with established procedures for handling quarantined livestock. 


*Reactor cattle and bison.* Cattle and bison that are classified as reactors for tuberculosis in accordance with the “Uniform Methods and Rules—Bovine Tuberculosis Eradication.” 


*Recognized slaughtering establishment.* Any slaughtering facility operating under the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601 *et seq.*), the Poultry Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 451 *et seq.*), or State meat or poultry inspection acts that is approved in accordance with 9 CFR 71.21.


*Suspect cattle and bison.* Cattle and bison that are classified as suspects for tuberculosis in accordance with the “Uniform Methods and Rules—Bovine Tuberculosis Eradication.” 


*Uniform Methods and Rules—Bovine Tuberculosis Eradication.* Uniform methods and rules for eradicating bovine tuberculosis in the United States, approved by APHIS on January 22, 1999, which is incorporated by reference at § 77.1. 


*Whole herd test.* An official tuberculin test of all cattle and bison in a herd that are 12 months of age or older, and of all cattle and bison in the herd that are less than 12 months of age and were not born into the herd, except those cattle and bison that are less than 12 months of age and were born in and originated from an accredited herd. 


*Zero percent prevalence.* No finding of tuberculosis in any cattle, bison, or goat herd in a State or zone. 



---

[N] [65 FR 63517, Oct. 23, 2000, as amended at 70 FR 61026, Oct. 20, 2005; 78 FR 2065, Jan. 9, 2013]




