# § 206.3   Definitions.

As used in this part, the following terms shall have the meaning indicated.


*Bona fide tenant* means a tenant of the property who is not a mortgagor, borrower, a spouse or child of a mortgagor or borrower, or any other member of a mortgagor's or borrower's family.


*Borrower* means a mortgagor who is an original borrower under the HECM Loan Agreement and Note. The term does not include successors or assigns of a borrower.


*Borrower's Advance* means the funds advanced to the borrower at the closing of a fixed interest rate HECM in accordance with § 206.25.


*CMT Index* means the U.S. Constant Maturity Treasury Index.


*Commissioner* means the Federal Housing Commissioner or the Commissioner's authorized representative.


*Contract of insurance* means the agreement evidenced by the issuance of a Mortgage Insurance Certificate or by the endorsement of the Commissioner upon the credit instrument given in connection with an insured mortgage, incorporating by reference the regulations in subpart C of this part and the applicable provisions of the National Housing Act.


*Day* means calendar day, except where the term *business day* is used.


*Deferral Period* means the period of time following the death of the last surviving borrower during which the due and payable status of a HECM is deferred for an Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse provided that the Qualifying Attributes and all other FHA requirements continue to be satisfied.


*Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse* means a Non-Borrowing Spouse who meets all Qualifying Attributes for a Deferral Period.


*Estate planning service firm* means an individual or entity that is not a mortgagee approved under part 202 of this chapter or a participating agency approved under subpart B of 24 CFR part 214 and that charges a fee that is:


(1) Contingent on the prospective borrower obtaining a mortgage loan under this part, except the origination fee authorized by § 206.31 or a fee specifically authorized by the Commissioner; or


(2) For information that borrowers and Eligible and Ineligible Non-Borrowing Spouses, if applicable, must receive under § 206.41, except a fee by:


(i) A participating agency approved under subpart B of 24 CFR part 214; or


(ii) An individual or company, such as an attorney or accountant, in the *bona fide* business of generally providing tax or other legal or financial advice; or


(3) For other services that the provider of the services represents are, in whole or in part, for the purpose of improving a prospective borrower's access to mortgages covered by this part, except where the fee is for services specifically authorized by the Commissioner.


*Expected average mortgage interest rate* means the interest rate used to calculate the principal limit established at closing.


(1) For fixed interest rate HECMs, the expected average mortgage interest rate is the same as the fixed mortgage (Note) interest rate and is set simultaneously with the fixed interest (Note) rate.


(2) For adjustable interest rate HECMs, the expected average mortgage interest rate is the sum of the mortgagee's margin plus the weekly average yield for U.S. Treasury securities (CMT) adjusted to a constant maturity of 10 years or an additional SOFR index as approved by the Secretary. Commingling the index type used to calculate the expected average mortgage interest rate and the index type used to calculate the adjustable mortgage interest (Note) rate and adjustments is only permissible as provided for by the Secretary.


(3) Mortgagees, with the agreement of the borrower, may simultaneously lock in the expected average mortgage interest rate and the mortgagee's margin prior to the date of mortgage closing or simultaneously establish the expected average mortgage interest rate and the mortgagee's margin on the date of mortgage closing.


*First 12-Month Disbursement Period* means the period beginning on the day of loan closing and ending on the day before the loan closing anniversary date. When the day before the anniversary date of loan closing falls on a Federally-observed holiday, Saturday, or Sunday, the end period will be on the next business day after the Federally-observed holiday, Saturday or Sunday.


*HECM* means a Home Equity Conversion Mortgage.


*HECM counselor* means an independent third party who is currently active on FHA's HECM Counselor Roster and who is not, either directly or indirectly, associated with or compensated by, a party involved in originating, servicing, or funding the HECM, or the sale of annuities, investments, long-term care insurance, or any other type of financial or insurance product who provides statutorily required counseling to prospective borrowers who may be eligible for or interested in obtaining an FHA-insured HECM. This counseling assists elderly prospective borrowers who seek to convert equity in their homes into income that can be used to pay for home improvements, medical costs, living expenses, or other expenses.


*Ineligible Non-Borrowing Spouse* means a Non-Borrowing Spouse who does not meet all Qualifying Attributes for a Deferral Period.


*Initial Disbursement Limit* means the maximum amount of funds that can be advanced to a borrower of an adjustable interest rate HECM allowed at loan closing and during the First 12-Month Disbursement Period in accordance with § 206.25.


*Insured mortgage* means a mortgage which has been insured as evidenced by the issuance of a Mortgage Insurance Certificate.


*LIBOR* means the London Interbank Offered Rate.


*Loan documents* mean the credit instrument, or Note, secured by the lien, and the loan agreement.


*Mandatory Obligations* are fees and charges incurred in connection with the origination of the HECM that are requirements for loan approval and which will be paid at closing or during the First 12-Month Disbursement Period in accordance with § 206.25.


*Margin* means the amount added to the index value to compute the expected average mortgage interest rate and the initial mortgage interest (Note) rate and periodic adjustments to the mortgage interest (Note) rate.


*Maximum claim amount* means the lesser of the appraised value of the property, as determined by the appraisal used in underwriting the loan; the sales price of the property being purchased for the sole purpose of being the principal residence; or the national mortgage limit for a one-family residence under subsections 255(g) or (m) of the National Housing Act (as adjusted where applicable under section 214 of the National Housing Act) as of the date of loan closing. The initial mortgage insurance premium must not be taken into account in the calculation of the maximum claim amount. Closing costs must not be taken into account in determining appraised value.


*MIP* means the mortgage insurance premium paid by the mortgagee to the Commissioner in consideration of the contract of insurance.


*Mortgage* means a first lien on real estate under the laws of the jurisdiction where the real estate is located. If the dwelling unit is in a condominium, the term *mortgage* means a first lien covering a fee interest or eligible leasehold interest in a one-family unit in a condominium project, together with an undivided interest in the common areas and facilities serving the project, and such restricted common areas and facilities as may be designated. The term refers to a security instrument creating a lien, whether called a *mortgage, deed of trust,**security deed,* or another term used in a particular jurisdiction.


*Mortgagee* means original lender under a mortgage and its successors and assigns, as are approved by the Commissioner.


*Mortgagor* means each original mortgagor under a HECM mortgage and his heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns.


*Non-Borrowing Spouse* means the spouse, as defined by the law of the state in which the spouse and borrower reside or the state of celebration, of the HECM borrower at the time of closing and who is also not a borrower.


*Participating agency* means all housing counseling and intermediary organizations participating in HUD's Housing Counseling program, including HUD-approved agencies, and affiliates and branches of HUD-approved intermediaries, HUD-approved multi-state organizations (MSOs), and state housing finance agencies.


*Principal limit* means the maximum amount calculated, taking into account the age of the youngest borrower or Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse, the expected average mortgage interest rate, and the maximum claim amount. The principal limit is calculated for the first month that a mortgage could be outstanding using factors provided by the Commissioner. It increases each month thereafter at a rate equal to one-twelfth of the mortgage interest rate in effect at that time, plus one-twelfth of the annual mortgage insurance rate. For an adjustable interest rate HECM, the principal limit increase may be made available to the borrower each month thereafter except that the availability during the First 12-Month Disbursement Period may be restricted. Although the principal limit of a fixed interest rate HECM will continue to increase at the rate provided by the Commissioner, no further funds may be made available for the borrower to draw against after closing. The principal limit may decrease because of insurance or condemnation proceeds applied to the outstanding loan balance under § 206.209(b).


*Principal residence* means the dwelling where the borrower and, if applicable, Non-Borrowing Spouse, maintain their permanent place of abode, and typically spend the majority of the calendar year. A person may have only one principal residence at any one time. The property shall be considered to be the principal residence of any borrower who is temporarily in a health care institution provided the borrower's residency in a health care institution does not exceed twelve consecutive months. The property shall be considered to be the principal residence of any Non-Borrowing Spouse, who is temporarily in a health care institution, as long as the property is the principal residence of his or her borrower spouse, who physically resides in the property. During a Deferral Period, the property shall continue to be considered to be the principal residence of any Non-Borrowing Spouse, who is temporarily in a health care institution, provided he or she qualified as an Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse and physically occupied the property immediately prior to entering the health care institution and his or her residency in a health care institution does not exceed twelve consecutive months.


*Property charges* means, unless otherwise specified, obligations of the borrower that include property taxes, hazard insurance premiums, any applicable flood insurance premiums, ground rents, condominium fees, planned unit development fees, homeowners' association fees, and any other special assessments that may be levied by municipalities or state law.


*Qualifying Attributes* means the requirements which must be met by a Non-Borrowing Spouse in order to be an Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse.


*Replacement Date* means the first London banking day after June 30, 2023, unless the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System determines that any LIBOR tenor will cease to be published or cease to be representative on a different date. In such case, Replacement Date means the first business day following the date announced by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.


*SOFR* means the Secured Overnight Financing Rate published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (or a successor administrator).



---

[N] [82 FR 7117, Jan. 19, 2017, as amended at 88 FR 12828, Mar. 1, 2023]




