# § 113.66   Anthrax Spore Vaccine—Nonencapsulated.

Anthrax Spore Vaccine—Nonencapsulated shall be a live spore suspension prepared from nonencapsulated variants of *Bacillus anthracis.* Only Master Seed which has been established as pure, safe, and immunogenic shall be used for production. All serials of vaccine shall be prepared from the first through the fifth passage from the Master Seed.


(a) The Master Seed shall meet the applicable general requirements prescribed in § 113.64 and the requirements in this section.


(b) Each lot of Master Seed shall be tested for immunogenicity as follows:


(1) Forty-two susceptible guinea pigs from the same source each weighing 400 to 500 grams, shall be used as test animals (30 vaccinates and 12 controls).


(2) An arithmetic mean spore count of vaccine produced from the highest passage of the Master Seed shall be established before the immunogenicity test is conducted. The guinea pigs used as vaccinates shall be injected as recommended on the label with a predetermined number of vaccine spores. To confirm the dosage, five replicate spore counts shall be conducted on a sample of the vaccine dilution used.


(3) Fourteen to fifteen days postvaccination the vaccinates and controls shall each be challenged with not less than 4,500 guinea pig LD_50_ of a virulent suspension of *Bacillus anthracis* furnished or approved by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and observed for 10 days.


(4) If at least 10 of the 12 controls do not die from *Bacillus anthracis* within the 10-day postchallenge observation period the test is invalid and may be repeated.


(5) If at least 27 of 30 of the vaccinates do not survive the 10-day postchallenge observation period, the Master Seed is unsatisfactory.


(6) An Outline of Production change shall be made before authority for use of a new lot of Master Seed shall be granted by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.


(c) *Test Requirements for Release.* Each serial and subserial shall meet the applicable general requirements prescribed in 9 CFR 113.64 and the requirements in this paragraph. Any serial or subserial found unsatisfactory by a prescribed test shall not be released.


(1) *Safety test.* Samples of completed product from each serial or first subserial shall be tested for safety in sheep or goats by the methods described in 9 CFR 113.45(a).


(2) *Spore Count Requirements.* Final container samples of completed product shall be tested for spore count. Samples shall be diluted in tenfold steps. Each dilution expected to yield 30 to 300 colonies per plate shall be plated in triplicate on tryptose agar, inverted, and incubated at 35 to 70 °C for 24 hours to 28 hours. Each plate having uniformly distributed colonies shall be counted and an average count determined. To be eligible for release, each serial and each subserial shall have a spore count sufficiently greater than that of the vaccine used in the immunogenicity test to assure that when tested at any time within the expiration period, each serial and subserial shall have a spore count of at least twice that used in the immunogenicity test but not less than 2,000,000 spores per dose.



---

[N] [50 FR 23794, June 6, 1985, as amended at 56 FR 66784, Dec. 26, 1991; 72 FR 72564, Dec. 21, 2007]




