# § 63.11093   What notifications must I submit and when?

(a) Each owner or operator of an affected source under this subpart must submit an Initial Notification as specified in § 63.9(b). If your facility is in compliance with the requirements of this subpart at the time the Initial Notification is due, the Notification of Compliance Status required under paragraph (b) of this section may be submitted in lieu of the Initial Notification.


(b) Each owner or operator of an affected source under this subpart must submit a Notification of Compliance Status as specified in § 63.9(h). The Notification of Compliance Status must specify which of the compliance options included in Table 1 to this subpart is used to comply with this subpart.


(c) Each owner or operator of an affected bulk gasoline terminal under this subpart must submit a Notification of Performance Test or Performance Evaluation, as specified in subpart A to this part, prior to initiating testing required by this subpart.




(d) Each owner or operator of any affected source under this subpart must submit additional notifications specified in § 63.9, as applicable.


(e) The owner or operator must submit all Notification of Compliance Status reports in PDF format to the EPA following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k), except any medium submitted through mail must be sent to the attention of the Gasoline Distribution Sector Lead.







---

[N] [73 FR 1933, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 89 FR 39377, May 8, 2024]








