# § 685.407   Reconsideration.

(a) The decision of the Secretary is final as to the merits of the borrower defense and any discharge that may be granted on the claim. Notwithstanding the foregoing—


(1) If the borrower defense is denied, an individual may request that the Secretary reconsider their individual borrower defense claim on the following grounds:


(i) Administrative or technical errors;


(ii) Consideration under an otherwise applicable State law standard under § 685.401(c) but only for loans first disbursed before July 1, 2017; or,


(iii) Identification of evidence that was not previously provided by the borrower and that was not identified in the final decision as a basis for the Department official's determination;


(2)(i) If the borrower defense is denied for a group claim adjudicated under § 685.406(b)(1), any of the third-party requestors that requested to form a group under § 685.402(c) may request that the Secretary reconsider the borrower defense for the reasons provided under (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. A third-party requestor's reconsideration request made in accordance with subparagraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section must provide:


(A) The applicable State law standard;


(B) Why the third-party requestor requests use of such State law standard;


(C) Why application of the State law standard would result in a different outcome for the group than adjudication under the Federal standard; and


(D) Why the applicable State law standard would lead to a borrower defense.


(ii) An individual borrower from a group claim initially adjudicated under § 685.406(b)(1) may not file a reconsideration request under this section.


(3) The borrower or third-party requestor that requested to form a group under § 685.402(c) must request reconsideration under this section no later than 90 days from the date of the Department official's written decision, for any decisions issued on or after the effective date of these regulations.


(4)(i) The Secretary will consider a reconsideration request under paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2)(i) of this section in which the individual or third-party requestor—


(A) Submits an application under penalty of perjury to the Secretary, on a form approved by the Secretary; and,


(B) Provides additional supporting evidence for the reconsideration claims made in this paragraph (a)(4)(i), if any; and


(ii) The borrower or third-party requestor submitting the reconsideration request must provide any other information or supporting documentation reasonably requested by the Secretary regarding the reconsideration request.


(b) The Secretary designates a different Department official for the reconsideration process than the one who conducted the initial adjudication.


(c) If accepted for reconsideration by the Secretary, the Department official follows the procedures in § 685.405 to notify the institution of the claim and the basis for the group's borrower defense under § 685.402 or individual's borrower defense under § 685.403 for purposes of adjudicating reconsideration of the borrower defense claim and to request a response from the school to the reconsideration request.


(d) If accepted for reconsideration by the Secretary, the Secretary follows the procedures in § 685.403(d) for granting forbearance and § 685.403(e) for defaulted loans, as applicable.


(e) The Department official adjudicates the borrower's reconsideration request under § 685.406, makes a recommendation to the Secretary, and the Secretary provides notice of the final decision upon reconsideration in accordance with § 685.406(f).


(f)(1) The Secretary may reopen at any time a borrower defense application that was denied. If a borrower defense application is reopened by the Secretary, the Secretary follows the procedures in § 685.403(d) for granting forbearance and for § 685.403(e) for defaulted loans, as applicable.


(2) Upon reopening a borrower defense application under paragraph (f) of this section, the Department official adjudicates the claim under § 685.406, makes a recommendation to the Secretary, and the Secretary provides notice of the final decision on the reopened case in accordance with § 685.406(f).






