# ยง 301.81-1   Definitions.

*Administrator.* The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any person authorized to act for the Administrator.


*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (APHIS).


*Certificate.* A document in which an inspector or a person operating under a compliance agreement affirms that a specified regulated article meets the requirements of this subpart and may be moved interstate to any destination.


*Compliance agreement.* A written agreement between APHIS and a person engaged in growing, handling, or moving regulated articles that are moved interstate, in which the person agrees to comply with the provisions of this subpart and any conditions imposed under this subpart. 


*Imported fire ant.* Living imported fire ants of the species *Solenopsis invicta* Buren and *Solenopsis richteri* Forel, and hybrids of these species. 


*Infestation (infested).* The presence of an imported fire ant queen or a reproducing colony of imported fire ants, except that on grass sod and plants with roots and soil attached, an infestation is the presence of any life form of the imported fire ant.


*Inspector.* An APHIS employee or other person authorized by the Administrator to enforce the provisions of this subpart. 


*Interstate.* From any State into or through any other State.


*Limited permit.* A document in which an inspector affirms that a specified regulated article not eligible for a certificate is eligible for interstate movement only to a specified destination and in accordance with conditions specified on the permit.


*Movement (moved).* The act of shipping, transporting, delivering, or receiving for movement, or otherwise aiding, abetting, inducing or causing to be moved.


*Noncompacted soil.* Soil that can be removed from an article by brisk brushing or washing with water under normal city water pressure (at least 4 gallons per minute at 40 to 50 pounds per square inch through a 
1/2-inch orifice).


*Person.* Any association, company, corporation, firm, individual, joint stock company, partnership, society, or any other legal entity.


*Reproducing colony.* A combination of one or more imported fire ant workers and one or more of the following immature imported fire ant forms: Eggs, larvae, or pupae.


*Soil.* Any non-liquid combination of organic and/or inorganic material in which plants can grow.


*Soil-moving equipment.* Equipment used for moving or transporting soil, including, but not limited to, bulldozers, dump trucks, or road scrapers. 


*State.* The District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, or any State, territory, or possession of the United States.






