# § 890.1602   Definitions and deemed references.

(a) In this subpart, the terms set out in § 890.101 apply unless stated otherwise.


(b) In this subpart, the terms *covered Medicare individual, initial contract year, initial participating carrier, Medicare Part A, Medicare Part B,* and *Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant* have the meanings set forth in 5 U.S.C. 8903c.


(c) In this subpart—


*Cancel* means to submit to the employing office an appropriate request electing not to be enrolled in a PSHB plan, by an enrollee who is eligible to continue enrollment, including because the enrollee did not enroll in, or chose to disenroll from, Medicare Part B.


*Election not to enroll* means to submit an appropriate request electing not to be enrolled in a PSHB plan by an individual who is eligible to enroll, including because the individual chooses not to enroll in Medicare Part B.


*Medicare coverage* means coverage that meets the requirements of § 890.1604.


*Reconsideration* means the final level of administrative review of an initial decision by an employing office or OPM, as applicable.


*Source agency* means an agency that periodically provides information or data to OPM pursuant to an agreement under § 890.1612.


(d) In this subpart, wherever reference is made to other subparts of this part—


(1) A reference to employee is deemed a reference to Postal Service employee;


(2) A reference to enrollee is deemed a reference to a Postal Service employee or Postal Service annuitant in whose name the enrollment is carried;


(3) A reference to annuitant, survivor annuitant, or an individual with entitlement to an annuity is deemed a reference to Postal Service annuitant;


(4) A reference to employer, employing agency, employing office, or agency for Postal Service employees is deemed a reference to the Postal Service, for Postal Service annuitants is deemed a reference to the appropriate retirement system or other appropriate entity for compensationers, those enrolled under TCC or Spouse Equity, and annuitants whose annuity is insufficient to withhold the cost of health benefits premiums; and


(5) A reference to carrier is deemed a reference to a PSHB Carrier.



---

[N] [88 FR 20403, Apr. 6, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 85028, Oct. 24, 2024]






