# § 63.4311   What reports must I submit?

(a) *Semiannual compliance reports.* You must submit semiannual compliance reports for each affected source according to the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section. The semiannual compliance reporting requirements of this section may be satisfied by reports required under other parts of the Clean Air Act (CAA), as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(1) *Dates.* Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.10(a), you must prepare and submit each semiannual compliance report according to the dates specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) The first semiannual compliance report must cover the first semiannual reporting period which begins the day after the end of the initial compliance period described in § 63.4320, § 63.4330, § 63.4340, or § 63.4350 that applies to your affected source and ends on June 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date at least 6 months after the end of the initial compliance period.


(ii) Each subsequent semiannual compliance report must cover the subsequent semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.


(iii) Each semiannual compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period.


(iv) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, and if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the date specified in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section.


(2) *Inclusion with title V report.* Each affected source that has obtained a title V operating permit pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 must report all deviations as defined in this subpart in the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A). If an affected source submits a semiannual compliance report pursuant to this section along with, or as part of, the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), and the semiannual compliance report includes all required information concerning deviations from any emission limitation in this subpart, its submission shall be deemed to satisfy any obligation to report the same deviations in the semiannual monitoring report. However, submission of a semiannual compliance report shall not otherwise affect any obligation the affected source may have to report deviations from permit requirements to the permitting authority.


(3) *General requirements.* The semiannual compliance report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (v) of this section, and the information specified in paragraphs (a)(4) through (8) and (c)(1) of this section that is applicable to your affected source. If your affected source is a slashing operation(s), you are only required to report the information in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section and the information in paragraph (a)(4) or (a)(5) of this section, as applicable.


(i) Company name and address.


(ii) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report.


(iii) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. The reporting period is the 6-month period ending on June 30 or December 31.


(iv) Identification of the compliance option or options specified in § 63.4291 that you used on each web coating/printing and dyeing/finishing operation during the reporting period. If you switched between compliance options during the reporting period, you must report the beginning and ending dates you used each option.


(v) If you used the emission rate without add-on controls, the emission rate with add-on controls, or the organic HAP overall control efficiency compliance option for web coating/printing operations (§ 63.4291(a)(2), (3), or (4)), or the emission rate without add-on controls or the emission rate with add-on controls compliance option for dyeing/finishing operations (§ 63.4291(c)(2) or (c)(3)), the calculation results for each compliance period ending each month during the 6-month reporting period.


(4) *No deviations.* If there were no deviations from the emission limitations in Table 1 to this subpart and §§ 63.4292, and 63.4293 that apply to you, the semiannual compliance report must include a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limitations during the reporting period. If you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, the organic HAP overall control efficiency option, or the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option and there were no periods during which the continuous parameter monitoring systems (CPMS) were out-of-control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), the semiannual compliance report must include a statement that there were no periods during which the CPMS were out-of-control during the reporting period.


(5) *Deviations: Compliant material option.* If you use the compliant material option, and there was a deviation from the applicable organic HAP content requirements in Table 1 to this subpart, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraph (a)(5)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) Before September 12, 2019, the information in paragraph (a)(5)(i)(A) through (D) of this section.


(A) Identification of each coating, printing, slashing, dyeing or finishing material applied that deviated from the emission limit and each thinning or cleaning material applied in web coating/printing operations that contained organic HAP, and the dates and time periods each was applied.


(B) The calculation of the organic HAP content using Equation 1 of § 63.4321 for each coating or printing material identified in paragraph (a)(5)(i)(A) of this section. You do not need to submit background data supporting this calculation (*e.g.,* information provided by material suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports).


(C) The determination of mass fraction of organic HAP for each regulated material identified in paragraph (a)(5)(i)(A) of this section. You do not need to submit background data supporting this calculation (*e.g.,* information provided by material suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports).


(D) A statement of the cause of each deviation.


(ii) On and after September 12, 2019, the information in paragraphs (a)(5)(ii)(A) through (E) of this section.


(A) Identification of each coating, printing, slashing, dyeing or finishing material applied that deviated from the emission limit and each thinning or cleaning material applied in web coating/printing operations that contained organic HAP, and the date, time, and duration each was applied.


(B) The calculation of the organic HAP content using Equation 1 of § 63.4321 for each coating or printing material identified in paragraph (a)(5)(ii)(A) of this section. You do not need to submit background data supporting this calculation (*e.g.,* information provided by material suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports).


(C) The determination of mass fraction of organic HAP for each regulated material identified in paragraph (a)(5)(ii)(A) of this section. You do not need to submit background data supporting this calculation (*e.g.,* information provided by material suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports).


(D) A statement of the cause of each deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).


(E) The number of deviations and, for each deviation, a list of the affected source or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(6) *Deviations: Emission rate without add-on controls option.* If you use the emission rate without add-on controls option and there was a deviation from the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraph (a)(6)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) Before September 12, 2019, the information in paragraphs (a)(6)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) The beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the organic HAP emission rate exceeded the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart.


(B) The calculations used to determine the organic HAP emission rate for the compliance period in which the deviation occurred. You must submit the calculations for Equations 1, 1A and 1B, 2, and 3 in § 63.4331 for web coating/printing operations; and for Equations 4, 4A, 5, and 6 in § 63.4331 for dyeing/finishing operations; and if applicable, the calculation used to determine mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4331(a)(4)(iii) or (b)(3)(ii); and, for dyeing/finishing operations, if applicable, the mass of organic HAP in wastewater streams calculation for Equation 7 in § 63.4331. You do not need to submit background data supporting these calculations (*e.g.,* information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports).


(C) A statement of the cause of each deviation.


(ii) On and after September 12, 2019, the information in paragraphs (a)(6)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section.


(A) The beginning and ending dates of each compliance period, during which the organic HAP emission rate exceeded the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart.


(B) The calculations used to determine the organic HAP emission rate for the compliance period in which the deviation occurred. You must submit the calculations for Equations 1, 1A and 1B, 2, and 3 in § 63.4331 for web coating/printing operations; and for Equations 4, 4A, 5, and 6 in § 63.4331 for dyeing/finishing operations; and if applicable, the calculation used to determine mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4331(a)(4)(iii) or (b)(3)(ii); and, for dyeing/finishing operations, if applicable, the mass of organic HAP in wastewater streams calculation for Equation 7 in § 63.4331. You do not need to submit background data supporting these calculations (*e.g.,* information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports).


(C) A statement of the cause of each deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).


(D) The number of deviations, a list of the affected source or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(7) *Deviations: Add-on controls options.* If you use one of the add-on controls options in § 63.4291(a) or (c) and there was a deviation from an emission limitation (including any periods when emissions bypassed the add-on control device and were diverted to the atmosphere), the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraph (a)(7)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) Before September 12, 2019, the information in paragraphs (a)(7)(i)(A) through (O) of this section. This includes periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction during which deviations occurred.


(A) The beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the organic HAP emission rate exceeded the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart.


(B) If you use the emission rate option, the calculations used to determine the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period in which a deviation occurred. You must submit the calculations that apply to you, including Equations 1, 1A, 1B, and 2 of § 63.4331 and Equations 1, 1A, 1B, 1C, 2, 3, 3A and 3B and 4 of § 63.4341 for web coating/printing operations; and Equations 4, 4A, 5, 6, and 7 of § 63.4331 and Equations 5, 5A, 5B, 6, 7, and 8 of § 63.4341 for dyeing/finishing operations. You do not need to submit the background data supporting these calculations (*e.g.,* information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports).


(C) If you use the organic HAP overall control efficiency option, the calculations used to determine the organic HAP overall control efficiency for each compliance period in which a deviation occurred. You must submit the calculations that apply to you, including Equations 1, 1A, and 1B of § 63.4331; Equations 1, 1A, 1B, 1C, 2, 3, 3A, and 3B of § 63.4341; and Equation 1 of § 63.4351. You do not need to submit the background data supporting these calculations (*e.g.,* test reports).


(D) The date and time that each malfunction started and stopped.


(E) A brief description of the CPMS.


(F) The date of the latest CPMS certification or audit.


(G) The date and time that each CPMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.


(H) The date, time, and duration that each CPMS was out-of-control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).


(I) The date and time period of each deviation from an operating limit in table 2 to this subpart, date and time period of any bypass of the add-on control device, and whether each deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction or during another period.


(J) A summary of the total duration of each deviation from an operating limit in table 2 to this subpart and each bypass of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.


(K) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations from the operating limits in Table 2 to this subpart and bypasses of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period into those that were due to startup, shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.


(L) A summary of the total duration of CPMS downtime during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration of CPMS downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.


(M) A description of any changes in the CPMS, web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation, emission capture system, or add-on control device since the last semiannual reporting period.


(N) For each deviation from the work practice standards, a description of the deviation, the date and time period duration of the deviation, and the actions you took to correct the deviation.


(O) A statement of the cause of each deviation.


(ii) On and after September 12, 2019, the information in paragraphs (a)(7)(ii)(A) through (M), (O), and (P) of this section if there was a deviation from the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart or the applicable operating limit(s) in Table 2 to this subpart (including any periods when emissions bypassed the add-on control device and were diverted to the atmosphere), and the information in paragraph (a)(7)(ii)(N) of this section if there was a deviation from the applicable work practice standards in § 63.4293(b).


(A) The beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the organic HAP emission rate exceeded the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart.


(B) If you use the emission rate option, the calculations used to determine the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period in which a deviation occurred. You must submit the calculations that apply to you, including Equations 1, 1A, 1B, and 2 of § 63.4331 and Equations 1, 1A, 1B, 1C, 2, 3, 3A and 3B and 4 of § 63.4341 for web coating/printing operations; and Equations 4, 4A, 5, 6, and 7 of § 63.4331 and Equations 5, 5A, 5B, 6, 7, and 8 of § 63.4341 for dyeing/finishing operations. You do not need to submit the background data supporting these calculations (*e.g.,* information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports).


(C) If you use the organic HAP overall control efficiency option, the calculations used to determine the organic HAP overall control efficiency for each compliance period in which a deviation occurred. You must submit the calculations that apply to you, including Equations 1, 1A, and 1B of § 63.4331; Equations 1, 1A, 1B, 1C, 2, 3, 3A, and 3B of § 63.4341; and Equation 1 of § 63.4351. You do not need to submit the background data supporting these calculations (*e.g.,* test reports).


(D) The date and time that each malfunction of the capture system or add-on control devices started and stopped.


(E) A brief description of the CPMS.


(F) The date of the latest CPMS certification or audit.


(G) For each instance that the CPMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks, the date, time, and duration that the CPMS was inoperative; the cause (including unknown cause) for the CPMS being inoperative; and descriptions of corrective actions taken.


(H) For each instance that the CPMS was out-of-control, as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), the date, time, and duration that the CPMS was out-of-control; the cause (including unknown cause) for the CPMS being out-of-control; and descriptions of corrective actions taken.


(I) The date, time, and duration of each deviation from an operating limit in Table 2 to this subpart, and the date, time, and duration of any bypass of the add-on control device.


(J) A summary of the total duration of each deviation from an operating limit in Table 2 to this subpart and each bypass of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.


(K) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations from the operating limits in Table 2 to this subpart and bypasses of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period into those that were due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.


(L) A summary of the total duration of CPMS downtime during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration of CPMS downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.


(M) A description of any changes in the CPMS, web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation, emission capture system, or add-on control device since the last semiannual reporting period.


(N) For deviations from the work practice standards, the number of deviations, and, for each deviation, a description of the deviation; the date, time, and duration of the deviation; and the actions you took to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.4300(b). The description of the deviation must include a list of the affected sources or equipment for which the deviation occurred and the cause of the deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).


(O) For deviations from an emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart or operating limit in Table 2 to this subpart, a statement of the cause of each deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).


(P) For each deviation from an emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart or operating limit in Table 2 to this subpart, a list of the affected sources or equipment for which a deviation occurred, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(8) *Deviations: Equivalent Emission Rate Option.* If you use the equivalent emission rate option, and there was a deviation from the operating scenarios, as defined in § 63.4371, used to demonstrate initial compliance, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(8)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) Before September 12, 2019, the beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the deviation occurred. On and after September 12, 2019, the beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the deviation occurred, the number of deviations during the compliance period, and, for each deviation, the date, time, and duration of the deviation; a list of the affected sources or equipment; and a statement of the cause of the deviation (including an unknown cause, if applicable).


(ii) If the deviation consisted of failure to treat the organic HAP containing wastewater by a biological treatment process, an explanation of the deviation, the duration of the deviation, and the determination of the mass of organic HAP that was discharged in the wastewater that was not treated by a biological treatment process.


(iii) The determination of the fraction of organic HAP applied in your dyeing/finishing affected source that is discharged to the wastewater according to § 63.4331(d).


(iv) The calculation of the total organic HAP emissions from your dyeing/finishing affected source using Equation 4 of § 63.4331.


(b) *Performance test reports.* If you use one of the add-on control options in § 63.4291(a) or (c), you must submit reports of performance test results for emission capture systems and add-on control devices no later than 60 days after completing the tests as specified in § 63.10(d)(2).


(c) Before September 12, 2019, if you use one of the add-on control options in § 63.4291(a) or (c) and you have a startup, shutdown, or malfunction during the semiannual reporting period, you must submit the reports specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section. The reports specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section are not required on and after September 12, 2019.


(1) If your actions were consistent with your startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, you must include the information specified in § 63.10(d) in the semiannual compliance report.


(2) If your actions were not consistent with your startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, you must submit an immediate startup, shutdown, and malfunction report as described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section as required by paragraph (a) of this section.


(i) You must describe the actions taken during the event in a report delivered by facsimile, telephone, or other means to the Administrator within 2 working days after starting actions that are inconsistent with the plan.


(ii) You must submit a letter to the Administrator within 7 working days after the end of the event, unless you have made alternative arrangements with the Administrator as specified in § 63.10(d)(5)(ii). The letter must contain the information specified in § 63.10(d)(5)(ii).


(d) Beginning no later than June 13, 2019, you must submit the results of the performance test required in paragraph (b) of this section following the procedure specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) For data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert*) at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI). The CEDRI interface can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*). Performance test data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file format consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.


(2) For data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance test to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13, unless the Administrator agrees to or specifies an alternate reporting method.


(3) If you claim that some of the performance test information being submitted under paragraph (d)(1) of this section is confidential business information (CBI), you must submit a complete file generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium to the EPA. The electronic medium must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAPQS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT or alternate file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.


(e) Beginning on March 15, 2021, the owner or operator shall submit the initial notifications required in § 63.9(b) and the notification of compliance status required in § 63.9(h) and § 63.4310(c) to the EPA via CEDRI. The CEDRI interface can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (*https://cdx.epa.gov*). The owner or operator must upload to CEDRI an electronic copy of each applicable notification in portable document format (PDF). The applicable notification must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the reports are submitted. Owners or operators who claim that some of the information required to be submitted via CEDRI is CBI shall submit a complete report generated using the appropriate form in CEDRI or an alternate electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's CEDRI website, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium to the EPA. The electronic medium shall be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted shall be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.


(f) Beginning on March 15, 2021, or once the reporting template has been available on the CEDRI website for 1 year, whichever date is later, the owner or operator shall submit the semiannual compliance report required in paragraph (a) of this section to the EPA via CEDRI. The CEDRI interface can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (*https://cdx.epa.gov*). The owner or operator must use the appropriate electronic template on the CEDRI website for this subpart or an alternate electronic file format consistent with the XML schema listed on the CEDRI website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/compliance-and-emissions-data-reporting-interface-cedri*). The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. If the reporting form for the semiannual compliance report specific to this subpart is not available in CEDRI at the time that the report is due, you must submit the report to the Administrator at the appropriate addresses listed in § 63.13. Once the form has been available in CEDRI for 1 year, you must begin submitting all subsequent reports via CEDRI. The reports must be submitted by the deadlines specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the reports are submitted. Owners or operators who claim that some of the information required to be submitted via CEDRI is CBI shall submit a complete report generated using the appropriate form in CEDRI or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's CEDRI website, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium to the EPA. The electronic medium shall be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted shall be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.


(g) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, and due to a planned or actual outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date that the submission is due, you will be or are precluded from accessing CEDRI or CDX and submitting a required report within the time prescribed, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or caused a delay in reporting. You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying the date, time and length of the outage; a rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the EPA system outage; describe the measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and identify a date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported. In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved. The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(h) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX and a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date the submission is due, the owner or operator may assert a claim of force majeure for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. For the purposes of this section, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature *(e.g.,* hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (*e.g.,* large scale power outage). If you intend to assert a claim of force majeure, you must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or caused a delay in reporting. You must provide to the Administrator a written description of the force majeure event and a rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event; describe the measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and identify a date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported. In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the force majeure event occurs. The decision to accept the claim of force majeure and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.



---

[N] [68 FR 32189, May 29, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 9623, Mar. 15, 2019]




