# § 433.36   Liens and recoveries.

(a) *Basis and purpose.* This section implements sections 1902(a)(18) and 1917(a) and (b) of the Act, which describe the conditions under which an agency may impose a lien against a beneficiary's property, and when an agency may make an adjustment or recover funds in satisfaction of the claim against the individual's estate or real property. 


(b) *Definition of property.* For purposes of this section, “property” includes the homestead and all other personal and real property in which the beneficiary has a legal interest. 


(c) *State plan requirement.* If a State chooses to impose a lien against an individual's real property (or as provided in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, personal property), the State plan must provide that the provisions of paragraphs (d) through (i) of this section are met. 


(d) *Procedures.* The State plan must specify the process by which the State will determine that an institutionalized individual cannot reasonably be expected to be discharged from the medical institution and return home as provided in paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section. The description of the process must include the type of notice to be given the individual, the process by which the individual will be given the opportunity for a hearing, the hearing procedures, and by whom and on what basis the determination that the individual cannot reasonably be expected to be discharged from the institution will be made. The notice to the individual must explain what is meant by the term lien, and that imposing a lien does not mean that the individual will lose ownership of the home. 


(e) *Definitions.* The State plan must define the following terms used in this section: 


(1) Individual's home. 


(2) Equity interest in home. 


(3) Residing in the home for at least 1 (or 2) year(s). 


(4) On a continuing basis. 


(5) Discharge from the medical institution and return home. 


(6) Lawfully residing. 


(f) *Exception.* The State plan must specify the criteria by which a son or daughter can establish to the agency's satisfaction that he or she has been providing care which permitted the individual to reside at home rather than in an institution, as provided in paragraph (h)(2)(iii)(B) of this section. 


(g) *Lien provisions*—(1) *Incorrect payments.* The agency may place a lien against an individual's property, both personal and real, before his or her death because of Medicaid claims paid or to be paid on behalf of that individual following a court judgement which determined that benefits were incorrectly paid for that individual.


(2) *Correct payments.* Except as provided in paragraph (g)(3) of this section, the agency may place a lien against the real property of an individual at any age before his or her death because of Medicaid claims paid or to be paid for that individual when—


(i) An individual is an inpatient of a medical institution and must, as a condition of receiving services in the institution under the State plan, apply his or her income to the cost of care as provided in §§ 435.725, 435.832 and 436.832; and


(ii) The agency determines that he or she cannot reasonably be expected to be discharged and return home. The agency must notify the individual of its intention to make that determination and provide an opportunity for a hearing in accordance with State established procedures before the determination is made. The notice to an individual must include an explanation of liens and the effect on an individual's ownership of property.


(3) *Restrictions on placing liens.* The agency may not place a lien on an individual's home under paragraph (g)(2) of this section if any of the following individuals is lawfully residing in the home:


(i) The spouse;


(ii) The individual's child who is under age 21 or blind or disabled as defined in the State plan; or


(iii) The individual's sibling (who has an equity interest in the home, and who was residing in the individual's home for at least one year immediately before the date the individual was admitted to the medical institution).


(4) *Termination of lien.* Any lien imposed on an individual's real property under paragraph (g)(2) of this section will dissolve when that individual is discharged from the medical institution and returns home.


(h) *Adjustments and recoveries.* (1) The agency may make an adjustment or recover funds for Medicaid claims correctly paid for an individual as follows:


(i) From the estate of any individual who was 65 years of age or older when he or she received Medicaid; and


(ii) From the estate or upon sale of the property subject to a lien when the individual is institutionalized as described in paragraph (g)(2) of this section.


(2) The agency may make an adjustment or recovery under paragraph (h)(1) of this section only:


(i) After the death of the individual's surviving spouse; and


(ii) When the individual has no surviving child under age 21 or blind or disabled as defined in the State plan; and


(iii) In the case of liens placed on an individual's home under paragraph (g)(2) of this section, when there is no—


(A) Sibling of the individual residing in the home, who has resided there for at least one year immediately before the date of the individual's admission to the institution, and has resided there on a continuous basis since that time; or


(B) Son or daughter of the individual residing in the home, who has resided there for at least two years immediately before the date of the individual's admission to the institution, has resided there on a continuous basis since that time, and can establish to the agency's satisfaction that he or she has been providing care which permitted the individual to reside at home rather than in an institution.


(i) *Prohibition of reduction of money payments.* No money payment under another program may be reduced as a means of recovering Medicaid claims incorrectly paid.



---

[N] [43 FR 45201, Sept. 29, 1978, as amended at 47 FR 43647, Oct. 1, 1982; 47 FR 49847, Nov. 3, 1982]




