# § 229.13   Exceptions.

(a) *New accounts.* For purposes of this paragraph, checks subject to § 229.10(c)(1)(v) include traveler's checks. 


(1) A deposit in a new account— 


(i) Is subject to the requirements of § 229.10 (a) and (b) to make funds from deposits by cash and electronic payments available for withdrawal on the business day following the banking day of deposit or receipt; 


(ii) Is subject to the requirements of § 229.10(c)(1)(i) through (v) and § 229.10(c)(2) only with respect to the first $5,525 of funds deposited on any one banking day; but the amount of the deposit in excess of $5,525 shall be available for withdrawal not later than the ninth business day following the banking day on which funds are deposited; and 


(iii) Is not subject to the availability requirements of §§ 229.10(c)(1)(vi) and (vii) and 229.12.


(2) An account is considered a new account during the first 30 calendar days after the account is established. An account is not considered a new account if each customer on the account has had, within 30 calendar days before the account is established, another account at the depositary bank for at least 30 calendar days. 


(b) *Large deposits.* Sections 229.10(c) and 229.12 do not apply to the aggregate amount of deposits by one or more checks to the extent that the aggregate amount is in excess of $5,525 on any one banking. day. For customers that have multiple accounts at a depositary bank, the bank may apply this exception to the aggregate deposits to all accounts held by the customer, even if the customer is not the sole holder of the accounts and not all of the holders of the accounts are the same. 


(c) *Redeposited checks.* Sections 229.10(c) and 229.12 do not apply to a check that has been returned unpaid and redeposited by the customer or the depositary bank. This exception does not apply— 


(1) To a check that has been returned due to a missing indorsement and redeposited after the missing indorsement has been obtained, if the reason for return indication on the check states that it was returned due to a missing indorsement; or 


(2) To a check that has been returned because it was post dated, if the reason for return indicated on the check states that it was returned because it was post dated, and if the check is no longer postdated when redeposited. 


(d) *Repeated overdrafts.* If any account or combination of accounts of a depositary bank's customer has been repeatedly overdrawn, then for a period of six months after the last such overdraft, §§ 229.10(c) and 229.12 do not apply to any of the accounts. A depositary bank may consider a customer's account to be repeatedly overdrawn if— 


(1) On six or more banking days within the preceding six months, the account balance is negative, or the account balance would have become negative if checks or other charges to the account had been paid; or


(2) On two or more banking days within the preceding six months, the account balance is negative, or the account balance would have become negative, in the amount of $5,525 or more, if checks or other charges to the account had been paid. 


(e) *Reasonable cause to doubt collectibility*—(1) *In general.* Sections 229.10(c) and 229.12 do not apply to a check deposited in an account at a depositary bank if the depositary bank has reasonable cause to believe that the check is uncollectible from the paying bank. Reasonable cause to believe a check is uncollectible requires the existence of facts that would cause a well-grounded belief in the mind of a reasonable person. Such belief shall not be based on the fact that the check is of a particular class or is deposited by a particular class of persons. The reason for the bank's belief that the check is uncollectible shall be included in the notice required under paragraph (g) of this section. 


(2) *Overdraft and returned check fees.* A depositary bank that extends the time when funds will be available for withdrawal as described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, and does not furnish the depositor with written notice at the time of deposit shall not assess any fees for any subsequent overdrafts (including use of a line of credit) or return of checks of other debits to the account, if— 


(i) The overdraft or return of the check would not have occurred except for the fact that the deposited funds were delayed under paragraph (e)(1) of this section; and 


(ii) The deposited check was paid by the paying bank.


(f) *Emergency conditions.* Sections 229.10(c) and 229.12 do not apply to funds deposited by check in a depositary bank in the case of— 


(1) An interruption of communications or computer or other equipment facilities; 


(2) A suspension of payments by another bank; 


(3) A war; or 


(4) An emergency condition beyond the control of the depositary bank,


(g) *Notice of exception*—(1) *In general.* Subject to paragraphs (g)(2) and (g)(3) of this section, when a depositary bank extends the time when funds will be available for withdrawal based on the application of an exception contained in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, it must provide the depositor with a written notice.


(i) The notice shall include the following information—


(A) A number or code, which need not exceed four digits, that identifies the customer's account;


(B) The date of the deposit;


(C) The amount of the deposit that is being delayed;


(D) The reason the exception was invoked; and


(E) The time period within which the funds will be available for withdrawal.


(ii) *Timing of notice.* The notice shall be provided to the depositor at the time of the deposit, unless the deposit is not made in person to an employee of the depositary bank, or, if the facts upon which a determination to invoke one of the exceptions in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section to delay a deposit only become known to the depositary bank after the time of the deposit. If the notice is not given at the time of the deposit, the depositary bank shall mail or deliver the notice to the customer as soon as practicable, but no later than the first business day following the day the facts become known to the depositary bank, or the deposit is made, whichever is later. 


(2) *One-time exception notice.* In lieu of providing notice pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section, a depositary bank that extends the time when the funds deposited in a nonconsumer account will be available for withdrawal based on an exception contained in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section may provide a single notice to the customer that includes the following information—


(i) The reason(s) the exception may be invoked; and


(ii) The time period within which deposits subject to the exception generally will be available for withdrawal.


(3) *Notice of repeated overdrafts exception.* In lieu of providing notice pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section, a depositary bank that extends the time when funds deposited in an account will be available for withdrawal based on the exception contained in paragraph (d) of this section may provide a notice to the customer for each time period during which the exception will be in effect. The notice shall include the following information—


(i) The account number of the customer;


(ii) The fact that the availability of funds deposited in the customer's account will be delayed because the repeated overdrafts exception will be invoked;


(iii) The time period within which deposits subject to the exception generally will be available for withdrawal; and


(iv) The time period during which the exception will apply.


(4) *Emergency conditions exception notice.* When a depositary bank extends the time when funds will be available for withdrawal based on the application of the emergency conditions exception contained in paragraph (f) of this section, it must provide the depositor with notice in a reasonable form and within a reasonable time given the circumstances. The notice shall include the reason the exception was invoked and the time period within which funds shall be made available for withdrawal, unless the depositary bank, in good faith, does not know at the time the notice is given the duration of the emergency and, consequently, when the funds must be made available. The depositary bank is not required to provide a notice if the funds subject to the exception become available before the notice must be sent. 


(5) *Record retention.* A depositary bank shall retain a record, in accordance with § 229.21(g), of each notice provided pursuant to its application of the reasonable cause exception under paragraph (e) of this section, together with a brief statement of the facts giving rise to the bank's reason to doubt the collectibility of the check. 


(h) *Availability of deposits subject to exceptions.* (1) If an exception contained in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section applies, the depositary bank may extend the time periods established under §§ 229.10(c) and 229.12 by a reasonable period of time. 


(2) If a depositary bank invokes an exception contained in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section with respect to a check described in § 229.10(c)(1) (i) through (v) or § 229.10(c)(2), it shall make the funds available for withdrawal not later than a reasonable period after the day the funds would have been required to be made available had the check been subject to 229.12.


(3) If a depositary bank invokes an exception under paragraph (f) of this section based on an emergency condition, the depositary bank shall make the funds available for withdrawal not later than a reasonable period after the emergency has ceased or the period established in §§ 229.10(c) and 229.12, whichever is later. 


(4) For the purposes of this section, a “reasonable period” is an extension of up to one business day for checks described in § 229.10(c)(1)(vi), five business days for checks described in § 229.12(b) (1) through (4), and six business days for checks described in § 229.12(c) (1) and (2) or § 229.12(f). A longer extension may be reasonable, but the bank has the burden of so establishing. 



---

[N] [53 FR 19433, May 27, 1988, as amended by Reg. CC, 54 FR 13850, Apr. 6, 1989; Reg. CC, 55 FR 21855, May 30, 1990; 57 FR 3279, Jan. 29, 1992; 57 FR 36598, Aug. 14, 1992; 60 FR 51671, Oct. 3, 1995; Reg. CC, 62 FR 13809, Mar. 24, 1997; 69 FR 47310, Aug. 4, 2004; 84 FR 45403, Aug. 29, 2019]


