# § 424.546   Deactivation rebuttals.

(a) *Rebuttal submittal period*. (1) If a provider or supplier receives written notice from CMS or its contractor that the provider's or supplier's billing privileges are to be or have been deactivated under § 424.540, the provider or supplier has 15 calendar days from the date of the written notice to submit a rebuttal to CMS as permitted under § 424.545(b).


(2) CMS may, at its discretion, extend the 15-day time-period referenced in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(b) *Rebuttal requirements*. A rebuttal submitted pursuant to this section and § 424.545(b) must:


(1) Be in writing.


(2) Specify the facts or issues about which the provider or supplier disagrees with the deactivation's imposition and/or the effective date, and the reasons for disagreement.


(3) Submit all documentation the provider or supplier wants CMS to consider in its review of the deactivation.


(4) Be submitted in the form of a letter that is signed and dated by the individual supplier (if enrolled as an individual physician or nonphysician practitioner), the authorized official or delegated official (as those terms are defined in 42 CFR 424.502), or a legal representative (as defined in 42 CFR 498.10). If the legal representative is an attorney, the attorney must include a statement that he or she has the authority to represent the provider or supplier; this statement is sufficient to constitute notice of such authority. If the legal representative is not an attorney, the provider or supplier must file with CMS written notice of the appointment of a representative; this notice of appointment must be signed and dated by, as applicable, the individual supplier, the authorized official or delegated official, or a legal representative.


(c) *Waiver of rebuttal rights*. The provider's or supplier's failure to submit a rebuttal that is both timely under paragraph (a) of this section and fully compliant with all of the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section constitutes a waiver of all rebuttal rights under this section and § 424.545(b).


(d) *CMS review*. Upon receipt of a timely and compliant deactivation rebuttal, CMS reviews the rebuttal to determine whether the imposition of the deactivation and/or the designated effective date are correct.


(e) *Imposition*. Nothing in this section or in § 424.545(b) requires CMS to delay the imposition of a deactivation pending the completion of the review described in paragraph (d) of this section.


(f) *Initial determination*. A determination made under this section is not an initial determination under § 498.3(b) of this chapter and therefore not appealable.



---

[N] [86 FR 65683, Nov. 19, 2021]




