# § 70.4   Responsibilities.

(a) The *Secretaries of the Military Departments* have the authority for final decision and the responsibility for the operation for their respective discharge review programs under 10 U.S.C. 1553.


(b) The *Assistant Secretary of Defense (Manpower, Reserve Affairs, and Logistics)* (ASD(MRA&L)) shall:


(1) Resolve all issues concerning DRBs that cannot be resolved among the Military Departments.


(2) Ensure uniformity among the Military Departments in the rights afforded applicants in discharge reviews.


(3) Modify or supplement the enclosures to this part.


(4) Maintain the index of decisions and provide for timely modification of index categories to reflect changes in discharge review policies, procedures, and standards issued by the OSD and the Military Departments.


(c) The *Secretary of the Army,* as the designated administrative focal point for DRB matters, shall:


(1) Effect necessary coordination with other governmental agencies regarding continuing applicability of this part and resolve administrative procedures relating thereto.


(2) Review suggested modifications to this part, including implementing documents; monitor the implementing documents of the Military Departments; resolve differences, when practicable; recommend specific changes; provide supporting rationale to the ASD(MRA&L) for decision; and include appropriate documentation through the Office of the ASD(MRA&L) and the OSD Federal Register liaison officer to effect publication in the _Federal Register._

(3) Maintain the DD Form 293, “Application for Review of Discharge or Separation from the Armed Forces of the United States,” and republish as necessary with appropriate coordination of the other Military Departments and the Office of Management and Budget.


(4) Respond to all inquiries from private individuals, organizations, or public officials with regard to DRB matters. When the specific Military Service can be identified, refer such correspondence to the appropriate DRB for response or designate an appropriate activity to perform this task.


(5) Provide overall guidance and supervision to the Armed Forces Discharge Review/Correction Board Reading Room with staff augmentation, as required, by the Departments of the Navy and Air Force.


(6) Ensure that notice of the location, hours of operation, and similar types of information regarding the Reading Room is published in the _Federal Register._

