# § 98.2   Definitions.

Words used in the regulations in this subpart in the singular form will import the plural, and vice versa, as the case may demand. As used throughout the regulations in this subpart, unless the context requires otherwise, the following terms will be construed to mean:


*Lard (Edible).* The fat rendered from clean and sound edible tissues from swine. 


*Meals, Ready-To-Eat (MRE).* Meals, Ready-To-Eat are complete portions of one meal for one military person and are processed and packaged to destroy or retard the growth of spoilage-type microorganisms in order to extend product shelf life for 7 years. Composition analyses for MREs are covered by the reimbursable agreement in the Memorandums of Understanding (MOU's) between AMS, USDA and the Defense Personnel Support Center, Department of Defense (DOD). These DOD, Defense Personnel Support Center (DPSC) contracts state certain military specifications for an acceptable one meal serving, retorted pouched or 18-24 serving hermetically-sealed tray packed meat, or meal product regarding satisfactory analyses for fat, salt, protein, moisture content, added stabilizer ingredient, and sometimes microbiological composition. MREs are for use by the DOD, DPSC as a component of operational food rations, and as an item of general issue by the military. 


*Meat.* This includes the edible part of the muscle of any cattle, sheep, swine, or goats, which is skeletal or which is found in the tongue, in the diaphragm, in the heart, or in the esophagus, and which is intended for human food, with or without the accompanying and overlying fat, and the portions of bone, skin, tendon, nerve, and blood vessels which normally accompany the muscle tissue, and which are not separated from it in the process of dressing. It does not include the muscle found in the lips, snout, or ears. This term, as applied to products of equines, shall have a meaning comparable to that provided in this paragraph with respect to cattle, sheep, swine, and goats. 


*Meat food product.* Any article capable for use as human food (other than meat, prepared meat, or a meat by-product), which is derived or prepared wholly or in substantial part from meat or other portion of the carcass of any cattle, sheep, swine, or goats. An article exempted from definition as a meat food product by the Administrator, such as an organotherapeutic substance, meat juice, meat extract, and the like, which is used only for medicinal purposes and is advertised solely to the medical profession is not included. 


*Ready-to-eat.* The term means consumers are likely to apply little or no additional heat to the fully-cooked and the fully-prepared food product before consumption. 


*Specifications.* Descriptions with respect to the class, grade, other quality, quantity or condition of products, approved by the Administrator, and available for use by the industry regardless of the origin of the descriptions. 


*Tallow (Edible).* The hard fat derived from USDA inspected and passed cattle, sheep, or goats. 


*Titer.* The measure of the hardness or softness of the tested material as determined by the solidification point of fatty acids and expressed in degrees centigrade (°C). 




