# § 799.5087   Chemical testing requirements for second group of high production volume chemicals (HPV2).

(a) *What substances will be tested under this section?* Table 2 in paragraph (j) of this section identifies the chemical substances that must be tested under this section. For the chemical substances identified as “Class 1” chemical substances in Table 2 in paragraph (j) of this section, the purity of each chemical substance must be 99% or greater, unless otherwise specified in this section. For the chemical substances identified as “Class 2” chemical substances in Table 2 in paragraph (j), a representative form of each chemical substance must be tested. The representative form selected for a given Class 2 chemical substance should meet industry or consensus standards where they exist.


(b) *Am I subject to this section?* (1) If you manufacture (including import) or intend to manufacture, or process or intend to process, any chemical substance listed in Table 2 in paragraph (j) of this section at any time from February 7, 2011 to the end of the test data reimbursement period as defined in 40 CFR 791.3(h), you are subject to this section with respect to that chemical substance.


(2) If you do not know or cannot reasonably ascertain that you manufacture or process a chemical substance listed in Table 2 in paragraph (j) of this section during the time period described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section (based on all information in your possession or control, as well as all information that a reasonable person similarly situated might be expected to possess, control, or know, or could obtain without unreasonable burden), you are not subject to this section with respect to that chemical substance.


(c) *If I am subject to this section, when must I comply with it?* (1)(i) Persons subject to this section are divided into two groups, as set forth in Table 1 of this paragraph: Tier 1 (persons initially required to comply), and Tier 2 (persons not initially required to comply). If you are subject to this section, you must determine if you fall within Tier 1 or Tier 2, based on Table 1 of this paragraph.


(ii) Table 1 of paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section expands the list of persons in Tier 2, that is, those persons specified in 40 CFR 790.42(a)(2), (a)(4), and (a)(5), who, while legally subject to this section, must comply with the requirements of this section only if directed to do so by EPA under the circumstances set forth in paragraphs (c)(4), (c)(5), (c)(6), (c)(7), and (c)(10) of this section.


(2) If you are in Tier 1 with respect to a chemical substance listed in Table 2 in paragraph (j) of this section, you must, for each test required under this section for that chemical substance, either submit to EPA a letter of intent to test or apply to EPA for an exemption from testing. The letter of intent to test or the exemption application must be received by EPA no later than March 9, 2011.


(3) If you are in Tier 2 with respect to a chemical substance listed in Table 2 in paragraph (j) of this section, you are considered to have an automatic conditional exemption and you will be required to comply with this section with regard to that chemical substance only if directed to do so by EPA under paragraphs (c)(5), (c)(7), or (c)(10) of this section.


(4) If no person in Tier 1 has notified EPA of its intent to conduct one or more of the tests required by this section on any chemical substance listed in Table 2 in paragraph (j) of this section on or before March 9, 2011, EPA will publish a _Federal Register_ document that would specify the test(s) and the chemical substance(s) for which no letter of intent has been submitted and notify manufacturers in Tier 2A of their obligation to submit a letter of intent to test or to apply for an exemption from testing.


(5) If you are in Tier 2A (as specified in Table 1 in paragraph (c) of this section) with respect to a chemical substance listed in Table 2 in paragraph (j) of this section, and if you manufacture, or intend to manufacture, this chemical substance as of February 7, 2011, or within 30 days after publication of the _Federal Register_ document described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, you must, for each test specified for that chemical substance in the document described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, either submit to EPA a letter of intent to test or apply to EPA for an exemption from testing. The letter of intent to test or the exemption application must be received by EPA no later than 30 days after publication of the document described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.


(6) If no manufacturer in Tier 1 or Tier 2A has notified EPA of its intent to conduct one or more of the tests required by this section on any chemical substance listed in Table 2 in paragraph (j) of this section within 30 days after the publication of the _Federal Register_ document described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, EPA will publish another _Federal Register_ document that would specify the test(s) and the chemical substance(s) for which no letter of intent has been submitted, and notify processors in Tier 2B of their obligation to submit a letter of intent to test or to apply for an exemption from testing.


(7) If you are in Tier 2B (as specified in Table 1 in paragraph (c) of this section) with respect to a chemical substance listed in Table 2 in paragraph (j) of this section, and if you process, or intend to process, this chemical substance as of February 7, 2011, or within 30 days after publication of the _Federal Register_ document described in paragraph (c)(6) of this section, you must, for each test specified for that chemical substance in the document described in paragraph (c)(6) of this section, either submit to EPA a letter of intent to test or apply to EPA for an exemption from testing. The letter of intent to test or the exemption application must be received by EPA no later than 30 days after publication of the document described in paragraph (c)(6) of this section.


(8) If no manufacturer or processor has notified EPA of its intent to conduct one or more of the tests required by this section for any of the chemical substances listed in Table 2 in paragraph (j) of this section within 30 days after the publication of the _Federal Register_ document described in paragraph (c)(6) of this section, EPA will notify all manufacturers and processors of those chemical substances of this fact by certified letter or by publishing a _Federal Register_ document specifying the test(s) for which no letter of intent has been submitted. This letter or _Federal Register_ document will additionally notify all manufacturers and processors that all exemption applications concerning the test(s) have been denied, and will give the manufacturers and processors of the chemical substance(s) an opportunity to take corrective action.


(9) If no manufacturer or processor has notified EPA of its intent to conduct one or more of the tests required by this section for any of the chemical substances listed in Table 2 in paragraph (j) of this section within 30 days after receipt of the certified letter or publication of the _Federal Register_ document described in paragraph (c)(8) of this section, all manufacturers and processors subject to this section with respect to that chemical substance who are not already in violation of this section will be in violation of this section.


(10) If a problem occurs with the initiation, conduct, or completion of the required testing or the submission of the required data with respect to a chemical substance listed in Table 2 in paragraph (j) of this section, under the procedures in 40 CFR 790.93 and 790.97, EPA may initiate termination proceedings for all testing exemptions with respect to that chemical substance and may notify persons in Tier 1 and Tier 2 that they are required to submit letters of intent to test or exemption applications within a specified period of time.


(11) If you are required to comply with this section, but your manufacture or processing of, or intent to manufacture or process, a chemical substance listed in Table 2 in paragraph (j) of this section begins after the applicable compliance date referred to in paragraphs (c)(2), (c)(5), or (c)(6) of this section, you must either submit a letter of intent to test or apply to EPA for an exemption. The letter of intent to test or the exemption application must be received by EPA no later than the day you begin manufacture or processing.


(d) *What must I do to comply with this section?* (1) To comply with this section you must either submit to EPA a letter of intent to test, or apply to and obtain from EPA an exemption from testing.


(2) For each test with respect to which you submit to EPA a letter of intent to test, you must conduct the testing specified in paragraph (h) of this section and submit the test data to EPA.


(3) You must also comply with the procedures governing test rule requirements in 40 CFR part 790 (except for those requirements listed in this paragraph as not applicable to this section), including the submission of letters of intent to test or exemption applications, the conduct of testing, and the submission of data; 40 CFR Part 792—Good Laboratory Practice Standards; and this section. The following provisions of 40 CFR part 790 do not apply to this section: Paragraphs (a), (d), (e), and (f) of § 790.45; paragraph (a)(2) and paragraph (b) of § 790.80; § 790.82(e)(1); § 790.85; and § 790.48.


(e) *If I do not comply with this section, when will I be considered in violation of it?* You will be considered in violation of this section as of 1 day after the date by which you are required to comply with this section.


(f) *How are EPA's data reimbursement procedures affected for purposes of this section?* If persons subject to this section are unable to agree on the amount or method of reimbursement for test data development for one or more chemical substances included in this section, any person may request a hearing as described in 40 CFR part 791. In the determination of fair reimbursement shares under this section, if the hearing officer chooses to use a formula based on production volume, the total production volume amount will include amounts of a chemical substance produced as an impurity.


(g) *Who must comply with the export notification requirements?* Any person who exports, or intends to export, a chemical substance listed in Table 2 in paragraph (j) of this section is subject to 40 CFR part 707, subpart D.


(h) *How must I conduct my testing?* (1) The tests that are required for each chemical substance are indicated in Table 2 in paragraph (j) of this section. The test methods that must be followed are provided in Table 3 in paragraph (j) of this section. You must proceed in accordance with these test methods as required according to Table 3 in paragraph (j) of this section, or as appropriate if more than one alternative is allowed according to Table 3 in paragraph (j) of this section. Included in Table 3 in paragraph (j) of this section are the following 18 test methods which are incorporated by reference:


(i) Standard Test Method for Relative Initial and Final Melting Points and the Melting Range of Organic Chemicals, ASTM E 324-99, approved September 10, 1999.


(ii) Standard Test Method for Partition Coefficient (*N*-Octanol/Water) Estimation by Liquid Chromatography, ASTM E 1147-92 (Reapproved 2005), approved August 1, 2005.


(iii) Standard Guide for Conducting Acute Toxicity Tests on Test Materials with Fishes, Macroinvertebrates, and Amphibians, ASTM E 729-96 (Reapproved 2007), approved October 1, 2007.


(iv) Standard Test Method for Measurements of Aqueous Solubility, ASTM E 1148-02 (Reapproved 2008), approved February 1, 2008.


(v) Standard Test Method for Estimating Acute Oral Toxicity in Rats, ASTM E 1163-98 (Reapproved 2002), approved October 10, 2002.


(vi) Standard Guide for Conducting Daphnia Magna Life-Cycle Toxicity Tests, ASTM E 1193-97 (Reapproved 2004), approved April 1, 2004.


(vii) Standard Guide for Conducting Static Toxicity Tests with Microalgae, ASTM E 1218-04
e1, approved April 1, 2004.


(viii) Standard Test Method for Vapor Pressure of Liquids by Ebulliometry, ASTM E 1719-05, approved March 1, 2005.


(ix) Standard Test Method for Determining Ready, Ultimate, Biodegradability of Organic Chemicals in a Sealed Vessel CO_2_ Production Test. ASTM E 1720-01 (Reapproved 2008), approved February 1, 2008.


(x) Standard Test Method for Determining Vapor Pressure by Thermal Analysis, ASTM E 1782-08, approved March 1, 2008.


(xi) Water Quality—Evaluation of Ultimate Aerobic Biodegradability of Organic Compounds in Aqueous Medium—Method by Analysis of Inorganic Carbon in Sealed Vessels (CO_2_ Headspace Test). First Edition, March 15, 1999. ISO 14593:1999(E).


(xii) Water Quality—Evaluation in an Aqueous Medium of the “Ultimate” Aerobic Biodegradability of Organic Compounds—Method by Analysis of Dissolved Organic Carbon (DOC). Second Edition, September 15, 1994. ISO 7827:1994(E).


(xiii) Water Quality—Evaluation of Ultimate Aerobic Biodegradability of Organic Compounds in Aqueous Medium by Determination of Oxygen Demand in a Closed Respirometer. Second Edition, August 1, 1999. ISO 9408:1999(E).


(xiv) Water Quality—Evaluation of Ultimate Aerobic Biodegradability of Organic Compounds in Aqueous Medium—Carbon Dioxide Evolution Test. Second Edition, March 1, 1999. ISO 9439:1999(E).


(xv) Water Quality—Evaluation in an Aqueous Medium of The “Ultimate” Aerobic Biodegradability of Organic Compounds—Method by Analysis of Biochemical Oxygen Demand (Closed Bottle Test). First Edition, October 15, 1994. ISO 10707:1994(E).


(xvi) Water Quality—Evaluation in an Aqueous Medium of the Ultimate Aerobic Biodegradability of Organic Compounds—Determination of Biochemical Oxygen Demand in a Two-Phase Closed Bottle Test. First Edition, February 1, 1997. ISO 10708:1997(E).


(xvii) Water Quality—Guidance for the Preparation and Treatment of Poorly Water-Soluble Organic Compounds for the Subsequent Evaluation of Their Biodegradability in an Aqueous Medium. First Edition, August 15, 1995. ISO 10634:1995(E).


(xviii) Guideline for the Testing of Chemicals: Melting Point/Melting Range. OECD 102. July 27, 1995.


(2) The Director of the Federal Register approved this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain copies of the ASTM test methods from the American Society for Testing and Materials, 100 Bar Harbor Dr., P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959, telephone number: (610) 832-9585, web address: *http://www.astm.org;* copies of the ISO test methods from the International Organization for Standardization, 1, ch. de la Voie-Creuse, Case postale, 56 CH-1211 Geneve 20 Switzerland, telephone number: + 41 22 749 01 11, web address: *http://www.iso.org;* and a copy of the OECD guideline from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, 2, rue André Pascal,75775 Paris Cedex 16 France, telephone number: + 33 1 45 24 82 00, web address: *http://www.oecd.org.* You may inspect each test method and guideline at the EPA Docket Center, EPA West, Rm. B102, 1301 Constitution Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20004, telephone number: (202) 566-1744, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call (202) 741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.*

(i) *Reporting requirements.* A final report for each specific test for each subject chemical substance must be received by EPA by March 7, 2012, unless an extension is granted in writing pursuant to 40 CFR 790.55. A robust summary of the final report for each specific test should be submitted in addition to and at the same time as the final report. The term “robust summary” is used to describe the technical information necessary to adequately describe an experiment or study and includes the objectives, methods, results, and conclusions of the full study report which can be either an experiment or in some cases an estimation or prediction method. Guidance for the compilation of robust summaries is described in a document entitled “Draft Guidance on Developing Robust Summaries” which is available on-line: *http://www.epa.gov/chemrtk/pubs/general/robsumgd.htm.*

(j) *Designation of specific chemical substances and testing requirements.* The chemical substances identified by chemical name, Chemical Abstract Service Registry Number (CASRN), and class in Table 2 of this paragraph must be tested in accordance with the requirements designated in Tables 2 and 3 of this paragraph, and the requirements described in 40 CFR part 792—Good Laboratory Practice Standards:



---

[N] [76 FR 1087, Jan. 7, 2011, as amended at 76 FR 4550, Jan. 26, 2011]





