# § 63.1625   What are the performance test and compliance requirements for new, reconstructed, and existing facilities?

(a) *Performance testing.* (1) All performance tests must be conducted according to the requirements in § 63.7.


(2) Each performance test in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section must consist of three separate and complete runs using the applicable test methods.


(3) Each run must be conducted under conditions that are representative of normal process operations.


(4) Performance tests conducted on air pollution control devices serving electric arc furnaces must be conducted such that at least one tapping period, or at least 20 minutes of a tapping period, whichever is less, is included in at least two of the three runs. The sampling time for each run must be at least three times the average tapping period of the tested furnace, but no less than 60 minutes.


(5) You must conduct the performance tests specified in paragraph (c) of this section under such conditions as the Administrator specifies based on representative performance of the affected source for the period being tested. Upon request, you must make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.


(b) *Test methods.* The following test methods in appendices of part 60 or 63 of this chapter or as specified elsewhere must be used to determine compliance with the emission standards.


(1) Method 1 of appendix A-1 of 40 CFR part 60 to select the sampling port location and the number of traverse points.


(2) Method 2 of appendix A-1 of 40 CFR part 60 to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.


(3)(i) Method 3A or 3B of appendix A-2 of 40 CFR part 60 (with integrated bag sampling) to determine the outlet stack and inlet oxygen and CO_2_ content.


(ii) You must measure CO_2_ concentrations at both the inlet and outlet of the positive pressure fabric filter in conjunction with the pollutant sampling in order to determine isokinetic sampling rates.


(iii) As an alternative to EPA Reference Method 3B, ASME PTC-19-10-1981-Part 10 may be used (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).


(4) Method 4 of appendix A-3 of 40 CFR part 60 to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.


(5)(i) Method 5 of appendix A-3 of 40 CFR part 60 to determine the particulate matter concentration of the stack gas for negative pressure baghouses and positive pressure baghouses with stacks.


(ii) Method 5D of appendix A-3 of 40 CFR part 60 to determine particulate matter concentration and volumetric flow rate of the stack gas for positive pressure baghouses without stacks.


(iii) The sample volume for each run must be a minimum of 4.0 cubic meters (141.2 cubic feet). For Method 5 testing only, you may choose to collect less than 4.0 cubic meters per run provided that the filterable mass collected (*i.e.*, net filter mass plus mass of nozzle, probe and filter holder rinses) is equal to or greater than 10 mg. If the total mass collected for two of three of the runs is less than 10 mg, you must conduct at least one additional test run that produces at least 10 mg of filterable mass collected (*i.e.*, at a greater sample volume). Report the results of all test runs.


(6) Method 30B of appendix A-8 of 40 CFR part 60 to measure mercury. Apply the minimum sample volume determination procedures as per the method.


(7)(i) Method 26A of appendix A-8 of 40 CFR part 60 to determine outlet stack or inlet hydrochloric acid concentration.


(ii) Collect a minimum volume of 2 cubic meters.


(8)(i) Method 316 of appendix A of this part to determine outlet stack or inlet formaldehyde.


(ii) Collect a minimum volume of 1.0 cubic meter.


(9) ASTM D7520-16 to determine opacity (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) with the following conditions:


(i) During the digital camera opacity technique (DCOT) certification procedure outlined in Section 9.2 of ASTM D7520-16, you or the DCOT vendor must present the plumes in front of various backgrounds of color and contrast representing conditions anticipated during field use such as blue sky, trees and mixed backgrounds (clouds and/or a sparse tree stand).


(ii) You must have standard operating procedures in place including daily or other frequency quality checks to ensure the equipment is within manufacturing specifications as outlined in Section 8.1 of ASTM D7520-16.


(iii) You must follow the recordkeeping procedures outlined in § 63.10(b)(1) for the DCOT certification, compliance report, data sheets and all raw unaltered JPEGs used for opacity and certification determination.


(iv) You or the DCOT vendor must have a minimum of four (4) independent technology users apply the software to determine the visible opacity of the 300 certification plumes. For each set of 25 plumes, the user may not exceed 20 percent opacity for any one reading and the average error must not exceed 7.5 percent opacity.


(v) Use of this method does not provide or imply a certification or validation of any vendor's hardware or software. The onus to maintain and verify the certification and/or training of the DCOT camera, software and operator in accordance with ASTM D7520-16 and these requirements is on the facility, DCOT operator and DCOT vendor.




(10) Method 23 of Appendix A-7 of 40 CFR part 60 to determine PAH.








(11) The owner or operator may use alternative measurement methods approved by the Administrator following the procedures described in § 63.7(f).


(c) *Compliance demonstration with the emission standards*—(1) *Initial performance test*. You must conduct an initial performance test for air pollution control devices or vent stacks subject to § 63.1623(a), (b)(1), and (c) through (e) to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission standards.


(2) *Periodic performance test*. (i) You must conduct annual particulate matter tests for wet scrubber air pollution control devices subject to § 63.1623(a)(1) to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission standards.


(ii) You must conduct particulate matter tests every 5 years for fabric filter air pollution control devices subject to § 63.1623(a)(1) to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission standards.


(iii) You must conduct annual mercury performance tests for wet scrubber and fabric filter air pollution control devices or vent stacks subject to § 63.1623(a)(2) to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission standards.


(iv) You must conduct PAH performance tests for wet scrubber and fabric filter air pollution control devices or vent stacks subject to § 63.1623(a)(3) to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission standards.


(A) For furnaces producing silicomanganese, you must conduct a PAH performance test every 5 years for each furnace that produces silicomanganese subject to § 63.1623(a)(3).


(B) For furnaces producing ferromanganese, you must conduct a PAH performance test every 3 months or 2,190 cumulative hours of ferromanganese production for each furnace subject to § 63.1623(a)(3).


(C) If a furnace producing ferromanganese demonstrates compliance with four consecutive PAH tests, the owner/operator may petition the permitting authority to request reduced frequency of testing to demonstrate compliance with the PAH emission standards. However, this PAH compliance testing cannot be reduced to less than once per year.


(v) You must conduct ongoing performance tests every 5 years for air pollution control devices or vent stacks subject to § 63.1623(a)(4), (a)(5), (b)(1), and (c) through (e) to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission standards.


(3) Compliance is demonstrated for all sources performing emissions tests if the average concentration for the three runs comprising the performance test does not exceed the standard.


(4) *Operating limits*. You must establish parameter operating limits according to paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section. Unless otherwise specified, compliance with each established operating limit shall be demonstrated for each 24-hour operating day.


(i) For a wet particulate matter scrubber, you must establish the minimum liquid flow rate and pressure drop as your operating limits during the three-run performance test. If you use a wet particulate matter scrubber and you conduct separate performance tests for particulate matter, you must establish one set of minimum liquid flow rate and pressure drop operating limits. If you conduct multiple performance tests, you must set the minimum liquid flow rate and pressure drop operating limits at the highest minimum hourly average values established during the performance tests.


(ii) For a wet acid gas scrubber, you must establish the minimum liquid flow rate and pH, as your operating limits during the three-run performance test. If you use a wet acid gas scrubber and you conduct separate performance tests for hydrochloric acid, you must establish one set of minimum liquid flow rate and pH operating limits. If you conduct multiple performance tests, you must set the minimum liquid flow rate and pH operating limits at the highest minimum hourly average values established during the performance tests.


(iii) For emission sources with fabric filters that choose to demonstrate continuous compliance through bag leak detection systems you must install a bag leak detection system according to the requirements in § 63.1626(d) and you must set your operating limit such that the sum duration of bag leak detection system alarms does not exceed 5 percent of the process operating time during a 6-month period.


(iv) If you choose to demonstrate continuous compliance through a particulate matter CEMS, you must determine an operating limit (particulate matter concentration in mg/dscm) during performance testing for initial particulate matter compliance. The operating limit will be the average of the PM filterable results of the three Method 5 or Method 5D of appendix A-3 of 40 CFR part 60 performance test runs. To determine continuous compliance, the hourly average PM concentrations will be averaged on a rolling 30 operating day basis. Each 30 operating day average will have to meet the PM operating limit.


(d) *Compliance demonstration with shop building opacity standards*. (1)(i) If you are subject to § 63.1623(b), you must conduct opacity observations of the shop building to demonstrate compliance with the applicable opacity standards according to § 63.6(h)(5), which addresses conducting opacity or visible emission observations.


(ii) You must conduct the opacity observations according to ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), for a period that includes at least one complete furnace process cycle for each furnace.


(iii) For a shop building that contains more than one furnace, you must conduct the opacity observations according to ASTM D7520-16 for a period that includes one tapping period from each furnace located in the shop building.


(iv) You must conduct the opacity observations according to ASTM D7520-16 for a 1-hour period that includes at least one pouring for each MOR located in the shop building.


(v) You must conduct the opacity observations at least once per week for each shop building containing one or more furnaces or MOR.


(vi) You may reduce the frequency of observations to once per month for each shop building that demonstrates compliance with the weekly 8-percent opacity limit for 26 consecutive complete observations that span a period of at least 26 weeks. Any monthly observation in excess of 8-percent opacity will return that shop building opacity observation to a weekly compliance schedule. You may reduce the frequency of observations again to once per month for each shop building that demonstrates compliance with the weekly 8-percent opacity limit after another 26 consecutive complete observations that span a period of at least 26 weeks.


(2) You must determine shop building opacity operating parameters based on either monitoring data collected during the compliance demonstration or established in an engineering assessment.


(i) If you choose to establish parameters based on the initial compliance demonstration, you must simultaneously monitor parameter values for one of the following: The capture system fan motor amperes and all capture system damper positions, the total volumetric flow rate to the air pollution control device and all capture system damper positions, or volumetric flow rate through each separately ducted hood that comprises the capture system. Subsequently you must monitor these parameters according to § 63.1626(g) and ensure they remain within 10 percent of the value recorded during the compliant opacity readings.


(ii) If you choose to establish parameters based on an engineering assessment, then a design analysis shall include, for example, specifications, drawings, schematics and ventilation system diagrams prepared by the owner or operator or capture or control system manufacturer or vendor that describes the shop building opacity system ventilation design based on acceptable engineering texts. The design analysis shall address vent stream characteristics and ventilation system design operating parameters such as fan amps, damper position, flow rate and/or other specified parameters.


(iii) You may petition the Administrator to reestablish these parameter ranges whenever you can demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that the electric arc furnace or MOR operating conditions upon which the parameter ranges were previously established are no longer applicable. The values of these parameter ranges determined during the most recent demonstration of compliance must be maintained at the appropriate level for each applicable period.


(3) You will demonstrate continuing compliance with the opacity standards by following the monitoring requirements specified in § 63.1626(g) and the reporting and recordkeeping requirements specified in § 63.1628(b)(5).


(e) *Compliance demonstration with the operational and work practice standards*—(1) *Process fugitive emissions sources.* You will demonstrate compliance by developing and maintaining a process fugitives ventilation plan, by reporting any deviations from the plan and by taking necessary corrective actions to correct deviations or deficiencies.


(2) *Outdoor fugitive dust sources.* You will demonstrate compliance by developing and maintaining an outdoor fugitive dust control plan, by reporting any deviations from the plan and by taking necessary corrective actions to correct deviations or deficiencies.


(3) *Baghouses equipped with bag leak detection systems.* You will demonstrate compliance with the bag leak detection system requirements by developing an analysis and supporting documentation demonstrating conformance with EPA guidance and specifications for bag leak detection systems in § 60.57c(h) of this chapter.



---

[N] [80 FR 37390, June 30, 2015, as amended at 82 FR 5408, Jan. 18, 2017; 88 FR 16773, Mar. 20, 2023]




