# § 1321.2   Definitions.

The following terms, as used in this part, are defined as follows:


*Accurate,* when used with respect to statistical activities, means statistics are correct and consistently match the events and trends being measured.


*Agency* means any entity that falls within the definition of the term *executive agency,* as defined in 31 U.S.C. 102, or *agency,* as defined in 44 U.S.C. 3502.


*Chief Statistician of the United States* means the Chief Statistician appointed under 44 U.S.C. 3504(e)(7).


*Component* means a sub-agency, office, unit, bureau, or other distinct entity when that entity is within an agency that contains a Recognized Statistical Agency or Unit.


*Confidential statistical data* means any information that is acquired for exclusively statistical purposes and under an obligation not to disclose the information to an unauthorized party.


*Confidentiality* means a quality or condition accorded to information as an obligation not to disclose that information to an unauthorized party.


*Core component* means any support component and any component that performs any agency-wide function, such as the offices of Chief Data Officer, Evaluation Officer, Senior Agency Official for Privacy, Chief Information Officer, Chief FOIA Officer, and similar functions.


*Data users* means individuals or groups of individuals who use Federal statistical information.


*Dissemination* means the government-initiated distribution of information to a nongovernment entity, including the public. The term dissemination does not include distribution limited to Federal Government employees, intra-agency or interagency use or sharing of Federal information, or responses to requests for agency records under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) or the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a).


*Equitable access* means that statistical products are disseminated in a manner that does not privilege any one person or group over another, with exceptions only as provided in statutes, rules, or Office of Management and Budget-promulgated policies or guidance.


*Fundamental responsibilities* means the responsibilities of Recognized Statistical Agencies and Units listed in 44 U.S.C. 3563(a)(1).


*Identifiable form* means any representation of information that permits the identity of the individual or entity to whom the information applies to be reasonably inferred by either direct or indirect means.


*Information* means any communication or representation of knowledge such as facts or data, in any medium or form, including textual, numerical, graphic, cartographic, narrative, or audiovisual forms. This definition includes information that an agency disseminates from a web page, but does not include the provision of hyperlinks to information that others disseminate. This definition does not include opinions, where the agency's presentation makes it clear that what is being offered is someone's opinion rather than fact or the agency's views.


*Information provider* denotes members of the public; other agencies of the Federal Government; and organizations outside of the Federal Government, such as State, local, territorial, and Tribal governments, businesses, and other organizations or entities, that provide information to a Recognized Statistical Agency or Unit.


*Information system* means a discrete set of information resources organized for the collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of information.


*Integrity,* when used with respect to statistical information, refers to the quality of information that is protected against improper modification or destruction, and includes ensuring information nonrepudiation and authenticity.


*Nonstatistical purpose*—


(1) Means the use of data in identifiable form for any purpose that is not a statistical purpose, including any administrative, regulatory, law enforcement, adjudicatory, or other purpose that affects the rights, privileges, or benefits of a particular identifiable respondent; and


(2) Includes the disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552 of data that are acquired for exclusively statistical purposes under an obligation of confidentiality.


*Objective,* when used with respect to statistical activities, means accurate, clear, complete, and unbiased.


*Parent agency* means the following components in an agency that contains a Recognized Statistical Agency or Unit: the parent agency head, each organizational level within the agency under which the Recognized Statistical Agency or Unit is positioned, and each core component.


*Parent agency head* means the head of the highest organizational level of an agency that contains a Recognized Statistical Agency or Unit.


*Recognized Statistical Agency or Unit* means an agency or organizational unit of the executive branch whose activities are predominantly the collection, compilation, processing, or analysis of information for statistical purposes, as designated by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3562.


*Reference date* is the time period to which data refer.


*Relevant,* when used with respect to statistical information, means processes, activities, and other such matters likely to be useful to policymakers and public and private sector data users.


*Respondent* means a person who, or organization that, is requested or required to supply information to an agency, is the subject of information requested or required to be supplied to an agency or provides that information to an agency.


*Statistical activities* means the collection, compilation, processing, or analysis of data for the purpose of describing or making estimates concerning the whole of, or relevant groups or components within, the economy, society, or the natural environment and includes the development of methods or resources that support those activities, such as measurement methods, models, statistical classifications, or sampling frames.


*Statistical information* means information produced from statistical activities.


*Statistical laws* means 44 U.S.C. chapter 35, subchapter III, and other laws pertaining to the protection of information collected for statistical purposes as designated by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.


*Statistical press release* is an announcement to media of a statistical product release that contains the title, subject matter, release date, internet address of, and other available information about the statistical product, as well as the name of the Recognized Statistical Agency or Unit issuing the product and may include any executive summary information or key findings section as shown in the statistical product. A statistical press release is one that provides a policy neutral description of the data and does not include policy pronouncements.


*Statistical products* means information dissemination products that are published or otherwise made available for public use that describe, estimate, forecast, or analyze the characteristics of groups, customarily without identifying the persons or organizations that comprise such groups or individual data observations with respect to those persons or organizations. Statistical products include general-purpose tabulations, analyses, projections, forecasts, or other statistical reports. Statistical products include products of any form, including both printed and electronic forms.


*Statistical purpose*—


(1) Means the description, estimation, or analysis of the characteristics of groups, without identifying the individuals or organizations that comprise such groups; and


(2) Includes the development, implementation, or maintenance of methods, technical or administrative procedures, or information resources that support the purposes described in paragraph (1) of this definition.


*Support component* means a component that supports the programmatic functions in achieving the agency's mission, including legal, human resources, communications, legislative affairs, budget, information technology (IT), or procurement functions, but excludes any component of a Recognized Statistical Agency or Unit.


*Timeliness* or *timely* refers to the dissemination of statistical products and information at their scheduled release time or, in instances where there is no scheduled release time, the dissemination of statistical products or information as close to the event being measured as possible.


*Transparent* means characterized by providing as much information about the quality of and methods used to produce statistical products as practicable without compromising confidentiality.






