# ยง 51d.6   How will applications be evaluated and awarded?

(a) In assessing applications for funding, the Secretary will utilize the following criteria.


(1) *Documentation of Need.* Applicant has demonstrated mental health and/or substance abuse needs directly resulting from the precipitating event. The precipitating event is clearly identified along with information regarding its impact. Applicant has identified any high risk groups or populations with special concerns that may impact the delivery of services (e.g., children, adolescents, older adults, ethnic and cultural groups, lower income populations). This documentation of need shall include the extent of physical, psychological and social problems observed, and a description of how the estimate of the number of people to be served was made. Applicant has clearly documented that no other local, State, Tribal or Federal funding sources are available to address the need.


(2) *Plan of Services.* Applicant has a clear plan of services to address documented needs within a defined geographic area and in a specified time period. The plan of services is appropriate to the type of grant requested (e.g., Immediate or Intermediate) and specifically addresses the needs of any high risk groups or populations with special concerns identified in the assessment of need. The plan of services clearly identifies the following:


(a) The types of services to be provided (e.g., outreach, crisis counseling, public education on stress management and crisis mental health, public education on substance abuse prevention, information and referral services, short term substance abuse or mental health prevention and/or treatment services);


(b) Strategies for targeting those identified as needing services, including high risk groups or populations with special concerns identified in the needs assessment;


(c) Appropriate training to be provided to staff to assure that services are appropriate to the crisis situation and the plans for community recovery;


(d) Quality control methods in place to assure appropriate services to the target population;


(e) Staff support mechanisms that are available;


(f) Plans for coordination of services with key local, State, Tribal and Federal partners involved in addressing the precipitating event (e.g., emergency management agencies, law enforcement, education agencies, public health agencies, and other agencies active in crisis response); and


(g) An estimate of the length of time for which said services requiring Federal funding will be needed, and the manner in which long-term cases will be referred for continued assistance after Federal funds have ended.


(3) *Organizational Capability.* Applicant is a public entity with demonstrated organizational capacity to deliver services as described in the plan of services. The applicant should also have a demonstrated history of service delivery to the target population within the defined service area for the program. The budget submitted shall provide sufficient justification and demonstrate that it is consistent with the documentation of need and plan of services. This shall include a description of the facilities to be utilized, including plans for securing office space if necessary to the project.


(b) In determining the appropriateness and necessity of funding, the Secretary may consult with other Federal agencies responsible for responding to crisis incidents, including the Readiness, Response and Recovery Directorate within the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the Safe and Drug Free Schools Program within the U.S. Department of Education, the Office for Victims of Crime (OVC) within the U.S. Department of Justice, the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) within the U.S. Department of Transportation, the Emergency Response Program within the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) within the U.S. Department of the Interior, the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service within the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Indian Health Service (IHS) within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and other Federal agencies with jurisdiction over specific types of crisis response.




