# ยง 2570.32   Persons who may apply for exemptions and the administrative record.

(a) The following persons may apply for exemptions:


(1) Any party in interest to a plan who is or may be a party to the exemption transaction;


(2) Any plan which is a party to the exemption transaction; or


(3) In the case of an application for an exemption covering a class of parties in interest or a class of transactions, in addition to any person described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, an association or organization representing parties in interest who may be parties to the exemption transaction.


(b) An application by or for a person described in paragraph (a) of this section may be submitted by the applicant or by an authorized representative. An application submitted by an authorized representative of the applicant must include proof of authority in the form of:


(1) A power of attorney; or


(2) A written certification from the applicant that the representative is authorized to file the application.


(c) If the authorized representative of an applicant submits an exemption application to the Department together with proof of authority to file the application as required by paragraph (b) of this section, the Department will direct all correspondence and inquiries concerning the application to the representative unless requested to do otherwise by the applicant.


(d)(1) The administrative record is open for public inspection, pursuant to ยง 2570.51(a), from the date an applicant submits an application to the Office of Exemption Determinations.


(2) The administrative record includes, but is not limited to, the initial exemption application and any modifications or supplements thereto; all correspondence with the applicant after the applicant submits the exemption application; and any information provided by the applicant in connection with the exemption application, whether provided orally or in writing (as well as any comments and testimony received by the Department in connection with an application).


(3) Although the administrative record is open and available to the public only after an applicant submits an exemption application, the record includes any material documents or supporting information that was submitted to the Department in connection with the subject transaction of the application, whether orally or in writing, before formal submission of the application. The administrative record does not include records of communications with the Department which were either not with respect to the subject transaction of the application or not followed by the submission of an exemption application related to those communications.


(4) If documents are required to be provided in writing, by either the applicant or the Department, the documents may be provided either by mail or electronically, unless otherwise indicated by the Department at its sole discretion.






