# § 440.182   State plan home and community-based services.

(a) *Definition.* State plan home and community-based services (HCBS) benefit means the services listed in paragraph (c) of this section when provided under the State's plan (rather than through an HCBS waiver program) for individuals described in paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *State plan HCBS coverage.* State plan HCBS can be made available to individuals who—


(1) Are eligible under the State plan and have income, calculated using the otherwise applicable rules, including any less restrictive income disregards used by the State for that group under section 1902(r)(2) of the Act, that does not exceed 150 percent of the Federal Poverty Line (FPL); and


(2) In addition to the individuals described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, to individuals based on the State's election of the eligibility groups described in § 435.219(b) or § 436.219(b) of this chapter.


(c) *Services.* The State plan HCBS benefit consists of one or more of the following services:


(1) Case management services.


(2) Homemaker services.


(3) Home health aide services.


(4) Personal care services.


(5) Adult day health services.


(6) Habilitation services, which include expanded habilitation services as specified in § 440.180(c).


(7) Respite care services.


(8) Subject to the conditions in § 440.180(d)(2), for individuals with chronic mental illness:


(i) Day treatment or other partial hospitalization services;


(ii) Psychosocial rehabilitation services;


(iii) Clinic services (whether or not furnished in a facility).


(9) Other services requested by the agency and approved by the Secretary as consistent with the purpose of the benefit.


(d) *Exclusion.* FFP is not available for the cost of room and board in State plan HCBS. The following HCBS costs are not considered room or board for purposes of this exclusion:


(1) The cost of temporary food and shelter provided as an integral part of respite care services in a facility approved by the State.


(2) Meals provided as an integral component of a program of adult day health services or another service and consistent with standard procedures in the State for such a program.


(3) A portion of the rent and food costs that may be reasonably attributed to an unrelated caregiver providing State plan HCBS who is residing in the same household with the recipient, but not if the recipient is living in the home of the caregiver or in a residence that is owned or leased by the caregiver.



---

[N] [79 FR 3029, Jan. 16, 2014]




