# ยง 1312.29   Destruction.

The destruction of classified material will be accomplished under the direction of the TSCO or the appropriate ATSCO, who will assure that proper accountability records are kept. Classified official record material will be processed to the Information Systems and Technology, Records Management Office, Office of Administration, NEOB Room 5208, in accordance with OMB Manual Section 540. Classified nonrecord material will be destroyed as soon as it becomes excess to the needs of the office. The following destruction methods are authorized: 


(a) *Shredding.* Using the equipment approved for that purpose within OMB offices. Shredders will not accommodate typewriter ribbons or cassettes. Shredding is the only authorized means of Destroying Top Secret material. 


(b) *Burn bag.* Classified documents, cassettes, ribbons, and other materials at the Secret level or below, not suitable for shredding, may be destroyed by using burn bags, which can be obtained from the supply store. They will be disposed of as follows: 


(1) *OEOB.* Unless on an approved list for pick-up of burn bags, all other burn bags should be delivered to Room 096, OEOB between 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. Burn bags are not to be left in hallways. 


(2) *NEOB.* Hours for delivery of burn bag materials to the NEOB Loading Dock Shredder Room are Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 9:30 a.m.; 10:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m.; 11:45 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. and 2:00 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. The phone number of the Shredder Room is 395-1593. In the event the Shredder Room is not manned, do not leave burn bags outside the Shredder Room as the security of that material may be compromised. 


(3) Responsibility for the security of the burn bag remains with the OMB office until it is handed over to the authorized representative at the shredder room. Accountability records will be adjusted after the burn bags have been delivered. Destruction actions will be recorded on OMB Form 87 by the division TSCO or by the appropriate ATSCO at the time the destruction is accomplished or at the time the burn bag is delivered to the U.D. Officer. 


(c) *Technical guidance.* Technical guidance concerning appropriate methods, equipment, and standards for destruction of electronic classified media, processing equipment components and the like, may be obtained by submitting all pertinent information to NSA/CSS Directorate for Information Systems Security, Ft. Meade, Maryland 20755. Specifications concerning appropriate equipment and standards for destruction of other storage media may be obtained from the General Services Administration. 




