# § 62.14356   Compliance schedules and increments of progress.

(a) *Increments of progress.* The owner or operator of a designated facility that has a design capacity equal to or greater than 2.5 million megagrams and 2.5 million cubic meters and a nonmethane organic compound emission rate greater than or equal to 50 megagrams per year must achieve the increments of progress specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section to install air pollution control devices to meet the emission standards specified in § 62.14353(b) of this subpart. (Refer to § 62.14351 for a definition of each increment of progress.)


(1) Submit control plan: Submit a final control plan (collection and control system design plan) according to the requirements of § 62.14353(b) of this subpart and 40 CFR 60.752(b)(2).


(2) Award contract(s): Award contract(s) to initiate on-site construction or initiate on-site installation of emission collection and/or control equipment.


(3) Initiate on-site construction: Initiate on-site construction or initiate on-site installation of emission collection and/or control equipment as described in the EPA-approved final control plan.


(4) Complete on-site construction: Complete on-site construction and installation of emission collection and/or control equipment.


(5) Achieve final compliance: Complete construction in accordance with the design specified in the EPA-approved final control plan and connect the landfill gas collection system and air pollution control equipment such that they are fully operating. The initial performance test must be conducted within 180 days after the date the facility is required to achieve final compliance.


(b) *Compliance date.* For each designated facility that has a design capacity equal to or greater than 2.5 million megagrams and 2.5 million cubic meters and a nonmethane organic compound emission rate greater than or equal to 50 Mg per year, planning, awarding of contracts, and installation of municipal solid waste landfill air emission collection and control equipment capable of meeting the standards in § 62.14353(b) must be accomplished within 30 months after the date the initial emission rate report (or the annual emission rate report) first shows that the nonmethane organic compounds emission rate equals or exceeds 50 megagrams per year.


(c) *Compliance schedules.* The owner or operator of a designated facility that has a design capacity equal to or greater than 2.5 million megagrams and 2.5 million cubic meters and a nonmethane organic compound emission rate greater than or equal to 50 megagrams per year must achieve the increments of progress specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section according to the schedule specified in paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section, unless a site-specific schedule is approved by EPA.


(1) The owner or operator of a designated facility must achieve the increments of progress according to the schedule in table 3 of this subpart, except for those affected facilities specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Once this subpart becomes effective on January 7, 2000, any designated facility to which this subpart applies will remain subject to the schedule in table 3 if a subsequently approved State or Tribal plan contains a less stringent schedule, (*i.e.,* a schedule that provides more time to comply with increments 1, 4 and/or 5 than does this Federal plan).


(2) The owner or operator of the specified designated facility in table 4 of this subpart must achieve the increments of progress according to the schedule in table 4 of this subpart.


(d) For designated facilities that are subject to the schedule requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the owner or operator (or the State or Tribal air pollution control authority) may submit to the appropriate EPA Regional Office for approval alternative dates for achieving increments 2 and 3.




