# § 613.2   Requesting access to records.

(a) *Where to make a request.* You may make a request for access to NSF records about yourself by appearing in person at the National Science Foundation or by making a written request. If you choose to visit the Foundation, you must contact the NSF Security Desk and ask to speak with the Foundation's Privacy Act Officer of the General Counsel. Written requests should be sent to the NSF Privacy Act Officer, National Science Foundation, 4201 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 1265, Arlington, VA 22230. Written requests are recommended, since in many cases it may take several days to determine whether a record exists, and additional time may be required for record(s) retrieval and processing.


(b) *Description of requested records.* You must describe the records that you seek in enough detail to enable NSF personnel to locate the system of records containing them with a reasonable amount of effort. Providing information about the purpose for which the information was collected, applicable time periods, and name or identifying number of each system of records in which you think records about you may be kept, will help speed the processing of your request. NSF publishes notices in the _Federal Register_ that describe the systems of records maintained by the Foundation. The Office of the Federal Register publishes a biennial “Privacy Act compilation” that includes NSF system notices. This compilation is available in many large reference and university libraries, and can be accessed electronically at the Government Printing Office's Web site at *www.access.gpo/su_docs/aces/PrivacyAct.shtml.*

(c) *Verification of identity.* When requesting access to records about yourself, NSF requires that you verify your identity in an appropriate fashion. Individuals appearing in person should be prepared to show reasonable picture identification such as driver's license, government or other employment identification card, or passport. Written requests must state your full name and current address. you must sign your request and your signature must either be notarized, or submitted by you under 28 U.S.C. 1746, a law that permits statements to be made under penalty of perjury as a substitute for notarization. While no specific form is required, you may obtain information about these required elements for requests from the NSF Privacy Act Officer, Suite 1265, 4201 Wilson Blvd, Arlington, VA 22230, or from the NSF Home Page under “Public & media Information—FOIA and Privacy Act” at *http://www.nsf.gov/home/pubinfo/foia.htm.* In order to help agency personnel in locating and identifying requested records, you may also, at your option, include your social security number, and/or date and place of birth. An individual reviewing his or her record(s) in person may be accompanied by an individual of his or her choice after signing a written statement authorizing that individual's presence. Individuals requesting or authorizing the disclosure of records to a third party must verify their identity and specifically name the third party and identify the information to be disclosed.


(d) *Verification of guardianship.* When making a request as the parent or guardian of a minor or as the guardian of someone determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be incompetent, for access to records about that individual, you must establish:


(1) The identity of the record subject, by stating individuals' name and current address and, at your option, the social security number and/or date and place of birth of the individual;


(2) Your own identity, as required in paragraph (c) of this section;


(3) That you are the parent or guardian of that individual, which you may prove by providing a copy of the individual's birth certificate showing your parentage or by providing a court order establishing your guardianship; and


(4) That you are acting on behalf of that individual in making the request.


(e) The procedures of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section shall also apply to requests made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3).




