# § 90.548   Interoperability Technical Standards.

(a) Transmitters designed after August 11, 2014 to operate on the narrowband interoperability achannels in the 769-775 and 799-805 MHz band (*see* § 90.531) shall conform to the following technical standards (transmitters certified prior to this date are grandfathered):


(1) Transmitters designed for voice operation shall include a 12.5 kilohertz bandwidth mode of operation conforming to the following standards: ANSI/TIA-102.BAAA-A-2003 and ANSI/TIA-102.BABA-2003.


(2) Transmitters designed for data transmission shall include a 12.5 kilohertz bandwidth mode of operation conforming to the following standards: ANSI/TIA-102.BAEA-B-2012, ANSI/TIA-102.BAAA-A-2003, ANSI/TIA-102.BAEB-A-2005, and ANSI/TIA-102.BAEE-B-2010.


(b) *Incorporation by reference.* The material listed in this paragraph (b) is incorporated by reference in this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the FCC and the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the FCC through the Federal Communications Commission's Reference Information Center, phone: (202) 418-0270. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html* or email *fr.inspection@nara.gov.* The material may be obtained from the following source in this paragraph (b):


(1) TIA/EIA, 2500 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, VA 22201 703-907-7974. These standards are also available from Global Engineering Documents, 15 Inverness Way East, Englewood, CO 80112; or the American National Standards Institute, 25 West 43rd Street, Fourth Floor, New York, NY 10036, *www.ansi.org.*

(i) ANSI/TIA-102.BAAA-A-2003, Project 25 FDMA-Common Air Interface, approved September 2003.


(ii) ANSI/TIA-102.BABA-2003, Project 25 Vocoder Description, approved December 2003.


(iii) ANSI/TIA-102.BAEA-B-2012, Project 25 Data Overview—New Technology Standards Project—Digital Radio Technical Standards, approved June 2012.


(iv) ANSI/TIA-102.BAEB-A-2005, Project 25 Packet Data Specification—New Technology Standards Project—Digital Radio Technical Standards, approved March 2005.


(v) ANSI/TIA-102.BAEE-B-2010, Project 25 Radio Management Protocols—New Technology Standards Project—Digital Radio Technical Standards, approved May 2010.


(2) [Reserved]


(c) Transceivers capable of operating on the narrowband Interoperability channels listed in § 90.531(b)(1) shall not be marketed or sold unless the transceiver has previously been certified for interoperability by the Compliance Assessment Program (CAP) administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security; provided, however, that this requirement is suspended if the CAP is discontinued. Submission of a 700 MHz narrowband radio for certification will constitute a representation by the manufacturer that the radio will be shown, by testing, to be interoperable across vendors before it is marketed or sold. In the alternative, manufacturers may employ their own protocol for verifying compliance with Project 25 standards and determining that their product is interoperable among vendors. In the event that field experience reveals that a transceiver is not interoperable, the Commission may require the manufacturer thereof to provide evidence of compliance with this section.


(d) Transceivers capable of conventional operations on the narrowband Interoperability channels listed in § 90.531(b)(1) must, at a minimum, include the following feature sets and capabilities while operating in the conventional mode to be validated for compliance with the Project 25 standards consistent with § 2.1033(c)(20) of this chapter and paragraph (c) of this section.


(1) A subscriber unit must be capable of issuing group calls in a conventional system in conformance with the following standards: TIA 102.BAAD-B Conventional Procedures (2015), Section 6.1 with validation testing according to TIA-102.CABA Interoperability Testing for Voice Operation in Conventional Systems (2010), Test Case 2.2.2.4.1, and Test Case 2.4.2.4.1.


(2) Two Project 25 standard squelch modes, Monitor Squelch and Normal Squelch, must be supported in conformance with the following standards: TIA 102.BAAD-B Conventional Procedures (2015), Section 6.1.1.3 with validation testing according to TIA-102.CABA Conventional Interoperability Testing for Voice Operation in Conventional Systems (2010), Test Case 2.2.3.4.1, Test Case 2.2.1.4.1 (Direct, normal squelch), Test Case 2.4.9.4.1 (Repeated, monitor squelch), and Test Case 2.4.1.4.1 (Repeated, normal squelch).


(3) A subscriber unit must properly implement conventional network access codes values (NAC) of $293 and $F7E in conformance with the following standards: TIA-102.BAAC-C Common Air Interface Reserved Values (2011), Section 2.1 with validation testing according to TIA-102.CABA Interoperability Testing for Voice Operation in Conventional Systems (2010), Test Case 2.2.1.4.1 and Test Case 2.2.8.4.1.


(4) A fixed conventional repeater must be able to repeat the correct/matching network access code (NAC) for all subscriber call types (clear and encrypted) using the same output NAC in conformance with the following standards: TIA 102.BAAD-B Conventional Procedures (2015), Section 2.5 with validation testing according to TIA-102.CABA Interoperability Testing for Voice Operation in Conventional Systems (2010), Test Case 2.4.1.4.1, and Test Case 2.4.2.4.1.


(5) A fixed conventional repeater must be able to repeat the correct/matching network access code (NAC) for all subscriber call types (clear and encrypted) using a different output NAC in conformance with the following standards: TIA 102.BAAD-B Conventional Procedures (2015), Section 2.5 with validation testing according to TIA-102.CABA Interoperability Testing for Voice Operation in Conventional Systems (2010), Test Case 2.4.3.4.1 and Test Case 2.4.4.4.1.


(6) A fixed conventional repeater must be able to reject (no repeat) all input transmissions with incorrect network access code (NAC) in conformance with the following standard: TIA 102.BAAD-B Conventional Procedures (2015), Section 2.5 with validation testing according to TIA-102.CABA Interoperability Testing for Voice Operation in Conventional Systems (2010), Test Case 2.4.1.4.1, and Test Case 2.4.2.4.1.


(7) A fixed conventional repeater must be able to support the correct implementation of network access code (NAC) values $F7E and $F7F in conformance with the following standards: TIA 102.BAAD-B Conventional Procedures (2015), Section 2.5 with validation testing according to TIA-102.CABA Interoperability Testing for Voice Operation in Conventional Systems (2010), Test Case 2.4.5.4.1, Test Case 2.4.6.4.1, and Test Case 2.4.7.4.1.



---

[N] [79 FR 39340, July 10, 2014, as amended at 79 FR 71326, Dec. 2, 2014; 83 FR 30367, June 28, 2018; 85 FR 64410, Oct. 13, 2020; 88 FR 21450, Apr. 10, 2023]




