# ยง 13.42   Taking of wildlife in national preserves.

(a) Hunting and trapping are allowed in national preserves in accordance with applicable Federal and non-conflicting State law and regulation.


(b) Violating a provision of either Federal or non-conflicting State law or regulation is prohibited.


(c) Engaging in trapping activities as the employee of another person is prohibited.


(d) It shall be unlawful for a person having been airborne to use a firearm or any other weapon to take or assist in taking any species of bear, caribou, Sitka black-tailed deer, elk, coyote, arctic and red fox, mountain goat, moose, Dall sheep, lynx, bison, musk ox, wolf and wolverine until after 3 a.m. on the day following the day in which the flying occurred. This prohibition does not apply to flights on regularly scheduled commercial airlines between regularly maintained public airports.


(e) Persons transporting wildlife through park areas must identify themselves and the location where the wildlife was taken when requested by NPS law enforcement personnel.


(f) Using bait is prohibited except for taking furbearers with a trap under a trapping license. Using bait to attract or take bears is prohibited.


(g) [Reserved]


(h) The Superintendent may prohibit or restrict the non-subsistence taking of wildlife in accordance with the provisions of ยง 13.50.


(i) A person may not intentionally obstruct or hinder another person's lawful hunting or trapping by:


(1) Placing oneself in a location in which human presence may alter the behavior of the game that another person is attempting to take or the imminent feasibility of taking game by another person; or


(2) Creating a visual, aural, olfactory, or physical stimulus in order to alter the behavior of the game that another person is attempting to take.


(j) Collecting, capturing, or possessing living wildlife is prohibited unless expressly authorized by federal statute or pursuant to ยง 2.5 of this chapter. A falconry permit or other permit issued by the State of Alaska does not provide the required authorization. These collecting activities are not hunting or trapping activities and therefore are not allowed in national preserves under paragraph (a) of this section. This regulation does not prohibit the use of trained raptors for hunting activities where authorized by applicable federal and state law.


(k) The paragraphs of this section are separate and severable from one another. If any paragraph or portion of this section is stayed or determined to be invalid, or the applicability of any paragraph of this section to any person or entity is held invalid, it is NPS's intention that the validity of the remainder of those parts shall not be affected, with the remaining sections to continue in effect.



---

[N] [80 FR 64343, Oct. 23, 2015, as amended at 82 FR 3632, Jan. 12, 2017; 85 FR 35191, June 9, 2020; 89 FR 55072, July 3, 2024]






