# ยง 15.2   Definitions.

The following definitions apply in this part.


*Applicant.* An individual or organization that manufactures or controls the production of an explosive or an explosive unit and that applies to MSHA for approval of that explosive or explosive unit.


*Approval.* A document issued by MSHA which states that an explosive or explosive unit has met the requirements of this part and which authorizes an approval marking identifying the explosive or explosive unit as approved as permissible.


*Explosive.* A substance, compound, or mixture, the primary purpose of which is to function by explosion.


*Extension of approval.* A document issued by MSHA which states that the change to an explosive or explosive unit previously approved by MSHA under this part meets the requirements of this part and which authorizes the continued use of the approval marking after the appropriate extension number has been added.


*Minimum product firing temperature.* The lowest product temperature at which the explosive or explosive unit is approved for use under this part.


*Post-approval product audit.* Examination, testing, or both, by MSHA of approved explosives or explosive units selected by MSHA to determine whether they meet the technical requirements and have been manufactured as approved.


*Sheath.* A chemical compound or mixture incorporated in a sheathed explosive unit and which forms a flame inhibiting cloud on detonation of the explosive.


*Sheathed explosive unit.* A device consisting of an approved or permissible explosive covered by a sheath encased in a sealed covering and designed to be fired outside the confines of a borehole.


*Test detonator.* An instantaneous detonator that has a strength equivalent to that of a detonator with a base charge of 0.40-0.45 grams PETN.



---

[N] [53 FR 46761, Nov. 18, 1988; 54 FR 351, Jan. 5, 1989]




