# § 60.5395c   What GHG standards apply to pump designated facilities?

Each pump designated facility, you must comply with the GHG standards in this section.


(a) For each pump designated facility meeting the criteria specified in paragraphs (a)(1) or (2) of this section, you must design and operate the pump designated facility with zero methane emissions to the atmosphere. If you comply by routing the pump designated facility emissions to a process, the emissions must be routed to the process through a closed vent system.


(1) The pump designated facility is located at a site that has access to electrical power.


(2) The pump designated facility is located at a site that does not have access to electrical power and also has three or more natural gas-driven diaphragm pumps.


(b)(1) For each pump designated facility located at a site that does not have access to electrical power and that also has fewer than three natural gas-driven diaphragm pumps, you must comply with paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(4) through (8) of this section.


(2) Emissions from the pump designated facility must be routed through a closed vent system to a process if a vapor recovery unit is onsite.


(3) If a vapor recovery unit is not onsite, you must reduce methane emissions from the pump designated facility by 95.0 percent. You must route designated pump facility emissions through a closed vent system to a control device meeting the conditions specified in § 60.5412c.


(4) You are not required to install an emissions control device or a vapor recovery unit, if such a unit is necessary to enable emissions to be routed to a process, solely for the purpose of complying with the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2) or (3) of this section. If no control device capable of achieving a 95.0 percent emissions reduction and no vapor recovery unit is present on site, you must comply with paragraph (b)(5) or (6) of this section, as applicable. For the purposes of this section, boilers and process heaters are not considered to be control devices.


(5) If an emissions control device is on site but is unable to achieve a 95.0 percent emissions reduction, you must route the pump designated facility emissions through a closed vent system to that control device. You must certify that there is no vapor recovery unit on site and that there is no control device capable of achieving a 95.0 percent emissions reduction on site.


(6) If there is no vapor recovery unit on site and no emission control device is on site, you must certify that there is no vapor recovery unit or emissions control device on site. If you subsequently install a control device or vapor recovery unit, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) You must be in compliance with the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable, within 30 days of startup of the control device or vapor recovery unit.


(ii) You must maintain the records in § 60.5420c(c)(14)(ii) and (v), as applicable. You are no longer required to maintain the records in § 60.5420c(c)(14)(v) certifying that there is no vapor recovery unit or control device on site.


(7) If an owner or operator complying with paragraph (b)(1) of this section determines, through an engineering assessment, that routing the pump designated facility emissions to a control device or to a process is technically infeasible, the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section must be met.


(i) The owner or operator must conduct the assessment of technical infeasibility in accordance with the criteria in paragraph (b)(7)(ii) of this section and have it certified by either a qualified professional engineer or an in-house engineer with expertise on the design and operation of the pump designated facility and the control device or processes at the site in accordance with paragraph (b)(7)(iii) of this section.


(ii) The assessment of technical infeasibility to route emissions from the pump designated facility to an existing control device or process must include, but is not limited to, safety considerations, distance from the control device or process, pressure losses and differentials in the closed vent system, and the ability of the control device or process to handle the pump designated facility emissions which are routed to them. The assessment of technical infeasibility must be prepared under the direction or supervision of the qualified professional engineer or in-house engineer who signs the certification in accordance with paragraph (b)(7)(iii) of this section.


(iii) The following certification, signed and dated by the qualified professional engineer or in-house engineer, must state: “I certify that the assessment of technical infeasibility was prepared under my direction or supervision. I further certify that the assessment was conducted and this report was prepared pursuant to the requirements of § 60.5395c(b)(7)(ii). Based on my professional knowledge and experience, and inquiry of personnel involved in the assessment, the certification submitted herein is true, accurate, and complete.”


(8) If the pump designated facility emissions are routed to a control device or process and the control device or process is subsequently removed from the location or is no longer available such that there is no option to route to a control device or process, you are no longer required to be in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section, and instead must comply with paragraph (b)(6) of this section.


(c) If you use a control device or route to a process to reduce emissions, you must route the pump designated facility emissions through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411c(a) and (c).


(d) You must demonstrate initial compliance with standards that apply to pump designated facilities as required by § 60.5410c(f).


(e) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the standards that apply to pump designated facilities as required by § 60.5415c(d).


(f) You must perform the reporting as required by § 60.5420c(b)(1), (9), and (b)(10) through (12), as applicable, and the recordkeeping as required by § 60.5420c(c)(7), (c)(9) through (12), and (14), as applicable.



---

[N] [89 FR 17043, Mar. 8, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 62920, Aug. 1, 2024]






