# § 63.424   Standards: Equipment leaks.

(a) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station subject to the provisions of this subpart shall implement a leak detection and repair program for all equipment in gasoline service according to the requirements in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, as applicable in paragraph (e) of this section and minimize gasoline vapor losses according to paragraph (d) of this section.


(b) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station subject to the provisions of this subpart shall perform a monthly leak inspection of all equipment in gasoline service. For this inspection, detection methods incorporating sight, sound, and smell are acceptable. Each piece of equipment shall be inspected during the loading of a gasoline cargo tank.


(1) A logbook shall be used and shall be signed by the owner or operator at the completion of each inspection. A section of the log shall contain a list, summary description, or diagram(s) showing the location of all equipment in gasoline service at the facility.


(2) Each detection of a liquid or vapor leak shall be recorded in the logbook. When a leak is detected, an initial attempt at repair shall be made as soon as practicable, but no later than 5 calendar days after the leak is detected. Repair or replacement of leaking equipment shall be completed within 15 calendar days after detection of each leak, except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(3) Delay of repair of leaking equipment will be allowed upon a demonstration to the Administrator that repair within 15 days is not feasible. The owner or operator shall provide the reason(s) a delay is needed and the date by which each repair is expected to be completed.


(4) As an alternative to compliance with the provisions in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, owners or operators may implement an instrument leak monitoring program that has been demonstrated to the Administrator as at least equivalent.


(c) Comply with the requirements in § 60.502a(j) of this chapter except as provided in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) The frequency for optical gas imaging (OGI) monitoring shall be semiannually rather than quarterly as specified in § 60.502a(j)(1)(i).


(2) The frequency for Method 21 monitoring of pumps and valves shall be semiannually rather than quarterly as specified in § 60.502a(j)(1)(ii)(A) and (B).


(3) The frequency of monitoring of pressure relief devices shall be semiannually and within 5 calendar days after each pressure release rather than quarterly and within 5 calendar days after each pressure release as specified in § 60.502a(j)(4)(i).


(d) Owners and operators shall not allow gasoline to be handled in a manner that would result in vapor releases to the atmosphere for extended periods of time. Measures to be taken include, but are not limited to, the following:


(1) Minimize gasoline spills;


(2) Clean up spills as expeditiously as practicable;


(3) Cover all open gasoline containers with a gasketed seal when not in use; and


(4) Minimize gasoline sent to open waste collection systems that collect and transport gasoline to reclamation and recycling devices, such as oil/water separators.


(e) Compliance with the provisions of this section shall be achieved as expeditiously as practicable, but no later than the dates provided in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) For facilities that commenced construction on or before February 8, 1994, meet the requirements in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section no later than December 15, 1997. Beginning no later than May 8, 2027, paragraph (b) of this section no longer applies and facilities shall meet the requirements in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section no later than May 8, 2027.


(2) For facilities that commenced construction after February 8, 1994, and on or before June 10, 2022, meet the requirements in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section upon startup. Beginning no later than May 8, 2027, paragraph (b) of this section no longer applies and facilities shall meet the requirements in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section no later than May 8, 2027.


(3) For facilities that commenced construction after June 10, 2022, meet the requirements in paragraph (c) and (d) of this section upon startup or July 8, 2024, whichever is later.





---

[N] [89 FR 39360, May 8, 2024]






