# § 1980.445   Periodic financial statements and audits.

All borrowers will be required to submit periodic financial statements to the lender. Lenders must forward copies of the financial statements and the lender's analysis of the statements to the Agency.


(a) *Audited financial statements.* Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, all borrowers with a total principal and interest loan balance for loans under this subpart, at the end of the borrower's fiscal year, of more than $1 million must submit annual audited financial statements. The audit must be performed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and any other requirements specified in this subpart.


(b) *Unaudited financial statements.* For borrowers with a loan balance (principal plus interest at year-end) of $1 million or less, the Agency will require annual financial statements which may be statements compiled or reviewed by an accountant qualified in accordance with the publication “Standards for Audit of Governmental Organizations, Programs, Activities and Functions” instead of audited financial statements.


(c) *Internal financial statements.* The Agency may require submission of financial statements prepared by the borrower at whatever frequency is determined necessary to adequately monitor the loan. Quarterly financial statements will be required on new business enterprises or those needing close monitoring.


(d) *Minimum requirements.* This section sets out minimum requirements for audited and unaudited financial statements to be submitted to the Agency. If specific circumstances warrant, the Agency may require audited financial statements or independent unaudited financial statements in excess of the minimum requirements. For example, loans that depend heavily on inventory and accounts receivable for collateral will normally be audited, regardless of the size of the loan. Nothing in this section shall be considered an impediment to the lender requiring financial statements more frequently than required by the Agency or requiring audited financial statements when the Agency would accept unaudited financial statements.


(e) *Public bodies and nonprofit corporations.* Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, any public body or nonprofit corporation that receives a guarantee of a loan that meets the thresholds established by 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, as codified by 2 CFR 400.1, must provide an audit for the fiscal year of the borrower in which the Loan Note Guarantee is issued. If the loan is for development or purchases made in a previous fiscal year through interim financing, an audit will also be provided for the fiscal year in which the development or purchases occurred. Any audit provided by a public body or nonprofit corporation required by this paragraph will be considered adequate to meet the requirements of this section for that year.




