# ยง 1780.35   Processing office review.

Review of the application will usually include the following:


(a) *Nondiscrimination.* Boundaries for the proposed service area must not be chosen in such a way that any user or area will be excluded because of race, color, religion, sex, marital status, age, handicap, or national origin. This does not preclude construction of the project in phases as noted in ยง 1780.11 as long as it is not done in a discriminatory manner.


(b) *Grant determination.* Grants will be determined by the processing office in accordance with the following provisions and will not result in EDU costs below similar system user cost.


(1) *Maximum grant.* Grants may not exceed the percentages in ยง 1780.10(c) of the eligible RUS project development costs listed in ยง 1780.9.


(2) *Debt service.* Applicants will be considered for grant assistance when the debt service portion of the average annual EDU cost, for users in the applicant's service area, exceeds the following percentages of median household income:


(i) 0.5 percent when the median household income of the service area is equal to or below 80% of the statewide nonmetropolitan median income.


(ii) 1.0 percent when the median household income of the service area exceeds the 0.5 percent requirement but is not more than 100 percent the statewide nonmetropolitan household income.


(3) *Similar system cost.* If the grant determined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section results in an annual EDU cost that is not comparable with similar systems, the Agency will determine a grant amount based on achieving EDU costs that are not below similar system user costs.


(4) *Wholesale service.* When an applicant provides wholesale sales or services on a contract basis to another system or entity, similar wholesale system cost will be used in determining the amount of grant needed to achieve a reasonable wholesale user cost.


(5) *Subsidized cost.* When annual cost to the applicant for delivery of service is subsidized by either the state, commonwealth, or territory, and uniform flat user charges regardless of usage are imposed for similar classes of service throughout the service area, the Agency may proceed with a grant in an amount necessary to reduce such delivery cost to a reasonable level.


(c) *User charges.* The user charges should be reasonable and produce enough revenue to provide for all costs of the facility after the project is complete. The planned revenue should be sufficient to provide for all debt service, debt reserve, operation and maintenance, and, if appropriate, additional revenue for facility replacement of short-lived assets without building a substantial surplus. Ordinarily, the total debt service reserve will be equal to one average annual loan installment which will accumulate at the rate of one-tenth of the total each year.



---

[N] [62 FR 33478, June 19, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 29946, June 4, 1999]




