# ยง 155.222   Standards for HHS-approved vendors of Federally-facilitated Exchange training for agents and brokers.

(a) *Application for approval.* (1) A vendor must be approved by HHS, in a form and manner to be determined by HHS, to have its training program recognized for agents and brokers assisting with or facilitating enrollment in individual market or SHOP coverage through the Federally-facilitated Exchanges consistent with ยง 155.220.


(2) As part of the training program, the vendor must require agents and brokers to provide identifying information and successfully complete the required curriculum.


(3) HHS will approve vendors on an annual basis for a given plan year, and each vendor must submit an application for each year that approval is sought.


(b) *Standards.* To be approved by HHS and maintain its status as an approved vendor for plan year 2016 and future plan years, a vendor must meet each of the following standards:


(1) Submit a complete and accurate application by the deadline established by HHS, which includes demonstration of prior experience with successfully conducting online training, as well as providing technical support to a large customer base.


(2) Adhere to HHS specifications for content, format, and delivery of training, which includes offering continuing education units (CEUs) for at least five States in which a Federally-facilitated Exchange or State-Based Exchange using a Federal platform is operating.


(3) Collect, store, and share with HHS training completion data from agent and broker users of the vendor's training in a manner, format, and frequency specified by HHS, and protect all data from agent and broker users of the vendor's training in accordance with applicable privacy and security requirements.


(4) Execute an agreement with HHS, in a form and manner to be determined by HHS, which requires the vendor to comply with applicable HHS guidelines for implementing the training and interfacing with HHS data systems, and the use of all data collected.


(5) Permit any individual who holds a valid State license or equivalent State authority to sell health insurance products to access the vendor's training.


(6) Provide technical support to agent and broker users of the vendor's training as specified by HHS.


(c) *Approved list.* A list of approved vendors will be published on an HHS Web site.


(d) *Monitoring.* HHS may periodically monitor and audit vendors approved under this subpart, and their records related to the training functions described in this section, to ensure ongoing compliance with the standards in paragraph (b) of this section. If HHS determines that an HHS-approved vendor is not in compliance with the standards required in paragraph (b) of this section, the vendor may be removed from the approved list described in paragraph (c) of this section and may be required by HHS to cease performing the training functions described under this subpart.


(e) *Appeals.* A vendor that is not approved by HHS after submitting the application described in paragraph (a) of this section, or an approved vendor whose agreement is revoked under paragraph (d) of this section, may appeal HHS's decision by notifying HHS in writing within 15 days from receipt of the notification of not being approved and submitting additional documentation demonstrating how the vendor meets the standards in paragraph (b) of this section and (if applicable) the terms of its agreement with HHS. HHS will review the submitted documentation and make a final approval determination within 30 days from receipt of the additional documentation.



---

[N] [80 FR 10865, Feb. 27, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 12340, Mar. 8, 2016]




