# ยง 121.506   What definitions are important for sales or leases of Government-owned timber?

(a) *Computation of Market Share* means the small business share, expressed as a percentage for a market area, based on the purchase by small business over the preceding 5-year period. The computation is done every five years.


(b) *Forest product industry* means logging, wood preserving, and the manufacture of lumber and wood related products such as veneer, plywood, hardboard, particle board, or wood pulp, and of products of which lumber or wood related products are the principal raw materials. 


(c) *Integrated Resource Timber Contracts* means contracts that combine product removal and service work when the value of included timber exceeds the value of services.


(d) *Logging of timber* means felling and bucking, yarding, and/or loading. It does not mean hauling. 


(e) *Manufacture of logs* means, at a minimum, breaking down logs into rough cuts of the finished product. 


(f) *Sell* means, in addition to its usual and customary meaning, the exchange of sawlogs for sawlogs on a product-for-product basis with or without monetary adjustment, and an indirect transfer, such as the sale of the assets of a concern after it has been awarded one or more set-aside sales of timber. 


(g) *Significant logging of timber* means that a concern uses its own employees to perform at least two of the following: felling and bucking, yarding, and loading.



---

[N] [61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 88 FR 26201, Apr. 27, 2023] 




