# ยง 12.21   Exemptions.

(a) *Grant of exemption.* Except as provided in paragraph (b), if an applicant or licensee satisfactorily demonstrates that no reasonably foreseeable project emergency would endanger life, health, or property, the Regional Engineer may exempt the applicant or licensee from filing an emergency action plan.


(b) *No exemption.* A licensee or applicant may not be exempted from the requirements of ยง 12.22(c) for a radiological response plan.


(c) *Conditions of exemptions.* (1) An applicant or licensee who receives an exemption from filing an emergency action plan has the continuing responsibility to review circumstances upstream and downstream from the project to determine if, as a result of changed circumstances, a project emergency might endanger life, health, or property.


(2) Promptly after the applicant or licensee learns that, as a result of any change in circumstances, a project emergency might endanger life, health, or property, the applicant or licensee must inform the Regional Engineer of that changed condition without unduly delaying the preparation and implementation of the emergency action plan.


(3) Comprehensive review of the necessity for an emergency action plan must be conducted at least once each year.


(d) *Revocation of exemption.* (1) The Regional Engineer may revoke an exemption granted under this section if it is determined that, as a result of any change in circumstances, a project emergency might endanger life, health, or property.


(2) If an exemption is revoked, the applicant or licensee must file an emergency action plan within the time specified by the Regional Engineer.




