# ยง 31.3306(c)(17)-1   Fishing services.

(a) *In general.* Subject to the limitations prescribed in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, services described in this paragraph are excepted from employment. Services performed by an individual in the catching, taking, harvesting, cultivating, or farming of any kind of fish, shell-fish (for example, oysters, clams, and mussels), crustacea (for example, lobsters, crabs, and shrimps), sponges, seaweeds, or other aquatic forms of animal and vegetable life are excepted. The exception extends to services performed as an officer or member of the crew of a vessel while the vessel is engaged in any such activity whether or not the officer or member of the crew is himself so engaged. In the case of an individual who is engaged in any such activity in the employ of any person, the services performed, by such individual in the employ of such person, as an ordinary incident to any such activity are also excepted. Similarly, for example, the shore services of an officer or member of the crew of a vessel engaged in any such activity are excepted if such services are an ordinary incident to any such activity. Services performed as an ordinary incident to any such activity may include, for example, services performed in such cleaning, icing, and packing of fish as are necessary for the immediate preservation of the catch.


(b) *Salmon and halibut fishing.* Services performed in connection with the catching or taking of salmon or halibut, for commercial purposes, are not within the exception. Thus, neither the services of an officer or member of the crew of a vessel (irrespective of its tonnage) which is engaged in the catching or taking of salmon or halibut, for commercial purposes, nor the services of any other individual in connection with such activity, are within the exception.


(c) *Vessels of more than 10 net tons.* Services described in paragraph (a) of this section performed on or in connection with a vessel of more than 10 net tons are not within the exception. For purposes of the exception, the tonnage of the vessel shall be determined in the manner provided for determining the register tonnage of merchant vessels under the laws of the United States.




