# § 252.43   Applicability.

(a) *Scope*—(1) *Applicability.* Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this subpart applies to any covered company, which includes:


(i) Any U.S. bank holding company with average total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more;


(ii) Any U.S. intermediate holding company subject to this section pursuant to § 252.153; and


(iii) Any nonbank financial company supervised by the Board that is made subject to this section pursuant to a rule or order of the Board.


(2) *Ongoing applicability.* A bank holding company or U.S. intermediate holding company (including any successor company) that is subject to any requirement in this subpart shall remain subject to any such requirement unless and until its total consolidated assets fall below $100 billion for each of four consecutive quarters.


(b) *Transitional arrangements.* (1) A bank holding company that becomes a covered company on or before September 30 of a calendar year must comply with the requirements of this subpart beginning on January 1 of the second calendar year after the bank holding company becomes a covered company, unless that time is extended by the Board in writing.


(2) A bank holding company that becomes a covered company after September 30 of a calendar year must comply with the requirements of this subpart beginning on January 1 of the third calendar year after the bank holding company becomes a covered company, unless that time is extended by the Board in writing.



---

[N] [Reg. YY, 79 FR 64049, Oct. 27, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 75425, Dec. 2, 2015; 82 FR 9329, Feb. 3, 2017; 84 FR 59106, Nov. 1, 2019]




