# § 3288.3   Definitions.

The following definitions apply in this part:


*Act* means the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. 5401-5426.


*Appropriate order* means an order issued by HUD or an order that is enforceable under state law.


*Date of installation* means the date all utilities are connected and the manufactured home is ready for occupancy as established, if applicable, by a certificate of occupancy, except as follows: if the manufactured home has not been sold to the first person purchasing the home in good faith for purposes other than resale by the date the home is ready for occupancy, the date of installation is the date of closing under the purchase agreement or sales contract for the manufactured home.


*Day* means a calendar day.


*Defect* means any defect in the performance, construction, components, or material of a manufactured home that renders the home or any part of the home not fit for the ordinary use for which it was intended, including, but not limited to, a defect in the construction, safety, or installation of the home. For purposes of state certification under § 3288.205, HUD will find it acceptable if the threshold for the state's program is functionally equivalent to this definition.


*Dispute resolution provider* means a person or entity providing dispute resolution services for HUD.


*Homeowner* means a person who purchased or leased the manufactured home in good faith for purposes other than resale.


*HUD* means the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.


*Installer* means the person who is retained to engage in, or who engages in, the business of directing, supervising, controlling, or correcting the initial installation of a manufactured home.


*Manufactured home* has the same meaning as the term “manufactured home” as defined in 24 CFR 3280.2.


*Manufactured Housing Consensus Committee or MHCC* means the consensus committee established pursuant to section 604(a)(3) of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 5403(a)(3).


*Party or parties* means, individually or collectively, the manufacturer, retailer, or installer of a manufactured home in which a defect has been reported in accordance with § 3288.20.


*State Administrative Agency* means an agency of a state that has been approved or conditionally approved to carry out the state plan for enforcement of the standards pursuant to section 623 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 5422.


*Timely reporting* means the reporting of an alleged defect within 1 year after the date of installation of a manufactured home in accordance with § 3288.20.


*Timely resolution* means the resolution of disputes among manufacturers, retailers, and installers within 120 days of the time a request for dispute resolution is made, except that if the defect presents an unreasonable risk of injury, death, or significant loss or damage to valuable personal property, the resolution must be within 60 days of the time a request for dispute resolution is made.




