# § 460.180   Medicare payment to PACE organizations.

(a) *Principle of payment.* Under a PACE program agreement, CMS makes a prospective monthly payment to the PACE organization of a capitation amount for each Medicare participant in a payment area based on the rate it pays to a Medicare Advantage organization.


(b) *Determination of rate.* (1) The PACE program agreement specifies the methodology used to calculate the monthly capitation amount applicable to a PACE organization.


(2) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the monthly capitation amount is based on the Part A and Part B payment rates established for purposes of payment to Medicare Advantage organizations. As used in this section, “Medicare Advantage rates” means the Part A and Part B rates calculated by CMS for making payment to Medicare Advantage organizations under section 1853(c) of the Act.


(3) CMS will adjust the monthly capitation payment amount derived under paragraph (b)(2) of this section based on a risk adjustment that reflects the individual's health status. CMS will ensure that payments take into account the comparative frailty of PACE enrollees relative to the general Medicare population.


(4) For Medicare participants who require ESRD services, the monthly capitation amount is based on the Medicare Advantage ESRD risk adjustment model.


(5) CMS may adjust the monthly capitation amount to take into account other factors CMS determines to be appropriate.


(6) The monthly capitation payment is a fixed amount, regardless of changes in the participant's health status.


(7) The monthly capitation payment amount is an all-inclusive payment for Medicare benefits provided to participants. A PACE organization must not seek any additional payment from Medicare. The only additional payment that a PACE organization may collect from, or on behalf of, a Medicare participant for PACE services is the following:


(i) Any applicable premium amount specified in § 460.186.


(ii) Any charge permitted under paragraph (d) of this section when Medicare is not the primary payer.


(iii) Any payment from the State, as specified in § 460.182, for a participant who is eligible for both Medicare and Medicaid.


(iv) Payment with respect to any applicable spenddown liability under §§ 435.121 and 435.831 of this chapter and any amount due under the post-eligibility treatment of income process under § 460.184 for a participant who is eligible for both Medicare and Medicaid.


(8) CMS computes the Medicare monthly capitation payment amount under a PACE program agreement so that the total payment level for all participants is less than the projected payment under Medicare for a comparable population not enrolled under a PACE program.


(c) *Adjustments to payments.* If the actual number of Medicare participants differs from the estimated number of participants on which the amount of the prospective monthly payment was based, CMS adjusts subsequent monthly payments to account for the difference.


(d) *Application of Medicare secondary payer provisions*—(1) *Basic rule.* CMS does not pay for services to the extent that Medicare is not the primary payer under part 411 of this chapter.


(2) *Responsibilities of the PACE organization.* The PACE organization must do the following:


(i) Identify payers that are primary to Medicare under part 411 of this chapter.


(ii) Determine the amounts payable by those payers.


(iii) Coordinate benefits to Medicare participants with the benefits of the primary payers.


(3) *Charges to other entities.* The PACE organization may charge other individuals or entities for PACE services covered under Medicare for which Medicare is not the primary payer, as specified in paragraphs (d)(4) and (5) of this section.


(4) *Charge to other insurers or the participant.* If a Medicare participant receives from a PACE organization covered services that are also covered under State or Federal workers' compensation, any no-fault insurance, or any liability insurance policy or plan, including a self-insured plan, the PACE organization may charge any of the following:


(i) The insurance carrier, the employer, or any other entity that is liable for payment for the services under part 411 of this chapter.


(ii) The Medicare participant, to the extent that he or she has been paid by the carrier, employer, or other entity.


(5) *Charge to group health plan (GHP) or large group health plan (LGHP).* If Medicare is not the primary payer for services that a PACE organization furnished to a Medicare participant who is covered under a GHP or LGHP, the organization may charge the following:


(i) GHP or LGHP for those services.


(ii) Medicare participant to the extent that he or she has been paid by the GHP or LGHP for those services.



---

[N] [64 FR 66279, Nov. 24, 1999, as amended at 71 FR 71337, Dec. 8, 2006]




