# ยง 7.302   Definitions.

The following definitions apply in this subpart:


*Afterburning.* The combustion of any flammable mixture that is drawn into an enclosure after an internal explosion in the enclosure. This condition is determined through detection of secondary pressure peaks occurring subsequent to the initial explosion.


*Cylindrical joint.* A joint comprised of two contiguous, concentric, cylindrical surfaces.


*Explosion-proof enclosure.* A metallic enclosure used as a winding compartment, conduit box, or a combination of both that complies with the applicable requirements of ยง 7.304 of this part and is constructed so that it will withstand the explosion tests of ยง 7.306 of this part.


*Fastening.* A bolt, screw, or stud used to secure adjoining parts to prevent the escape of flame from an explosion-proof enclosure.


*Flame-arresting path.* Two or more adjoining or adjacent surfaces between which the escape of flame is prevented.


*Internal free volume (of an empty enclosure).* The volume remaining after deducting the volume of any part that is essential in maintaining the explosion-proof integrity of the enclosure or necessary for operation of the motor. Essential parts include the parts that constitute the flame-arresting path and those necessary to secure parts that constitute a flame-arresting path.


*Motor assembly.* The winding compartment including a conduit box when specified. A motor assembly is comprised of one or more explosion-proof enclosures. 


*Plane joint.* A joint comprised of two adjoining surfaces in parallel planes.


*Step (rabbet) joint.* A joint comprised of two adjoining surfaces with a change or changes in direction between its inner and outer edges. A step joint may be composed of a cylindrical portion and a plane portion or of two or more plane portions. 


*Stuffing box.* An entrance with a recess filled with packing material for cables extending through a wall of an explosion-proof enclosure.


*Threaded joint.* A joint consisting of a male- and a female-threaded member, both of which are the same type and gauge.




