# ยง 11.900   Definitions.

For purposes of sections pertaining to the children's court:


(a) *Abandon* means the leaving of a minor without communication or failing to support a minor for a period of one year or more with no indication of the parents' willingness to assume a parental role.


(b) *Adult* means a person eighteen (18) years or older.


(c) *Counsel* means an attorney admitted to the bar of a state or the District of Columbia or a lay advocate admitted to practice before the Court of Indian Offenses.


(d) *Custodian* means one who has physical custody of a minor and who is providing food, shelter and supervision to the minor.


(e) *Custody* means the power to control the day-to-day activities of the minor.


(f) *Delinquent act* means an act which, if committed by an adult, would be designated a crime under this part or under an ordinance of the tribe.


(g) *Detention* means the placement of a minor in a physically restrictive facility.


(h) *Guardian* means a person other than the minor's parent who is by law responsible for the care of the minor.


(i) *Guardian ad Litem* means a person appointed by the court to represent the minor's interests before the court.


(j) *Juvenile offender* means a person who commits a delinquent act prior to his or her eighteenth birthday.


(k) *Minor* means:


(1) A person under 18 years of age,


(2) A person 18 years of age or older concerning whom proceedings are commenced in the children's court prior to his or her eighteenth birthday, or


(3) A person 18 years of age or older who is under the continuing jurisdiction of the children's court.


(l) *Minor-in-need-of-care* means a minor who:


(1) Has no parent or guardian available and willing to take care of him or her;


(2) Is unwilling to allow his or her parent or guardian to take care of him or her;


(3) Has suffered or is likely to suffer a physical or emotional injury, inflicted by other than accidental means, which causes or creates a substantial risk of death, disfigurement, impairment of bodily functions or emotional health;


(4) Has not been provided with adequate food, clothing, shelter, medical care, education or supervision by his or her parent, guardian or custodian;


(5) Has been sexually abused;


(6) Has been committing delinquent acts as a result of parental pressure, guidance or approval; or,


(7) Has been committing status offenses.


(m) *Status offense* means an offense which, if committed by an adult, would not be designated a crime under this part or under an ordinance of the tribe.




