# § 63.11205   What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?

(a) At all times you must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require you to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by this standard have been achieved. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator that may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.


(b) You must demonstrate compliance with all applicable emission limits using performance stack testing, fuel analysis, or a continuous monitoring system (CMS), including a continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS), a continuous opacity monitoring system (COMS), or a continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS), where applicable. You may demonstrate compliance with the applicable mercury emission limit using fuel analysis if the emission rate calculated according to § 63.11211(c) is less than the applicable emission limit. Otherwise, you must demonstrate compliance using stack testing.


(c) If you demonstrate compliance with any applicable emission limit through performance stack testing and subsequent compliance with operating limits (including the use of CPMS), with a CEMS, or with a COMS, you must develop a site-specific monitoring plan according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section for the use of any CEMS, COMS, or CPMS. This requirement also applies to you if you petition the EPA Administrator for alternative monitoring parameters under § 63.8(f).


(1) For each CMS required in this section (including CEMS, COMS, or CPMS), you must develop, and submit to the Administrator for approval upon request, a site-specific monitoring plan that addresses paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section. You must submit this site-specific monitoring plan, if requested, at least 60 days before your initial performance evaluation of your CMS. This requirement to develop and submit a site-specific monitoring plan does not apply to affected sources with existing CEMS or COMS operated according to the performance specifications under appendix B to part 60 of this chapter and that meet the requirements of § 63.11224.


(i) Installation of the CMS sampling probe or other interface at a measurement location relative to each affected process unit such that the measurement is representative of control of the exhaust emissions (e.g., on or downstream of the last control device);


(ii) Performance and equipment specifications for the sample interface, the pollutant concentration or parametric signal analyzer, and the data collection and reduction systems; and


(iii) Performance evaluation procedures and acceptance criteria (*e.g.,* calibrations).


(iv) Ongoing operation and maintenance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(c)(1)(ii), (c)(3), and (c)(4)(ii);


(v) Ongoing data quality assurance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(d); and


(vi) Ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.10(c) (as applicable in Table 8 to this subpart), (e)(1), and (e)(2)(i).


(2) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each CMS in accordance with your site-specific monitoring plan.


(3) You must operate and maintain the CMS in continuous operation according to the site-specific monitoring plan.



---

[N] [76 FR 15591, Mar. 21, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 7506, Feb. 1, 2013]




