# § 160.151-21   Equipment required for SOLAS A and SOLAS B inflatable liferafts.

To obtain Coast Guard approval, the equipment in each SOLAS A and SOLAS B inflatable liferaft must meet the following specific requirements when complying with the indicated regulations of SOLAS and the IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87) (incorporated by reference, see § 160.151-5 of this subpart):


(a) *Heaving line (IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87), Chapter IV/4.1.5.1.1).* The buoyant heaving line must have a breaking strength of not less than 1.1 kN (250 lb), and must be attached to the inflatable liferaft near the entrance furthest from the painter attachment.


(b) *Jackknife (IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87), Chapter IV/4.1.5.1.2).* Each folding knife must be a jackknife meeting the requirements in 46 CFR 199.175(b)(16).




(c) *Bailer ((IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87), Chapter IV/4.1.5.1.3 and ISO 18813 (incorporated by reference, see § 160.151-5 of this subpart)).* Each bailer must have a volume of at least 2 L (125 in
3).


(d) *Sponge (IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87), Chapter IV/4.1.5.1.4).* Each sponge must have a volume of at least 750 cm
3 (48 in
3) when saturated with water.


(e) *Sea anchors (IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87), Chapter IV/4.1.5.1.5 and ISO 17339 (incorporated by reference, see § 160.151-5 of this subpart)).* Sea anchors without the swivels may be used if, during the towing test, a sea anchor of their design does not rotate when streamed. The sea anchors need not have the tripping lines if, during the towing test, a sea anchor of their design can be hauled in by one person. Sea anchors must be attached to the raft at a position so as to orient the primary entrance away from the seas as far as practicable while still allowing the sea anchor to be retrieved by a person inside the raft.


(f) *Paddles (IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87), Chapter IV/4.1.5.1.6 and ISO 18813).* The paddles must be at least 1.2 m (4 ft) long and must be of the same size and type as used to pass the maneuverability test in paragraph 1/5.10 of IMO Revised recommendation on testing, as amended by Resolution MSC.295(87) (incorporated by reference, see § 160.151-5 of this subpart).


(g) *Tin-opener (IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87), Chapter IV/4.1.5.1.7 and ISO 18813).* Each sharp part of a tin-opener must have a guard.


(h) *First-aid kit (IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87), Chapter IV/4.1.5.1.8).* Each first-aid kit must meet the requirements in 46 CFR 199.175(b)(10).


(i) *Whistle (IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87), Chapter IV/4.1.5.1.9 and ISO 18813).* The whistle must be a ball-type or multi-tone whistle of corrosion-resistant construction.


(j) *Rocket parachute flare (IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87), Chapter IV/4.1.5.1.10).* Each rocket parachute flare must be approved by the Commandant under approval series 160.136.


(k) *Hand flare (IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87), Chapter IV/4.1.5.1.11).* Each hand flare must be approved by the Commandant under approval series 160.121.


(l) *Buoyant smoke signal (IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87), Chapter IV/4.1.5.1.12).* Each buoyant smoke signal must be of the floating type approved by the Commandant under approval series 160.122.


(m) *Electric torch (IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87), Chapter IV/4.1.5.1.13).* The waterproof electric torch must be a Type I or Type III flashlight constructed and marked in accordance with ASTM F 1014 (incorporated by reference, see § 160.151-5 of this subpart). Three-cell-size flashlights bearing Coast Guard approval numbers in the 161.008 series may continue to be used as long as they are serviceable.


(n) *Radar reflector (IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87), Chapter IV/4.1.5.1.14).* The radar reflector may be omitted if the outside of the container of the inflatable liferaft includes a notice near the “SOLAS A” or “SOLAS B” marking indicating that no radar reflector is included.


(o) *Signalling mirror (IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87), Chapter IV/4.1.5.1.15).* Each signalling mirror must meet the requirements in 46 CFR 199.175(b)(19).


(p) *Lifesaving signals (IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87), Chapter IV/4.1.5.1.16).* If not provided on a waterproof card or sealed in a transparent waterproof container, the table of lifesaving signals may be provided as part of the instruction manual.


(q) *Fishing tackle (IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87), Chapter IV/4.1.5.1.17).* The fishing tackle must meet the requirements in 46 CFR 199.175(b)(11).


(r) *Food rations (IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87), Chapter IV/4.1.5.1.18).* The food rations must meet the requirements in 46 CFR 199.175(b)(22).


(s) *Drinking water (IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87), Chapter IV/4.1.5.1.19).* Emergency drinking water must meet the requirements in 46 CFR 199.175(b)(40). The desalting apparatus or reverse osmosis desalinator must be approved by the Commandant under approval series 160.058.

 


(t) *Drinking cup (IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87), Chapter IV/4.1.5.1.20 and ISO 18813).* The drinking cup must be graduated in ounces or milliliters or both.


(u) *Anti-seasickness medicine (IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87), Chapter IV/4.1.5.1.21 and ISO 18813).* The anti-seasickness medicine must include instructions for use and be marked with an expiration date.


(v) *Survival instructions (IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87), Chapter IV/4.1.5.1.22 and ISO 18813).* The instructions on how to survive in a liferaft must—


(1) Be waterproof;


(2) Whatever other language or languages they may be in, be in English;


(3) Meet the guidelines in IMO Res. A.657(16) (incorporated by reference, see § 160.151-5 of this subpart); and


(4) Be suspended in a clear film envelope from one of the arch tubes of the canopy.


(w) *Instructions for immediate action (IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87), Chapter IV/4.1.5.1.23).* The instructions for immediate action must—


(1) Be waterproof;


(2) Whatever other language or languages they may be in, be in English;


(3) Meet the guidelines in IMO Res. A.657(16);


(4) Explain both the noise accompanying the operation of any provided pressure-relief valves, and the need to render them inoperable after they complete venting; and


(5) Be suspended from the inside canopy, so they are immediately visible by survivors on entering the inflatable liferaft. They may be contained in the same envelope with the instructions on how to survive if the instructions for immediate action are visible through both faces of the envelope.


(x) *Thermal protective aid (IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87), Chapter IV/4.1.5.1.24).* Each thermal protective aid must be approved by the Commandant under approval series 160.174.


(y) *Repair outfit (IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87), Chapter IV/4.2.9.1.1 and ISO 18813).* The repair outfit must include—


(1) Six or more sealing clamps or serrated conical plugs, or a combination of the two;


(2) Five or more tube patches at least 50 mm (2 in) in diameter (the Commandant will consider self-adhesive patches per ISO 18813 as an alternative); and


(3) A roughing tool, if necessary to apply the patches.


(z) *Pump or bellows (IMO LSA Code, as amended by Resolution MSC.293(87), Chapter IV/4.2.9.1.2).* The pump or bellows must be manually operable and arranged to be capable of inflating any part of the inflatable structure of the liferaft.


(aa) *Plugs for pressure-relief valves.* Plugs for rendering pressure-relief valves inoperable must be provided in any liferaft fitted with such valves, unless the valves are of a type that can be rendered inoperable without separate plugs. If provided, plugs for pressure-relief valves must be usable with hands gloved in an immersion suit, and must either float or be secured to the liferaft by a lanyard.



---

[N] [CGD 85-205, 62 FR 25547, May 9, 1997, as amended by USCG-1998-4442, 63 FR 52192, Sept. 30, 1998; USCG-2000-7790, 65 FR 58464, Sept. 29, 2000; USCG-2010-0048, 76 FR 62997, Oct. 11, 2011; 77 FR 9865, Feb. 21, 2012; USCG-2020-0107, 87 FR 68305, Nov. 14, 2022]




