# § 891.155   Other Federal requirements.

In addition to the requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 5, the following requirements in this § 891.155 apply to the Section 202 and Section 811 Programs, as well as projects funded under §§ 891.655 through 891.790. Other requirements unique to a particular program are described in subparts B and C of this part, as applicable. 


(a) *Affirmative fair housing marketing.* (1) The affirmative fair housing marketing requirements of 24 CFR part 200, subpart M and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 108; and 


(2) The fair housing advertising and poster guidelines at 24 CFR parts 109 and 110. 


(b) *Environmental.* The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, HUD's implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 50, including the related authorities described in 24 CFR 50.4. For the purposes of Executive Order No. 11988, Floodplain Management (42 FR 26951, 3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 117); as amended by Executive Order 12148 (44 FR 43239, 3 CFR, 1979 Comp., p. 412)), and implementing regulations in 24 CFR part 55, all applications for intermediate care facilities for persons with developmental disabilities shall be treated as critical actions requiring consideration of the 500-year floodplain. 


(c) *Flood insurance.* The Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4001). 


(d) *Labor standards.* (1) All laborers and mechanics (other than volunteers under the conditions set out in 24 CFR part 70) employed by contractors and subcontractors in the construction (including rehabilitation) of housing with 12 or more units assisted under this part shall be paid wages at rates not less than those prevailing in the locality, as determined by the Secretary of Labor in accordance with the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276a-276a-5). A group home for persons with disabilities is not covered by the labor standards. 


(2) Contracts involving employment of laborers and mechanics shall be subject to the provisions of the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (40 U.S.C. 327-333). 


(3) Sponsors, Owners, contractors, and subcontractors must comply with all related rules, regulations, and requirements. 


(e) *Displacement, relocation, and real property acquisition*—(1) *Minimizing displacement.* Consistent with the other goals and objectives of this part, Sponsors and Owners (or Borrowers, if applicable) shall assure that they have taken all reasonable steps to minimize the displacement of persons (families, individuals, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and farms) as a result of a project assisted under this part. 


(2) *Relocation assistance for displaced persons.* A displaced person must be provided relocation assistance at the levels described in, and in accordance with the requirements of, the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended (URA) (42 U.S.C. 4201-4655), as implemented by 49 CFR part 24. 


(3) *Real property acquisition requirements.* The acquisition of real property for a project is subject to the URA and the requirements described in 49 CFR part 24, subpart B. 


(f) *Intergovernmental review.* The requirements for intergovernmental review in Executive Order No. 12372 (47 FR 30959, 3 CFR, 1982 Comp., p. 197; as amended by Executive Order No. 12416 (48 FR 15587, 3 CFR, 1983 Comp., p. 186)) and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 52 are applicable to this program. 


(g) *Lead-based paint.* The requirements of the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act (42 U.S.C. 4821-4846), the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 4851-4856), and implementing regulations at part 35, subparts A, B, H, J, and R of this title apply to these programs.



---

[N] [61 FR 11956, Mar. 22, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 50227, Sept. 15, 1999; 69 FR 34275, June 21, 2004]




