# § 121.7   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to those sections of part 121 that apply to ETOPS:


*Adequate Airport* means an airport that an airplane operator may list with approval from the FAA because that airport meets the landing limitations of § 121.197 and is either—


(1) An airport that meets the requirements of part 139, subpart D of this chapter, excluding those that apply to aircraft rescue and firefighting service, or


(2) A military airport that is active and operational.


*ETOPS Alternate Airport* means an adequate airport listed in the certificate holder's operations specifications that is designated in a dispatch or flight release for use in the event of a diversion during ETOPS. This definition applies to flight planning and does not in any way limit the authority of the pilot-in-command during flight.


*ETOPS Area of Operation* means one of the following areas:


(1) For turbine-engine-powered airplanes with two engines, an area beyond 60 minutes from an adequate airport, computed using a one-engine-inoperative cruise speed under standard conditions in still air.


(2) For turbine-engine-powered passenger-carrying airplanes with more than two engines, an area beyond 180 minutes from an adequate airport, computed using a one-engine-inoperative cruise speed under standard conditions in still air.


*ETOPS Entry Point* means the first point on the route of an ETOPS flight, determined using a one-engine-inoperative cruise speed under standard conditions in still air, that is—


(1) More than 60 minutes from an adequate airport for airplanes with two engines;


(2) More than 180 minutes from an adequate airport for passenger-carrying airplanes with more than two engines.


*ETOPS Qualified Person* means a person, performing maintenance for the certificate holder, who has satisfactorily completed the certificate holder's ETOPS training program.


*Maximum Diversion Time* means, for the purposes of ETOPS route planning, the longest diversion time authorized for a flight under the operator's ETOPS authority. It is calculated under standard conditions in still air at a one-engine-inoperative cruise speed.


*North Pacific Area of Operation* means Pacific Ocean areas north of 40° N latitudes including NOPAC ATS routes, and published PACOTS tracks between Japan and North America.


*North Polar Area* means the entire area north of 78° N latitude.


*One-engine-inoperative-Cruise Speed* means a speed within the certified operating limits of the airplane that is specified by the certificate holder and approved by the FAA for —


(1) Calculating required fuel reserves needed to account for an inoperative engine; or


(2) Determining whether an ETOPS alternate is within the maximum diversion time authorized for an ETOPS flight.


*South Polar Area* means the entire area South of 60° S latitude.



---

[N] [Doc. No. FAA-2002-6717, 72 FR 1878, Jan. 16, 2007]




