# ยง 206.101   Sale, assignment and pledge of insured mortgages.

(a) *Sale of interests in insured mortgages.* No mortgagee may sell or otherwise dispose of any mortgage insured under this part, or group of mortgages insured under this part, or any partial interest in such mortgage or mortgages by means of any agreement, arrangement or device except pursuant to this subpart.


(b) *Sale of insured mortgage to approved mortgagee.* A mortgage insured under this part may be sold to another approved mortgagee. The seller shall notify the Commissioner of the sale within 15 calendar days, on a form prescribed by the Commissioner and acknowledged by the buyer.


(c) *Effect of sale of insured mortgage.* When a mortgage insured under this part is sold to another approved mortgagee, the buyer shall thereupon succeed to all the rights and become bound by all the obligations of the seller under the contract of insurance and the seller shall be released from its obligations under the contract, provided that the seller shall not be relieved of its obligation to pay mortgage insurance premiums until the notice required by ยง 206.101(b) is received by the Commissioner.


(d) *Assignments, pledges and transfers by approved mortgagee.* (1) An assignment, pledge, or transfer of a mortgage or group of mortgages insured under this part, not constituting a final sale, may be made by an approved mortgagee to another approved mortgagee provided the following requirements are met:


(i) The assignor, pledgor or transferor shall remain the mortgagee of record.


(ii) The Commissioner shall have no obligation to recognize or deal with any party other than the mortgagee of record with respect to the rights, benefits and obligations of the mortgagee under the contract of insurance.


(2) An assignment or transfer of an insured mortgage or group of insured mortgages may be made by an approved mortgagee to other than an approved mortgagee provided the requirements under paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (d)(1)(ii) of this section are met and the following additional requirements are met:


(i) The assignee or transferee shall be a corporation, trust or organization (including but not limited to any pension trust or profit-sharing plan) which certifies to the approved mortgagee that:


(A) It has assets of $100,000 or more; and


(B) It has lawful authority to hold an insured mortgage or group of insured mortgages.


(ii) The assignment or transfer shall be made pursuant to an agreement under which the transferor or assignor is obligated to take one of the following alternate courses of action within 1 year from the date of the assignment or within such additional period of time as may be approved by the Commissioner:


(A) The transferor or assignor shall repurchase and accept a reassignment of such mortgage or group of mortgages.


(B) The transferor or assignor shall obtain a sale and transfer of such mortgage or group of mortgages to an approved mortgagee.


(3) Notice to or approval of the Commissioner is not required in connection with assignments, pledges or transfers pursuant to this section.


(e) *Declaration of trust.* A sale of a beneficial interest in a group of mortgages insured under this part, where the interest to be acquired is related to all of the mortgages as an entirety, rather than an interest in a specific mortgage, shall be made only pursuant to a declaration of trust, which has been approved by the Commissioner prior to any such sale.


(f) *Transfers of partial interests.* A partial interest in a mortgage insured under this part may be transferred under a participation agreement without obtaining the approval of the Commissioner, if the following conditions are met:


(1) *Principal mortgagee.* The insured mortgage shall be held by an approved mortgagee which, for the purposes of this section, shall be referred to as the *principal mortgagee.*

(2) *Interest of principal mortgagee.* The principal mortgagee shall retain and hold for its own account a financial interest in the insured mortgage.


(3) *Qualification for holding partial interest.* A partial interest in an insured mortgage shall be issued to and held only by:


(i) A mortgagee approved by the Commissioner; or


(ii) A corporation, trust or organization (including, but not limited to any pension fund, pension trust, or profit-sharing plan) which certifies to the principal mortgagee that:


(A) It has assets of $100,000 or more; and


(B) It has lawful authority to acquire a partial interest in an insured mortgage.


(4) *Participation agreement provisions.* The participation agreement shall include provisions that:


(i) The principal mortgagee shall retain title to the mortgage and remain the mortgagee of record under the contract of mortgage insurance.


(ii) The Commissioner shall have no obligation to recognize or deal with anyone other than the principal mortgagee with respect to the rights, benefits and obligations of the mortgagee under the contract of insurance.


(iii) The mortgage and loan documents shall remain in the custody of the principal mortgagee.


(iv) The responsibility for servicing the insured mortgages shall remain with the principal mortgagee.




