# ยง 317.703   Guaranteed reinstatement: Presidential appointees.

(a) *Eligibility for reinstatement.* (1) A former SES career appointee who was appointed by the President to a civil service position outside the SES without a break in service, and who left the Presidential appointment for reasons other than misconduct, neglect of duty, or malfeasance, is entitled by law to be reinstated to the SES. 


(2) If an individual is serving under a Presidential appointment with reinstatement entitlement and receives another Presidential appointment without a break in service between the two appointments, the individual continues to be entitled to be reinstated to the SES following termination of the second appointment. If there is an interim period between the two Presidential appointments, the individual must be reinstated as an SES career appointee before the effective date of the second appointment to preserve reinstatement entitlement following termination of the second appointment.


(b) *Applying for reinstatement; time limit.* Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, an application in writing for reinstatement under this section must be made to OPM within 90 days after separation from the Presidential appointment. An application may be submitted as soon as the Presidential appointee's resignation is requested or submitted. 


(c) *Directing reinstatement.* (1) To the extent practicable, OPM will direct reinstatement within 45 days of the date of receipt by OPM of the application for reinstatement or the date of separation from the Presidential appointment, whichever is later.


(2) OPM will use the following order of precedence in directing reinstatement of a former Presidential appointee: 


(i) The agency in which the individual last served as an SES career appointee before accepting the Presidential appointment; 


(ii) The successor agency to the one in which the individual last served as an SES career appointee; 


(iii) The agency or agencies in which the individual served as a Presidential appointee; or 


(iv) Any other agency in the Executive branch with positions under the SES. 


(3) The agency being directed to take the reinstatement action is responsible for assigning the individual to a position for which he or she meets the qualifications requirements. 


(4) When directing the reinstatement of a Presidential appointee, OPM may, as appropriate, allocate an additional SES space authority to the agency. 


(5) When a Presidential appointee tenders his or her resignation, voluntarily or upon request, the agency in which the Presidential appointment was held, upon approval by OPM, may place the appointee as an interim measure on an SES limited term or limited emergency appointment as appropriate, pending reinstatement, to preclude a break in service after the Presidential appointment has terminated. 


(6) To preserve reinstatement rights under this section, an individual who has been serving in a presidential appointment, if selected by the President for another appointment in the same or a new agency, must be reinstated to an appropriate position as an SES career appointee before the effective date of the new Presidential appointment, unless service as a Presidential appointee would be continuous. 


(d) *Reinstatement following direct negotiations with an agency.* (1) A Presidential appointee who qualifies under paragraph (a) of this section may initiate direct negotiations with an agency regarding reinstatement under this section. 


(2) An agency may voluntarily reinstate a former Presidential appointee without an order from OPM directing such action. 


(3) The agency is responsible for assigning the individual to a position for which he or she meets the qualification requirements. 


(4) Direct negotiations with an agency do not extend the time limit stated in paragraph (b) of this section for making application to OPM. 


(5) OPM may, when appropriate and upon request by the agency, allocate an additional SES space authority to an agency that voluntarily reinstates a former Presidential appointee under this paragraph. 


(6) An individual who is reinstated under this paragraph because of direct negotiations with an agency is not entitled to further assistance by OPM. 


(e) *Tenure upon reinstatement.* (1) An individual reinstated under ยง 317.703 becomes an SES career appointee. 


(2) An individual reinstated under ยง 317.703 who was serving an SES probationary period at the time of his or her Presidential appointment is required to complete the 1-year SES probationary period upon reinstatement. 


(f) *Compliance.* (1) An agency must comply with an order to reinstate issued by OPM under this section as promptly as possible, but not more than 30 calendar days from the date of the order. 


(2) The agency will notify OPM of a reinstatement action taken under this section within 5 workdays of the effective date of the reinstatement. 


(3) An individual who declines a reinstatement ordered by OPM is not entitled to further placement assistance by OPM under this section. 



---

[N] [54 FR 9759, Mar. 8, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 6386, Feb. 2, 1995]




