# § 503.31   Special definitions.

(a) *Aerobic digestion* is the biochemical decomposition of organic matter in sewage sludge into carbon dioxide and water by microorganisms in the presence of air. 


(b) *Anaerobic digestion* is the biochemical decomposition of organic matter in sewage sludge into methane gas and carbon dioxide by microorganisms in the absence of air. 


(c) *Density of microorganisms* is the number of microorganisms per unit mass of total solids (dry weight) in the sewage sludge. 


(d) *Land with a high potential for public exposure* is land that the public uses frequently. This includes, but is not limited to, a public contact site and a reclamation site located in a populated area (e.g, a construction site located in a city). 


(e) *Land with a low potential for public exposure* is land that the public uses infrequently. This includes, but is not limited to, agricultural land, forest, and a reclamation site located in an unpopulated area (e.g., a strip mine located in a rural area). 


(f) *Pathogenic organisms* are disease-causing organisms. These include, but are not limited to, certain bacteria, protozoa, viruses, and viable helminth ova. 


(g) *pH* means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration measured at 25 °Centigrade or measured at another temperature and then converted to an equivalent value at 25 °Centigrade.


(h) *Specific oxygen uptake rate (SOUR)* is the mass of oxygen consumed per unit time per unit mass of total solids (dry weight basis) in the sewage sludge. 


(i) *Total solids* are the materials in sewage sludge that remain as residue when the sewage sludge is dried at 103 to 105 degrees Celsius. 


(j) *Unstabilized solids* are organic materials in sewage sludge that have not been treated in either an aerobic or anaerobic treatment process. 


(k) *Vector attraction* is the characteristic of sewage sludge that attracts rodents, flies, mosquitos, or other organisms capable of transporting infectious agents. 


(l) *Volatile solids* is the amount of the total solids in sewage sludge lost when the sewage sludge is combusted at 550 degrees Celsius in the presence of excess air. 



---

[N] [58 FR 9387, Feb. 19, 1993, as amended at 64 FR 42571, Aug. 4, 1999]




