# § 3400.0-5   Definitions.

As used in this group:


(a) *Alluvial valley floor* has the meaning set forth in 30 CFR Chapter VII.


(b) *Authorized officer* means any employee of the Bureau of Land Management delegated the authority to perform the duty described in the section in which the term is used.


(c) *Bonus* means that value in excess of the rentals and royalties that accrues to the United States because of coal resource ownership that is paid as part of the consideration for receiving a lease.


(d) *Bypass coal* means an isolated coal deposit that cannot, for the foreseeable future, be mined economically and in an environmentally sound manner either separately or as part of any mining operation other than that of the applicant for either an emergency lease under the provisions of § 3425.1-4 of this title or a lease modification.


(e) *Casual use* means activities which do not ordinarily lead to any appreciable disturbance or damage to lands, resources or improvements, for example, activities which do not involve use of heavy equipment or explosives and which do not involve vehicle movement except over already established roads and trails.


(f) *Certificate of bidding rights* means a right granted by the Secretary to apply the fair market value of a relinquished coal or other mineral lease or right to a preference right coal or other mineral lease as a credit against the bonus bid or bids on a competitive lease or leases acquired at a lease sale or sales, or as a credit against the payment required for a coal lease modification.


(g) *Coal deposits* mean all Federally owned coal deposits, except those held in trust for Indians.


(h) *Department* means the United States Department of the Interior.


(i) *Director* means the Director of the Bureau of Land Management unless otherwise indicated.


(j) *Environmental assessment* means a document prepared by the responsible Federal agency consistent with 40 CFR 1508.9.


(k) *Exploration* has the meaning set forth in § 3480.0-5(a)(17) of this title.


(l) *Exploration license* means a license issued by the authorized officer to permit the licensee to explore for coal on unleased Federal lands.


(m) *Exploration plan* has the meaning set forth in § 3480.0-5(a)(18) of this title.


(n) *Fair market value* means that amount in cash, or on terms reasonably equivalent to cash, for which in all probability the coal deposit would be sold or leased by a knowledgeable owner willing but not obligated to sell or lease to a knowledgeable purchaser who desires but is not obligated to buy or lease. 


(o) *Federal lands* mean lands owned by the United States, without reference to how the lands were acquired or what Federal agency administers the lands, including surface estate, mineral estate and coal estate, but excluding lands held by the United States in trust for Indians, Aleuts or Eskimos.


(p) *Governmental entity* means a Federal or state agency or a political subdivision of a state, including a county or a municipality, or any corporation acting primarily as an agency or instrumentality of a state, which produces electrical energy for sale to the public. 


(q) *Interest* in a lease, application or bid means: any record title interest, overriding royalty interest, working interest, operating rights or option, or any agreement covering such an interest; any claim or any prospective or future claim to an advantage or benefit from a lease; and any participation or any defined or undefined share in any increments, issues, or profits that may be derived from or that may accrue in any manner from the lease based on or pursuant to any agreement or understanding existing when the application was filed or entered into while the lease application or bid is pending. Stock ownership or stock control does not constitute an interest in a lease within the meaning of this definition. Attribution of acreage to stock ownership interests in leases is covered by § 3472.1-3(b) of this title.


(r) *Lease* means a Federal lease, issued under the coal leasing provisions of the mineral leasing laws, which grants the exclusive right to explore for and extract coal. In provisions of this group that also refer to Federal leases for minerals other than coal, the term *Federal coal lease* may apply.


(s) *Lease bond* means the bond or equivalent security given the Department to assure payment of all obligations under a lease, exploration license, or license to mine, and to assure that all aspects of the mining operation other than reclamation operations under a permit on a lease are conducted in conformity with the approved mining or exploration plan. This is the same as the *Federal lease bond* referred to in 30 CFR 742.11(a). 


(t) *Licensee* means the holder of an exploration license. 


(u) *License to mine* means a license issued under the provisions of part 3440 to mine coal for domestic use. 


(v) *Logical Mining Unit* has the meaning set forth in § 3480.0-5(a)(22) of this title.


(w) *Logical Mining Unit reserves* has the meaning set forth in the term *logical mining unit recoverable coal reserves* in § 3480.0-5(a)(23) of this title.


(x) *Maximum economic recovery* has the meaning set forth in § 3480.0-5(a)(24) of this title.


(y) *Mineral leasing laws* mean the Mineral Leasing Act of 1920, as amended (30 U.S.C. 181 *et seq.*), and the Mineral Leasing Act for Acquired Lands of 1947, as amended (30 U.S.C. 351-359).


(z) *Mining plan* means a resource recovery and protection plan as described in § 3480.0-5(a)(39) of this title.


(aa) *Mining Supervisor* means the authorized officer. 


(bb) *Mining unit* means an area containing technically recoverable coal that will feasibly support a commercial mining operation. The coal may either be Federal coal or be both Federal and non-Federal coal. 


(cc) *Operator* means a lessee, exploration licensee or one conducting operations on a lease or exploration license under the authority of the lessee or exploration licensee. 


(dd) *Permit* has the meaning set forth in 30 CFR Chapter VII.


(ee) *Permit area* has the meaning set forth in 30 CFR Chapter VII. 


(ff) *Public bodies* means Federal and state agencies; political subdivisions of a state, including counties and municipalities; rural electric cooperatives and similar organizations; and nonprofit corporations controlled by any such entities. 


(gg) *Qualified surface owner* means the natural person or persons (or corporation, the majority stock of which is held by a person or persons otherwise meeting the requirements of this section) who: 


(1) Hold legal or equitable title to the surface of split estate lands; 


(2) Have their principal place of residence on the land, or personally conduct farming or ranching operations upon a farm or ranch unit to be affected by surface mining operations; or receive directly a significant portion of their income, if any, from such farming and ranching operations; and 


(3) Have met the conditions of paragraphs (gg) (1) and (2) of this section for a period of at least 3 years, except for persons who gave written consent less than 3 years after they met the requirements of both paragraphs (gg) (1) and (2) of this section. In computing the three year period the authorized officer shall include periods during which title was owned by a relative of such person by blood or marriage if, during such periods, the relative would have met the requirements of this section. 


(hh) *Reserves* has the meaning set forth in the term *recoverable coal reserves* in § 3480.0-5(a)(37) of this title.


(ii) *Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior. 


(jj) *Sole party in interest* means a party who is and will be vested with all legal and equitable rights under a lease, bid, or an application for a lease. No one is a sole party in interest with respect to a lease or bid in which any other party has any interest. 


(kk) *Split estate* means land in which the ownership of the surface is held by persons, including governmental bodies, other than the Federal government and the ownership of underlying coal is, in whole or in part, reserved to the Federal government. 


(ll) *Substantial legal and financial commitments* means significant investments that have been made on the basis of a long-term coal contract in power plants, railroads, coal handling and preparation, extraction or storage facilities and other capital intensive activities. Costs of acquiring the coal in place or of the right to mine it without an existing mine are not sufficient to constitute *substantial legal and financial commitments.*

(mm) *Surface coal mining operations* means activities conducted on the surface of lands in connection with a surface coal mine or surface operations and surface impacts incident to an underground mine, as defined in section 701(28) of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act (30 U.S.C. 1291(28). 


(nn) *Surface management agency* means the Federal agency with jurisdiction over the surface of federally owned lands containing coal deposits, and, in the case of private surface over Federal coal, the Bureau of Land Management, except in areas designated as National Grasslands, where it means the Forest Service. 


(oo) *Surface Mining Officer* means the regulatory authority as defined in 30 CFR Chapter VII.


(pp) *Valid existing rights* as used in § 3461.1 of this title is defined in 30 CFR 761.5. 


(qq) *Written consent* means the document or documents that a qualified surface owner has signed that: 


(1) Permit a coal operator to enter and commence surface mining of coal;


(2) Describe any financial or other consideration given or promised in return for the permission, including in-kind considerations; 


(3) Describe any consideration given in terms of type or method of operation or reclamation for the area; 


(4) Contain any supplemental or related contracts between the surface owner and any other person who is a party to the permission; and 


(5) Contain a full and accurate description of the area covered by the permission.


(rr) For the purposes of section 2(a)(2)(A) of the Act:


(1) *Arm's length transaction* means the transfer of an interest in a lease to an entity that is not controlled by or under common control with the transferor.


(2) *Bracket* means a 10-year period that begins on the date that coal is first produced on or after August 4, 1976, from a lease that has not been made subject to the diligence provisions of part 3480 of this title on the date of first production.


(3) *Controlled by or under common control with,* based on the instruments of ownership of the voting securities of an entity, means:


(i) Ownership in excess of 50 percent constitutes control;


(ii) Ownership of 20 through 50 percent creates a presumption of control; and


(iii) Ownership of less than 20 percent creates a presumption of noncontrol.


(4) *Entity* means any person, association, or corporation, or any subsidiary, affiliate, or persons controlled by or under common control with such person, association, or corporation.


(5) *Holds and has held* means the cumulative amount of time that an entity holds any working interest in a lease on or after August 4, 1976. The *holds and has held* requirement of section 2(a)(2)(A) of the Act is working interest holder-specific for each lease. *Working interest* includes both record title interests and arrangements whereby an entity has the ability to determine when, and under what circumstances, the rights granted by the lease to develop coal will be exercised.


(6) *Producing* means actually severing coal. A lease is also considered producing when:


(i) The operator/leasee is processing or loading severed coal, or transporting it from the point of severance to the point of sale; or


(ii) Coal severance is temporarily interrupted in accordance with §§ 3481.4-1 through 4-4 of this chapter.



---

[N] [44 FR 42609, July 19, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 33133, 33134, July 30, 1982; 47 FR 38131, Aug. 30, 1982; 50 FR 8626, Mar. 4, 1985; 51 FR 43921, Dec. 5, 1986; 52 FR 416, Jan. 6, 1987; 62 FR 44369, Aug. 20, 1997]




