# § 232.3   Bad-faith conduct.

(a) *General.* The Board shall award costs and attorneys' fees as part of a determination where it is established that a *participant* engaged in *bad-faith conduct,* unless such an award would be inconsistent with the interests of justice.


(b) *Allegations of bad-faith conduct*—(1) *On the Board's initiative.* On its own, and prior to a *final determination,* the Board may order a *participant* to show cause why certain conduct does not constitute *bad-faith conduct.* Within 14 days, the *participant* accused of *bad-faith conduct* shall file a response to this order, which shall follow the procedures set forth in § 220.5(a)(2).


(2) *On a party's initiative.* A party that in good faith believes that a *participant* has engaged in *bad-faith conduct* may file a request for a conference with the Board describing the alleged bad-faith conduct and attaching any relevant exhibits. Requests for a conference concerning allegations of *bad-faith conduct* and any responses thereto shall follow the procedures set forth in § 220.5(a)(2) of this subchapter.


(c) *Establishing bad-faith conduct.* After the response of an accused *participant* has been filed under paragraph (b) of this section, or the time to file such a response has passed, the Board shall either make a determination that no *bad-faith conduct* occurred or schedule a conference concerning the allegations.


(d) *Determining the award.* A determination as to any award of attorneys' fees and costs due to *bad-faith conduct* shall be made as part of the *final determination.* In determining whether to award attorneys' fees and costs due to *bad-faith conduct,* and the amount of any such award, the Board shall consider the requests and responses submitted, any arguments on the issue, and the accused *participant's* behavior in other Board proceedings. Such an award shall be limited to an amount of not more than $5,000, unless—


(1) The adversely affected party appeared *pro se* in the proceeding, in which case the award shall be limited to costs in an amount of not more than $2,500; or


(2) Extraordinary circumstances are present, such as a demonstrated pattern or practice of *bad-faith conduct,* in which case the Board may award costs and attorneys' fees in excess of the limitations in this section.



---

[N] [87 FR 30090, May 17, 2022; 87 FR 36061, as amended at June 15, 2022]




