# ยง 28.54   Reporting and disclosure of international assets.

(a) *Requirements.* (1) Pursuant to section 907(a) of the International Lending Supervision Act of 1983 (title IX, Pub. L. 98-181, 97 Stat. 1153, 12 U.S.C. 3906) (ILSA) a banking institution shall submit to the OCC, at least quarterly, information regarding the amounts and composition of its holdings of international assets. 


(2) Pursuant to section 907(b) of ILSA (12 U.S.C. 3906), a banking institution shall submit to the OCC information regarding concentrations in its holdings of international assets that are material in relation to total assets and to capital of the institution, such information to be made publicly available by the OCC on request. 


(b) *Procedures.* The format, content, and reporting and filing dates of the reports required under paragraph (a) of this section shall be determined jointly by the Federal banking agencies. The requirements to be prescribed by the agencies may include changes to existing reporting forms (such as the Country Exposure Report, FFIEC 009) or such other requirements as the agencies deem appropriate. The agencies also may determine to exempt from the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section banking institutions that, in the agencies' judgment, have *de minimis* holdings of international assets. 


(c) *Reservation of authority.* Nothing contained in this part shall preclude the OCC from requiring from a banking institution such additional or more frequent information on the institution's holdings of international assets as the OCC may consider necessary.




