# § 761.210   Use of the manifest—Generator requirements.

(a) The generator must:


(1) Sign the manifest certification; and




(2) Obtain the signature of the initial transporter and date of acceptance on the manifest; and




(3) Retain one copy, in accordance with § 761.214(a)(1).


(b) The generator must give the transporter the remaining copies of the manifest.


(c) For shipments of PCB waste within the United States solely by water (bulk shipments only), the generator must send three copies of the manifest dated and signed in accordance with this section to the owner or operator of the designated facility. Copies of the manifest are not required for each transporter.


(d) For rail shipments of PCB waste within the United States which originate at the site of generation, the generator must send at least three copies of the manifest dated and signed in accordance with this section to:


(1) The next non-rail transporter, if any; or


(2) The designated facility if transported solely by rail.


(e) For rejected shipments of PCB waste that are returned to the generator by the designated facility (following the procedures of § 761.215(f)), the generator must:


(1) Sign either:


(i) Item 20 of the new manifest if a new manifest is used for the returned shipment; or


(ii) Item 18c of the original manifest if the original manifest is used for the returned shipment;


(2) Provide the transporter a copy of the manifest;


(3) Within 30 days of delivery of the rejected shipment, send a copy of the manifest to the designated facility that returned the shipment to the generator; and


(4) Retain at the generator's site a copy of each manifest for at least three years from the date of delivery.



---

[N] [77 FR 54831, Sept. 6, 2012, as amended at 89 FR 60737, July 26, 2024]




