# § 30.18   Exempt quantities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section, any person is exempt from the requirements for a license set forth in section 81 of the Act and from the regulations in parts 30 through 34, 36, and 39 of this chapter to the extent that such person receives, possesses, uses, transfers, owns, or acquires byproduct material in individual quantities, each of which does not exceed the applicable quantity set forth in § 30.71, Schedule B.


(b) Any person, who possesses byproduct material received or acquired before September 25, 1971, under the general license then provided in § 31.4 of this chapter or similar general license of a State, is exempt from the requirements for a license set forth in section 81 of the Act and from the regulations in parts 30 through 34, 36 and 39 of this chapter to the extent that this person possesses, uses, transfers, or owns byproduct material.


(c) This section does not authorize for purposes of commercial distribution the production, packaging, repackaging, or transfer of byproduct material or the incorporation of byproduct material into products intended for commercial distribution.


(d) No person may, for purposes of commercial distribution, transfer byproduct material in the individual quantities set forth in § 30.71 Schedule B, knowing or having reason to believe that such quantities of byproduct material will be transferred to persons exempt under this section or equivalent regulations of an Agreement State, except in accordance with a license issued under § 32.18 of this chapter, which license states that the byproduct material may be transferred by the licensee to persons exempt under this section or the equivalent regulations of an Agreement State.


(e) No person may, for purposes of producing an increased radiation level, combine quantities of byproduct material covered by this exemption so that the aggregate quantity exceeds the limits set forth in § 30.71, Schedule B, except for byproduct material combined within a device placed in use before May 3, 1999, or as otherwise permitted by the regulations in this part.



---

[N] [35 FR 6427, Apr. 22, 1970, as amended at 36 FR 16898, Aug. 26, 1971; 43 FR 6921, Feb. 17, 1978; 52 FR 8241, Mar. 17, 1987; 58 FR 7736, Feb. 9, 1993; 72 FR 55925, Oct. 1, 2007; 72 FR 58486, Oct. 16, 2007]




