# ยง 655.411   Review of prevailing wage determinations.

(a) *Request for review of PWDs.* Any employer desiring review of a PWD must make a written request for such review to the NPWC Director. The written request must be received by the NPWC Director within 7 business days from the date the PWD was issued. The request for review must clearly identify the PWD for which review is sought; set forth the particular grounds for the request; and include any materials submitted to the NPWC for purposes of securing the PWD.


(b) *NPWC review.* Upon the receipt of the written request for review, the NPWC Director will review the employer's request and accompanying documentation, including any supplementary material submitted by the employer, and after review must issue a Final Determination letter; that letter may:


(1) Affirm the PWD issued by the NPWC; or


(2) Modify the PWD.


(c) *Request for review by BALCA.* Any employer desiring review of the NPWC Director's decision on a PWD must make a written request to BALCA for review of the determination, with a copy simultaneously sent to the NPWC Director who issued the final determination. The written request must be received by BALCA within 10 business days from the date the Final Determination letter was issued.


(1) Upon receipt of a request for BALCA review, the NPWC will prepare an Appeal File and submit it to BALCA.


(2) The request for review, statements, briefs, and other submissions of the parties must contain only legal arguments and may refer to only the evidence that was within the record upon which the decision on the PWD by the NPWC Director was based.


(3) BALCA will handle appeals in accordance with ยง 655.461.




