# § 401.403   Rejection of a request for a Restructuring Plan because of actions or omissions of owner or affiliate or project condition.

(a) *Ongoing determination of owner and project eligibility.* Notwithstanding an initial determination to accept the owner's request for a Restructuring Plan, the PAE is responsible for a further more complete and ongoing assessment of the eligibility of the owner and project while the Restructuring Plan is developed. The PAE must advise HUD if at any time any of the grounds for rejection listed in paragraph (b) of this section exist. 


(b) *Grounds for rejection*—(1) *Suspension or debarment.* Neither a PAE nor HUD will continue to develop or consider a Restructuring Plan if, at any time before a closing under § 401.407, the owner is debarred or suspended under 2 CFR part 2424.


(2) *Other grounds.* HUD may elect not to permit continued consideration of the Restructuring Plan at any time before closing under § 401.407, if: 


(i) An affiliate is debarred or suspended under 2 CFR part 2424; 


(ii) HUD or the PAE determines that the owner or an affiliate has engaged in material adverse financial or managerial actions or omissions as described in section 516(a) of MAHRA, including any outstanding violations of civil rights laws in connection with any project of the owner or affiliate; or 


(iii) HUD or the PAE determines (under § 401.451(c) or otherwise) that the project does not meet the housing quality standards in § 401.558 and that the poor condition of the project is not likely to be remedied in a cost-effective manner through the Restructuring Plan. 


(3) *Exception for sale.* This paragraph does not apply (except (2)(iii)) if a sale or transfer is proposed under § 401.480. 


(c) *Dispute and appeal.* An owner may dispute a rejection under this section and seek administrative review under the procedures in subpart F of this part. 



---

[N] [65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 73496, Dec. 27, 2007]




