# § 3280.306   Windstorm protection.

(a) *Provisions for support and anchoring systems.* Each manufactured home shall have provisions for support/anchoring or foundation systems that, when properly designed and installed, will resist overturning and lateral movement (sliding) of the manufactured home as imposed by the respective design loads. For Wind Zone I, the design wind loads to be used for calculating resistance to overturning and lateral movement shall be the simultaneous application of the wind loads indicated in § 3280.305(c)(1)(i), increased by a factor of 1.5. The 1.5 factor of safety for Wind Zone I is also to be applied simultaneously to both the vertical building projection, as horizontal wind load, and across the surface of the full roof structure, as uplift loading. For Wind Zones II and III, the resistance shall be determined by the simultaneous application of the horizontal drag and uplift wind loads, in accordance with § 3280.305(c)(1)(ii). The basic allowable stresses of materials required to resist overturning and lateral movement shall not be increased in the design and proportioning of these members. No additional shape or location factors need to be applied in the design of the tiedown system. The dead load of the structure may be used to resist these wind loading effects in all Wind Zones. 


(1) The provisions of this section shall be followed and the support and anchoring systems shall be designed by a Registered Professional Engineer or Architect. 


(2) The manufacturer of each manufactured home is required to make provision for the support and anchoring systems but is not required to provide the anchoring equipment or stabilizing devices. When the manufacturer's installation instructions provide for the main frame structure to be used as the points for connection of diagonal ties, no specific connecting devices need be provided on the main frame structure. 


(b) *Contents of instructions.* (1) The manufacturer must provide printed instructions with each manufactured home that specify the location and required capacity of stabilizing devices on which the home's design is based. The manufacturer must identify by paint, label, decal stencil, or other means: the location of each column support pier location required along the marriage line(s) of multi-section manufactured homes; each pier location required along the perimeter of the home; each required shear wall pier support; and any other special pier support locations specified in the manufacturer's printed instructions. Such identifications must be visible after the home is installed. The manufacturer must provide drawings and specifications, certified by a registered professional engineer or architect, that indicate at least one acceptable system of anchoring, including the details or required straps or cables, their end connections, and all other devices needed to transfer the wind loads from the manufactured home to an anchoring or foundation system.


(2) For anchoring systems, the instructions shall indicate: 


(i) The minimum anchor capacity required; 


(ii) That anchors should be certified by a professional engineer, architect, or a nationally recognized testing laboratory as to their resistance, based on the maximum angle of diagonal tie and/or vertical tie loading (see paragraph (c)(3) of this section) and angle of anchor installation, and type of soil in which the anchor is to be installed; 


(iii) That ground anchors are to be embedded below the frost line, unless the foundation system is frost-protected in accordance with §§ 3285.312(b) and 3285.404 of the Model Manufactured Home Installation Standards in this chapter.


(iv) That ground anchors must be installed to their full depth, and stabilizer plates must be installed in accordance with the ground anchor listing or certification to provide required resistance to overturning and sliding.


(v) That anchoring equipment should be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect to resist these specified forces in accordance with testing procedures in ASTM D3953-97, Standard Specification for Strapping, Flat Steel and Seals (incorporated by reference, see § 3280.4).


(c) *Design criteria.* The provisions made for anchoring systems shall be based on the following design criteria for manufactured homes. 


(1) The minimum number of ties provided per side of each home shall resist design wind loads required in § 3280.305(c)(1). 


(2) Ties shall be as evenly spaced as practicable along the length of the manufactured home, with not more than two (2) feet open-end spacing on each end. 


(3) Vertical ties or straps shall be positioned at studs. Where a vertical tie and a diagonal tie are located at the same place, both ties may be connected to a single anchor, provided that the anchor used is capable of carrying both loadings, simultaneously. 


(4) Add-on sections of expandable manufactured homes shall have provisions for vertical ties at the exposed ends. 


(d) *Requirements for ties.* Manufactured homes in Wind Zone I require only diagonal ties. These ties shall be placed along the main frame and below the outer side walls. All manufactured homes designed to be located in Wind Zones II and III shall have a vertical tie installed at each diagonal tie location. 


(e) *Protection requirements.* Protection shall be provided at sharp corners where the anchoring system requires the use of external straps or cables. Protection shall also be provided to minimize damage to siding by the cable or strap. 


(f) *Anchoring equipment—load resistance.* Anchoring equipment shall be capable of resisting an allowable working load equal to or exceeding 3,150 pounds and shall be capable of withstanding a 50 percent overload (4,725 pounds total) without failure of either the anchoring equipment or the attachment point on the manufactured home. 


(g) *Anchoring equipment—weatherization.* Anchoring equipment exposed to weathering shall have a resistance to weather deterioration at least equivalent to that provided by a coating of zinc on steel of not less than 0.30 ounces per square foot of surface coated, and in accordance with the following: 


(1) Slit or cut edges of zinc-coated steel strapping do not need to be zinc coated. 


(2) Type 1, Finish B, Grade 1 steel strapping, 1
1/4 inches wide and 0.035 inches in thickness, certified by a registered professional engineer or architect as conforming with ASTM D3953-97, Standard Specification for Strapping, Flat Steel and Seals (incorporated by reference, see § 3280.4).



---

[N] [40 FR 58752, Dec. 18, 1975. Redesignated at 44 FR 20679, Apr. 6, 1979, as amended at 52 FR 4583, Feb. 12, 1987; 59 FR 2473, Jan. 14, 1994; 70 FR 72045, Nov. 30, 2005; 72 FR 59362, Oct. 19, 2007; 78 FR 73983, Dec. 9, 2013]




