# § 572.16   Head.

(a) The head consists of the assembly designated as SA 103C 010 on drawing No. SA 103C 001, and conforms to either—


(1) Each item specified on drawing SA 103C 002(B), sheet 8; or


(2) Each item specified on drawing SA 103C 002, sheet 8.


(b) When the head is impacted by a test probe specified in § 572.21(a)(1) at 7 fps, then the peak resultant acceleration measured at the location of the accelerometer mounted in the headform according to § 572.21(b) is not less than 95g and not more than 118g.


(1) The recorded acceleration-time curve for this test is unimodal at or above the 50g level, and lies at or above that level for intervals:


(i) In the case of the head assembly specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, not less than 1.3 milliseconds and not more than 2.0 milliseconds;


(ii) In the case of the head assembly specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, not less than 2.0 milliseconds and not more than 3.0 milliseconds.


(2) The lateral acceleration vector does not exceed 7g.


(c) *Test procedure.* (1) Seat the dummy on a seating surface having a back support as specified in § 572.21(h) and orient the dummy in accordance with § 572.21(h) and adjust the joints of the limbs at any setting between 1g and 2g, which just supports the limbs' weight when the limbs are extended horizontally forward.


(2) Adjust the test probe so that its longitudinal centerline is at the forehead at the point of orthogonal intersection of the head midsagittal plane and the transverse plane which is perpendicular to the “Z” axis of the head (longitudinal centerline of the skull anchor) and is located 0.6 ±0.1 inches above the centers of the head center of gravity reference pins and coincides within 2 degrees with the line made by the intersection of horizontal and midsagittal planes passing through this point.


(3) Adjust the dummy so that the surface area on the forehead immediately adjacent to the projected longitudinal centerline of the test probe is vertical.


(4) Impact the head with the test probe so that at the moment of impact the probe's longitudinal centerline falls within 2 degrees of a horizontal line in the dummy's midsagittal plane.


(5) Guide the probe during impact so that it moves with no significant lateral, vertical, or rotational movement.


(6) Allow a time period of at least 20 minutes between successive tests of the head.



---

[N] [44 FR 76530, Dec. 27, 1979; 45 FR 43353, June 26, 1980, as amended at 45 FR 82267, Dec. 15, 1980; 55 FR 30468, July 26, 1990]




