# ยง 250.200   Definitions.

Acronyms and terms used in this subpart have the following meanings:


(a) Acronyms used frequently in this subpart are listed alphabetically below:


(1) BOEM means Bureau of Ocean Energy Management of the U.S. Department of the Interior.


(2) BSEE means Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement of the U.S. Department of the Interior.


(3) CID means Conservation Information Document.


(4) CZMA means Coastal Zone Management Act.


(5) DOCD means Development Operations Coordination Document.


(6) DPP means Development and Production Plan.


(7) DWOP means Deepwater Operations Plan.


(8) EIA means Environmental Impact Analysis.


(9) EP means Exploration Plan.


(10) ESA means Endangered Species Act.


(11) HPHT means High Pressure High Temperature


(12) I3P means Independent Third Party


(13) MMPA means Marine Mammal Protection Act.


(14) NPDES means National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.


(15) NTL means Notice to Lessees and Operators.


(16) OCS means Outer Continental Shelf.


(b) Terms used in this subpart are listed alphabetically below:


*Amendment* means a change you make to an EP, DPP, or DOCD that is pending before BOEM for a decision (see 30 CFR 550.232(d) and 30 CFR 550.267(d)).


*Barrier categorization* includes identifying barriers as one of the following two types of categories:


*Category 1 Barrier* means any equipment, component, or assembly that functions as part of a primary barrier during any operational phase of its life cycle. The operational phases of the barrier equipment, component, or assembly are drilling, completion, workover, intervention, injection, production, or abandonment.


*Category 2 Barrier* means any equipment, component, or assembly that normally functions as part of a secondary barrier during any operational phase of its life cycle, except when a primary barrier fails. The operational phases of the barrier equipment, component, or assembly are drilling, completion, workover, intervention, injection, production, or abandonment. BSEE may consider non-barrier structural components of a barrier system as a Category 2 Barrier if failure of this structural component could reasonably result in a Primary Barrier failure.


*Fit for Purpose* means a determination made by an I3P at the conclusion of I3P review that the barrier equipment design has been verified and validated in conformance with recognized engineering standards and any additional project specification requirements; that the material selection, design verification analysis, design validation testing, and quality control are appropriate to justify the technical specifications; and that the technical specifications meet or exceed a project's site specific functional requirements.


*Fit for Service* means a determination made by the operator that the material selection, design verification analysis, design validation testing, and quality control of the barrier equipment is appropriate to justify the technical specifications and that the technical specifications meet or exceed a project's site-specific functional requirements.


*New or unusual technology* means equipment or procedures used for any drilling, completion, workover, intervention, injection, production, pipeline, platform, decommissioning, or abandonment operations that meet any of the following criteria:


(1) Has not been approved for use or used extensively in a BSEE OCS Region;


(2) Has not been approved for use or used extensively under the anticipated operating conditions;


(3) Has operating characteristics that are outside the performance parameters established in this part;


(4) Will operate in an HPHT environment as defined in ยง 250.105; or


(5) Is part of a primary or secondary barrier system that uses materials, design analysis techniques, validation testing methods, or manufacturing processes not addressed in existing industry standards.


*Primary Barrier* means the equipment, material, component, or assembly that is designated as the principal means of isolating the hydrocarbon pressure source from people and the environment.


*Secondary Barrier* means the equipment, material, component, or assembly that is designated as the secondary means of isolating the hydrocarbon pressure source from people and the environment.


*Subsea tieback development technology* means, but is not limited to, floating production systems, tension leg platforms, spars, Floating Production Storage and Offloading (FPSO) systems, guyed towers, compliant towers, subsea manifolds, subsea wells, hybrid wells, production risers, export risers, and other subsea completion or production components that rely on a remote site or host facility for utility and well control services.






