# § 147.1700   State-administered program.

The UIC program for all classes of wells in the State of North Carolina, except those wells on Indian lands, is the program administered by the North Carolina Department of Environment, Health and Natural Resources approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the _Federal Register_ on April 19, 1984 (49 FR 15553); the effective date of this program is April 19, 1984. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application: 


(a) *Incorporation by reference.* The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph (a) are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of North Carolina. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the OFR in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained at the North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality, Division of Water Resources, Attention UIC Program, 1636 Mail Service Center, Raleigh, North Carolina 27699. Copies may be inspected at the Environmental Protection Agency, Region IV, 61 Forsyth Street SW, Atlanta, Georgia 30303-8960, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations* or email *fr.inspection@nara.gov.*

(1) Administrative Procedure Act, N.C. GEN. STAT. 150B-1 through 150B-64 (1987 and Cumm. Supp. 1989); 


(2) North Carolina Well Construction Act, N.C. GEN. STAT. §§ 87-83 through 87-99 (1989 and Cumm. Supp. 1989); 


(3) Water and Air Resources, N.C. GEN. STAT. §§ 143-211 through 143-215.10 (1987 and Cumm. Supp. 1989); 


(4) Solid Waste Management, N.C. GEN. STAT. §§ 130A-290 through 130A-309.03 (1989); 


(5) North Carolina Drinking Water Act, N.C. GEN. STAT. §§ 130A-311 through 130A-332 (1989); 


(6) Sanitary Sewage Systems, N.C. GEN. STAT. §§ 130A-333 through 130A-335 (1989). 


(b) *Other laws.* The following rules and regulations, although not incorporated by reference, are also part of the approved State-administered program: 


(1) N.C. ADMIN. CODE, Title 15, r. 02L.0100 *et seq.* Groundwater Classification and Standards: General Considerations (September 22, 1988); 


(2) N.C. ADMIN. CODE, Title 15, r. 02L.0100 *et seq.* Criteria and Standards Applicable to Injection Wells (September 22, 1988). 


(c) *Memorandum of Agreement.* The Memorandum of Agreement between the State of North Carolina and EPA Region IV, signed March 1, 1984. 


(d) *Statement of legal authority.* (1) Underground Injection Control Program, Attorney General's Statement (June 15, 1982); 


(2) Amendment to Underground Injection Control Program, Attorney General's Statement (February 9, 1984). 


(e) *Program Description.* The Program Description and other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto. 



---

[N] [56 FR 9417, Mar. 6, 1991, as amended at 89 FR 86750, Oct. 31, 2024]




