# ยง 1603.208   Motions.

(a) All motions shall state the specific relief requested. All motions shall be in writing, except that a motion may be made orally during a conference or during the hearing. After providing an opportunity for response, the administrative law judge may rule on an oral motion immediately or may require that it be submitted in writing. 


(b) Unless otherwise directed by the administrative law judge, any other party may file a response in support of or in opposition to any written motion within 10 business days after service of the motion. If no response is filed within the response period, the party failing to respond shall be deemed to have waived any objection to the granting of the motion. The moving party shall have no right to reply to a response, unless the administrative law judge exercises discretion to order that a reply be filed. 


(c) Except for procedural matters, the administrative law judge may not grant a written motion prior to the expiration of the time for filing responses. The administrative law judge may deny a written motion without awaiting a response. The administrative law judge may allow oral argument (including that made by telephone or other digital means) on written motions. Any party adversely affected by the *ex parte* grant of a motion for a procedural order may request, within 5 business days of service of the order, that the administrative law judge reconsider, vacate, or modify the order. 


(d) The administrative law judge may summarily deny motions that are repetitive, frivolous, or intended to delay the proceedings. Unless otherwise ordered by the administrative law judge, the filing of a motion does not stay the proceeding. 


(e) All motions and responses must comply with the filing and service requirements of ยง 1603.209. 



---

[N] [62 FR 17543, Apr. 10, 1997, as amended at 89 FR 47853, June 4, 2024]






