# § 185.102   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part—


*ALJ* means an Administrative Law Judge in the authority appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105 or detailed to the authority pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3344.


*Authority* means the Office of Personnel Management (OPM).


*Authority head* means the Director of the Office of Personnel Management or the Director's designee.


*Benefit* is very broad, and is intended to cover anything of value, including but not limited to any advantage, preference, privilege, license, permit, favorable decision, ruling, status or loan guarantee.


*Claim* means any request, demand, or submission—


(a) Made to the authority for property, services, or money (including money representing benefits, grants, loans or insurance);


(b) Made to a recipient of property, services, or money from the authority or to a party to a contract with the authority:


(1) For property or services if the United States—


(i) Provided such property or services;


(ii) Provided any portion of the funds for the purchase of such property or services; or 


(iii) Will reimburse such recipient or party for the purchase of such property or services; or


(2) For the payment of money (including money representing grants, loans, insurance, or benefits) if the United States:


(i) Provided any portion of the money requested or demanded; or


(ii) Will reimburse such recipient or party for any portion of the money paid on such request or demand; or


(c) Made to the authority which has the effect of decreasing an obligation to pay or account for property, services, or money.


*Complaint* means the administrative complaint served by the reviewing official on the defendant under § 185.107.


*Defendant* means any person alleged in a complaint under § 185.107 to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment under § 185.103.


*Government* means the United States Government.


*Individual* means a natural person.


*Initial decision* means the written decision of the ALJ required by § 185.110 or § 185.137, and includes a revised initial decision issued following a remand or a motion for reconsideration.


*Investigating Official* means the Inspector General or the Inspector General's designee.


*Knows or has reason to know* means that a person, with respect to a claim or statement:


(a) Has actual knowledge that the claim or statement is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;


(b) Acts in deliberate ignorance of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement; or


(c) Acts in reckless disregard of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement.


*Makes* shall include the terms presents, submits, and causes to be made, presented, or submitted. As the context requires, making or made, shall likewise include the corresponding forms of such terms.


*Person* means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or private organization, and includes the plural of that term.


*Representative* means an attorney who is in good standing of the bar of any State, Territory, or possession of the United States or of the District of Columbia or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico or other individual designated in writing by the defendant.


*Reviewing Official* means the General Counsel of OPM or the General Counsel's designee. For the purposes of § 185.105 of these rules, the General Counsel personally, or members of the General Counsel's immediate staff, shall perform the functions of the reviewing official provided that such person or persons serve in a position for which the rate of basic pay is not less than the minimum rate payable under section 5376 of title 5 of the United States Code. All other functions of the reviewing official, including administrative prosecution under these rules, shall be performed on behalf of the General Counsel by members of the Office of the General Counsel.


*Statement* means any representation, certification, affirmation, document, record, or accounting or bookkeeping entry made:


(a) With respect to a claim or to obtain the approval or payment of a claim (including relating to eligibility to make a claim); or


(b) With respect to (including relating to eligibility for):


(1) A contract with, or a bid or proposal for a contract with; or


(2) A grant, loan, or benefit from, the authority, or any State, political subdivision of a State, or other party, if the United States Government provides any portion of the money or property under such contract or for such grant, loan, or benefit, or if the Government will reimburse such State, political subdivision, or party for any portion of the money or property under such contract or for such grant, loan, or benefit.




