# § 423.2460   Reporting requirements.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, for each contract year, each Part D sponsor must submit to CMS, in a timeframe and manner specified by CMS, a report that includes the data needed by the Part D sponsor to calculate and verify the medical loss ratio (MLR) and remittance amount, if any, for each contract under this part, including the amount of incurred claims for prescription drugs, supplemental benefits, total revenue, expenditures on quality improving activities, non-claims costs, taxes, licensing and regulatory fees, and any remittance owed to CMS under § 423.2410.


(b) For contract years 2018 through 2022, each Part D sponsor must submit to CMS, in a timeframe and manner specified by CMS, the following information:


(1) *Fully credible and partially credible contracts.* For each contract under this part that has fully credible or partially credible experience, as determined in accordance with § 423.2440(d), the Part D sponsor must report to CMS the MLR for the contract and the amount of any remittance owed to CMS under § 423.2410.


(2) *Non-credible contracts.* For each contract under this part that has non-credible experience, as determined in accordance with § 423.2440(d), the Part D sponsor must report to CMS that the contract is non-credible.


(c) Total revenue included as part of the MLR calculation must be net of all projected reconciliations.


(d) Subject to paragraph (e) of this section, the MLR is reported once, and is not reopened as a result of any payment reconciliation processes.


(e) With respect to a Part D sponsor that has already submitted to CMS the MLR report or MLR data required under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, respectively, for a contract for a contract year, paragraph (d) of this section does not prohibit resubmission of the MLR report or MLR data for the purpose of correcting the prior MLR report or data submission. Such resubmission must be authorized or directed by CMS, and upon receipt and acceptance by CMS, is regarded as the contract's MLR report or data submission for the contract year for purposes of this subpart.



---

[N] [83 FR 16756, Apr. 16, 2018, as amended at 87 FR 27902, May 9, 2022]




