# § 308.540   Premiums.

(a) *Rates.* Rate Schedules for war risk facultative cargo insurance will be published by the Maritime Administrator from time to time, and may be obtained from an Underwriting Agent. All Rate Schedules are subject to change by the Maritime Administrator without notice. If no rate is published for a voyage on which war risk facultative cargo insurance is available, the Maritime Administrator will name a rate through an Underwriting Agent upon application. Whenever an applicant for war risk facultative cargo insurance receives a definite rate quotation and desires to bind insurance at the quoted rate, an order to bind the insurance in accordance with the procedure set forth in this subpart should be submitted within two business days following the day of quotation accompanied by check or Money Order payable to the order of “Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation” for the full amount of the premium thereon computed on the amount to be insured at the rate set by the Maritime Administrator, or the quotation will expire.


(b) *Return premium.* Where goods are short-shipped, the amount of insurance may be reduced by an amount computed by applying to the original amount of insurance the proportion which the quantity of merchandise short-shipped (i.e., bales, barrels, tons, and other designations of quantity) bears to the total quantity of merchandise originally declared for insurance. Where more than one class of merchandise is insured under one policy (e.g., fuel, oil and gasoline) the reduced amount of insurance must be computed separately on each item. Where the amount of insurance is reduced, the Maritime Administrator will give consideration to requests for proportionate returns of premium. An application for the return of a premium must be submitted to the Underwriting Agent in quadruplicate on Form MA-317, prescribed in § 308.547.




