# § 63.487   Batch front-end process vents—reference control technology.

(a) *Batch front-end process vents.* Except as specified in paragraph (j) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected source with a Group 1 batch front-end process vent, as determined using the procedures in § 63.488, shall comply with the requirements of either paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section, and paragraph (a)(3) of this section. Compliance may be based on either organic HAP or TOC.


(1) For each batch front-end process vent, reduce organic HAP emissions using a flare.


(i) Except as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator of the affected sources shall comply with the requirements of § 63.504(c) for the flare.


(ii) Halogenated batch front-end process vents, as defined in § 63.482, shall not be vented to a flare.


(iii) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section no longer applies and instead the owner or operator of the affected sources must comply with § 63.508 for the flare.


(2) For each batch front-end process vent, reduce organic HAP emissions for the batch cycle by 90 weight percent using a control device. Owners or operators may achieve compliance with this paragraph through the control of selected batch emission episodes or the control of portions of selected batch emission episodes. Documentation demonstrating how the 90 weight percent emission reduction is achieved is required by § 63.490(c)(2).


(3) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), for each batch front-end process vent that contains chlorine, HCl, or any other chlorinated compound, reduce emissions of dioxins and furans (toxic equivalency basis) to a concentration of 0.054 nanograms per standard cubic meter on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen.








(b) *Aggregate batch vent streams.* Except as specified in paragraph (j) of this section the owner or operator of an aggregate batch vent stream that contains one or more Group 1 batch front-end process vents shall comply with the requirements of either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, and paragraph (b)(3) of this section. Compliance may be based on either organic HAP or TOC.


(1) For each aggregate batch vent stream, reduce organic HAP emissions using a flare.


(i) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator of the affected source shall comply with the requirements of § 63.504(c) for the flare.


(ii) Halogenated aggregate batch vent streams, as defined in § 63.482, shall not be vented to a flare.


(iii) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section no longer applies and instead the owner or operator of the affected source must comply with § 63.508 for the flare.


(2) For each aggregate batch vent stream, reduce organic HAP emissions by 90 weight percent or to a concentration of 20 ppmv, on a continuous basis using a control device. For purposes of complying with the 20 ppmv outlet concentration standard, the outlet concentration shall be calculated on a dry basis. When a combustion device is used for purposes of complying with the 20 ppmv outlet concentration standard, the concentration shall be corrected to 3 percent oxygen if supplemental combustion air is used to combust the emissions. If supplemental combustion air is not used, a correction to 3 percent oxygen is not required.


(3) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), for each aggregate batch vent stream that contains chlorine, HCl, or any other chlorinated compound, reduce emissions of dioxins and furans (toxic equivalency basis) to a concentration of 0.054 nanograms per standard cubic meter on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen




(c) *Halogenated emissions.* Halogenated Group 1 batch front-end process vents, halogenated aggregate batch vent streams, and halogenated continuous front-end process vents that are combusted as part of complying with paragraph (a)(2), (a)(3), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this section, shall be controlled according to either paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section.




(1) If a combustion device is used to comply with paragraph (a)(2), (a)(3), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this section for a halogenated batch front-end process vent or halogenated aggregate batch vent stream, the emissions exiting the combustion device shall be ducted to a halogen reduction device that reduces overall emissions of hydrogen halides and halogens by at least 99 percent before discharge to the atmosphere.




(2) A halogen reduction device may be used to reduce the halogen atom mass emission rate to less than 3,750 kg/yr for batch front-end process vents or aggregate batch vent streams and thus make the batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream nonhalogenated. The nonhalogenated batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream shall then comply with the requirements of either paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, as appropriate.


(d) If a boiler or process heater is used to comply with the percent reduction requirement specified in paragraph (a)(2) or (b)(2) of this section, the batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream shall be introduced into the flame zone of such a device.


(e) *Combination of batch front-end process vents or aggregate batch vent streams with continuous front-end process vents.* If a batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a continuous front-end process vent, the owner or operator shall determine whether the combined vent stream is subject to the provisions of §§ 63.486 through 63.492 according to paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section.


(1) A batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream combined with a continuous front-end process vent stream is not subject to the provisions of §§ 63.486 through 63.492, if the requirements in paragraph (e)(1)(i) and in either paragraph (e)(1)(ii) or (e)(1)(iii) are met.


(i) The only emissions to the atmosphere from the batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream prior to being combined with the continuous front-end process vent are from equipment subject to § 63.502.


(ii) The batch front-end vent stream or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a Group 1 continuous front-end process vent stream prior to the combined vent stream being routed to a control device. In this paragraph (e)(1)(ii), the definition of control device as it relates to continuous front-end process vents shall be used. Furthermore, the combined vent stream discussed in this paragraph (e)(1)(ii) shall be subject to § 63.485(o)(1).


(iii) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section, the batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a continuous front-end process vent stream prior to being routed to a recovery device. In this paragraph (e)(1)(iii), the definition of recovery device as it relates to continuous front-end process vents shall be used. Furthermore, the combined vent stream discussed in this paragraph (e)(1)(iii) shall be subject to § 63.485(o)(2).




(iv) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section no longer applies.








(2) If the batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a Group 2 continuous front-end process vent, the group status of the batch front-end process vent shall be determined prior to its combination with the Group 2 continuous front-end process vent, in accordance with § 63.488, and the combined vent stream shall be subject to the requirements for aggregate batch vent streams in §§ 63.486 through 63.492. 


(f) *Group 2 batch front-end process vents with annual emissions greater than or equal to the level specified in § 63.488(d).* Except as specified in paragraph (j) of this section, the owner or operator of a Group 2 batch front-end process vent with annual emissions greater than or equal to the level specified in § 63.488(d) shall comply with the provisions of paragraph (f)(1), (f)(2), or (h) of this section.




(1) The owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (f)(1)(iv) of this section.


(i) The owner or operator shall establish a batch mass input limitation that ensures that the Group 2 batch front-end process vent does not become a Group 1 batch front-end process vent.


(ii) Over the course of the affected source's “year,” as reported in the Notification of Compliance Status in accordance with § 63.506(e)(5)(ix), the owner or operator shall not charge a mass of HAP or material to the batch unit operation that is greater than the level established as the batch mass input limitation.


(iii) The owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements in § 63.491(d)(2), and the reporting requirements in § 63.492(a)(3), (b) and (c).


(iv) The owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with § 63.488(i) when process changes are made.


(2) Comply with the requirements of this subpart for Group 1 batch front-end process vents. 


(g) *Group 2 batch front-end process vents with annual emissions less than the level specified in § 63.488(d).* Except as specified in paragraph (j) of this section, the owner or operator of a Group 2 batch front-end process vent with annual organic HAP emissions less than the level specified in § 63.488(d), shall comply with paragraph (g)(1), (g)(2), (g)(3), or (g)(4) of this section.




(1) The owner or operator of the affected source shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (g)(1)(iv) of this section. 


(i) The owner or operator shall establish a batch mass input limitation that ensures emissions do not exceed the appropriate level specified in § 63.488(d). 


(ii) Over the course of the affected source's “year,” as reported in the Notification of Compliance Status in accordance with § 63.506(e)(5)(ix), the owner or operator shall not charge a mass of HAP or material to the batch unit operation that is greater than the level established as the batch mass input limitation. 


(iii) The owner or operator of the affected source shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements in § 63.491(d)(1), and the reporting requirements in § 63.492(a)(2), (b), and (c). 


(iv) The owner or operator of the affected source shall comply with § 63.488(i) when process changes are made. 


(2) Comply with the requirements of paragraph (f)(1) of this section; 


(3) Comply with the requirements of paragraph (f)(2) of this section; or


(4) Comply with the requirements of paragraph (h) of this section. 


(h) Owners or operators of Group 2 batch front-end process vents are not required to establish a batch mass input limitation if the batch front-end process vent is Group 2 at the conditions specified in paragraphs (h)(1) and (h)(2) of this section and if the owner or operator complies with the recordkeeping provisions in §§ 63.491(a)(1) through (3), 63.491(a)(9), and 63.491(a)(4) through (6) as applicable, and the reporting requirements in § 63.492(a)(5) and (6) and (b). 


(1) Emissions for the single highest-HAP recipe (considering all products that are produced in the batch unit operation) are used in the group determination; and 


(2) The group determination assumes that the batch unit operation is operating at the maximum design capacity of the EPPU for 12 months. 


(i) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), an owner or operator may designate a batch front-end process vent as a maintenance vent if the vent is only used as a result of startup, shutdown, maintenance, or inspection of equipment where equipment is emptied, depressurized, degassed, or placed into service. The owner or operator must comply with the applicable requirements in paragraphs (i)(1) through (i)(4) of this section for each maintenance vent. Any vent designated as a maintenance vent is only subject to the maintenance vent provisions in this paragraph (i) and the associated recordkeeping and reporting requirements in § 63.491(h) and § 63.492(g), respectively. The owner or operator does not need to designate a maintenance vent as a Group 1 or Group 2 batch front-end process vent nor identify maintenance vents in a Notification of Compliance Status report.


(1) Prior to venting to the atmosphere, remove process liquids from the equipment as much as practical and depressurize the equipment to either: A flare meeting the requirements of § 63.508, as applicable, or using any combination of a non-flare combustion, recovery, and/or recapture device meeting the requirements in paragraph (a)(2) of this section until one of the following conditions, as applicable, is met.


(i) The concentration of the vapor in the equipment served by the maintenance vent is less than 10 percent of its lower explosive limit (LEL) and has an outlet concentration less than or equal to 20 ppmv hydrogen halide and halogen HAP.


(ii) If there is no ability to measure the concentration of the vapor in the equipment based on the design of the equipment, the pressure in the equipment served by the maintenance vent is reduced to 5 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) or less. Upon opening the maintenance vent, active purging of the equipment cannot be used until the concentration of the vapors in the maintenance vent (or inside the equipment if the maintenance is a hatch or similar type of opening) is less than 10 percent of its LEL.


(iii) The equipment served by the maintenance vent contains less than 50 pounds of total volatile organic compounds (VOC).


(iv) If, after applying best practices to isolate and purge equipment served by a maintenance vent, none of the applicable criterion in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (i)(1)(iii) of this section can be met prior to installing or removing a blind flange or similar equipment blind, then the pressure in the equipment served by the maintenance vent must be reduced to 2 psig or less before installing or removing the equipment blind. During installation or removal of the equipment blind, active purging of the equipment may be used provided the equipment pressure at the location where purge gas is introduced remains at 2 psig or less.


(2) Except for maintenance vents complying with the alternative in paragraph (i)(1)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator must determine the concentration or, if applicable, equipment pressure using process instrumentation or portable measurement devices and follow procedures for calibration and maintenance according to manufacturer's specifications.


(3) For maintenance vents complying with the alternative in paragraph (i)(1)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator must determine mass of VOC in the equipment served by the maintenance vent based on the equipment size and contents after considering any contents drained or purged from the equipment. Equipment size may be determined from equipment design specifications. Equipment contents may be determined using process knowledge.


(4) In addition to complying with the requirements in paragraphs (i)(1) through (i)(3) of this section, for batch front-end process vents that are in chloroprene service and subject to the requirements of § 63.510 that are designated as maintenance vents, owners and operators may not release more than 1.0 tons of chloroprene from all maintenance vents combined (*i.e.,* including maintenance vents subject to this paragraph (i)(4), § 63.485(z), or § 63.494(a)(7)(iii)) per any consecutive 12-month period. The owner or operator must keep monthly records of the quantity in tons of chloroprene released from each maintenance vent and include a description of the method used to estimate this quantity.




(j) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(o), if the Group 1 or Group 2 batch front-end process vent contains chloroprene such that it is considered to be in chloroprene service, as defined in § 63.482, then the owner or operator must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (j)(1) through (j)(4) of this section in addition to all other applicable requirements specified in § 63.483 and elsewhere in this section.


(1) Reduce emissions of chloroprene by venting emissions through a closed vent system to a non-flare control device that reduces chloroprene by greater than or equal to 98 percent by weight, or to a concentration less than 1 ppmv for each process vent or to less than 5 pounds per year for all combined process vents within the process. If a combustion device is used, the chloroprene concentration of 1 ppmv must be corrected to 3 percent oxygen.


(2) To demonstrate compliance with the emission limits specified in paragraph (j)(1) of this section for batch front-end process vents in chloroprene service, owners and operators must meet the requirements specified in § 63.510.


(3) Owners and operators must keep the records specified in paragraphs (j)(3)(i) and (j)(3)(ii) of this section in addition to those records specified elsewhere in this section.


(i) For process vents, include all uncontrolled, undiluted chloroprene concentration measurements, and the calculations used to determine the total uncontrolled chloroprene mass emission rate for the sum of all vent gas streams.


(ii) The owner or operator must keep records of all periods during which operating values are outside of the applicable operating limits specified in § 63.510(b)(4) through (6) when regulated material is being routed to the non-flare control device. The record must specify the operating parameter, the applicable limit, and the highest (for maximum operating limits) or lowest (for minimum operating limits) value recorded during the period.


(4) The Periodic Report must include the records of periods specified in paragraph (j)(3)(ii) of this section. Indicate the start date, start time and duration in hours for each period.









---

[N] [62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 11542, Mar. 9, 1999; 65 FR 38052, June 19, 2000; 66 FR 36928, July 16, 2001; 89 FR 43245, May 16, 2024]




