# § 86.093-2   Definitions.

The definitions of § 86.092-2 continue to apply. The definitions listed in this section apply beginning with the 1993 model year.


*Bus* means a heavy heavy-duty diesel-powered passenger-carrying vehicle with a load capacity of fifteen or more passengers that is centrally fueled, and all urban buses. This definition only applies in the context of §§ 86.093-11 and 86.093-35.


*Centrally fueled bus* means a bus that is refueled at least 75 percent of the time at one refueling facility that is owned, operated, or controlled by the bus operator.


*Urban bus* means a passenger-carrying vehicle powered by a heavy heavy-duty diesel engine, or of a type normally powered by a heavy heavy-duty diesel engine, with a load capacity of fifteen or more passengers and intended primarily for intracity operation, i.e., within the confines of a city or greater metropolitan area. Urban bus operation is characterized by short rides and frequent stops. To facilitate this type of operation, more than one set of quick-operating entrance and exit doors would normally be installed. Since fares are usually paid in cash or tokens, rather than purchased in advance in the form of tickets, urban buses would normally have equipment installed for collection of fares. Urban buses are also typically characterized by the absence of equipment and facilities for long distance travel, e.g., rest rooms, large luggage compartments, and facilities for stowing carry-on luggage. The useful life for urban buses is the same as the useful life for other heavy heavy-duty diesel engines.



---

[N] [58 FR 15795, Mar. 24, 1993]




