# ยง 672.5   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Administrator* means the Federal Transit Administrator or the Administrator's designee.


*Contractor* means an entity that performs tasks on behalf of the Federal Transit Administration (FTA), a State Safety Oversight Agency (SSOA), or public transportation agency through contract or other agreement.


*Designated personnel* means:


(1) Employees and contractors identified by a recipient whose job function is directly responsible for safety oversight of the public transportation system of the public transportation agency; or


(2) Employees and contractors of a State Safety Oversight Agency (SSOA) whose job function requires them to conduct reviews, inspections, examinations, and other safety oversight activities of the rail fixed guideway public transportation systems subject to the jurisdiction of the agency.


*Directly responsible for safety oversight* means public transportation agency personnel whose primary job function includes the development, implementation, and review of the agency's safety plan and/or the State Safety Oversight Agency (SSOA) requirements for the rail fixed guideway public transportation system pursuant to 49 CFR part 674.


*Examination* means a process for gathering or analyzing facts or information related to the safety of a public transportation system.


*FTA* means the Federal Transit Administration, an operating administration within the United States Department of Transportation.


*Initial training* means the group of specific courses an individual must complete within three (3) years of enrollment in the Public Transportation Safety Certification Training Program to receive their first program certificate.


*Public transportation agency* means an entity that provides public transportation service as defined in 49 U.S.C. 5302 and that has one or more modes of service not subject to the safety oversight requirements of another Federal agency.


*Public Transportation Safety Certification Training Program curriculum* means the initial training designated personnel or voluntary participants must complete to receive the Public Transportation Safety Certification Training Program certificate of completion.


*Rail fixed guideway public transportation system* means any fixed guideway system, or any such system in engineering or construction, that uses rail, is operated for public transportation, is within the jurisdiction of a State, and is not subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Railroad Administration. These systems include but are not limited to rapid rail, heavy rail, light rail, monorail, trolley, inclined plane, funicular, and automated guideway.


*Rail transit agency* means any entity that provides services on a rail fixed guideway public transportation system.


*Recertification* means the process of renewing an individual's Public Transportation Safety Certification Training Program certification for two years.


*Recertification training* means the training courses or activities designated personnel must complete within two (2) years of completing the Public Transportation Safety Certification Training Program curriculum to maintain certification and every two (2) years thereafter.


*Recipient* means a State or local governmental authority or any other operator of a public transportation system receiving financial assistance under 49 U.S.C. chapter 53.


*Safety review* means a review or analysis of safety records and related materials.


*State* means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Virgin Islands.


*State Safety Oversight Agency (SSOA)* means an agency established by a State that meets the requirements and performs the functions specified by 49 U.S.C. 5329(e) and (k) and the regulations set forth in 49 CFR part 674.


*Voluntary participant* means an individual participating in the Public Transportation Safety Certification Training Program that is not subject to the requirements of this part, including:


(1) Employees and contractors of an applicable recipient that have not been designated under ยง 672.11(a) or ยง 672.13(a), and


(2) Individuals who are not employees or contractors of an applicable recipient.




