# § 60.116c   Reporting requirements.

(a) *Initial notification requirements.* You must submit initial notifications to the Administrator within 60 days after October 15, 2024 or within 60 days after becoming an affected storage vessel, whichever is later. Once the report template for this subpart has been available on the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri*) for 1 year, you must submit all subsequent initial notifications using the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website for this subpart and following the procedure specified in paragraph (f) of this section. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. For each storage vessel affected facility subject to the standards in § 60.112c, include the following information in the initial notification:


(1) The following general facility information:


(i) Facility name;


(ii) Facility physical address, including city, county, State, and zip code;


(iii) Latitude and longitude of facility's physical location. Coordinates must be in decimal degrees with at least five decimal places; and


(iv) The following information for the facility contact person:


(A) Name;


(B) Mailing address, including city, county, State, and zip code;


(C) Telephone number; and


(D) Email address.


(2) Identification of the storage vessel(s) subject to this subpart.


(3) Capacity (in gallons) of each storage vessel.


(4) Maximum true vapor pressure of the liquid stored (in psia) in each storage vessel.


(5) Indication of the standards for which the storage vessel complies [§§ 60.112c(b); 60.112c(c); 60.112c(d); 60.112c(e)].


(6) If you route emissions to a control device, specify the design of the storage vessel and closed vent system (*i.e.,* storage vessel designed according to § 60.112c(d)(1)(i); or closed vent system designed according to § 60.112c(d)(1)(ii)), the type of control device (*i.e.,* enclosed combustion device complying with temperature operating limit; enclosed combustion device electing to comply with § 60.112c(d)(5); process heater or boiler; catalytic incinerator; flare, or other control device (specify)).


(7) If you route emissions to a process, submit the information specified in § 60.112c(d)(6)(ii) and (iii).


(8) If you route emissions to a fuel gas system, as specified in § 60.112c(d)(6)(iv), submit a statement that the emission stream is connected to the fuel gas system.


(b) *Other notifications.* Submit notifications for filling and refilling an affected storage vessel and for conducting gap measurements as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) As specified in § 60.113c(a)(4) and (b)(7)(ii), you must notify the Administrator at least 30 days prior to inspection of each storage vessel for which an inspection is required by § 60.113c(a)(1), (a)(2)(ii) or (b)(7) to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present. Submit the notification using CEDRI as specified in paragraph (f) of this section. If the inspection required by § 60.113c(a)(2)(ii) or (b)(7) is not planned and you could not have known about the inspection 30 days in advance of refilling the storage vessel, you must notify the Administrator at least 7 days prior to the refilling of the storage vessel. Notification shall be made by telephone immediately followed by written documentation using CEDRI demonstrating why the inspection was unplanned.


(2) As specified in § 60.113c(b)(6), you must notify the Administrator 30 days in advance of any gap measurements required by § 60.113c(b)(1) to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present. Submit the notification using CEDRI as specified in paragraph (f) of this section. If the inspection required by § 60.113c(b)(1) is not planned and you could not have known about the inspection 30 days in advance of the gap measurement, you must notify the Administrator at least 7 days prior to the conducting the gap measurement. Notification must be made by telephone immediately followed by written documentation using CEDRI demonstrating why the gap measurement was unplanned.


(c) *Reporting requirements for semiannual report.* You must submit to the Administrator semiannual reports with the applicable information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (12) of this section by the dates specified in paragraph (d) of this section. For this subpart, the semiannual reports supersede the excess emissions and monitoring systems performance report and/or summary report form required under § 60.7. Once the report template for this subpart has been available on the CEDRI website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri*) for 1 year, you must submit all subsequent reports using the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website for this subpart and following the procedure specified in paragraph (f) of this section. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated State agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports, the report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted.


(1) Report the following general facility information:


(i) Facility name;


(ii) Facility physical address, including city, county, and State;


(iii) Latitude and longitude of facility's physical location. Coordinates must be in decimal degrees with at least five decimal places;


(iv) The following information for the facility contact person:


(A) Name;


(B) Mailing address;


(C) Telephone number; and


(D) Email address.


(v) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. You are no longer required to provide the date of report when the report is submitted via CEDRI; and


(vi) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report. If your report is submitted via CEDRI, the certifier's electronic signature during the submission process replaces the requirement in this paragraph (c)(1)(vi).


(2) For storage vessels complying with the provisions of § 60.112c(b) or (c):


(i) Identification of the storage vessel and an indication of whether you comply with § 60.112c(b) or (c).


(ii) An indication whether the storage vessel was inspected during the reporting period, and if so, the date and type of each inspection conducted during the reporting period [the type of inspection shall be selected from the following list: initial IFR inspection according to § 60.113c(a)(1), IFR visual inspection from fixed roof according to § 60.113c(a)(2)(i), combined IFR visual inspection with LEL monitoring according to § 60.113c(a)(2)(i) and (3), internal IFR inspection according to § 60.113c(a)(2)(ii), IFR LEL monitoring according to § 60.113c(a)(3), EFR gap measurements according to § 60.113c(b)(1) through (4), or visual EFR inspection according to § 60.113c(b)(7)].


(iii) For storage vessels complying with the provisions of § 60.112c(b) that were not inspected according to § 60.113c(a)(2)(ii) during the reporting period, report the last date the storage vessel was inspected according to the provisions in § 60.113c(a)(2)(ii).


(3) For each failure of a visual inspection required under § 60.113c(a)(2)(i), report the information in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section. For each failure of LEL monitoring required under § 60.113c(a)(3), report the information in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) Identification of the storage vessel;


(ii) The date of the inspection;


(iii) The nature of the defects; and


(iv) The following information regarding the LEL monitoring conducted:


(A) Date and start and end times of the LEL monitoring conducted.


(B) Wind speed in miles per hour at the top of the storage vessel on the date of LEL monitoring.


(C) The highest 5-minute rolling average reading during the monitoring event.


(D) If re-monitoring was required due to excessive wind or repair during the visual inspection, report the information in paragraphs (b)(3)(iv)(A) through (C) of this section for the re-monitoring event.


(E) Whether the floating roof was repaired, replaced, or taken out of VOL service. If the storage vessel was taken out of VOL service, report the date the storage vessel was emptied. If the floating roof was replaced or repaired, report the nature of and date the repair was made and the information in paragraphs (b)(3)(iv)(A) through (C) of this section for each re-monitoring conducted to confirm the repair.


(4) For each inspection required by § 60.113c(a)(2)(ii) that finds holes or tears in the seal or seal fabric, defects in the internal floating roof, or other control equipment defects listed in § 60.113c(a)(2)(ii), report:


(i) Identification of the storage vessel and date of inspection;


(ii) The reason it did not meet the specifications of § 60.112c(b) or § 60.113c(a)(2)(ii);


(iii) A description of each repair made; and


(iv) Date of repair.


(5) For each inspection required under § 60.113c(b)(1), report the following information:


(i) Identification of the storage vessel and the date of the inspection;


(ii) The accumulated area of gaps between the storage vessel wall and the primary seal (in square inches per foot of storage vessel diameter);


(iii) The maximum width of any portion of any gap in the primary seal (in inches);


(iv) The accumulated area of gaps between the storage vessel wall and the secondary seal (in square inches per foot of storage vessel diameter);


(v) The maximum width of any portion of any gap in the secondary seal (in inches); and


(vi) An indication whether there was an inspection failure. If there was an inspection failure, also include the following information in the report:


(A) An indication of the type of deviation(s) [indicating all that apply from: §§ 60.113c(b)(4)(i)(A), 60.113c(b)(4)(i)(B), 60.113c(b)(4)(i)(C), 60.113c(b)(4)(i)(D), 60.113c(b)(4)(ii)(A), 60.113c(b)(4)(ii)(B), 60.113c(b)(4)(ii)(C), 60.113c(b)(4)(ii)(D), 60.113c(b)(4)(iii)(A), 60.113c(b)(4)(iii)(B), 60.113c(b)(4)(iii)(C), 60.113c(b)(4)(iii)(D)]; and


(B) The date the storage vessel was emptied or the repairs made and date of repair.


(6) For each inspection required by § 60.113c(b)(7) that finds defects as listed in § 60.113c(b)(7)(i), report:


(i) Identification of the storage vessel and date of inspection;


(ii) The reason it did not meet the specifications of § 60.112c(c) or § 60.113c(b)(7);


(iii) A description of each repair made; and


(iv) Date of repair.


(7) For each landing of an internal floating roof or an external floating roof that triggers an alarm required by § 60.113c(a)(5) or (b)(8), report:


(i) Identification of the storage vessel;


(ii) Date the roof was landed; and


(iii) Indication of whether the roof landed because the storage vessel was being emptied.


(8) After installing a closed vent system that routes to a control device, fuel gas system, or process to comply with § 60.112c, report the following, as well as the information in paragraphs (c)(9) or (10) of this section, as applicable:


(i) Results of annual inspections that indicate a backpressure regulator valve is not set correctly or does not fully close when not in the open position. Include the date and time of the inspection, the type of deviation, the corrective action taken, and the date and time when the backpressure regulator valve is set correctly, repaired, or replaced.


(ii) For each inspection conducted under § 60.113c(c)(2), identification of the closed vent system, the date of inspection, the type of inspection (Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part or visible, audible, and olfactory methods) and summary result of the inspection (no leaks detected or leaks were detected). For each leak detected, provide an identification of the part of the closed vent system associated with the leak, the date of the first attempt at repair, and the date of successful repair or anticipated repair if the repair is delayed.


(iii) The start date and time, duration in hours, and an estimate of the mass quantity in pounds of VOL released for times when flow is detected or emissions are diverted from the control device through a bypass line while a storage vessel affected facility vented to the closed vent system contains VOL or is being degassed.


(9) After installing a closed vent system and control device to comply with § 60.112c other than a flare or an enclosed combustion device electing to comply with § 60.112c(d)(5), report:


(i) For each instance when the CMS measured 3-hour rolling averages below the established operating limit:


(A) The date and start time of the deviation;


(B) The duration of the deviation in hours;


(C) The lowest 3-hour rolling average operating parameter reading during the period of the deviation;


(D) A unique identifier for the CMS;


(E) The make, model number, and date of last calibration check of the CMS; and


(F) The cause of the deviation and the corrective action taken.


(ii) For all instances when the CMS was inoperative:


(A) The date and start time of the deviation;


(B) The duration of the deviation in hours;


(C) A unique identifier for the CMS;


(D) The make, model number, and date of last calibration check of the CMS; and


(E) The cause of the deviation and the corrective action taken.


(10) After installing a closed vent system and a flare to comply with § 60.112c or an enclosed combustion device electing to comply with § 60.112c(d)(5), report:


(i) The date and start and end times for each of the following instances:


(A) Each 15-minute block during which there was at least 1 minute when storage vessel vapors were routed to the flare and no pilot flame or flare flame was present.


(B) Each period of 2 consecutive hours during which visible emissions exceeded a total of 5 minutes. Additionally, report the number of minutes for which visible emissions were observed during the observation or an estimate of the cumulative number of minutes in the 2-hour period for which emissions were visible based on best information available to the owner or operator.


(C) Each 15-minute period for which the applicable operating limits specified in 40 CFR 63.670(d) through (f) were not met. You must identify the specific operating limit that was not met and report the value of the net heating value operating parameter(s) during the deviation determined following the methods in 40 CFR 63.670(k) through (n) as applicable.


(ii) The start date, start time, and duration in minutes for each period when storage vessel vapors were routed to the flare or enclosed combustion device and the applicable monitoring was not performed.


(iii) For each instance reported under paragraphs (c)(10)(i) and (ii) of this section that involves CMS, report the following information:


(A) A unique identifier for the CMS;


(B) The make, model number, and date of last calibration check of the CMS; and


(C) The cause of the deviation or downtime and the corrective action taken.


(11) For pressure relief devices on a storage vessel or closed vent system subject to § 60.112c(d)(1)(iii) or (d)(2)(iii), report each pressure release to the atmosphere, including pressure relief device identification name or number, the start date, start time, and duration (in minutes) of the pressure release; and an estimate of the mass quantity in pounds of VOL released.


(12) For vacuum breaking devices on a storage vessel subject to § 60.112c(d) and (d)(1)(iii), report the following information for each time the vacuum breaking device failed to close prior to the storage vessel reaching atmospheric pressure: identification name or number of vacuum breaking device; the start date, start time, and duration (in minutes) of the pressure release; and an estimate of the mass quantity in pounds of VOL released.


(d) *Timeframe for semiannual report submissions.* (1) The first semiannual report will cover the period starting with the date the source first becomes an affected facility subject to this subpart and ending June 30 or December 31, whichever date is earlier. For example, if the source becomes an affected facility on April 15, the first semiannual report would cover the period from April 15 to June 30. The first semiannual report must be submitted on or before the last day of the month 2 months after the last date covered by the semiannual report. In this example, the first semiannual report would be due August 31.


(2) Subsequent semiannual reports will cover subsequent 6 calendar month periods (January 1 through June 30 or July 1 through December 31, as applicable) with each report due on or before the last day of the month 2 months after the last date covered by the semiannual report (August 31 or February 28 or 29, as applicable).


(3) For each affected facility that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR parts 70 or 71, if the delegated authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent semiannual reports according to the dates the delegated authority has established instead of the dates in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.


(e) *Reporting requirements for performance tests.* Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test, you must submit the results following the procedures specified in paragraph (f) of this section. Data collected using test methods that are supported by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert*) at the time of the test must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file.


(f) *Requirements for electronically submitting reports.* If you are required to submit notifications or reports following the procedures specified in this paragraph (f), you must submit notifications or reports to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as confidential business information (CBI). Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim for some of the information in the report, you must submit a complete file in the format specified in this subpart, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA following the procedures in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section. Clearly mark the part or all of the information that you claim to be CBI. Information not marked as CBI may be authorized for public release without prior notice. Information marked as CBI will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data are not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available. You must submit the same file submitted to the CBI office with the CBI omitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph (f).


(1) The preferred method to receive CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol, or other online file sharing services. Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address *oaqpscbi@epa.gov,* and as described above, should include clear CBI markings. ERT files should be flagged to the attention of the Measurement Policy Group Leader and all other files should be flagged to the attention of the NSPS Kc Rule Lead. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if you do not have your own file sharing service, please email *oaqpscbi@epa.gov* to request a file transfer link.


(2) If you cannot transmit the file electronically, you may send CBI information through the postal service to the following address: U.S. EPA, Attn: OAQPS Document Control Officer, Mail Drop: C404-02, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, P.O. Box 12055, RTP, NC 27711. ERT files should be sent to the secondary attention of the Measurement Policy Group Leader and all other files should be sent to the secondary attention of the NSPS Kc Rule Lead. The mailed CBI material should be double wrapped and clearly marked. Any CBI markings should not show through the outer envelope.


(g) *Claims of EPA system outage.* If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) of this section.


(1) You must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.


(2) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date that the submission is due.


(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.


(4) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.


(5) You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:


(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;


(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;


(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and


(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.


(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(7) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.


(h) *Claims of force majeure.* If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of force majeure for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of force majeure, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (h)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) You may submit a claim if a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (*e.g.,* hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (*e.g.,* large scale power outage).


(2) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.


(3) You must provide to the Administrator:


(i) A written description of the force majeure event;


(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event;


(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and


(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.


(4) The decision to accept the claim of force majeure and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(5) In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the force majeure event occurs.






