# ยง 62.10850   Identification of Plan.

(a) *Identification of plan.* Texas Plan for Control of Designated Pollutants from Existing Facilities (111(d)Plan). 


(b) The plan was officially submitted as follows: 


(1) Control of sulfuric acid mist from existing sulfuric acid production plants as adopted by the Texas Air Control Board (TACB) on May 12, 1989, and submitted by the Governor in a letter dated August 21, 1989. 


(2) Control of total reduced sulfur from existing kraft pulp mills as adopted by the Texas Air Control Board (TACB) on May 12, 1989, and submitted by the Governor in a letter dated August 21, 1989. 


(3) Control of landfill gas emissions from existing municipal solid waste landfills, submitted by the Governor on November 3, 1998.


(4) Control of air emissions from designated hospital/medical/infectious waste incinerators submitted by the Governor in a letter dated June 2, 2000. 




(5) Control of air emissions from incinerators subject to the Other Solid Waste Incineration units Emission Guidelines, as adopted by the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) and submitted by the Governor in a letter dated May 18, 2009.


(c) *Designated facilities.* The plan applies to existing facilities in the following categories of sources: 


(1) Sulfuric acid production plants. 


(2) Kraft Pulp Mills. 


(3) Municipal solid waste landfills 


(4) Hospital/medical/infectious waste incinerators.


(5) Other solid waste incinerators and certain air curtain incinerators as defined in the Other Solid Waste Incineration units Emission Guidelines at 40 CFR part 60, subpart FFFF.



---

[N] [61 FR 55576, Oct. 28, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 32430, June 17, 1999; 66 FR 49836, Oct. 1, 2001; 87 FR 26683, May 5, 2022]




