# ยง 104.280   Security measures for delivery of vessel stores and bunkers.

(a) *General.* The vessel owner or operator must ensure that security measures relating to the delivery of vessel stores and bunkers are implemented to:


(1) Check vessel stores for package integrity;


(2) Prevent vessel stores from being accepted without inspection;


(3) Deter tampering; and


(4) Prevent vessel stores and bunkers from being accepted unless ordered. For vessels that routinely use a facility, a vessel owner or operator may establish and implement standing arrangements between the vessel, its suppliers, and a facility regarding notification and the timing of deliveries and their documentation.


(b) *Maritime Security (MARSEC) Level 1.* At MARSEC Level 1, the vessel owner or operator must ensure the implementation of measures to:


(1) Check vessel stores before being accepted;


(2) Check that vessel stores and bunkers match the order prior to being brought on board or being bunkered; and


(3) Ensure that vessel stores are controlled or immediately and securely stowed following delivery.


(c) *MARSEC Level 2.* In addition to the security measures required for MARSEC Level 1 in this section, at MARSEC Level 2, the vessel owner or operator must also ensure the implementation of additional security measures, as specified for MARSEC Level 2 in the approved Vessel Security Plan (VSP). These additional security measures may include:


(1) Intensifying inspection of the vessel stores during delivery; or


(2) Checking vessel stores prior to receiving them on board.


(d) *MARSEC Level 3.* In addition to the security measures for MARSEC Level 1 and MARSEC Level 2, at MARSEC Level 3, the vessel owner or operator must ensure the implementation of additional security measures, as specified for MARSEC Level 3 in the approved VSP. These additional security measures may include:


(1) Checking all vessel stores more extensively;


(2) Restricting or suspending delivery of vessel stores and bunkers; or


(3) Refusing to accept vessel stores on board.




