# § 63.11194   What is the affected source of this subpart?

(a) This subpart applies to each new, reconstructed, or existing affected source as defined in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) The affected source of this subpart is the collection of all existing industrial, commercial, and institutional boilers within a subcategory, as listed in § 63.11200 and defined in § 63.11237, located at an area source.


(2) The affected source of this subpart is each new or reconstructed industrial, commercial, or institutional boiler within a subcategory, as listed in § 63.11200 and as defined in § 63.11237, located at an area source.


(b) An affected source is an existing source if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or before June 4, 2010.


(c) An affected source is a new source if you commenced construction of the affected source after June 4, 2010, and the boiler meets the applicability criteria at the time you commence construction.


(d) An affected source is a reconstructed source if the boiler meets the reconstruction criteria as defined in § 63.2, you commenced reconstruction after June 4, 2010, and the boiler meets the applicability criteria at the time you commence reconstruction.


(e) An existing dual-fuel fired boiler meeting the definition of gas-fired boiler, as defined in § 63.11237, that meets the applicability requirements of this subpart after June 4, 2010 due to a fuel switch from gaseous fuel to solid fossil fuel, biomass, or liquid fuel is considered to be an existing source under this subpart as long as the boiler was designed to accommodate the alternate fuel.


(f) If you are an owner or operator of an area source subject to this subpart, you are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or part 71 as a result of this subpart. You may, however, be required to obtain a title V permit due to another reason or reasons. *See* 40 CFR 70.3(a) and (b) or 71.3(a) and (b). Notwithstanding the exemption from title V permitting for area sources under this subpart, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart.



---

[N] [76 FR 15591, Mar. 21, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 7506, Feb. 1, 2013]




