# § 46.8   Publication of disclosures.

(a) *Publication date.* A covered institution must publish a summary of the results of its stress test in the period starting June 15 and ending July 15 of the reporting year, provided:


(1) Unless the OCC determines otherwise, if the $50 billion or over covered institution is a consolidated subsidiary of a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company subject to supervisory stress tests conducted by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System pursuant to 12 CFR part 252, then within the June 15 to July 15 period such covered institution may not publish the required summary of its annual stress test earlier than the date that the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System publishes the supervisory stress test results of the covered bank's parent holding company.


(2) If the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System publishes the supervisory stress test results of the covered institution's parent holding company prior to June 15, then such covered institution may publish its stress test results prior to June 15, but no later than July 15, through actual publication by the covered institution or through publication by the parent holding company pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Publication method.* The summary required under this section may be published on the covered institution's Web site or in any other forum that is reasonably accessible to the public. A covered institution controlled by a bank holding company that is required to conduct a company-run stress test under applicable regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System will be deemed to have satisfied the publication requirement of this section when the bank holding company publicly discloses summary results of its stress test in satisfaction of the requirements of applicable regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, unless the OCC determines that the disclosures at the holding company level do not adequately capture the potential impact of the scenarios on the capital of the covered institution.


(c) *Information to be disclosed in the summary.* The information disclosed shall, at a minimum, include—


(1) A description of the types of risks included in the stress test under this part;


(2) A summary description of the methodologies used in the stress test;


(3) Estimates of aggregate losses, pre-provision net revenue, provisions for credit losses, net income, and pro forma capital ratios (including regulatory and any other capital ratios specified by the OCC); and


(4) An explanation of the most significant causes of the changes in regulatory capital ratios.


(d) *Disclosure of estimates for the planning horizon.* (1) The disclosure of the estimates of aggregate losses, pre-provision net revenue, provisions for credit losses, net income, and pro forma capital ratios (including regulatory and any other capital ratios specified by the OCC), as required by paragraph (b) of this section, must reflect the estimated cumulative effects, as well as the estimated capital ratios, at the end of the planning horizon for the severely adverse scenario.


(2) With respect to the capital ratio disclosure required in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the disclosure must also include the value at the beginning of the planning horizon, and the minimum over the planning horizon of the estimated quarter-end values of each ratio.



---

[N] [77 FR 61246, Oct. 9, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 71634, Dec. 3, 2014; 83 FR 7954, Feb. 23, 2018; 84 FR 4240, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 54476, Oct. 10, 2019]




