# § 19.426   Withdrawal of spirits by the United States.

(a) *Withdrawal for nonbeverage use*—(1) *Permit required.* Agencies of the United States Government that wish to obtain either specially denatured spirits or spirits free of tax for nonbeverage purposes must apply for and receive a permit on form TTB F 5150.33 or must have a previously issued permit on ATF Form 1444. TTB issues permits to Government agencies for:


(i) Withdrawal and use of specially denatured spirits under part 20 of this chapter;


(ii) Withdrawal and use of alcohol free of tax for nonbeverage purposes under part 22 of this chapter; and


(iii) Importation and use of alcohol free of tax for nonbeverage purposes under part 27 of this chapter.


(2) *Orders and shipments.* In order to obtain spirits under this section, the United States Government agency must forward a copy of a signed permit to the distilled spirits plant for the initial purchase. Later orders with the same plant may refer to that permit number. In the case of a Government agency holding a single permit for use by its subagencies, the copy of the signed permit must contain an attachment listing all subagencies authorized to obtain spirits under that permit. For each shipment that a proprietor makes to a Government agency under this section, the proprietor must prepare a record of shipment and forward the original to the Government agency as provided in § 19.625.


(b) *Withdrawal for beverage use.* Agencies of the United States Government that wish to obtain distilled spirits free of tax for beverage purposes under 26 U.S.C. 7510 must provide a proper purchase order signed by the head of the agency or an authorized designee. Each case of spirits withdrawn must bear a plain mark “For Use of the United States” in addition to the marks required by subpart S of this part. For each withdrawal under this paragraph, the proprietor must prepare a record containing the information required by § 19.611 for a record of tax determination and must mark this record “Free of Tax for Use of the United States.”


