# § 1206.2   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Act* means the Federal Housing Finance Regulatory Reform Act of 2008.


*Adequately capitalized* means the adequately capitalized capital classification under 12 U.S.C. 1364 and related regulations.


*Director* means the Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency or his or her designee.


*Enterprise* means the Federal National Mortgage Association or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation; and “Enterprises” means, collectively, the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation.


*Federal Home Loan Bank,* or *Bank,* means a Federal Home Loan Bank established under section 12 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1432).


*FHFA* means the Federal Housing Finance Agency.


*Minimum required regulatory capital* means the highest amount of capital necessary for a Bank to comply with any of the capital requirements established by the Director and applicable to it.


*Regulated Entity* means the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or any of the Federal Home Loan Banks.


*Surplus funds* means any amounts that are not obligated as of September 30 of the fiscal year for which the assessment was made.


*Total exposure* has the same meaning given to adjusted total assets in 12 CFR 1240.2.


*Working capital fund* means an account for amounts collected from the Regulated Entities to establish an operating reserve that is intended to provide for the payment of large or multiyear capital and operating expenditures, as well as unanticipated expenses.



---

[N] [73 FR 56713, Sept. 30, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 82198, Dec. 17 2020]




