# § 334.730   Waters of Santa Rosa Sound and Gulf of Mexico adjacent to Santa Rosa Island, Armament Center, Eglin Air Force Base, Fla.

(a) *The areas*—(1) *The danger zone.* The danger zone shall encompass all navigable waters of the United States as defined at 33 CFR part 329, including the waters of Santa Rosa Sound and Gulf of Mexico within a circle one nautical mile in radius, centered at latitude 30°23′10.074″ N, longitude 086°48′25.433″ W (USC&GS Station Tuck 3). The portion of the area in Santa Rosa Sound includes the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway between miles 209.6 and 211.4 as measured from the Harvey Lock, Louisiana, “zero mile” location.


(2) *The restricted areas*—(i) *Area 1.* The restricted area shall encompass all navigable waters of the United States as defined at 33 CFR part 329, including the waters of Santa Rosa Sound and Gulf of Mexico, surrounding the danger zone described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, within a circle five nautical miles in radius centered at latitude 30°23′10.074″ N, longitude 086°48′25.433″ W (USC&GS Station Tuck 3). The portion of the area in Santa Rosa Sound includes the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway between mile designation 204.6 and 216.4 as measured from the Harvey Lock, Louisiana, “zero mile” location.


(ii) *Area 2. Santa Rosa Island, North Side.* The restricted area shall encompass all navigable waters of the United States as defined at 33 CFR part 329 within the area bounded by a line connecting the following coordinates: Commencing from the shoreline at latitude 30°24′06.58″ N, longitude 086°40′25.00″ W; thence to latitude 30°24′08.08″ N, longitude 086°40′25.00″ W; then the line meanders irregularly, following the shoreline at a distance of 150 feet seaward from the mean high water line to a point at latitude 30°23′12.34″ N, longitude 086°50′57.62″ W, thence proceeding directly to a point on the shoreline at latitude 30°23′10.85″ N, longitude 086°50′57.62″ W. The area also includes all contiguous inland navigable waters which lie within the land boundaries of Eglin AFB.


(iii) *Area 3. Choctawhatchee Bay, North side—Hurlburt Field.* The restricted area shall encompass all navigable waters of the United States as defined at 33 CFR part 329 within the area bounded by a line connecting the following coordinates:


Commencing from the shoreline at latitude 30°24′28.30″ N, longitude 086°40′54.91″ W; thence to latitude 30°24′26.32″ N, longitude 086°40′54.91″ W; then the line meanders irregularly, following the shoreline at a distance of 200 feet seaward from the mean high water line to a point at latitude 30°24′20.92″ N, longitude 086°41′45.96″ W; thence directly to latitude 30°24′23.31″ N, longitude 086°42′00.20″ W; thence directly to latitude 30°24′28.83″ N, longitude 086°42′07.42″ W; thence directly to latitude 30°24′25.98″ N, longitude 086°42′17.12″ W; thence directly to longitude 30°24′26.31″ N, longitude 086°42′19.82″ W; then the line meanders irregularly following the shoreline at a distance of 200 feet seaward from the mean high water line to a point at latitude 30°24′28.80″ N, longitude 086°42′53.83″ W, thence proceeding directly to a point on the shoreline at latitude 30°24′30.79″ N, longitude 086°42′53.83″ W.


(b) *The regulations*—(1) *The danger zone.* (i) Experimental test operations will be conducted by the U.S. Air Force (USAF) within the danger zone. During periods when experimental test operations are underway, no person, vessel or other watercraft shall enter or navigate the waters of the danger zone.


(ii) The area identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and the associated restrictions described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section are in effect 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The area is used on an intermittent basis and, generally, any test operations shall not exceed one hour and shall not occur more than twice weekly.


(2) *The restricted areas.* (i) All persons, vessels and other craft are permitted access to the restricted areas described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Any person or vessel within the restricted areas will be subject to identification checks by USAF patrol boats. During times of high security threats against Eglin AFB or Hurlburt Field, all entry, transit, anchoring or drifting within the restricted areas described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section for any reason is not allowed without permission of Eglin AFB or the Hurlburt Field Commander or his/her authorized representative, except to navigate the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway. Such vessels and other watercraft shall confine their movements to the waters within the limits of the Intracoastal Waterway and shall make the passage as promptly as possible under normal vessel speed.


(ii) The areas identified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and the associated restrictions described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section are in effect 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.


(c) *Enforcement.* (1) The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commander, 96 Air Base Wing, Eglin AFB, Florida and such agencies as he/she may designate.


(2) Enforcement of the regulations in this section will be accomplished in accordance with the active security level as defined by the Department of Defense Force Protection Condition (FPCON) System.



---

[N] [76 FR 75456, Dec. 2, 2011]




