# § 622.474   Gear identification.

(a) *Reef fish*—(1) *Fish traps and associated buoys.* All fish traps used or possessed in the EEZ around St. Croix must display the official number specified for the vessel by Puerto Rico or the U.S. Virgin Islands. A fish trap that is fished individually, rather than tied together in a trap line, must have at least one buoy attached that floats on the surface. Fish traps that are tied together in a trap line must have at least one buoy that floats at the surface attached at each end of the trap line. All buoys must display the official number and color code assigned to the vessel by Puerto Rico or the U.S. Virgin Islands, whichever is applicable.


(2) *Presumption of ownership of fish traps.* A fish trap in the EEZ around St. Croix will be presumed to be the property of the most recently documented owner. This presumption will not apply with respect to such traps that are lost or sold if the owner reports the loss or sale within 15 days to the RA.


(3) *Disposition of unmarked fish traps or buoys.* An unmarked fish trap or buoy deployed in the EEZ around St. Croix is illegal and may be disposed of in any appropriate manner by the Assistant Administrator or an authorized officer.


(b) [Reserved]


(c) *Spiny lobster*—(1) *Spiny lobster traps and associated buoys.* All spiny lobster traps used or possessed in the EEZ around St. Croix must display the official number specified for the vessel by Puerto Rico or the U.S. Virgin Islands. A spiny lobster trap that is fished individually, rather than tied together in a trap line, must have at least one buoy attached that floats on the surface. Spiny lobster traps that are tied together in a trap line must have at least one buoy that floats at the surface attached at each end of the trap line. All buoys must display the official number and color code assigned to the vessel by Puerto Rico or the U.S. Virgin Islands, whichever is applicable.


(2) *Presumption of ownership of spiny lobster traps.* A spiny lobster trap in the EEZ around St. Croix will be presumed to be the property of the most recently documented owner. This presumption will not apply with respect to such traps that are lost or sold if the owner reports the loss or sale within 15 days to the RA.


(3) *Disposition of unmarked spiny lobster traps or buoys.* An unmarked spiny lobster trap or buoy deployed in the EEZ around St. Croix is illegal and may be disposed of in any appropriate manner by the Assistant Administrator or an authorized officer.






