# § 384.206   State record checks.

(a) *Issuing State's records.* (1) Before issuing, renewing, or upgrading a CLP or issuing, renewing, upgrading or transferring CDL to any person, the driver's State of record must, within the period of time specified in § 384.232, check its own driver records as follows:


(i) The driver record of the person in accordance with § 383.73(b)(3)(i) of this chapter; and


(ii) For a driver who certifies that his/her type of driving is non-excepted, interstate commerce according to § 383.71(b)(1)(i) of this chapter, the medical certification status information on the person's CDLIS driver record.


(2) Based on the findings of its own State record check, the State of record must do one of the following as appropriate:


(i) Issue, renew, upgrade, or transfer the applicant's CLP or CDL;


(ii) In the event the State obtains adverse information regarding the applicant, promptly implement the disqualifications, licensing limitations, denials, or penalties that are called for in any applicable section(s) of this subpart; or


(iii) In the event there is no information regarding the driver's self-certification for driving type required by § 383.71(b)(1), or for a driver who is required by § 383.71(h) to be “certified,” if the medical certification status of the individual is “non-certified,” the State must deny the CDL action requested by the applicant and initiate a downgrade of the CDL, if required by § 383.73(o)(4) of this chapter.


(b) *Other States' records.* (1) Before the initial or transfer issuance of a CLP or CDL to a person, and before renewing or upgrading a CLP or CDL held by any person, the issuing State must:


(i) Require the applicant to provide the names of all States where the applicant has previously been licensed to operate any type of motor vehicle during the previous 10 years.


(ii) Within the time period specified in § 384.232, request the complete driver record from all States where the applicant was licensed within the previous 10 years to operate any type of motor vehicle.


(2) States receiving a request for the driver record of a person currently or previously licensed by the State must provide the information within 30 days.


(3) Based on the findings of the other State record checks, the issuing State must, in the case of adverse information regarding the applicant, promptly implement the disqualifications, licensing limitations, denials, or penalties that are called for in any applicable section(s) of this subpart.



---

[N] [76 FR 26894, May 9, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 58480, Sept. 24, 2013; 79 FR 59456, Oct. 2, 2014]




