# § 4.38   General requirements.

(a) *Legibility.* All labels shall be so designed that all the statements thereon required by §§ 4.30 through 4.39 are readily legible under ordinary conditions, and all such statement shall be on a contrasting background.


(b) *Size of type.* (1) Containers of more than 187 milliliters. All mandatory information required on labels by this part, except the alcoholic content statement, shall be in script, type, or printing not smaller than 2 millimeters; except that if contained among other descriptive or explanatory information, the script, type, or printing of the mandatory information shall be of a size substantially more conspicuous than that of the descriptive or explanatory information.


(2) Containers of 187 milliliters or less. All mandatory information required on labels by this part, except the alcoholic content statement, shall not be smaller than 1 millimeter, except that if contained among other descriptive or explanatory information, the script, type, or printing of the mandatory information shall be of a size substantially more conspicuous than that of the descriptive or explanatory information.


(3) Alcoholic content statements shall not appear in script, type, or printing larger or more conspicuous than 3 millimeters nor smaller than 1 millimeter on labels of containers having a capacity of 5 liters or less and shall not be set off with a border or otherwise accentuated.


(c) *English language.* All mandatory label information shall be stated on labels in the English language, except that the brand name, the place of production, and the name of the manufacturer, producer, blender, bottler, packer, or shipper appearing on the label need not be in the English language if the words “product of” immediately precede the name of the country of origin stated in accordance with customs requirements. Additional statements in foreign languages may be made on labels, if they do not in any way conflict with, or contradict the requirements of §§ 4.30 through 4.39.


(d) *Location of label.* Labels shall not obscure Government stamps nor be obscured thereby.


(e) *Labels firmly affixed.* All labels shall be affixed to containers of wine in such manner that they cannot be removed without thorough application of water or other solvents.


(f) *Additional information on labels.* Labels may contain information other than the mandatory label information required by §§ 4.30 through 4.39, if such information complies with the requirements of such sections and does not conflict with, nor in any manner qualify statements required by this part. In addition, information which is truthful, accurate, and specific, and which is neither disparaging nor misleading may appear on wine labels.


(g) *Representations as to materials.* If any representation (other than representations or information required by §§ 4.30 through 4.39 or percentage statements required or permitted by this part) is made as to the presence, excellence, or other characteristic of any ingredient in any wine, or used in its production, the label containing such representation shall state, in print, type, or script, substantially as conspicuous as such representation, the name and amount in percent by volume of each such ingredient.


(h) *Statement of contents of containers.* Upon request of the appropriate TTB officer, there shall be submitted a full and accurate statement of the contents of the containers to which labels are to be or have been affixed.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-53, 43 FR 37677, Aug. 23, 1978, as amended by T.D. ATF-66, 45 FR 40544, June 13, 1980; T.D. ATF-94, 46 FR 55095, Nov. 6, 1981; T.D. ATF-249, 52 FR 5955, Feb. 27, 1987; T.D. ATF-275, 53 FR 27046, July 18, 1988; T.D. ATF-312, 56 FR 31077, July 9, 1991]




