# § 715.1   Annual declaration requirements for production by synthesis of unscheduled discrete organic chemicals (UDOCs).

(a) *Declaration of production by synthesis of UDOCs for purposes not prohibited by the CWC*—(1) *Production quantities that trigger the declaration requirement.* See § 711.6 of the CWCR for information on obtaining the forms you will need to declare production of unscheduled discrete organic chemicals. You must complete the forms specified in paragraph (b) of this section if your plant site produced by synthesis:


(i) In excess of 200 metric tons aggregate of all UDOCs (including all UDOCs containing the elements phosphorus, sulfur or fluorine, referred to as “PSF chemicals”) during the previous calendar year; or


(ii) In excess of 30 metric tons of an individual PSF chemical at one or more plants at your plant site during the previous calendar year.


(2) *UDOCs subject to declaration requirements under this part.* (i) UDOCs subject to declaration requirements under this part are those produced by synthesis that have been isolated for:


(A) Use; or


(B) Sale as a specific end product.


(ii) *Exemptions.* (A) Polymers and oligomers consisting of two or more repeating units;


(B) Chemicals and chemical mixtures produced through a biological or biomediated process;


(C) Products from the refining of crude oil, including sulfur-containing crude oil;


(D) Metal carbides (i.e., chemicals consisting only of metal and carbon); and


(E) UDOCs produced by synthesis that are ingredients or by-products in foods designed for consumption by humans and/or animals.


(3) *Exemptions for UDOC plant sites.* UDOC plant sites that exclusively produced hydrocarbons or explosives are exempt from UDOC declaration requirements. For the purposes of this part, the following definitions apply for hydrocarbons and explosives:


(i) Hydrocarbon means any organic compound that contains only carbon and hydrogen; and


(ii) Explosive means a chemical (or a mixture of chemicals) that is included in Class 1 of the United Nations Organization hazard classification system.


(b) *Types of declaration forms to be used*—(1) *Annual declaration on past activities.* You must complete the *Certification Form and Form UDOC* (consisting of two pages), unless there are no changes from the previous year's declaration and you submit a *No Changes Authorization Form* pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Attach Form A as appropriate; Form B is optional.


(2) *No Changes Authorization Form.* You may complete the *No Changes Authorization Form* if there are no updates or changes to any information (except the certifying official and dates signed and submitted) in your plant site's previously submitted annual declaration on past activities. Your plant site's activities will be declared to the OPCW and subject to inspection, if applicable, based upon the data reported in the most recent UDOC Declaration that you submitted to BIS.


(c) *“Declared” UDOC plant site.* A plant site that submitted a declaration pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section is a “declared” UDOC plant site.


(d) *Routine inspections of declared UDOC plant sites*—(1) *Inspection requirement.* A “declared” UDOC plant site is subject to routine inspection by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) (see part 716 of the CWCR) if it produced by synthesis more than 200 metric tons aggregate of UDOCs during the previous calendar year.


(2) *Change in inspection status.* You may complete the Change in Inspection Status Form, to ensure that your facility does not remain subject to inspection during the first 90 days of the next calendar year (i.e., prior to the submission of the U.S. declaration to the OPCW), if:


(i) Your plant site is currently subject to inspection, pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, based on your plant site's production by synthesis of UDOCs during the *previous* calendar year; and


(ii) Your plant site's production by synthesis of UDOCs in the *current* calendar year will be below the inspection threshold level specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section by the deadline indicated in supplement no. 3 to this part, and is anticipated to remain below that threshold level through the remainder of the *current* calendar year. 



---

[N] [71 FR 24929, Apr. 27, 2006, as amended at 72 FR 14408, Mar. 28, 2007]




