# § 702.810   What weekly minimum rates apply to compensation for permanent total disability?

(a) The weekly minimum compensation payable for the fiscal year in which the employee became permanently and totally disabled is the lower of:


(1) The minimum rate in effect on the date of disability, or


(2) The employee's average weekly wage on the date of disability.


(b) For all periods the employee is permanently and totally disabled in subsequent fiscal years, the weekly minimum compensation payable is the lower of:


(1) Each subsequent fiscal year's minimum rate, or


(2) The employee's average weekly wage on the date of disability.


(c) Example: Employee *A* suffers a covered workplace injury on April 1, 2003, and is permanently totally disabled from that day forward. He was earning $250.00 a week when he was injured. His calculated compensation rate is $166.67 ($250 × 2 ÷ 3). The FY 2003 minimum rate is $249.14. Because *A's* calculated compensation rate is below the FY 2003 minimum rate, and his actual weekly wage is above that rate, he is entitled to compensation at the minimum rate of $249.14 from April 1, 2003, to September 30, 2003. The FY 2004 minimum rate is $257.70. Because *A's* actual weekly wages on the date of disability are lower than the FY 2004 minimum rate, *A's* minimum weekly compensation rate for FY 2004 is $250.00. His weekly compensation rate for FY 2004, however, is higher because of a section 10(f) adjustment. For FY 2004, *A's* compensation rate is increased by a 3.44% section 10(f) adjustment, raising his compensation level to $258.00 ($249.14 × .0344 = $8.57; $249.14 + $8.57 = $257.71, rounded to the nearest dollar).




