# § 1724.31   Engineering services contracts.

The provisions of this section apply only to RUS financed electric system facilities.


(a) RUS contract forms for engineering services shall be used. Reasonable modifications or additions to the terms and conditions in the RUS contract form may be made to define the exact services needed for a specific undertaking. Any such modifications or additions shall not relieve the engineer or the borrower of the basic responsibilities required by the RUS contract form, and shall not alter any terms and conditions required by law. All substantive changes to the RUS contract form shall be approved by RUS prior to execution of the contract.


(b) RUS Form 236, Engineering Service Contract—Electric System Design and Construction, may be used for all distribution, transmission, substation, and communications and control facilities. These contracts are not subject to RUS approval and need not be submitted to RUS unless specifically requested by RUS on a case by case basis.


(c) RUS Form 211, Engineering Service Contract for the Design and Construction of a Generating Plant, shall be used for all new generating units and repowering of existing units. These contracts require RUS approval.


(d) Any amendments to RUS approved engineering services contracts require RUS approval.


(e) *Closeout.* Upon completion of all services and obligations required under each engineering services contract, including, but not limited to, submission of final documents, the borrower must closeout the contract. The borrower shall obtain from the engineer a completed final statement of engineering fees, which must be supported by detailed information as appropriate. RUS Form 234, Final Statement of Engineering Fee, may be used. All computations of the compensation shall be made in accordance with the terms of the engineering services contract. Closeout documents need not be submitted to RUS unless specifically requested by RUS on a case by case basis.



---

[N] [63 FR 35314, June 29, 1998, as amended at 84 FR 32617, July 9, 2019]




