# § 1223.53   Exemption procedures.

(a) *De minimis.* An exemption from payment of assessments as provided in § 1223.52, shall be provided to producers that domestically produce and importers that import less than 50,000 pounds of inshell pecans (25,000 pounds of shelled pecans) on average for four fiscal periods (the fiscal period for which the exemption is claimed and the previous three fiscal periods) as follows:


(1) Any producer who desires to claim an exemption from assessments shall file an application on a form provided by the Board, for a certificate of exemption for each fiscal period claiming an exemption. Such producer shall certify that it will domestically produce less than 50,000 pounds of inshell pecans (25,000 pounds of shelled pecans) on average for four fiscal periods (the fiscal period for which the exemption is claimed and the previous three fiscal periods). It is the responsibility of the producer to retain a copy of the certificate of exemption.


(2) Any importer who desires to claim an exemption from assessments shall file an application on a form provided by the Board, for a certificate of exemption for each fiscal period claiming an exemption. Such importer shall certify that it will import less than 50,000 pounds of inshell pecans (25,000 pounds of shelled pecans) on average for four fiscal periods (the fiscal period for which the exemption is claimed and the previous three fiscal periods). It is the responsibility of the importer to retain a copy of the certificate of exemption.


(3) On receipt of an exemption application, the Board shall determine whether an exemption may be granted for that fiscal period. The Board will then issue, if deemed appropriate, a certificate of exemption to the producer or importer which is eligible to receive one covering that fiscal period. The Board may request persons applying for the exemption to provide supporting documentation, such as past sales receipts or import data.


(4) The Board, with the Secretary's approval, may require persons receiving an exemption from assessments to provide to the Board reports on the disposition of exempt pecans and, in the case of importers, proof of payment of assessments.


(5) The exemption will apply immediately following the issuance of the certificate of exemption.


(6) Producers and importers who received an exemption certificate from the Board but domestically produced or imported more than 50,000 pounds of inshell pecans (25,000 shelled of pecans) on average for four fiscal periods (the fiscal period for which the exemption is claimed and the previous three fiscal periods) during the fiscal period shall pay the Board the applicable assessments owed and submit any necessary reports to the Board pursuant to § 1223.60.


(b) *Assessment refunds.* Importers and producers who are exempt from assessment shall be eligible for a refund of assessments collected, either by Customs or a first handler. Requests for such assessment refunds must be submitted to the Board within 90 days of the last day in the fiscal period when assessments were collected on such producer's or importer's pecans. No interest will be paid on such assessments. The Board shall refund such assessments no later than 60 calendar days after receipt by the Board of information justifying the exemption from assessment.


(c) *Organic.* (1) A producer who domestically produces pecans under an approved National Organic Program (7 CFR part 205) (NOP) organic production system plan may be exempt from the payment of assessments under this part, provided that:


(i) Only agricultural products certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) are eligible for exemption;


(ii) The exemption shall apply to all certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) products of a producer regardless of whether the agricultural commodity subject to the exemption is produced by a person that also produces conventional or nonorganic agricultural products of the same agricultural commodity as that for which the exemption is claimed;


(iii) The producer maintains a valid certificate of organic operation as issued under the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6501-6522) (OFPA) and the NOP regulations issued under OFPA (7 CFR part 205); and


(iv) Any producer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.


(2) To apply for exemption under this section, an eligible producer shall submit a request to the Board on an *Organic Exemption Request Form* (Form AMS-15) at any time during the fiscal period initially, and annually thereafter on or before the start of the fiscal period, for as long as the producer continues to be eligible for the exemption.


(3) A producer request for exemption shall include the following:


(i) The applicant's full name, company name, address, telephone and fax numbers, and email address;


(ii) Certification that the applicant maintains a valid certificate of organic operation issued under the OFPA and the NOP;


(iii) Certification that the applicant produces organic products eligible to be labeled “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP;


(iv) A requirement that the applicant attach a copy of their certificate of organic operation issued by a USDA-accredited certifying agent;


(v) Certification, as evidenced by signature and date, that all information provided by the applicant is true; and


(vi) Such other information as may be required by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary.


(4) If a producer complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant an assessment exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the producer within 30 days. If the application is disapproved, the Board will notify the applicant of the reason(s) for disapproval within the same timeframe.


(5) An importer who imports pecans that are eligible to be labeled as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP, or certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under a U.S. equivalency arrangement established under the NOP, may be exempt from the payment of assessments. Such importer may submit documentation to the Board and request an exemption from assessment on certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” pecans on an *Organic Exemption Request Form* (Form AMS-15) at any time initially, and annually thereafter on or before the beginning of the fiscal period, as long as the importer continues to be eligible for the exemption. This documentation shall include the same information required of a producer in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. If the importer complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant the exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the importer within the applicable timeframe. Any importer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any imported agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.


(6) If Customs collects the assessment on exempt product under paragraph (c)(5) of this section that is identified as “organic” by a number in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule, the Board must reimburse the exempt importer the assessments paid upon receipt of such assessments from Customs. For all other exempt organic product for which Customs collects the assessment, the importer may apply to the Board for a reimbursement of assessments paid, and the importer must submit satisfactory proof to the Board that the importer paid the assessment on exempt organic product.


(7) The exemption will apply immediately following the issuance of the Certificate of Exemption.




