# § 80.100   Scope and application.

(a) *Applicability.* (1) The provisions of this subpart E apply to all the following:


(i) Biogas.


(ii) Treated biogas.


(iii) Biogas-derived renewable fuel.


(iv) RNG used to produce a biogas-derived renewable fuel.


(v) RINs generated for RNG or a biogas-derived renewable fuel.


(2) This subpart also specifies requirements for specified parties that engage in activities associated with the production, distribution, transfer, or use of biogas, treated biogas, biogas-derived renewable fuel, RNG used to produce a biogas-derived renewable fuel, and RINs generated for a biogas-derived renewable fuel under the RFS program.


(b) *Relationship to other fuels regulations.* (1) The provisions of subpart M of this part also apply to the parties and products regulated under this subpart E.


(2) The provisions of 40 CFR part 1090 include provisions that may apply to the parties and products regulated under this subpart E.


(3) Parties and products subject to this subpart E may need to register a fuel or fuel additive under 40 CFR part 79.


(c) *Geographic scope.* RINs must only be generated for biogas-derived renewable fuel used in the covered location.


(d) *Implementation dates*—(1) *General.* The provisions of this subpart E apply beginning July 1, 2024, unless otherwise specified.


(2) *Registration.* (i) Parties not registered to generate RINs under § 80.1426(f)(10)(ii) or (11)(ii) prior to July 1, 2024, must register with EPA under § 80.135. EPA will not accept registration submissions for the generation of RINs under § 80.1426(f)(10)(ii) and (11)(ii) on or after July 1, 2024.


(ii) Parties registered to generate RINs under § 80.1426(f)(10)(ii) or (11)(ii) must submit updated registration information under § 80.135 no later than October 1, 2024.


(iii) Independent third-party engineers may conduct engineering reviews for parties required to register under § 80.135 prior to July 1, 2024, as long as the engineering review satisfies all applicable requirements under §§ 80.135 and 80.1450.


(3) *Generation of RINs for RNG.* RNG producers may only generate RINs for RNG produced on or after July 1, 2024, as specified in § 80.125.


(4) *Generation of RINs for renewable CNG/LNG for previously registered facilities.* (i)(A) Prior to January 1, 2025, RIN generators may generate RINs as specified in § 80.1426(f)(10)(ii) or (11)(ii) for renewable CNG/LNG produced from a facility covered by a registration accepted by EPA under § 80.1450(b) prior to July 1, 2024.


(B) Biogas or RNG produced under a registration accepted by EPA under § 80.1450(b) for the generation of RINs as specified in § 80.1426(f)(10)(ii) or (11)(ii) prior to July 1, 2024, may only be used to generate RINs for renewable CNG/LNG.


(ii) For biogas produced on or after January 1, 2025, biogas closed distribution system RIN generators must generate RINs for renewable CNG/LNG as specified in § 80.130.


(5) *Generation of RINs for renewable fuel produced from biogas used as a biointermediate.* Renewable fuel producers must only generate RINs for renewable fuel produced from biogas used as a biointermediate produced on or after July 1, 2024.






