# § 1204.1401   Definitions.

For the purpose of this subpart, the following definitions apply:


(a) *NASA Airfield Facility.* Those aeronautical facilities owned and operated by NASA that consist of the following:


(1) [Reserved]




(2) *Wallops Airport.* The aeronautical facility which is part of the Wallops Flight Facility (WFF), Wallops Island, VA, and is located at 75°28′ west longitude and 37°56′ north latitude in the general vicinity of Chincoteague, Virginia.


(3)-(4) [Reserved]






(b) *NASA owned but non-NASA operated airfield facility.* Those aeronautical facilities owned by NASA but not operated by NASA that consist of the following:


(1) *Shuttle Landing Facility (SLF).* The aeronautical facility which is a part of the John F. Kennedy Space Center (KSC), Kennedy Space Center, Florida, and is located at 80°41′ west longitude and 28°37′ north latitude.


(2) *Moffett Federal Airfield (MFA).* The aeronautical facility which is part of the Ames Research Center, Moffett Field, California, and is located at 122°03′ west longitude and 37°25′ north latitude.




(c) *Aircraft not Operated for the Benefit of the Federal Government.* Aircraft which are not owned or leased by the United States Government or aircraft carrying crew members or passengers who do not have official business requiring the use of a NASA airfield facility in the particular circumstance in question.


(d) *Official Business.* Business, in the interest of the U.S. Government, which personnel aboard an aircraft must transact with U.S. Government personnel or organizations at or near a NASA facility. The use of a NASA airfield facility by transient aircraft to petition for U.S. Government business or to obtain clearance, servicing, or other items pertaining to itinerant operations is not considered official business.


(e) *User.* An individual partnership or corporation owning, operating, or using an aircraft not operated for the benefit of the Federal Government in whose name permission to use a NASA airfield facility is to be requested and granted.


(f) *Hold Harmless Agreement.* An agreement executed by the user by which the user acknowledges awareness of the conditions of the permission to use a NASA airfield facility, assumes any risks connected therewith, and releases the U.S. Government from all liability incurred by the use of such facility.


(g) *Use Permit.* The written permission signed by the authorized approving official to land, take off, and otherwise use a NASA airfield facility. Such use permit may be issued for single or multiple occasions. The specific terms of the use permit and the provisions of this subpart govern the use which may be made of the airport by aircraft not operated for the benefit for the Federal Government.


(h) *Certificate of Insurance.* A certificate signed by an authorized insurance company representative (or a facsimile of an insurance policy) evidencing that insurance is then in force with respect to any aircraft not operated for the benefit of the Federal Government, the user of which is requesting permission to use a NASA airfield facility (see § 1204.1404(b)).



---

[N] [56 FR 35812, July 29, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 37567, July 21, 1995; 86 FR 50624, Sept. 10, 2021]




