# § 222.11   Scheduling order.

(a) *Timing.* Upon receipt of the second payment of the filing fee set forth in § 201.3(g) of this subchapter and after completion of the 14-day period specified in the Board's order pursuant to § 222.7, the Board shall issue an initial scheduling order through eCCB, subject to § 222.7(b)(1).


(b) *Content of initial scheduling order.* The scheduling order shall include the dates or deadlines for:


(1) Filing of a response to the claim by the respondent;


(2) A pre-discovery conference with a Copyright Claims Officer (Officer) to discuss case management, including discovery, and the possibility of resolving the claims and any counterclaims through settlement;


(3) Service of responses to *standard interrogatories;*

(4) Service of documents in response to *standard requests for the production of documents;*

(5) Requests for leave to seek additional discovery;


(6) Close of discovery;


(7) A post-discovery conference with an Officer to discuss further case management, including the possibility of resolving the claims and any counterclaims through settlement; and


(8) Filing of each party's written testimony and responses, pursuant to § 222.15.


(c) *Conferences.* In addition to those identified in paragraph (b) of this section, the Board may hold additional conferences, at its own election or at the request of any party. Requests for a conference and any responses thereto shall follow the procedures set forth in § 220.5(a)(1) of this subchapter. All conferences shall be held virtually.


(d) *Amended scheduling order.* The Board may amend the initial scheduling order—


(1) Upon the clearance of a counterclaim by a Copyright Claims Attorney pursuant to § 224.1(c)(1) of this subchapter, to add a deadline for the service of a response by a claimant to a counterclaim and to amend other previously scheduled dates in the prior scheduling order;


(2) Upon request of one or more of the parties to an *active proceeding* submitted through eCCB. Requests to amend the scheduling order and any responses thereto shall follow the procedures set forth in § 220.5(a)(1) of this subchapter;


(3) As necessary to adjust the schedule for conferences or hearings or the staying of the proceeding;


(4) As necessary to facilitate settlement pursuant to § 222.18; or


(5) Upon its own initiative in the interests of maintaining orderly administration of the Board's docket.



---

[N] [87 FR 30077, May 17, 2022]




