# ยง 36.2   What do these terms mean?

The following definitions shall apply to the regulations contained in this part.


*Adequate and feasible access* means a reasonable method and route of pedestrian or vehicular transportation which is economically practicable for achieving the use or development desired by the applicant on his/her non-federal land or occupancy interest, but does not necessarily mean the least costly alternative.


*Adequate snow cover* means snow of sufficient depth to protect the underlying vegetation and soil.


*Administrative and visitor facility sites* means any facility or site administered by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for public entry or other administrative purposes including, but not limited to, refuge staff offices, visitor centers, public access and parking sites, and campgrounds.


*Aircraft* means a machine or device that is used or intended to be used to carry persons or objects in flight through the air, including but not limited to, airplanes, helicopters and gliders.


*Alaska National Wildlife Refuges* means all lands, waters and interests therein administered by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service within the following National Wildlife Refuges in Alaska: Alaska Maritime, Arctic, Alaska Peninsula, Becharof, Innoko, Kanuti, Kenai, Kodiak, Koyukuk, Nowitna, Selawik, Tetlin, Izembek, Togiak, Yukon Delta and Yukon Flats.


*ANILCA* means the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act, 94 Stat 237, Pub. L. 96-487 (December 2, 1980).


*Downed aircraft* means an aircraft that as a result of mechanical failure or accident cannot take off.


*Fish and wildlife* means any member of the animal kingdom, including without limitation any mammal, fish, bird (including any migratory, non-migratory, or endangered bird for which protection is also afforded by treaty or other international agreement), amphibian, reptile, mollusk, crustacean, arthropod, or other invertebrate, and includes any part, product, egg, or offspring thereof, or dead body or part thereof.


*Off-road vehicle* means any motor vehicle designed for or capable of cross-country travel on or immediately over land, water, sand, snow, ice, marsh, wetland, or other natural terrain, except snowmobiles as defined in this section. It includes, but is not limited to, four-wheel drive or low-pressure-tire vehicles, motorcycles and related two-, three-, or four-wheel vehicles, amphibious machines, ground-effect or air-cushion vehicles, air-thrust boats, recreation vehicle campers, and any other means of transportation deriving motive power from any source other than muscle or wind.


*Operate* means to manipulate the controls of any conveyance, such as, but not limited to, an aircraft, snowmobile, motorboat, off-road vehicle, or any other motorized or non-motorized form of vehicular transport as to direct its travel, motion, or purpose.


*Person* means any individual, firm, corporation, society, association, partnership, or other private or public body.


*Public lands* means lands situated in Alaska which are federally owned lands, except:


(1) Land selections of the State of Alaska which have been tentatively approved or validly selected under the Alaska Statehood Act (72 Stat. 339) and lands which have been confirmed to, validly selected by, or granted to the Territory of Alaska or the State under any other provision of Federal law;


(2) Land selections of a Native Corporation made under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688) which have not been conveyed to a Native Corporation, unless any such selection is determined to be invalid or is relinquished; and


(3) Lands referred to in section 19(b) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act.


*Refuge Manager* means any Fish and Wildlife Service official in charge of an Alaska National Wildlife Refuge, the Alaska Regional Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service, or an authorized representative of either.


*Snowmachine* or *snowmobile* means a self-propelled vehicle intended for off-road travel primarily on snow having a curb weight of not more than 1,000 pounds (450 kg), driven by track or tracks in contact with the snow and steered by a ski or skis in contact with the snow.


*Structure* means something temporarily or permanently constructed, built, or placed; and constructed of natural or manufactured parts including, but not limited to, a building, shed, cabin, porch, bridge, walkway, stair steps, sign, landing, platform, dock, rack, fence, telecommunication device, antennae, fish cleaning table, satellite dish/mount, or well head.


*Subsistence uses* means the customary and traditional uses by rural Alaska residents of wild, renewable resources for direct personal or family consumption as food, shelter, fuel, clothing, tools, or transportation; for the making and selling of handicraft articles out of nonedible byproducts of fish and wildlife resources taken for personal or family consumption; for barter or sharing for personal or family consumption; and, for customary trade. For purpose of this paragraph, the term:


(1) *Family* means all persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption, or any person living within the household on a permanent basis; and


(2) *Barter* means the exchange of fish or wildlife or their parts taken for subsistence uses:


(i) For other fish or game of their parts; or


(ii) For other food or for nonedible items other than money if the exchange is of a limited and noncommercial nature; and


(3) *Customary trade* shall be limited to the exchange of furs for cash, and such other activities, if any, as may be designated in special rules for Alaska National Wildlife Refuges.


*Take* or *taking,* as used with respect to fish and wildlife, means to pursue, hunt, shoot, trap, net, capture, collect, kill, harm or attempt to engage in any such conduct.


*Temporary* means a continuous period of time not to exceed 12 months, except as specifically provided otherwise.



---

[N] [46 FR 31827, June 17, 1981, as amended at 51 FR 44793, Dec. 12, 1986; 64 FR 14151, Mar. 24, 1999; 81 FR 27043, May 5, 2016; 81 FR 52271, Aug. 5, 2016; 82 FR 52010, Nov. 9, 2017]




