# ยง 62.2600   Identification of plan.

(a) *Identification of plan.* Georgia Designated Facility Plan (Section 111(d) Plan).


(b) *The plan was officially submitted as follows.* (1) Control of sulfuric acid mist emissions from existing sulfuric acid production units, submitted on January 31, 1978;


(2) Control of total reduced sulfur emissions from existing facilities at kraft pulp mills, submitted on January 8, 1982.


(3) A compliance schedule for sources subject to the plan for the control of total reduced sulfur emissions from existing kraft pulp mills and a starting date for such rule, submitted on June 3, 1988. 


(4) State of Georgia Plan for Implementation of 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart Cb, For Existing Municipal Waste Combustors, submitted on November 13, 1997, by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.


(5) State of Georgia Plan for Implementation of 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart Cc, For Existing Municipal Solid Waste Landfills, submitted on January 20, 1998, by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.


(6) State of Georgia Plan for Implementation of 40 CFR Part 60, Subpart Ce, for Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators Constructed on or Before June 20, 1996, submitted on September 15, 1998, by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources. 


(c) *Designated facilities.* The plan applies to existing facilities in the following categories of sources:


(1) Sulfuric acid plants;


(2) Kraft pulp mills.


(3) Existing municipal waste combustors.


(4) Existing municipal solid waste landfills.


(5) Existing hospital/medical/infectious waste incinerators. 



---

[N] [48 FR 31402, July 9, 1983, as amended at 63 FR 27496, May 19, 1998; 63 FR 63416, Nov. 13, 1998; 65 FR 10024, Feb. 25, 2000]




