# § 2.2   Definitions.

(a) *The Act* as used in this part means the Trademark Act of 1946, 60 Stat. 427, as amended, codified in 15 U.S.C. 1051 *et seq.*

(b) *Entity* as used in this part includes both natural and juristic persons.


(c) *Director* as used in this chapter, except for part 11, means the Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office.


(d) *Federal holiday within the District of Columbia* means any day, except Saturdays and Sundays, when the United States Patent and Trademark Office is officially closed for business for the entire day.


(e) The term *Office* or abbreviation *USPTO* means the United States Patent and Trademark Office.


(f) The acronym *TEAS* means the Trademark Electronic Application System and, as used in this part, includes all related electronic systems required to complete an electronic submission through TEAS.


(g) The acronym *ESTTA* means the Electronic System for Trademark Trials and Appeals and, as used in this part, includes all related electronic systems required to complete an electronic submission through ESTTA.


(h) The term *international application* as used in this part means, in addition to the definition in section 60 of the Act, an application seeking an extension of protection of an international registration in an initial designation filed under the Protocol Relating to the Madrid Agreement Concerning the International Registration of Marks.


(i) The term *subsequent designation* as used in this part means a request for extension of protection of an international registration made after the International Bureau registers the mark on the International Register.


(j) The term *holder* as used in this part means, in addition to the definition of a “holder of an international registration” in section 60 of the Act, the natural or juristic person in whose name an international registration seeking an extension of protection to the United States is recorded on the International Register.


(k) The term *use in commerce* or* use of the mark in commerce* as used in this part means, in addition to the definition of “use in commerce” in section 45 of the Act:


(1) For a trademark or service mark, use of the mark in commerce by an applicant, owner, or holder on or in connection with the goods or services specified in a U.S. application, amendment to allege use, statement of use, or affidavit or declaration of use or excusable nonuse;


(2) For a collective trademark or collective service mark, use of the mark in commerce by members on or in connection with the goods or services specified in a U.S. application, amendment to allege use, statement of use, or affidavit or declaration of use or excusable nonuse;


(3) For a collective membership mark, use of the mark in commerce by members to indicate membership in the collective organization as specified in a U.S. application, amendment to allege use, statement of use, or affidavit or declaration of use or excusable nonuse; and


(4) For a certification mark, use of the mark in commerce by authorized users on or in connection with the goods or services specified in a U.S. application, amendment to allege use, statement of use, or affidavit or declaration of use or excusable nonuse.


(l) The term *bona fide intention to use the mark in commerce* as used in this part means, for a trademark or service mark, that an applicant or holder has a bona fide intention to use the mark in commerce on or in connection with the goods or services specified in a U.S. application or international application/subsequent designation.


(m) The term *bona fide intention, and is entitled, to exercise legitimate control over the use of the mark in commerce* as used in this part means:


(1) For a collective trademark or collective service mark, that an applicant or holder has a bona fide intention, and is entitled, to exercise legitimate control over the use of the mark in commerce by members on or in connection with the goods or services specified in a U.S. application or international application/subsequent designation;


(2) For a collective membership mark, that an applicant or holder has a bona fide intention, and is entitled, to exercise legitimate control over the use of the mark in commerce by members to indicate membership in the collective organization as specified in a U.S. application or international application/subsequent designation; and


(3) For a certification mark, that an applicant or holder has a bona fide intention, and is entitled, to exercise legitimate control over the use of the mark in commerce by authorized users on or in connection with the goods or services specified in a U.S. application or international application/subsequent designation.


(n) The term *verified statement,* and the terms *verify, verified,* or *verification* as used in this part refers to a statement that is sworn to, made under oath or in an affidavit, or supported by a declaration under § 2.20 or 28 U.S.C. 1746, and signed in accordance with the requirements of § 2.193.


(o) The term *domicile* as used in this part means the permanent legal place of residence of a natural person or the principal place of business of a juristic entity.


(p) The term *principal place of business* as used in this part means the location of a juristic entity's headquarters where the entity's senior executives or officers ordinarily direct and control the entity's activities and is usually the center from where other locations are controlled.


(q) The acronym *ETAS* means the Electronic Trademark Assignment System and, as used in this part, includes all related electronic systems required to complete an electronic submission through ETAS.


(r) *Eastern Time* means Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Time, as appropriate.


(s) The term *electronic submission* as used in this part refers to any submission made through an electronic filing system available on the Office's website, but not through email or facsimile transmission.


(t) The abbreviation *USPS* as used in this part means the U.S. Postal Service.



---

[N] [54 FR 37588, Sept. 11, 1989, as amended at 68 FR 48289, Aug. 13, 2003; 68 FR 55762, Sept. 26, 2003; 73 FR 47685, Aug. 14, 2008; 78 FR 20197, Apr. 3, 2013; 80 FR 33178, June 11, 2015; 84 FR 31510, July 2, 2019; 84 FR 37093, July 31, 2019]




