# § 75.1900   Definitions.

The following definitions apply in this subpart. 


*Diesel fuel tank.* A closed metal vessel specifically designed for the storage or transport of diesel fuel. 


*Diesel fuel transportation unit.* A self-propelled or portable wheeled vehicle used to transport a diesel fuel tank. 


*Noncombustible material.* A material that will continue to serve its intended function for 1 hour when subjected to a fire test incorporating an ASTM E119-88 time/temperature heat input, or equivalent. The publication ASTM E119-88 “Standard Test Methods for Fire Tests of Building Construction and Materials” is incorporated by reference and may be inspected at any MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health District Office; at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.* This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. In addition, copies of the document may be purchased from the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA, 19428-2959; 610-832-9500; *http://www.astm.org.*

*Permanent underground diesel fuel storage facility.* A facility designed and constructed to remain at one location for the storage or dispensing of diesel fuel, which does not move as mining progresses. 


*Safety can.* A metal container intended for storage, transport or dispensing of diesel fuel, with a nominal capacity of 5 gallons, listed or approved by a nationally recognized independent testing laboratory. 


*Temporary underground diesel fuel storage area.* An area of the mine provided for the short-term storage of diesel fuel in a fuel transportation unit, which moves as mining progresses. 



---

[N] [35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 67 FR 38386, June 4, 2002; 71 FR 16669, Apr. 3, 2006; 80 FR 52992, Sept. 2, 2015]




