# ยง 38.730   Applications.

To apply for a grant, an eligible entity must submit to VA a complete application package, as described in the NOFO. Applications will be accepted only through *Grants.gov* (*http://www.grants.gov*). A complete grant application, as further described in the NOFO, includes standard forms specified in the NOFO and the following:


(a) *Project description.* Each project must serve a minimum of one VA national cemetery, State Veterans' cemetery, or Tribal Veterans' cemetery. The applicant must provide a narrative project description that demonstrates the best approach for attaining required results as set forth in the NOFO;


(b) *Project team.* If applicable, the applicant must provide a narrative description of anticipated project team and any work partner(s), including the responsibilities of the principal investigator, the co-principal investigators, and any extramural partner entity;


(c) *Project plan.* The applicant must include a detailed timeline for the tasks outlined in the project description and proposed milestones;


(d) *Expertise and capacity.* The applicant must provide a description of the applicant's ability and capacity to administer the project. This may include evidence of past experience with projects similar in scope as defined by the NOFO, to include descriptions of the engagement model, examples of successful leadership and management of a project of similar scale and budget (or greater), or related work in this field;


(e) *Match.* If specified as a requirement in the NOFO, the applicant must provide evidence of secured cash matching (1:1) funds or of its ability to secure commitments to receive such funds;


(f) *Proposed budget.* The applicant's proposed budget should identify all costs and proposed expenditures, to include additional compensation and honoraria (and to whom); equipment costs; production costs; and travel costs. The applicant must provide a budget that specifies costs and payments, as well as indirect and other relevant costs. The budget will be submitted in a format specified in the NOFO; and


(g) *Additional information.* Any additional information as deemed appropriate by VA and set forth in the NOFO.



---

[N] [86 FR 59037, Oct. 26, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 107003, Dec. 31, 2024]






