# ยง 530.12   Special provisions.

(a) *Gloves and mittens industry.* Any certificate issued to an industrial homeworker by the New York State Department of Labor under paragraph II of Home Work Order No. 4 Restricting Industrial Homework in the Glove Industry, dated June 28, 1941, will be given effect by the Administrator as a certificate permitting the employment of the homeworker under the terms of ยง 530.4 for the period during which such certificate shall continue in force.


(b) *Jewelry manufacturing industry.* Nothing contained in the regulations in this part shall be construed to prohibit the employment, as homeworkers, of American Indians residing on the Navajo, Pueblo, and Hopi Indian Reservations, who are engaged in producing genuine hand-fashioned jewelry on the Indian reservations mentioned, provided the employment of such homeworker is in conformity with the following conditions:


(1) That each employer of one or more Indian homeworkers engaged in making hand-fashioned jewelry on these Indian reservations shall submit in duplicate to the regional office of the Wage and Hour Division for the region in which the employer's place of business is located, on April 1, August 1, and December 1 of each year, the name and address of such employee engaged during the preceding 4-month period in making hand-fashioned jewelry on Indian reservations;


(2) That each employer of one or more Indian homeworkers engaged in making hand-fashioned jewelry on these Indian reservations shall file copies of the piece rates in duplicate with the regional office of the Wage and Hour Division for the region in which the employer's place of business is located on April 1, August 1, and December 1 of each year, and


(3) That each employer of one or more Indian homeworkers engaged in making hand-fashioned jewelry on these Indian reservations shall keep, maintain, and have available for inspection by the Administrator or the Administrator's authorized representative at any time, records and reports showing with respect to each of the homeworkers engaged in making hand-fashioned jewelry on these Indian reservations, the following information:


(i) Name of the homeworker.


(ii) Address of the homeworker.


(iii) Date of birth of the homeworker, if under 19 years of age.


(iv) Description of work performed.


(v) Amount of cash wage payments made to the homeworker for each pay period.


(vi) Date of such payment.


(vii) Schedule of piece rates paid.



---

[N] [24 FR 729, Feb. 3, 1959, as amended at 43 FR 28470, June 30, 1978]




