# § 12.38   Report on a comprehensive assessment.

(a) *Scope.* The comprehensive assessment report must include documentation of all the items listed in § 12.37.


(b) *Specific evaluation.* In addition to the items listed in § 12.36(b)(1) through § 12.36(b)(5), the comprehensive assessment report must evaluate:


(1) The adequacy of spillways, including the effects of overtopping of nonoverflow structures, as described in § 12.39;


(2) The structural adequacy and stability of structures under all credible loading conditions;


(3) The potential for internal erosion and/or piping of embankments, foundations, and abutments;


(4) The design and construction practices used during original construction and subsequent modifications, in comparison with the industry best practices in use at the time of the inspection under this subpart D;


(5) The adequacy of the Supporting Technical Information Document and the attached electronic records; and


(6) The adequacy and findings of the potential failure mode analysis and risk analysis report(s).


(c) *Analyses of record.* The comprehensive assessment report must include the independent consultant team's evaluation of the assumptions, methods, calculations, results, and conclusions of the items listed in § 12.37(a)(2)(i) through (iv). The evaluation must:


(1) Address the accuracy, relevance, and consistency with the current state of the practice of dam engineering;


(2) Be accompanied by sufficient documentation of the independent consultant team's rationale, including, as needed, new calculations by the independent consultant team to verify that the assumptions, methods, calculations, results, and conclusions in the analyses of record are correct; and


(3) If the independent consultant team is unable to review the analyses of record for any of the items listed in § 12.37(a)(2)(i) through (iv); or if the independent consultant team disagrees with the assumptions, methods, calculations, results, or conclusions therein; the independent consultant(s) must recommend that the licensee complete new analyses to address the identified concerns.


(d) *Changes since the previous inspection.* The requirements of this section are the same as described in § 12.36(c).


(e) *Recommendations.* The requirements of this section are the same as described in § 12.36(d).


(f) *Dissenting views.* The requirements of this section are the same as described in § 12.36(e).


(g) *List of participants.* The requirements of this section are the same as described in § 12.36(f).


(h) *Statement of independence.* The requirements of this section are the same as described in § 12.36(g).


(i) *Signature.* The requirements of this section are the same as described in § 12.36(h).






