# § 56.10   Ensuring compliance with this part in programs and activities conducted by the Department of Defense.

(a) *Supplementary guidelines.* (1) Whenever necessary, the ASD(MRA&L), or designee, shall publish supplementary guidelines for programs and activities that are conducted by DoD Components and that are subject to this Directive. Prior to their issuance, the ASD(MRA&L), or designee, shall submit supplementary guidelines prepared pursuant to this subsection to the Coordination and Review Section, Civil Rights Division, Department of Justice, for review.


(2) The heads of DoD Components, or designees, shall be responsible for keeping the supplementary guidelines described in this section current and accurate. When a DoD Component head determines that a program or activity should be added to or deleted from the guidelines, that official shall notify the ASD(MRA&L), or designee, in writing.


(b) *Staff responsibilities.* The ASD(MRA&L), or designee, shall determine DoD Component compliance with this part as it pertains to programs and activities that are conducted by DoD Components and are subject to this part.


(c) *Filing of complaints.* (1) Complaints of discrimination in a program or activity conducted by a DoD Component may be filed directly with the ASD(MRA&L), or designee.


(2) DoD Components shall develop procedures, such as posters or other devices, to notify participants in the programs and activities listed in § 56.7(c) of their right to be free of discrimination because of handicap in those programs and activities and of their right to file complaints of discrimination with the ASD(MRA&L), or designee.


(d) *Investigations of complaints.* (1) The ASD(MRA&L), or designee, shall investigate complaints of discrimination in programs and activities that are conducted by DoD Components and are subject to this part.


(2) A case record of each investigation shall be compiled in accordance with § 56.9(j)(2).


(e) *Results of investigations.* If the complaint investigation results in a determination by the ASD(MRA&L), or designee, that a DoD Component's program or activity is not complying with § 56.9, the ASD(MRA&L), or designee, shall proceed as prescribed in § 56.9 (n) through (v). Hearings prescribed under § 56.9(r) however, need not be conducted. If the ASD(MRA&L), or designee, determines that the DoD Component is in compliance, the ASD(MRA&L), or designee, shall notify the complainant within 15 calendar days of such determination.


(f) *Written notice.* If an investigative report concludes that there has been a violation of this part in a program or activity conducted by a DoD Component and the ASD(MRA&L), or designee, accepts that conclusion, that official shall issue to the head of the DoD Component a written notice describing the apparent violation, the corrective actions necessary to achieve compliance, and a suspense date for completion of the corrective actions.


(g) *Effecting compliance.* When necessary to overcome the effects of discrimination in violation of this part the ASD(MRA&L), or designee, may require a DoD Component to take remedial action similar to that in § 56.9(n)(2).


(h) *Employment.* DoD Components that conduct Federal programs or activities covered by this part that involve employment of civilian persons to conduct such a program or activity must comply with section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, and the implementing rules and regulations of the EEOC. 




