# § 514.11   Confidentiality of data and information in a new animal drug application file.

(a) For purposes of this section the *NADA file* includes all data and information submitted with or incorporated by reference in the NADA, INAD's incorporated into the NADA, supplemental NADA's, reports under §§ 514.80 and 510.301 of this chapter, master files, and other related submissions. The availability for public disclosure of any record in the NADA file shall be handled in accordance with the provisions of this section. 


(b) The existence of an NADA file will not be disclosed by the Food and Drug Administration before the application has been approved, unless it has been previously disclosed or acknowledged.


(c) If the existence of an NADA file has not been publicly disclosed or acknowledged, no data or information in the NADA file is available for public disclosure. 


(d) If the existence of an NADA file has been publicly disclosed or acknowledged before the application has been approved, no data or information contained in the file is available for public disclosure, but the Commissioner may, in his discretion, disclose a summary of such selected portions of the safety and effectiveness data as are appropriate for public consideration of a specific pending issue, i.e., at an open session of a Food and Drug Administration advisory committee or pursuant to an exchange of important regulatory information with a foreign government.


(e) After an application has been approved, the following data and information in the NADA file are immediately available for public disclosure unless extraordinary circumstances are shown:


(1) All safety and effectiveness data and information previously disclosed to the public, as defined in § 20.81 of this chapter. 


(2) A summary or summaries of the safety and effectiveness data and information submitted with or incorporated by reference in the NADA file. Such summaries do not constitute the full reports of investigations under section 512(b)(1) of the act (21 U.S.C. 360b(b)(1)) on which the safety or effectiveness of the drug may be approved. Such summaries shall consist of the following:


(i) For an NADA approved prior to July 1, 1975, internal agency records that describe such data and information, e.g., a summary of basis for approval or internal reviews of the data and information, after deletion of:


(*a*) Names and any information that would identify the investigators. 


(*b*) Any inappropriate gratuitous comments unnecessary to an objective analysis of the data and information. 


(ii) For an NADA approved after July 1, 1975, a summary of such data and information prepared in one of the following two alternative ways shall be publicly released when the application is approved.


(*a*) The Center for Veterinary Medicine may at an appropriate time prior to approval of the NADA require the applicant to prepare a summary of such data and information, which will be reviewed and, where appropriate, revised by the Center.


(*b*) The Center for Veterinary Medicine may prepare its own summary of such data and information. 


(3) A protocol for a test or study, unless it is shown to fall within the exemption established for trade secrets and confidential commercial information in § 20.61 of this chapter. 


(4) Adverse reaction reports, product experience reports, consumer complaints, and other similar data and information, after deletion of: 


(i) Names and any information that would identify the person using the product. 


(ii) Names and any information that would identify any third party involved with the report, such as a physician, hospital, or other institution. 


(5) A list of all active ingredients and any inactive ingredients previously disclosed to the public as defined in § 20.81 of this chapter. 


(6) An assay method or other analytical method, unless it serves no regulatory or compliance purpose and is shown to fall within the exemption established in § 20.61 of this chapter. 


(7) All correspondence and written summaries of oral discussions relating to the NADA, in accordance with the provisions of part 20 of this chapter. 


(f) All safety and effectiveness data and information not previously disclosed to the public are available for public disclosure at the time any one of the following events occurs unless extraordinary circumstances are known: 


(1) The NADA has been abandoned and no further work is being undertaken with respect to it. 


(2) A final determination is made that the NADA is not approvable, and all legal appeals have been exhausted. 


(3) Approval of the NADA is withdrawn, and all legal appeals have been exhausted. 


(4) A final determination has been made that the animal drug is not a new animal drug. 


(5) A final determination has been made that the animal drug may be marketed without submission of such safety and/or effectiveness data and information. 


(g) The following data and information in an NADA file are not available for public disclosure unless they have been previously disclosed to the public as defined in § 20.81 of this chapter or they relate to a product or ingredient that has been abandoned and they no longer represent a trade secret or confidential commercial or financial information as defined in § 20.61 of this chapter: 


(1) Manufacturing methods or processes, including quality control procedures. 


(2) Production, sales, distribution, and similar data and information, except that any compilation of such data and information aggregated and prepared in a way that does not reveal data or information which is not available for public disclosure under this provision is available for public disclosure. 


(3) Quantitative or semiquantitative formulas. 


(h) For purposes of this regulation, safety and effectiveness data include all studies and tests of an animal drug on animals and all studies and tests on the animal drug for identity, stability, purity, potency, and bioavailability.



---

[N] [40 FR 13825, Mar. 27, 1975, as amended at 42 FR 3109, Jan. 14, 1977; 42 FR 15675, Mar. 22, 1977; 54 FR 18280, Apr. 28, 1989; 68 FR 15365, Mar. 31, 2003; 79 FR 14611, Mar. 17, 2014] 




