# ยง 62.100   Identification of plan.

(a) *Identification of plan.* Alabama Designated Facility Plan (Section (d) Plan).


(b) *The plan was officially submitted as follows.* (1) Control of sulfuric acid mist emissions from existing sulfuric acid production units, submitted on May 18, 1980;


(2) Control of fluoride emissions from existing phosphate fertilizer plants, submitted on April 10, 1978.


(3) Alabama Department of Environmental Management Plan For the Control of Landfill Gas Emissions at Existing Municipal Solid Waste Landfills, submitted on January 6, 1998, by the Alabama Department of Environmental Management.


(4) State of Alabama Plan for Implementation of 40 CFR part 60, Subpart Cb, For Existing Municipal Waste Combustors, submitted on September 11, 1998, by the Alabama Department of Environmental Management.


(5) Alabama Department of Environmental Management Plan for the Control of Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators, submitted on April 20, 1999, by the Alabama Department of Environmental Management. 


(c) *Designated facilities.* The plan applies to existing facilities in the following categories of sources:


(1) Sulfuric acid plants; 


(2) Phosphate fertilizer plants.


(3) Existing municipal solid waste landfills.


(4) Existing municipal waste combustors.


(5) Existing hospital/medical/infectious waste incinerators. 



---

[N] [48 FR 31402, July 8, 1983, as amended at 63 FR 54058, Oct. 8, 1998; 63 FR 63990, Nov. 18, 1998; 65 FR 18911, Apr. 10, 2000]




