# ยง 25.7   Notice of violation.

(a) *General.* The Chairperson of the Board, or the Chairperson's designee, shall issue a written notice to the mortgagee at the mortgagee's address of record at least 30 days prior to taking any action under 12 U.S.C. 1708(c) against the mortgagee. Proof of delivery to the mortgagee's address of record shall establish the mortgagee's receipt of the notice. The notice shall state the specific violations that have been alleged, and shall direct the mortgagee to reply in writing to the Board within 30 days after receipt of the notice by the mortgagee. The notice shall also provide the address to which the response shall be sent. If the mortgagee fails to reply during such time period, the Board may make a determination without considering any comments of the mortgagee.


(b) *Mortgagee's response.* The mortgagee's response to the Board shall be in a format prescribed by the Secretary and shall not exceed 15 double-spaced typewritten pages. The response shall include an executive summary, a statement of the facts surrounding the matter, an argument, and a conclusion. Such response shall also address the factors listed in ยง 25.8. A more lengthy submission, including documents and other exhibits, may be simultaneously submitted to Board staff for review.


(c) *Exception for letter of reprimand.* Whenever information comes before the Board that discloses a basis for the issuance of a letter of reprimand, the Board may issue the letter without having previously issued a notice of violation.


(d) *Exception for immediate suspension.* If the Board determines that there exists adequate evidence that immediate action is required to protect the financial interests of the Department or the public, the Board may take a suspension action without having previously issued a notice of violation.



---

[N] [73 FR 60541, Oct. 10, 2008]




