# ยง 22.27   Eligible reimbursements to participating lenders.

Participating Lenders will be reimbursed by DOT OSDBU for reasonable expenses and costs that are incurred in the processing, administration, and monitoring of a STLP loan. The Participating Lender will be reimbursed as follows:


(a) *Processing/Underwriting Fee.* A fee, as specified in the cooperative agreement will be reimbursed by DOT OSDBU, with a minimum fee of not less than one thousand ($1,000), per approved STLP loan guarantee, provided that DOT OSDBU receives proper notification of the activation date of the STLP loan.


(b) *Additional Administrative Fee:* For total loan amounts of $150,000.00 or less, the Participating Lender can request an additional one-half (
1/2) percent administrative fee for the increased loan monitoring and administrative assistance required to process the loan. The request must be supported with the information specified in the cooperative agreement.


(c) *Travel Expenses.* For any pre-approved travel expenses, the Participating Lender will be reimbursed for certain costs, provided that paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section are met:


(1) A written request for travel, along with a statement of the purpose of the travel and proposed cost estimate, is submitted for DOT OSDBU for its approval no less than ten (10) business days prior to travel; and


(2) A travel invoice accompanied by a written report explaining the findings of the travel is submitted to DOT OSDBU no later than thirty (30) days following the approved travel. Payment or reimbursement for travel shall be in accordance with the Joint Travel Regulations, Federal Travel Regulations and DOD FAR 31.205.46.


(d) *Attorney Fees.* Legal fees incurred by the PL may be eligible for reimbursement. Prior written approval from DOT OSDBU is required. Attorney fees will be reimbursed on a pro-rata basis in proportion to the percentage of the government loan guarantee in relation to the total loan amount.




