# § 960.509   Lease requirements for non-public housing over-income families.

(a) *In general.* If a family, when permitted by written PHA's continued occupancy policy, elects to remain in a public housing unit paying the alternative non-public housing rent, the PHA and each non-public housing over-income (NPHOI) family (referred to as the “tenant” in this section) must enter into a lease. The tenant and the PHA must execute the lease, as presented by the PHA pursuant to § 960.507(c)(3)(ii)(B) no later than 60 days after the notice provided pursuant to § 960.507(c)(3) or at the next lease renewal, whichever is sooner. If the tenant does not execute the lease within this time period, the PHA must terminate the tenancy of the tenant no more than 6 months after the notification under § 960.507(c)(3) in accordance with 960.507(d)(2). Notwithstanding, a PHA may permit, in accordance with its policies, an over-income family to execute the lease beyond this time period, but before termination of the tenancy, if the over-income family pays the PHA the total difference between the alternative non-public housing rent and their public housing rent dating back to the point in time that the over-income family was required to execute the lease.


(b) *Lease provisions.* The non-public housing over-income lease must contain at a minimum the following provisions.


(1) *Parties, dwelling unit, and term.* The lease must state:


(i) The name of the PHA and names of the tenants.


(ii) The unit rented (address, apartment number, and any other information needed to identify the dwelling unit).


(iii) The term of the lease (lease term and renewal in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section).


(iv) A statement of the utilities, services, and equipment to be supplied by the PHA without additional cost, and the utilities and appliances to be paid for by the tenant.


(v) The composition of the household as approved by the PHA (family members, foster children and adults, and any PHA-approved live-in aides). The family must promptly inform the PHA of the birth, adoption, or court-awarded custody of a child. The family must request PHA approval to add any other family member as an occupant of the unit.


(2) *Lease term and renewal.* (i) The lease must have a term as determined by the PHA and included in PHA policy.


(ii) At any time, the PHA may terminate the tenancy in accordance with paragraph (b)(11) of this section.


(3) *Payments due under the lease.* (i) *Tenant rent.* (A) The tenant must pay the amount of the monthly tenant rent determined by the PHA in accordance with § 960.507(e)(1).


(B) The lease must specify the initial amount of the tenant rent at the beginning of the initial lease term. The PHA must comply with State or local law in giving the tenant written notice stating any change in the amount of tenant rent.


(ii) *PHA charges.* The lease must provide for charges to the tenant for repair beyond normal wear and tear and for consumption of excess utilities. The lease must state the basis for the determination of such charges (*e.g.,* by a posted schedule of charges for repair, amounts charged for excess utility consumption, etc.). The imposition of charges for consumption of excess utilities is permissible only if such charges are determined by an individual check meter servicing the leased unit or result from the use of major tenant-supplied appliances.


(iii) *Late payment penalties.* The lease may provide for penalties for late payment of rent.


(iv) *When charges are due.* The lease must provide that charges assessed under paragraphs (b)(3)(ii) and (b)(3)(iii) of this section are due in accordance with PHA policy.


(v) *Security deposits.* The lease must provide that any previously paid security deposit will be applied to the tenancy upon signing a new lease. The lease must also inform the tenant of the circumstances under which a security deposit will be returned to the tenant or when the tenant will be charged for damage to the unit, consistent with State and local security deposit laws.


(4) *Tenant's right to use and occupancy.* The lease must provide that the tenant has the right to exclusive use and occupancy of the leased unit by the members of the household authorized to reside in the unit in accordance with the lease, as well as their guests. The term *guest* is defined in § 5.100 of this title.


(5) *The PHA's obligations.* The PHA's obligations under the lease must include the following:


(i) To maintain the dwelling unit and the project in decent, safe, and sanitary condition.


(ii) To comply with requirements of applicable State and local building codes, housing codes, and HUD regulations materially affecting health and safety.


(iii) To make necessary repairs to the dwelling unit.


(iv) To keep project buildings, facilities, and common areas, not otherwise assigned to the tenant for maintenance and upkeep, in a clean and safe condition.


(v) To maintain in good and safe working order and condition electrical, plumbing, sanitary, heating, ventilating, and other facilities, and appliances, including elevators, supplied, or required to be supplied by the PHA.


(vi) To provide and maintain appropriate receptacles and facilities (except containers for the exclusive use of an individual tenant family) for the deposit of ashes, garbage, rubbish, and other waste removed from the dwelling unit by the tenant in accordance with paragraph (b)(6)(vii) of this section.


(vii) To supply running water, including an adequate source of potable water, and reasonable amounts of hot water and reasonable amounts of heat at appropriate times of the year (according to local custom and usage), except where the building that includes the dwelling unit is not required by law to be equipped for that purpose, or where heat or hot water is generated by an installation within the exclusive control of the tenant and supplied by a direct utility connection.


(viii) To notify the tenant of the specific grounds for any proposed adverse action by the PHA as required by State and local law.


(ix) To comply with Federal, State, and local nondiscrimination and fair housing requirements, including Federal accessibility requirements and providing reasonable accommodations for persons with disabilities.


(x) To establish necessary and reasonable policies for the benefit and well-being of the housing project and the tenants, post the policies in the project office, and incorporate the regulations by reference in the lease.


(6) *Tenant's obligations.* The lease must, at a minimum and consistent with State and local law, provide that the tenant must:


(i) Not assign the lease or sublease the dwelling unit.


(ii) Not provide accommodations for boarders or lodgers.


(iii) Use the dwelling unit solely as a private dwelling for the tenant and the tenant's household as identified in the lease, and not use or permit its use for any other purpose.


(iv) Abide by necessary and reasonable policies established by the PHA for the benefit and well-being of the housing project and the tenants, which must be posted in the project office and incorporated by reference in the lease.


(v) Comply with all applicable State and local building and housing codes materially affecting health and safety.


(vi) Keep the dwelling unit and such other areas as may be assigned to the tenant for the tenant's exclusive use in a clean and safe condition.


(vii) Dispose of all waste from the dwelling unit in a sanitary and safe manner.


(viii) Use in a reasonable manner all electrical, plumbing, sanitary, heating, ventilating, air-conditioning and other facilities, including elevators.


(ix) Refrain from, and cause members of the household and guests to refrain from destroying, defacing, damaging, or removing any part of the dwelling unit or housing project.


(x) Pay reasonable charges (other than for wear and tear) for the repair of damages to the dwelling unit, or to the housing project (including damages to buildings, facilities, or common areas) caused by the tenant, a member of the household or a guest.


(xi) Act, and cause household members and guests to act, in a manner which will not disturb other residents' peaceful enjoyment of their accommodations and will be conducive to maintaining the project in a decent, safe, and sanitary condition.


(xii) Assure that no tenant, member of the tenant's household, guest, or any other person under the tenant's control engages in:


(A) *Criminal activity.* (*1*) Any criminal activity that threatens the health, safety or right to peaceful enjoyment of the premises by other residents.


(*2*) Any drug-related criminal activity on or off the premises; or


(B) *Civil activity.* For non-public housing over-income units that are not within mixed-finance projects, any smoking of prohibited tobacco products in the tenant's unit as well as restricted areas, as defined by § 965.653(a) of this chapter, or in other outdoor areas that the PHA has designated as smoke-free.


(xiii) To assure that no member of the household engages in an abuse or pattern of abuse of alcohol that affects the health, safety, or right to peaceful enjoyment of the premises by other residents.


(7) *Tenant maintenance.* The lease may provide that the tenant must perform seasonal maintenance or other maintenance tasks, where performance of such tasks by tenants of dwellings units of a similar design and construction is customary, as long as such provisions are not for the purpose of evading the obligations of the PHA. In cases where a PHA adopts such lease provisions, the PHA must exempt tenants who are unable to perform such tasks because of age or disability.


(8) *Defects hazardous to life, health, or safety.* The lease must set forth the rights and obligations of the tenant and the PHA if to the dwelling unit is damaged to the extent that conditions are created which are hazardous to life, health, or safety of the occupants. The lease must provide that:


(i) The tenant must immediately notify project management of the damage.


(ii) The PHA must repair the unit within a reasonable time. The PHA must charge the tenant the reasonable cost of the repairs if the damage was caused by the tenant, the tenant's household, or the tenant's guests.


(iii) The PHA must offer standard alternative accommodations, if available, where necessary repairs cannot be made within a reasonable time, subject to paragraph (b)(5)(ix) of this section; and


(iv) The lease must allow for abatement of rent in proportion to the seriousness of the damage and loss in value as a dwelling if repairs are not made in accordance with paragraph (b)(8)(ii) of this section or alternative accommodations not provided in accordance with paragraph (b)(8)(iii) of this section, except that no abatement of rent may occur if the tenant rejects the alternative accommodation or if the damage was caused by the tenant, tenant's household or guests.


(9) *Entry of dwelling unit during tenancy.* The lease must set forth the circumstances under which the PHA may enter the dwelling unit during the tenant's possession and must include the following requirements:


(i) The PHA is, upon reasonable advance notification to the tenant, permitted to enter the dwelling unit during reasonable hours for the purpose of performing routine inspections and maintenance, for making improvement or repairs, or to show the dwelling unit for re-leasing. A written statement specifying the purpose of the PHA entry delivered to the dwelling unit at least two days before such entry is reasonable advance notification.


(ii) The PHA may enter the dwelling unit at any time without advance notification when there is reasonable cause to believe that an emergency exists; and


(iii) If the tenant and all adult members of the household are absent from the dwelling unit at the time of entry, the PHA must leave in the dwelling unit a written statement specifying the date, time, and purpose of entry prior to leaving the dwelling unit.


(10) *Notice procedures.* The lease must provide procedures, in accordance with State and local laws, the PHA and tenant must follow when giving notices, which must include:


(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(9) of this section, notice to a tenant must be provided in a form to allow meaningful access for persons who are limited English proficient and, in a form, to ensure effective communication with individuals with disabilities; and


(ii) Notice to the PHA can be in writing, hand delivered, or sent by prepaid first-class mail to PHA address provided in the lease, orally, or submitted electronically through a communications system established by the PHA for that purpose.


(11) *Termination of tenancy and eviction.* (i) *Procedures.* The lease must state the procedures to be followed by the PHA and the tenant to terminate the tenancy.


(ii) *Grounds for termination of tenancy.* The PHA must terminate the tenancy for good cause, which includes, but is not limited to, the following:


(A) Criminal activity or alcohol abuse as provided in paragraph (b)(11)(iv) of this section.


(B) Failure to accept the PHA's offer of a lease revision to an existing lease: with written notice of the offer of the revision at least 60 calendar days before the lease revision is scheduled to take effect; and with the offer specifying a reasonable time limit within that period for acceptance by the family.


(iii) *Lease termination notice.* The PHA must give notice of lease termination in accordance with State and local laws.


(iv) *PHA termination of tenancy for criminal activity or alcohol abuse.* (A) *Evicting drug criminals.* (*1*) *Methamphetamine conviction.* The PHA must immediately terminate the tenancy if the PHA determines that any member of the household has been convicted of drug-related criminal activity for manufacture or production of methamphetamine on the premises of Federally assisted housing.


(*2*) *Drug crime on or off the premises.* The lease must provide that drug-related criminal activity engaged in on or off the premises by any tenant, member of the tenant's household or guest, and any such activity engaged in on the premises by any other person under the tenant's control, is grounds for the PHA to terminate tenancy. In addition, the lease must provide that a PHA may evict a family when the PHA determines that a household member is illegally using a drug or when the PHA determines that a pattern of illegal use of a drug interferes with the health, safety, or right to peaceful enjoyment of the premises by other residents.


(B) *Evicting other criminals.* (*1*) *Threat to other residents.* The lease must provide that any criminal activity by a covered person that threatens the health, safety, or right to peaceful enjoyment of the premises by other residents (including PHA management staff residing on the premises) or threatens the health, safety, or right to peaceful enjoyment of their residences by persons residing in the immediate vicinity of the premises is grounds for termination of tenancy.


(*2*) *Fugitive felon or parole violator.* The PHA may terminate the tenancy if a tenant is fleeing to avoid prosecution, or custody or confinement after conviction, for a crime, or attempt to commit a crime, that is a felony under the laws of the place from which the individual flees, or that, in the case of the State of New Jersey, is a high misdemeanor; or violating a condition of probation or parole imposed under Federal or State law.


(C) *Eviction for criminal activity.* (*1*) *Evidence.* The PHA may evict the tenant by judicial action for criminal activity in accordance with this section if the PHA determines that the covered person has engaged in the criminal activity, regardless of whether the covered person has been arrested or convicted for such activity and without satisfying the standard of proof used for a criminal conviction.


(*2*) *Notice to Post Office.* When a PHA evicts an individual or family for criminal activity, the PHA must notify the local post office serving the dwelling unit that the individual or family is no longer residing in the unit.


(D) *Use of criminal record.* If the PHA seeks to terminate the tenancy for criminal activity as shown by a criminal record, the PHA must notify the household of the proposed action to be based on the information and must provide the subject of the record and the tenant with a copy of the criminal record before a PHA grievance hearing, as applicable, or court trial concerning the termination of tenancy or eviction. The tenant must be given an opportunity to dispute the accuracy and relevance of that record in the grievance hearing or court trial.


(E) *Cost of obtaining criminal record.* The PHA may not pass along to the tenant the costs of a criminal records check.


(F) *Evicting alcohol abusers.* The PHA must establish standards that allow termination of tenancy if the PHA determines that a household member has:


(*1*) Engaged in abuse or pattern of abuse of alcohol that threatens the health, safety, or right to peaceful enjoyment of the premises by other residents; or


(*2*) Furnished false or misleading information concerning illegal drug use, alcohol abuse, or rehabilitation of illegal drug users or alcohol abusers.


(G) *PHA action, generally.* (*1*) *Consideration of circumstances.* In a manner consistent with policies, procedures and practices, the PHA may consider all circumstances relevant to a particular case such as the nature and severity of the offending action, the extent of participation by the leaseholder in the offending action, the effects that the eviction would have on family members not involved in the offending activity, the extent to which the leaseholder has taken steps to prevent or mitigate the offending action, the amount of time that has passed since the criminal conduct occurred, whether the crime or conviction was related to a disability, and whether the individual has engaged in rehabilitative or community services.


(*2*) *Exclusion of culpable household member.* The PHA may require a tenant to exclude a household member to continue to reside in the dwelling unit, where that household member has participated in or been culpable for action or failure to act that warrants termination.


(*3*) *Consideration of rehabilitation.* In determining whether to terminate tenancy for illegal drug use or a pattern of illegal drug use by a household member who is no longer engaging in such use, or for abuse or a pattern of abuse of alcohol by a household member who is no longer engaging in such abuse, the PHA may consider whether such household member is participating in or has successfully completed a supervised drug or alcohol rehabilitation program or has otherwise been rehabilitated successfully (42 U.S.C. 13662). For this purpose, the PHA may require the tenant to submit evidence of the household member's current participation in, or successful completion of, a supervised drug or alcohol rehabilitation program or evidence of otherwise having been rehabilitated successfully.


(*4*) *Nondiscrimination limitation.* The PHA's eviction actions must be consistent with fair housing and equal opportunity provisions of § 5.105 of this title.


(12) *No automatic lease renewal.* Upon expiration of the lease term, the lease shall not automatically renew.


(13) *Grievance procedures.* The lease may include hearing or grievance procedures and may explain when the procedures are available to the family.


(14) *Provision for modifications.* The lease may be modified at any time by written agreement of the tenant and the PHA. The lease must provide that modification of the lease must be evidenced by a written rider or amendment to the lease, executed by both parties, except as permitted under § 966.5 of this chapter, which allows modifications of the lease by posting of policies, rules and regulations.


(15) *Signature clause.* The lease must provide a signature clause attesting that the lease has been executed by the parties.



---

[N] [88 FR 9671, Feb. 14, 2023; 88 FR 12560, Feb. 28, 2023]










