# § 520.1199   Ivermectin, pyrantel, and praziquantel tablets.

(a) *Specifications.* Each chewable tablet or soft chewable tablet contains:


(1) 34 micrograms (mcg) ivermectin, 28.5 milligrams (mg) pyrantel pamoate, and 28.5 mg praziquantel;


(2) 68 mcg ivermectin, 57 mg pyrantel pamoate, and 57 mg praziquantel;


(3) 136 mcg ivermectin, 114 mg pyrantel pamoate, and 114 mg praziquantel; or


(4) 272 mcg ivermectin, 228 mg pyrantel pamoate, and 228 mg praziquantel.


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 051311 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(c) *Conditions of use in dogs*—(1) *Amount.* Administer monthly according to body weight as follows:


(i) 6 to 12 lb: one tablet as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(ii) 12.1 to 25 lb: one tablet as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(iii) 25.1 to 50 lb: one tablet as described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.


(iv) 50.1 to 100 lb: one tablet as described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.


(v) Greater than 100 lb: use the appropriate combination of tablets.


(2) *Indications for use.* To prevent canine heartworm disease by eliminating the tissue stage of heartworm larvae (*Dirofilaria immitis*) for 1 month (30 days) after infection and for the treatment and control of roundworm (*Toxocara canis, Toxascaris leonina*), hookworm (*Ancylostoma caninum, Uncinaria stenocephala, Ancylostoma braziliense*) and tapeworm (*Dipylidium caninum, Taenia pisiformis*) infections.


(3) *Limitations.* Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.



---

[N] [71 FR 65052, Nov. 7, 2006, as amended at 78 FR 28822, May 20, 2014; 83 FR 14587, Apr. 5, 2018]




