# § 21.120   Special Canada goose permit.

(a) *What is the special Canada goose permit and what is its purpose?* The special Canada goose permit is a permit issued by us to a State wildlife agency authorizing certain resident Canada goose (*Branta canadensis*) management and control activities that are normally prohibited. We will only issue such a permit when it will contribute to human health and safety, protect personal property, or allow resolution or prevention of injury to people or property. The management and control activities conducted under the permit are intended to relieve or prevent injurious situations only. No person should construe the permit as opening, reopening, or extending any hunting season contrary to any regulations established under Section 3 of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act.


(b) *Who may receive a permit?* Only State wildlife agencies (State) are eligible to receive a permit to undertake the various goose management and control activities. Additionally, only employees or designated agents of a permitted State wildlife agency may undertake activities for injurious resident Canada geese in accordance with the conditions specified in the permit, conditions contained in 50 CFR part 13, and conditions specified in paragraph (d) of this section.


(c) *How does a State apply for a permit?* Any State wildlife agency wishing to obtain a permit must submit an application (Form 3-200-6) to the appropriate Regional Director (see § 13.11(b) of this subchapter) containing the general information and certification required by § 13.12(a) of this subchapter plus the following information:


(1) A detailed statement showing that the goose management and control activities will either provide for human health and safety, protect personal property, or allow resolution of other injury to people or property;


(2) An estimate of the size of the resident Canada goose breeding population in the State;


(3) The requested annual take of resident Canada geese, including eggs and nests;


(4) A statement indicating that the State will inform and brief all employees and designated agents of the requirements of these regulations and permit conditions.


(d) *What are the conditions of the permit?* The special Canada goose permits are subject to the general conditions in 50 CFR part 13, the conditions elsewhere in this section, and, unless otherwise specifically authorized on the permit, the conditions outlined below:


(1) *What are the limitations on management and control activities?* (i) Take of resident Canada geese as a management tool under this section may not exceed the number authorized by the permit. States should utilize non-lethal goose management tools to the extent they deem appropriate in an effort to minimize lethal take.


(ii) Methods of take for the control of injurious resident Canada geese are at the State's discretion. Methods include, but are not limited to, firearms, alpha-chloralose, traps, egg and nest manipulation and other damage control techniques consistent with accepted wildlife damage-management programs.


(2) *When may a State conduct management and control activities?* States and their employees and agents may conduct egg and nest manipulation activities at any time of year. Other management and control activities, including the take of resident Canada geese, under this section may only be conducted between March 11 and August 31.


(3) *How must the States dispose or utilize geese taken under this permit?* States and their employees and agents may possess, transport, and otherwise dispose of Canada geese taken under this section. States must utilize such birds by donation to public museums or public institutions for scientific or educational purposes, by processing them for human consumption and distributing them free of charge to charitable organizations, or by burying or incinerating them. States, their employees, and designated agents may not sell, offer for sale, barter, or ship for the purpose of sale or barter any Canada geese taken under this section, nor their plumage or eggs.


(4) *How does the permit relate to existing State law?* No person conducting management and control activities under this section should construe the permit to authorize the killing of injurious resident Canada geese contrary to any State law or regulation, nor on any Federal land without specific authorization by the responsible management agency. No person may exercise the privileges granted under this section unless they possess any permits required for such activities by any State or Federal land manager.


(5) *When conducting management and control activities, are there any special inspection requirements?* Any State employee or designated agent authorized to carry out management and control activities must have a copy of the permit and designation in their possession when carrying out any activities. The State must also require the property owner or occupant on whose premises the State is conducting activities to allow, at all reasonable times, including during actual operations, free and unrestricted access to any Service special agent or refuge officer, State wildlife or deputy wildlife agent, warden, protector, or other wildlife law enforcement officer (wildlife officer) on the premises where they are, or were, conducting activities. Furthermore, any State employee or designated agent conducting such activities must promptly furnish whatever information is required concerning such activities to any such wildlife officer.


(6) *What are the reporting requirements of the permit?* Any State employee or designated agent exercising the privileges granted by this section must keep records of all activities carried out under the authority of this permit, including the number of Canada geese killed and their disposition. The State must submit an annual report detailing activities, including the time, numbers and location of birds, eggs, and nests taken and non-lethal techniques utilized, before December 31 of each year. The State should submit the annual report to the appropriate Assistant Regional Director—Refuges and Wildlife (see § 10.22 of this subchapter).


(7) *What are the limitations of the special permit?* The following limitations apply:


(i) Nothing in this section applies to any Federal land within a State's boundaries without written permission of the Federal Agency with jurisdiction.


(ii) States may not undertake any actions under any permit issued under this section if the activities adversely affect other migratory birds or species designated as endangered or threatened under the authority of the Endangered Species Act.


(iii) We will only issue permits to State wildlife agencies in the conterminous United States.


(iv) States may designate agents who must operate under the conditions of the permit.


(v) *How long is the special permit valid?* A special Canada goose permit issued or renewed under this section expires on the date designated on the face of the permit unless it is amended or revoked or such time that we determine that the State's population of resident Canada geese no longer poses a threat to human health or safety, personal property, or injury to other interests. In all cases, the term of the permit may not exceed five (5) years from the date of issuance or renewal.


(vi) *Can we revoke the special permit?* We reserve the right to suspend or revoke any permit, as specified in §§ 13.27 and 13.28 of this subchapter.


(e) *Information collection requirements.* The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has approved the information collection requirements of the permit and assigned OMB Control Number 1018-0022. Federal agencies may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. Direct comments regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of the information collection to the Service's Information Collection Clearance Officer at the address provided at 50 CFR 2.1(b).



---

[N] [64 FR 32774, June 17, 1999, as amended at 79 FR 43965, July 29, 2014; 84 FR 28773, June 20, 2019. Redesignated and amended at 87 FR 881, 882, Jan. 7, 2022]




