# ยง 3.1711   Effect of contributions by government, public, or private organizations.

(a) *Contributions by government or employer.* With respect to claims for a plot or interment allowance under ยง 3.1707, if VA has evidence that the U.S., a State, any agency or political subdivision of the U.S. or of a State, Tribal organization, or the employer of the deceased veteran has paid or contributed payment to the veteran's plot or interment expenses, VA will pay the claimant up to the lesser of:


(1) The allowable statutory amount; or


(2) The amount of the total plot or interment expenses minus the amount of expenses paid by any or all of the organizations described in this paragraph (a).


(b) *Burial expenses paid by other agencies of the U.S.* (1) *Burial allowance when Federal law or regulation also provides for payment.* VA cannot pay the non-service-connected burial allowance when any Federal law or regulation also specifically provides for the payment of the deceased veteran's burial, funeral, or transportation expenses. However, VA will pay the non-service-connected burial allowance when a Federal law or regulation allows the payment of burial expenses using funds due, or accrued to the credit of, the deceased veteran (such as Social Security benefits), but the law or regulation does not specifically require such payment. In such cases, VA will pay the maximum amount specified in 38 U.S.C. 2303.


(2) *Payment by military service department.* VA will not pay or will recoup the non-service-connected burial allowance for deaths occurring during active service or for other deaths for which the service department pays the burial, funeral, or transportation expenses.


(3) *When a veteran dies while hospitalized.* When a veteran dies while hospitalized at the expense of the U.S. government (including, but not limited to, death in a VA facility) and benefits would be otherwise payable under 10 U.S.C. 1482 and a provision of this subpart B, only one of these benefits is payable. VA will attempt to locate a relative of the veteran or another person entitled to reimbursement under ยง 3.1702(b) and will ask that person to elect between these benefits.



---

[N] [79 FR 32658, June 6, 2014, as amended at 89 FR 78255, Sept. 25, 2024]




