# § 240.17Ac2-2   Annual reporting requirement for registered transfer agents.

(a) Every transfer agent registered on December 31 must file a report covering the reporting period on Form TA-2 (§ 249b.102 of this chapter) by March 31 following the end of the reporting period. Form TA-2 must be completed in accordance with the instructions contained in the Form. A transfer agent may file an amendment to Form TA-2 pursuant to the instructions on the form to correct information that has become inaccurate, incomplete, or misleading. A transfer agent may file an amendment at any time; however, in order to be timely filed, all required portions of the form must be completed and filed in accordance with this section and the instructions to the form by the date the form is required to be filed with the Commission. 


(1) A registered transfer agent that received fewer than 1,000 items for transfer in the reporting period and that did not maintain master securityholder files for more than 1,000 individual securityholder accounts as of December 31 of the reporting period must complete Questions 1 through 5, 11, and the signature section of Form TA-2. 


(2) A named transfer agent that engaged a service company to perform all of its transfer agent functions during the reporting period must complete Questions 1 through 3 and the signature section of Form TA-2. 


(3) A named transfer agent that engaged a service company to perform some but not all of its transfer agent functions during the reporting period must complete all of Form TA-2 but should enter zero (0) for those questions that relate to transfer agent functions performed by the service company on behalf of the named transfer agent. 


(b) For purposes of this section, the term *reporting period* shall mean the calendar year ending December 31 for which Form TA-2 is being filed. The term *named transfer agent* shall have the same meaning as defined in § 240.17Ad-9(j). The term *service company* shall have the same meaning as defined in § 240.17Ad-9(k). 


(c) Every annual report and amendment filed pursuant to this section shall be filed with the Commission electronically in the Commission's EDGAR system. Transfer agents should refer to Form TA-2 and the instructions to the form (§ 249b.102 of this chapter) and the EDGAR Filer Manual (§ 232.301 of this chapter) for further information regarding electronic filing. Every registered transfer agent must file an electronic Form TA-1 with the Commission, or an electronic amendment to its Form TA-1 if the transfer agent previously filed a paper Form TA-1 with the Commission, before it may file an electronic Form TA-2 or Form TA-W with the Commission.



---

[N] [65 FR 36610, June 9, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 74708, Dec. 12, 2006]




