# § 600.507   Recordkeeping.

(a) *General.* The owner and operator of each FFV must maintain timely and accurate records required by this section as modified by the regulations for the fishery in which the FFV is engaged. 


(1) The owner and operator of each FFV must maintain all required records in English, based on Greenwich mean time (GMT) unless otherwise specified in the regulation, and make them immediately available for inspection upon the request of an authorized officer or observer. 


(2) The owner and operator of each FFV must retain all required records on board the FFV whenever it is in the EEZ, for 3 years after the end of the permit period. 


(3) The owner and operator of each FFV must retain the required records and make them available for inspection upon the request of an authorized officer at any time during the 3 years after the end of the permit period, whether or not such records are on board the vessel. 


(4) The owner and operator of each FFV must provide to the Assistant Administrator, in the form and at the times prescribed, any other information requested that the Assistant Administrator determines is necessary to fulfill the fishery conservation, management and enforcement purposes of the Magnuson-Stevens Act. 


(b) *Communications log.* The owner and operator of each FFV must record in a separate communications log, at the time of transmittal, the time and content of each notification made under § 600.504. 


(c) *Transfer log.* Except for the transfer of unsorted, unprocessed fish via codend from a catching vessel to a processing vessel (Activity Code 2 or 4), the owner and operator of each FFV must record, in a separate transfer log, each transfer or receipt of any fish or fishery product, including quantities transferred or offloaded outside the EEZ. The operator must record in the log within 12 hours of the completion of the transfer: 


(1) The time and date (GMT) and location (in geographic coordinates) the transfer began and was completed. 


(2) The product weight, by species and product (use species and product codes), of all fish transferred, to the nearest 0.01 mt. 


(3) The name, IRCS, and permit number of both the FFV offloading the fish and the FFV receiving the fish. 


(d) *Daily fishing log.* (1) The owner or operator of each FFV authorized to catch fish (Activity Code 1) must maintain a daily fishing log of the effort, catch and production of the FFV, as modified by paragraph (d)(2) of this section and the regulations for the fishery in which the FFV is engaged. The operator must maintain on a daily and cumulative basis for the permit period a separate log for each fishery (see table 2 to § 600.502) in which the FFV is engaged according to this section and in the format specified in the instructions provided with the permit or other format authorized under paragraph (i) of this section. Daily effort entries are required for each day the vessel conducts fishing operations within the EEZ. Daily entries are not required whenever the FFV is in port or engaged in a joint venture in the internal waters of a state. Each page of log may contain entries pertaining to only one day's fishing operations or one gear set, whichever is longer. 


(2) The owner or operator of each FFV authorized to catch fish (Activity Code 1) and that delivers all catches to a processing vessel, must maintain only “SECTION ONE-EFFORT”, of the daily fishing log, provided the processing vessel maintains a daily consolidated fishing log as described in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section. 


(e) *Daily fishing log—contents.* The daily fishing log must contain the following information, as modified by paragraph (d)(2) of this section and the regulations for the fishery in which the FFV is engaged, and be completed according to the format and instructions provided with the permit or other format authorized under paragraph (i) of this section. 


(1) “SECTION ONE-EFFORT” must contain on a daily basis—


(i) A consecutive page number, beginning with the first day the vessel started fishing operations within the EEZ and continuing throughout the log. 


(ii) The date (based on GMT). 


(iii) The FFV's name. 


(iv) The FFV's IRCS. 


(v) The FFV's U.S. permit number. 


(vi) The FFV's noon (1200 GMT) position in geographic coordinates. 


(vii) The master or operator's signature or title. 


(2) “SECTION ONE-EFFORT” must contain, for each trawl or set, as appropriate to the gear type employed—


(i) The consecutive trawl or set number, beginning with the first set of the calendar year. 


(ii) The fishing area in which the trawl or set was completed.


(iii) The gear type. 


(iv) The time the gear was set. 


(v) The position of the set. 


(vi) The course of the set. 


(vii) The sea depth. 


(viii) The depth of the set. 


(ix) The duration of the set. 


(x) The hauling time. 


(xi) The position of the haul. 


(xii) The number of pots or longline units (where applicable).


(xiii) The average number of hooks per longline unit (where applicable). 


(xiv) The trawl speed (where applicable). 


(xv) The mesh size of the trawl's codend (where applicable).


(xvi) The estimated total weight of the catch for the trawl of set, to at least the nearest metric ton round weight. 


(3) “SECTION TWO-CATCH” must contain, for each trawl or set— 


(i) The consecutive set or trawl number from “SECTION ONE”.


(ii) The catch of each allocated species or species group to at least the nearest 0.1 mt round weight. 


(iii) The prohibited species catch to at least the nearest 0.1 mt round weight or by number, as required by the regulations for the fishery in which the FFV is engaged. 


(iv) The species code of each marine mammal caught and its condition when released. 


(4) “SECTION TWO-CATCH” must contain, on a daily basis— 


(i) The species codes for all allocated or prohibited species or species groups caught. 


(ii) For each allocated species—the amount, to at least the nearest 0.1 mt, and the daily disposition, either processed for human consumption, used for fishmeal, or discarded; the daily catch by fishing area; the daily catch for all fishing areas; and the cumulative total catch. 


(iii) For the total catch of allocated species—the amount to at least the nearest 0.1 mt and the daily disposition, daily total catch by fishing area, daily total catch for all fishing areas, and cumulative total catch. 


(iv) The catch by fishing area, daily total, and cumulative total of each prohibited species. 


(5) “SECTION THREE—PRODUCTION” must contain, on a daily basis, for each allocated species caught and product produced—


(i) The product by species code and product type. 


(ii) The daily product recovery rate of each species and product. 


(iii) The daily total product produced by species to at least the nearest 0.01 mt. 


(iv) The cumulative total of each product to at least the nearest 0.01 mt. 


(v) The cumulative amount of product transferred. 


(vi) The balance of product remaining aboard the FFV. 


(vii) The total daily amount, cumulative amount, transferred product and balance of frozen product aboard the FFV to the nearest 0.01 mt. 


(viii) Transferred amount and balance of fishmeal and fish oil aboard to at least the nearest 0.01 mt. 


(f) *Daily consolidated fishing or joint venture log.* The operator of each FFV that receives unsorted, unprocessed fish from foreign catching vessels (Activity Code 2) for processing or receives U.S.-harvested fish from U.S. fishing vessels in a joint venture (Activity Code 4) must maintain a daily joint venture log of the effort, catch and production of its associated U.S. or foreign fishing vessels and the processing vessel as modified by the regulations for the fishery in which the FFV is engaged. This log is separate and in addition to the log required by paragraph (d) of this section. The operator must maintain a separate log for each fishery in which the FFV is engaged, on a daily and cumulative basis, according to this section and in the format specified in the instructions provided with the permit or other format authorized under paragraph (i) of this section. Receipts of fish caught outside the EEZ must be included. Each page of the log may contain entries pertaining to only one day's fishing operations. 


(g) *Daily joint venture log—contents.* Daily joint venture logs must contain the following information, as modified by the fishery in which the vessel is engaged, and be completed according to the format and instructions provided with the permit or other format authorized under paragraph (i) of this section. 


(1) “SECTION ONE-EFFORT” must contain, on a daily basis, that information required in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. 


(2) “SECTION ONE-EFFORT” must contain for each receipt of a codend— 


(i) The consecutive codend number, beginning with the first codend received for the calendar year. 


(ii) The name of the U.S. fishing vessel or the name and IRCS of the foreign fishing vessel the codend was received from. 


(iii) The fishing area where the codend was received. 


(iv) The time the codend was received. 


(v) The position the codend was received. 


(vi) The estimated weight of the codend to at least the nearest metric ton round weight. 


(3) “SECTION TWO-CATCH” must contain, for each codend received— 


(i) The consecutive codend number from “SECTION ONE”. 


(ii) The receipts of each authorized species or species group and its disposition, either processed for human consumption, used for fishmeal, discarded, or returned to the U.S. fishing vessel, to at least the nearest 0.1 mt round weight. 


(iii) The estimated receipts of each prohibited species or species group and its disposition, either discarded or returned to the U.S. fishing vessel if authorized in the fishery in which the U.S. vessel is engaged, to at least the nearest 0.1 mt round weight. 


(iv) The species code of each marine mammal received and its condition when released. 


(4) “SECTION TWO-CATCH” must contain on a daily basis— 


(i) The species codes of all authorized or prohibited species or species groups received. 


(ii) The daily disposition, as described in paragraph (g)(3)(ii) of this section, daily total, and cumulative total receipts of each authorized species or species groups. 


(iii) The daily disposition, daily total and cumulative total receipts of all authorized species or species groups. 


(iv) The daily and cumulative total receipts of prohibited species groups and their disposition as described in paragraph (g)(3)(iii) of this section. 


(5) “SECTION THREE—PRODUCTION” must contain, on a daily basis, for each authorized species or species group received and product produced, that information required in paragraph (e)(5) of this section. 


(h) *Daily log maintenance.* The logs required by paragraphs (e) through (g) of this section must be maintained separately for each fishery (see table 2 to § 600.502). 


(1) The effort section (all of “SECTION ONE”) of the daily logs must be updated within 2 hours of the hauling or receipt time. The catch or receipt by trawl or set (“SECTION TWO”) must be entered within 12 hours of the hauling or receipt time. The daily and cumulative total catch or receipts (“SECTION TWO”) and the production portion (“SECTION THREE”) of the log must be updated within 12 hours of the end of the day on which the catch was taken. The date of catch is the day and time (GMT) the gear is hauled. 


(2) Entries for total daily and cumulative catch or receipt weights (disposition “C” or “M”) must be based on the most accurate method available to the vessel, either scale round weights or factory weights converted to round weights. Entries for daily and cumulative weights of discarded or returned fish (disposition “D” or “R”) must be based on the most accurate method available to the vessel, either actual count, scale round weight, or estimated deck weights. Entries for product weights must be based on the number of production units (pans, boxes, blocks, trays, cans, or bags) and the average weight of the production unit, with reasonable allowances for water added. Allowances for water added cannot exceed 5 percent of the unit weight. Product weights cannot be based on the commercial or arbitrary wholesale weight of the product, but must be based on the total actual weight of the product as determined by representative samples. 


(3) The owner or operator must make all entries in indelible ink, with corrections to be accomplished by lining out and rewriting, rather than erasure. 


(i) Alternative log formats. As an alternative to the use of the specific formats provided, a Nation may submit a proposed log format for FFV's of that Nation for a general type of fishery operation in a fishery (i.e., joint venture operations) to the appropriate Regional Administrator and the USCG commander (see tables 1 and 2 to § 600.502). With the agreement of the USCG commander, the Regional Administrator may authorize the use of that log format for vessels of the requesting Nation. 



---

[N] [61 FR 32540, June 24, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 7075, Feb. 12, 1998] 




