# § 98.3   General conditions.

Except as provided in subpart B of this part, an animal embryo shall not be imported into the United States unless it is from a region listed under § 94.1(a) of this chapter as being free of foot-and-mouth disease, and: 


(a) The embryo is exported to the United States from the region in which it was conceived;


(b) The embryo was conceived as a result of artificial insemination with semen collected from a donor sire at an approved artificial insemination center, or the embryo as conceived as a result of natural breeding by a donor sire at an approved embryo transfer unit;


(c) If artificially inseminated, the donor dam conceived the embryo after being inseminated in an approved embryo transfer unit with semen collected at an approved artificial insemination center;


(d) At the time of collection of the semen used to conceive the embryo or at the time of natural breeding, the donor sire met all requirements the donor sire would have to meet under part 93 of this chapter for a health certificate required as a condition of importation into the United States; *except that,* for sheep and goats only, the donor sire must meet the scrapie requirements in § 98.35 instead of the requirements in § 93.435 of this chapter;


(e) At the time of collection of the embryo from the donor dam, the donor dam met all requirements the donor dam would have to meet under part 93 of this chapter for a health certificate required as a condition of importation into the United States; *except that,* for sheep and goats only, the donor dam must meet the requirements for embryo donors in § 98.10(a) instead of the requirements in § 93.435 of this chapter;


(f) There is no basis for denying an import permit for the donor sire or donor dam under § 93.304(a)(2) for horses, § 93.404(a)(3) or (4) for ruminants, and § 93.504(a)(2) or (3) for swine of this chapter;


(g) The embryo is collected and maintained under conditions determined by the Administrator to be adequate to protect against contamination of the embryo with infectious animal disease organisms; and


(h) The embryo was determined, based on microscopic examination, to have an intact zona pellucida at the time the embryo was placed into its immediate container (straw or ampule) for shipping.


(i) The embryo is contained in a shipping container which at the time of offer for entry is sealed with an official seal which was affixed to the shipping container by a full-time salaried veterinarian of the national animal health service of the region of origin or by a veterinarian authorized to do so by the national animal health service of the region of origin.



---

[N] [50 FR 43563, Oct. 25, 1985, as amended at 55 FR 31558, Aug. 2, 1990; 56 FR 55809, Oct. 30, 1991; 57 FR 29194, July 1, 1992; 62 FR 56025, Oct. 28, 1997; 77 FR 1396, Jan. 10, 2012; 83 FR 15494, Apr. 11, 2018; 86 FR 68863, Dec. 3, 2021]




