# § 906.41   Additional supporting documentation for acquisition of non-public housing for homeownership.

(a) *Proposal contents.* The PHA must submit an acquisition proposal to the HUD field office for review and approval before its homeownership plan containing acquisition of non-public housing can be approved. This proposal must contain the following: 


(1) *Property description.* A description of the properties, including the number of housing units, unit types, and number of bedrooms, and any non-dwelling facilities on the properties to be acquired; 


(2) *Certification.* If the housing units were constructed under a contract or an agreement that they be sold to the PHA, a certification that the developer/owner complied with all Davis-Bacon wage rate requirements under § 906.37, including all required contractual provisions and compliance measures, and that the PHA received all applicable HUD environmental approvals and all applicable HUD releases of funds before executing the contract or agreement, in accordance with § 906.47(d). 


(3) *Site information.* A description of the proposed general location of the properties to be acquired, or where specific properties have been identified, street addresses of the properties; 


(4) *Property costs.* The detailed budget of costs for acquiring the properties, including relocation and closing costs, and an identification of the sources of funding; 


(5) *Appraisal.* An appraisal of the proposed properties by an independent, state-certified appraiser (when the sites have been identified); 


(6) *Property acquisition schedule.* A copy of the PHA acquisition schedule; 


(7) *Environmental information.* (i) The environmental information required by § 906.47(f), where HUD will perform the environmental review under 24 CFR part 50, or a statement identifying the responsible entity that has performed or will perform the review under 24 CFR part 58. This paragraph (a)(7)(i) does not apply to a property where a contract or agreement for sale to the PHA has already been executed and HUD has already given prior approval of the property following environmental review under 24 CFR part 50.


(ii) Where the PHA's homeownership program is submitted for approval to HUD and contemplates acquisition of properties not identified at the time of submission or approval, the procedures at § 906.47(e) apply.


(8) *Market analysis.* An analysis of the potential market of eligible purchasers for the homeownership units.


(9) *Additional HUD-requested information.* Any additional information that may be needed for HUD to determine whether it can approve the proposal.


(b) *Cost limit.* The acquisition cost of each property is limited by the housing cost cap limit, as determined by HUD.




