# § 21.14   Authorization—birds in buildings.

(a) Any person may, without a permit, humanely remove a migratory bird from the interior of a residence, business, or similar building or structure where people live or work under the conditions set forth in this section. Authorization is limited to when the presence of migratory birds is preventing the normal use of the interior of a building or structure, such as causing a health or safety risk to humans or birds or damage to property such as foodstuffs or products for sale, or if the bird may become injured because it is trapped. This authorization does not apply to birds or nests on the exterior of buildings, such as siding or eaves, or to structures that are not human-occupied, such as bridges.


(b) This authorization is subject to the following conditions:


(1) *Humane conditions.* Any trapping, handling, transporting, or release of migratory birds must be conducted under humane and healthful conditions as defined in § 21.6. You may not use adhesive traps (such as glue traps) or any other method of capture likely to harm the bird.


(2) *Release.* Any birds removed by trapping must be immediately released to the wild in a humane and healthful manner. However, for any bird that becomes exhausted, ill, injured, or orphaned, you must immediately contact a federally permitted migratory bird rehabilitator and follow the rehabilitator's instructions.


(3) *Nests.* You may remove nests, eggs, and nestlings from the interior of a human-occupied building or structure. When possible, prevent the need for take of occupied nests by waiting until nestlings fledge. You may transport eggs or nestlings to a federally permitted migratory bird rehabilitator, if the rehabilitator recommends that you do so. Otherwise, you may humanely destroy eggs or euthanize nestlings following the American Veterinary Medical Association Guidelines for the Euthanasia of Animals or an equivalent process.


(4) *Prevention.* To the degree feasible, you must prevent birds from reentering buildings or structures by taking such actions as patching holes or installing bird exclusion devices. Exclusion devices must be regularly monitored, maintained, and repaired to ensure they remain effective and to prevent entrapment, injury, or death.


(5) *Disposal.* You may not lethally take migratory birds, except as authorized in paragraph (b)(3) of this section for chicks and eggs. If your actions to remove the trapped migratory bird are likely to result in lethal take of an adult bird, you must first obtain a Federal migratory bird permit. If you otherwise comply with the requirements of this section and a bird you are trying to remove dies, you must immediately dispose of the specimen by donation to any person or entity authorized to receive them under a valid permit or regulatory authorization. Otherwise, you must dispose of migratory bird specimens by destruction in accordance with Federal, Tribal, State, Territorial, or local laws and ordinances.


(c) Additional authorization is required for bald eagles, golden eagles, and species on the Federal List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife (50 CFR 17.11(h)).


(d) You must also comply with any Federal, Tribal, State, or Territorial requirements that apply to removing migratory birds from buildings.



---

[N] [89 FR 107039, Dec. 31, 2024]










