# ยง 284.227   Certain transportation by intrastate pipelines.

(a) *Blanket certificate.* A blanket certificate shall issue under this section to any intrastate pipeline that receives natural gas produced in adjacent Federal waters or onshore or offshore in an adjacent state, *provided that:*

(1) The gas must be received by the intrastate pipeline from a gatherer or other intrastate pipeline; 


(2) The intrastate pipeline delivers the gas in the intrastate pipeline's state of operation to an end user or another intrastate pipeline; and 


(3) The gas ultimately used by an end user in the same state. 


(b) *Effective date.* If an intrastate pipeline is providing a transportation service described in paragraph (a) of this section as of February 1, 1992, and the service is not a qualifying service under ยง 284.122 of subpart C of this part, a blanket certificate shall issue under paragraph (a) of this section and become effective as of February 1, 1992. If an intrastate pipeline is not providing a transportation service described in paragraph (a) of this section as of February 1, 1992 the blanket certificate shall issue and become effective on the date that the intrastate pipeline commences such a service that is not a qualifying service under ยง 284.122 of subpart C of this part.


(c) *Acceptance of certificate.* An intrastate pipeline shall be deemed to have accepted a blanket certificate under this section if it continues after February 1, 1992, a service described in paragraph (a) of this section that is not a qualifying service under ยง 284.122 of subpart C or commences such a service after November 4, 1991.


(d) *Terms and conditions.* An intrastate pipeline's blanket certificate transportation authority under this section is subject to its compliance with all terms and conditions of subpart C of this part, except that service under this section does not have to be on behalf of an interstate pipeline or local distribution company served by an interstate pipeline.


(e) *Pregrant of abandonment.* Abandonment of transportation services, pursuant to section 7(b) of the Natural Gas Act, is authorized upon the expiration of the contractual term of each individual arrangement authorized by a blanket certificate under this section.


(f) *Effect of certificate.* Acceptance of a certificate issued under this section or conduct of activity authorized under this section will not subject the certificate holder to the Natural Gas Act jurisdiction of the Commission except to the extent necessary to enforce the terms and conditions of the certificate.



---

[N] [Order 537, 56 FR 50246, Oct. 4, 1991, as amended by Order 544, 57 FR 46501, Oct. 9, 1992; Order 581, 60 FR 53074, Oct. 11, 1995]




