# ยง 485.713   Condition of participation: Physical therapy services.

If the organization offers physical therapy services, it provides an adequate program of physical therapy and has an adequate number of qualified personnel and the equipment necessary to carry out its program and to fulfill its objectives. 


(a) *Standard: Adequate program.* (1) The organization is considered to have an adequate outpatient physical therapy program if it can: 


(i) Provide services using therapeutic exercise and the modalities of heat, cold, water, and electricity; 


(ii) Conduct patient evaluations; and 


(iii) Administer tests and measurements of strength, balance, endurance, range of motion, and activities of daily living. 


(2) A qualified physical therapist is present or readily available to offer supervision when a physical therapist assistant furnishes services. 


(i) If a qualified physical therapist is not on the premises during all hours of operation, patients are scheduled so as to ensure that the therapist is present when special skills are needed, for example, for evaluation and reevaluation. 


(ii) When a physical therapist assistant furnishes services off the organization's premises, those services are supervised by a qualified physical therapist who makes an onsite supervisory visit at least once every 30 days. 


(b) *Standard: Facilities and equipment.* The organization has the equipment and facilities required to provide the range of services necessary in the treatment of the types of disabilities it accepts for service. 


(c) *Standard: Personnel qualified to provide physical therapy services.* Physical therapy services are provided by, or under the supervision of, a qualified physical therapist. The number of qualified physical therapists and qualified physical therapist assistants is adequate for the volume and diversity of physical therapy services offered. A qualified physical therapist is on the premises or readily available during the operating hours of the organization. 


(d) *Standard: Supportive personnel.* If personnel are available to assist qualified physical therapists by performing services incident to physical therapy that do not require professional knowledge and skill, these personnel are instructed in appropriate patient care services by qualified physical therapists who retain responsibility for the treatment prescribed by the attending physician. 



---

[N] [41 FR 20865, May 21, 1976. Redesignated at 42 FR 52826, Sept. 30, 1977. Further redesignated and amended at 60 FR 2326, 2327, Jan. 9, 1995; 60 FR 50447, Sept. 29, 1995]




