# ยง 0.101   Specific functions.

The Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration shall be responsible for:


(a) The development and implementation of a concentrated program throughout the Federal Government for the enforcement of Federal drug laws and for cooperation with State and local governments in the enforcement of their drug abuse laws. 


(b) The development and maintenance of a National Narcotics Intelligence System in cooperation with Federal, State, and local officials, and the provision of narcotics intelligence to any Federal, State, or local official that the Administrator determines has a legitimate official need to have access to such intelligence. 


(c) The development and implementation of a procedure to release property seized under section 511 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 881) to any innocent party having an immediate right to possession of the property, when the Administrator, in his discretion, determines it is not in the interests of justice to initiate forfeiture proceedings against the property.


(d) Payment of awards (including those over $10,000) under 28 U.S.C. 524(c)(2) and purchase of evidence (including the authority to pay more than $100,000) under 28 U.S.C. 524(c)(1)(F).



---

[N] [Order No. 520-73, 38 FR 18380, July 10, 1973, as amended by Order No. 565-74, 39 FR 15876, May 6, 1974; Order No. 898-80, 45 FR 44267, July 1, 1980; Order No. 960-81, 46 FR 52348, Oct. 27, 1981; Order No. 1126-86, 51 FR 7443, Mar. 4, 1986] 




