# § 746.202   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart:


*Appeal* means a process by which a petitioner may obtain the review by the Board of an initial agency determination.


*Board* means the NCUA Board.


*Initial agency determination* means an agency action taken at a level below the Board with respect to an application, request, claim, or other matter in which a determination of rights or resolution of issues is rendered and the party affected by the determination has been provided with a right to appeal the determination to the NCUA Board. The initial agency determination shall notify the Petitioner of the right to request reconsideration or to file an appeal with the Board, and shall include a description of applicable filing deadlines and time frames for agency responses. Agency determinations involving the formulation of a regulation, guidance document, or policy statement are excluded from this definition.


*Oral hearing* means an opportunity, granted at the sole discretion of the Board, by which a petitioner may make an oral presentation to the Board concerning issues pertinent to an appeal.


*Petitioner* means the person or entity seeking Board review of an initial agency determination.


*Program office* means the office within NCUA responsible for making an initial agency determination.


*Special Counsel to the General Counsel* means an individual (referred to herein as the “Special Counsel”) within NCUA's Office of General Counsel charged with administering appeals in accordance with the procedures set forth in this part.




