# ยง 3171.18   Rights-of-Way and Special Use Authorizations.

(a) The BLM or the FS will notify the operator of any additional Rights-of-Way, Special Use Authorizations, licenses, or other permits that are needed for roads and support facilities for drilling or off-lease access, as appropriate. This notification will normally occur at the time the operator submits the APD or Notice of Staking package, or Sundry Notice, or during the onsite inspection.


(b) The BLM or the FS, as appropriate, will approve or accept on-lease activities that are associated with actions proposed in the APD or Sundry Notice and that will occur on the lease as part of the APD or Sundry Notice. These actions do not require a Right-of- Way or Special Use Authorization. For pipeline Rights-of-Way crossing lands under the jurisdiction of two or more Federal surface managing agencies, except lands in the National Park Service or Indian lands, applications should be submitted to the BLM. Refer to 43 CFR parts 2800 and 2880 for guidance on BLM Rights-of-Way and 36 CFR part 251 for guidance on FS Special Use Authorizations.


(1) *Rights-of-Way (BLM).* (i) For BLM lands, the APD package may serve as the supporting document for the Right-of-Way application in lieu of a Right-of-Way plan of development.


(ii) Any additional information specified in 43 CFR parts 2800 and 2880 will be required in order to process the Right- of-Way. The BLM will notify the operator within 10 days of receipt of a Notice of Staking, APD, or other notification if any parts of the project require a Right- of-Way. If a Right-of-Way is needed, the information required from the operator to approve the Right-of-Way may be submitted by the operator with the APD package if the Notice of Staking option has been used.


(2) *Special Use Authorizations (FS) (36 CFR part 251, subpart B).* When a Special Use Authorization is required, the Surface Use Plan of Operations may serve as the application for the Special Use Authorization if the facility for which a Special Use Authorization is required is adequately described (see 36 CFR 251.54(d)(ii)). Conditions regulating the authorized use may be imposed to protect the public interest, to ensure compatibility with other NFS lands programs and activities consistent with the Forest Land and Resources Management Plan. A Special Use Authorization, when related to an APD, will include terms and conditions (36 CFR 251.56) and may require a specific reclamation plan or adopt applicable parts of the Surface Use Plan of Operations by reference.




