# § 611.2   Definitions.

The definitions contained in this section apply to provisions contained in both this subpart and subpart B of this part.


*Adjusted average fuel economy* means a harmonic production weighted average of the combined fuel economy of all vehicles in a fleet, which were subject to CAFE.


*Advanced technology vehicle* means an on-road advanced technology vehicle or a nonroad advanced technology vehicle.




*Agreement* means the contractual loan arrangement between DOE and a Borrower for a loan made by and through the Federal Financing Bank with the full faith and credit of the United States Government on the principal and interest.


*Applicant* means a party that submits a substantially complete application pursuant to this part.


*Application* means the compilation of the materials required by this part to be submitted to DOE by an Applicant. One Application can include requests for one or more loans and one or more projects. However, an Application covering more than one project must contain complete and separable information with respect to each project.


*Automobile* is used as that term is defined in 49 CFR part 523.


*Borrower* means an Applicant that receives a loan under the program under this part.


*CAFE* means the Corporate Average Fuel Economy program of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act, 49 U.S.C. 32901 *et seq.*

*Combined fuel economy* means the combined city/highway miles per gallon values, as are reported in accordance with section 32904 of title 49, United States Code. If CAFE compliance data is not available, the combined average fuel economy of a vehicle must be demonstrated through the use of a peer-reviewed model.


*DOE* or *Department* means the United States Department of Energy.


*Eligible Facility* means a manufacturing facility in the United States that produces qualifying advanced technology vehicles, or qualifying components.


*Eligible Project* means:


(1) Reequipping, expanding, or establishing a manufacturing facility in the United States to produce qualifying advanced technology vehicles, or qualifying components; or


(2) Engineering integration performed in the United States for qualifying advanced technology vehicles and qualifying components; or


(3) Manufacturing, recycling, processing, reprocessing, remediation, or reuse of materials, components, or subcomponents involving critical minerals, critical minerals production, or the supply chain for such materials, as set forth in Executive Order 13953 (“Executive Order Addressing the Threat to the Domestic Supply Chain from Reliance on Critical Minerals from Foreign Adversaries,” dated September 20, 2020), and Executive Order 13817 (“A Federal Strategy to Ensure Secure and Reliable Supplies of Critical Minerals,” dated December 20, 2017), as amended.


*Engineering integration* costs are the costs of engineering tasks relating to—


(1) Incorporating qualifying components into the design of advanced technology vehicles; and


(2) Designing tooling and equipment and developing manufacturing processes and material suppliers for production facilities that produce qualifying components or advanced technology vehicles.


*Equivalent vehicle* means a light-duty vehicle of the same vehicle classification as specified in 10 CFR part 523.


*Financially viable* means a reasonable prospect that the Applicant will be able to make payments of principal and interest on the loan as and when such payments become due under the terms of the loan documents, and that the Applicant has a net present value that is positive, taking all costs, existing and future, into account.


*Grantee* means an entity awarded a grant made pursuant to section 136 of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 and this part.


*Light-duty vehicle* means passenger automobiles and light trucks.


*Light truck* is used as that term is defined in 49 CFR part 523.


*Loan Documents* mean the Agreement and all other instruments, and all documentation among DOE, the Borrower, and the Federal Financing Bank evidencing the making, disbursing, securing, collecting, or otherwise administering the loan [references to loan documents also include comparable agreements, instruments, and documentation for other financial obligations for which a loan is requested or issued].


*Model year* is defined as that term is defined in 49 U.S.C. 32901.


*Nonroad advanced technology vehicle* means:


(1) A train or locomotive;


(2) A maritime vessel;


(3) An aircraft; and


(4) Hyperloop technology That, in each case, emit, under any possible operational mode or condition, low or zero exhaust emissions of greenhouse gases.




*On-road advanced technology vehicle* means


(1) An ultra efficient vehicle or a light duty vehicle that meets—


(i) The Bin 5 Tier II emission standard established in regulations issued by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency under section 202(i) of the Clean Air Act (the Act) (42 U.S.C. 7521(i)), as of the date of application, or a lower-numbered Bin emission standard;


(ii) Any new emission standard in effect for fine particulate matter prescribed by the Administrator under the Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 *et seq.*), as of the date of application; and


(iii) At least 125 percent of the harmonic production weighted average combined fuel economy, for vehicles with substantially similar attributes in model year 2005.


(2) A medium duty vehicle or heavy duty vehicle that exceeds 125 percent of the greenhouse gas emissions and fuel efficiency standards established by the final rule of the Environmental Protection Agency entitled “Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Fuel Efficiency Standards for Medium- and Heavy-Duty Engines and Vehicles—Phase 2” (81 FR 73478 (October 25, 2016)).




*Passenger automobile* is used as that term is defined in 49 CFR part 523.


*Qualifying components* means components that the DOE determines are:


(1) Designed for advanced technology vehicles; and


(2) Installed for the purpose of meeting the performance requirements of advanced technology vehicles; or


(3) Involving critical minerals, as set forth in Executive Order 13953 (“Executive Order Addressing the Threat to the Domestic Supply Chain from Reliance on Critical Minerals from Foreign Adversaries,” dated September 20, 2020), and Executive Order 13817 (“A Federal Strategy to Ensure Secure and Reliable Supplies of Critical Minerals,” dated December 20, 2017), as amended, as a component of advanced technology vehicles.


*Secretary* means the United States Secretary of Energy.


*Security* means all property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, required by the provisions of the Loan Documents to secure repayment of any indebtedness of the Borrower under the Loan Documents.


*Ultra efficient vehicle* means a fully closed compartment vehicle designed to carry at least 2 adult passengers that achieves—


(1) At least 75 miles per gallon while operating on gasoline or diesel fuel;


(2) At least 75 miles per gallon equivalent while operating as a hybrid electric-gasoline or electric-diesel vehicle; or


(3) At least 75 miles per gallon equivalent while operating as a fully electric vehicle.







---

[N] [86 FR 3761, Jan. 15, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 33203, Apr. 29, 2024]








