# ยง 180.661   Fluopyram; tolerances for residues.

(a) *General.* (1) Tolerances are established for residues of the fungicide Fluopyram, *N*-[2-[3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)-2-pyridinyl]ethyl]-2-(trifluoromethyl)benzamide, including its metabolites and degradates in or on the commodities in the table below. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in the table is to be determined by measuring only fluopyram in or on the commodity.




(2) Tolerances are established for residues of the fungicide fluopyram, *N*-[2-[3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)-2-pyridinyl]ethyl]-2-(trifluoromethyl)benzamide, including its metabolites and degradates. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in the table below is to be determined by measuring only the sum of fluopyram and its metabolite, 2-(trifluoromethyl)benzamide, calculated as the stoichiometric equivalent of fluopyram, in or on the commodity.


(b) *Section 18 emergency exemptions.* [Reserved]


(c) *Tolerances with regional registrations.* Tolerances with regional registration, as defined in ยง 180.1(1), are established for indirect or inadvertent residues of fungicide fluopyram, N-[2-[3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)-2-pyridinyl]ethyl]-2-(trifluoromethyl)benzamide, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table below. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in the table is to be determined by measuring only fluopyram in or on the commodity.


(d) *Indirect or inadvertent residues.* It is recommended that tolerances be established for indirect or inadvertent residues of fungicide fluopyram, *N*-[2-[3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)-2-pyridinyl]ethyl]-2-(trifluoromethyl)benzamide, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table below. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in the table is to be determined by measuring only fluopyram in or on the commodity.



---

[N] [81 FR 12023, Mar. 8, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 31213, July 1, 2019; 87 FR 9520, Feb. 18, 2022; 88 FR 6642, Feb. 1, 2023]




