# § 63.1110   Reporting requirements.

(a) *Required reports.* Each owner or operator of an affected source subject to this subpart shall submit the reports listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section, as applicable. Each owner or operator of an acrylic and modacrylic fiber production affected source or polycarbonate production affected source subject to this subpart shall also submit the reports listed in paragraph (a)(9) of this section in addition to the reports listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section, as applicable. Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(c) for ethylene production affected sources, specified in § 63.1102(d) for cyanide chemicals manufacturing affected sources, and specified in § 63.1102(e) for carbon black production affected sources, each owner or operator of an ethylene production affected source, cyanide chemicals manufacturing affected source, and carbon black production affected source subject to this subpart shall also submit the reports listed in paragraph (a)(10) of this section in addition to the reports listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section, as applicable.




(1) A Notification of Initial Startup described in paragraph (b) of this section, as applicable.


(2) An Initial Notification described in paragraph (c) of this section.


(3) [Reserved]


(4) A Notification of Compliance Status report described in paragraph (d) of this section.


(5) Periodic Reports described in paragraph (e) of this section.


(6) Application for approval of construction or reconstruction described in § 63.5(d) of subpart A of this part.


(7) Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction Reports described in § 63.1111 (except for acrylic and modacrylic fiber production affected sources, carbon black production affected sources, cyanide chemicals manufacturing affected sources, ethylene production affected sources, and polycarbonate production affected sources).




(8) *Other reports.* Other reports shall be submitted as specified elsewhere in this subpart and subparts referenced by this subpart.


(9) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test (as defined in § 63.2), the owner or operator must submit the results of the performance tests, including any associated fuel analyses, required by this subpart according to the methods specified in paragraph (a)(9)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(i) For data collected using test methods supported by the EPA-provided software, the owner or operator shall submit the results of the performance test to the EPA by direct computer-to-computer electronic transfer via EPA-provided software, unless otherwise approved by the Administrator. Owners or operators, who claim that some of the information being submitted for performance tests is confidential business information (CBI), must submit a complete file using EPA-provided software that includes information claimed to be CBI on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage media to the EPA. The electronic media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAPQS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: WebFIRE Administrator, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA by direct computer-to-computer electronic transfer via EPA-provided software.


(ii) For any performance test conducted using test methods that are not compatible with the EPA-provided software, the owner or operator shall submit the results of the performance test to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 60.4.


(10)(i) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(c) for ethylene production affected sources, specified in § 63.1102(d) for cyanide chemicals manufacturing affected sources, and specified in § 63.1102(e) for carbon black production affected sources, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test required by this subpart or applicability assessment required by § 63.1103(f)(3)(iv), the owner or operator must submit the results of the performance test or applicability assessment following the procedures specified in § 63.9(k). Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert*) at the time of the test must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or alternate electronic file.


(ii) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(c) through (e), the owner or operator must submit all subsequent Notification of Compliance Status reports required under paragraph (a)(4) of this section in portable document format (PDF) format to the EPA following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k). All subsequent Periodic Reports required under paragraph (a)(5) of this section must be submitted to the EPA via CEDRI using the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri*) for this subpart and following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k) beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(c) through (e) or once the report template has been available on the CEDRI website for 1 year, whichever date is later. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated State agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under §§ 63.9(i) and 63.10(a) of subpart A, the report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted. Any medium submitted through mail under § 63.9(k) for a Notification of Compliance Status report or Periodic Report must be sent to the attention of the Ethylene Production Sector Lead, Cyanide Chemicals Manufacturing Sector Lead, or Carbon Black Production Sector Lead, as appropriate.


(iii) Beginning no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.1102(c) or once the report template for this subpart has been available on the CEDRI website for six months, whichever date is later, the items in § 63.1110(e)(4)(iv) and § 63.1110(e)(8)(iii) must be submitted to the EPA via CEDRI as specified in § 63.9(k) using the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website for reporting that information. The report submitted to CEDRI must also contain company identifier information (including the company name and address) and the beginning and ending dates of the time period covered by the report. Once you begin submitting Periodic Reports to CEDRI in accordance with paragraph (a)(10)(ii) of this section, the items in § 63.1110(e)(4)(iv) and § 63.1110(e)(8)(iii) must be included in those Periodic Reports instead of submitting the information using the separate template.


(b) *Notification of initial startup*—(1) *Contents.* An owner or operator of an affected source for which a notice of initial startup has not been submitted under § 63.5, shall send the Administrator written notification of the actual date of initial startup of an affected source. This paragraph does not apply to an affected source in existence on the effective date of this rule.


(2) *Due date.* The notification of the actual date of initial startup shall be postmarked within 15 days after such date.


(c) *Initial Notification.* Owners or operators of affected sources who are subject to this subpart shall notify the Administrator of the applicability of this subpart by submitting an Initial Notification according to the schedule described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The notice shall include the information specified in paragraphs (c)(2) through (7) of this section, as applicable. An application for approval of construction or reconstruction required under § 63.5(d) of subpart A of this part may be used to fulfill the initial notification requirements.


(1) The initial notification shall be postmarked within 1 year after the source becomes subject to this subpart.


(2) Identification of the storage vessels subject to this subpart.


(3) Identification of the process vents subject to this subpart.


(4) Identification of the transfer racks subject to this subpart.


(5) For equipment leaks, identification of the process units subject to this subpart.


(6) Identification of other equipment or emission points subject to this subpart.


(7) As an alternative to the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) and (c)(5) of this section, process units can be identified instead of individual pieces of equipment. For this alternative, the kind of emission point in the process unit that will comply must also be identified.


(d) *Notification of Compliance Status*—(1) *Contents.* The owner or operator shall submit a Notification of Compliance Status for each affected source subject to this subpart containing the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. For pressure relief devices subject to the requirements of § 63.1107(e)(3), the owner or operator of an acrylic and modacrylic fiber production affected source or polycarbonate production affected source shall also submit the information listed in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section in a supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status within 150 days after the first applicable compliance date for pressure relief device monitoring. For flares subject to the requirements of § 63.1103(e)(4), the owner or operator of an ethylene production affected source shall also submit the information listed in paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section in a supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status within 150 days after the first applicable compliance date for flare monitoring. For pressure relief devices subject to the pressure release management work practice standards in § 63.1107(h)(3), the owner or operator of an ethylene production affected source shall also submit the information listed in paragraph (d)(1)(v) of this section in a supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status within 150 days after the first applicable compliance date for pressure relief device monitoring.


(i) Except as specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(iv) and (v) of this section, the Notification of Compliance Status shall include the information specified in this subpart and the subparts referenced by this subpart. Alternatively, this information can be submitted as part of a title V permit application or amendment.


(ii) The Notification of Compliance Status shall include a statement from the owner or operator identifying which subpart he or she has elected to comply with, where given a choice, as provided for in § 63.1100(g).


(iii) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service, a description of the device or monitoring system to be implemented, including the pressure relief devices and process parameters to be monitored (if applicable), and a description of the alarms or other methods by which operators will be notified of a pressure release.


(iv) For each flare subject to the requirements in § 63.1103(e)(4), in lieu of the information required in § 63.987(b) of subpart SS, the Notification of Compliance Status shall include flare design (*e.g.,* steam-assisted, air-assisted, non-assisted, or pressure-assisted multi-point); all visible emission readings, heat content determinations, flow rate measurements, and exit velocity determinations made during the initial visible emissions demonstration required by § 63.670(h) of subpart CC, as applicable; and all periods during the compliance determination when the pilot flame or flare flame is absent.


(v) For pressure relief devices subject to the requirements of § 63.1107(h), the Notification of Compliance Status shall include the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(v)(A) and (B) of this section.


(A) A description of the monitoring system to be implemented, including the relief devices and process parameters to be monitored, and a description of the alarms or other methods by which operators will be notified of a pressure release.


(B) A description of the prevention measures to be implemented for each affected pressure relief device.


(2) *Due date.* The owner or operator shall submit the Notification of Compliance Status for each affected source 240 days after the compliance date specified for the affected source under this subpart, or 60 days after completion of the initial performance test or initial compliance assessment/subsequent required performance test or subsequent compliance assessment, whichever is earlier. Notification of Compliance Status reports may be combined for multiple affected sources as long as the due date requirements for all sources covered in the combined report are met.




(e) *Periodic reports.* The owner or operator of an affected source subject to monitoring requirements of this subpart, or to other requirements of this subpart or subparts referenced by this subpart, where periodic reporting is specified, shall submit a Periodic Report.


(1) *Contents.* Except as specified in paragraphs (e)(4) through (8) of this section, Periodic Reports shall include all information specified in this subpart and subparts referenced by this subpart.


(2) *Due date.* The Periodic Report shall be submitted no later than 60 days after the end of each 6-month period. The first report shall cover the 6-month period after the Notification of Compliance Status report is due. The first report shall be submitted no later than the last day of the month that includes the date 8 months (6 months and 60 days) after the Notification of Compliance Status report is due.


(3) *Overlap with title V reports.* Information required by this subpart, which is submitted with a title V periodic report, need not also be included in a subsequent Periodic Report required by this subpart or subpart referenced by this subpart. The title V report shall be referenced in the Periodic Report required by this subpart.


(4) *Ethylene production flare reports.* For each flare subject to the requirements in § 63.1103(e)(4), the Periodic Report shall include the items specified in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (vi) of this section in lieu of the information required in § 63.999(c)(3) of subpart SS.


(i) Records as specified in § 63.1109(e)(1) for each 15-minute block during which there was at least one minute when regulated material is routed to a flare and no pilot flame or flare flame is present. Include the start and stop time and date of each 15-minute block.


(ii) Visible emission records as specified in § 63.1109(e)(2)(iv) for each period of 2 consecutive hours during which visible emissions exceeded a total of 5 minutes.


(iii) The periods specified in § 63.1109(e)(6). Indicate the date and start time for the period, and the net heating value operating parameter(s) determined following the methods in § 63.670(k) through (n) of subpart CC as applicable.


(iv) For flaring events meeting the criteria in § 63.670(o)(3) of subpart CC and § 63.1103(e)(4)(iv):


(A) Flare identification name or number and the start and stop time and date of the flaring event.


(B) The length of time (in minutes) that emissions were visible from the flare during the event.


(C) Results of the root cause and corrective actions analysis completed during the reporting period, including the corrective actions implemented during the reporting period and, if applicable, the implementation schedule for planned corrective actions to be implemented subsequent to the reporting period.


(v) For pressure-assisted multi-point flares, the periods of time when the pressure monitor(s) on the main flare header show the burners operating outside the range of the manufacturer's specifications.


(vi) For pressure-assisted multi-point flares, the periods of time when the staging valve position indicator monitoring system indicates a stage should not be in operation and is or when a stage should be in operation and is not.


(5) *Ethylene production maintenance vent reports.* For maintenance vents subject to the requirements § 63.1103(e)(5), Periodic Reports must include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section for any release exceeding the applicable limits in § 63.1103(e)(5)(i). For the purposes of this reporting requirement, owners or operators complying with § 63.1103(e)(5)(i)(D) must report each venting event conducted under those provisions and include an explanation for each event as to why utilization of this alternative was required.


(i) Identification of the maintenance vent and the equipment served by the maintenance vent.


(ii) The date and time the maintenance vent was opened to the atmosphere.


(iii) The LEL, vessel pressure, or mass of VOC in the equipment, as applicable, at the start of atmospheric venting. If the 5 psig vessel pressure option in § 63.1103(e)(5)(i)(B) was used and active purging was initiated while the concentration of the vapor was 10 percent or greater of its LEL, also include the concentration of the vapors at the time active purging was initiated.


(iv) An estimate of the mass of organic HAP released during the entire atmospheric venting event.


(6) *Bypass line reports.* For bypass lines subject to the requirements in § 63.1103(e)(6), Periodic Reports must include the date, time, duration, estimate of the volume of gas, the concentration of organic HAP in the gas and the resulting mass emissions of organic HAP that bypass a control device. For periods when the flow indicator is not operating, report the date, time, and duration.


(7) *Decoking operation reports.* For decoking operations of an ethylene cracking furnace subject to the requirements in § 63.1103(e)(7) and (8), Periodic Reports must include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) For each control measure selected to minimize coke combustion emissions as specified in § 63.1103(e)(7)(ii) through (v), report instances where the control measures were not followed.


(ii) Report instances where an isolation valve inspection was not conducted according to the procedures specified in § 63.1103(e)(8).


(iii) For instances where repair was delayed beyond 1 calendar day as specified in § 63.1103(e)(7)(i), report the information specified in § 63.1109(h)(1).


(8) *Ethylene production pressure relief devices reports.* For pressure relief devices subject to the requirements of § 63.1107(h), Periodic Reports must include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(8)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP gas or vapor service, pursuant to § 63.1107(h)(1), report any instrument reading of 500 ppm or greater.


(ii) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP gas or vapor service subject to § 63.1107(h)(2), report confirmation that any monitoring required to be done during the reporting period to show compliance was conducted.


(iii) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service subject to § 63.1107(h)(3), report each pressure release to the atmosphere, including pressure relief device identification name or number; start date and start time and duration (in hours) of the pressure release; an estimate (in pounds) of the mass quantity of each organic HAP released; the results of any root cause analysis and corrective action analysis completed during the reporting period, including the corrective actions implemented during the reporting period; and, if applicable, the implementation schedule for planned corrective actions to be implemented subsequent to the reporting period.


(f) *General report content.* All reports and notifications submitted pursuant to this subpart, including reports that combine information required under this subpart and a subpart referenced by this subpart, shall include the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) The name, address and telephone number (fax number may also be provided) of the owner or operator.


(2) The name, address and telephone number of the person to whom inquiries should be addressed, if different than the owner or operator.


(3) The address (physical location) of the reporting facility.


(4) Identification of each affected source covered in the submission and identification of the subparts (this subpart and the subparts referenced in this subpart) that are applicable to that affected source. Summaries and groupings of this information are permitted.


(g) *Report and notification submission*—(1) *Submission to the Environmental Protection Agency.* All reports and notifications required under this subpart shall be sent to the appropriate EPA Regional Office and to the delegated State authority, except that request for permission to use an alternative means of emission limitation as provided for in § 63.1113 shall be submitted to the Director of the EPA Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, MD-10, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, 27711. The EPA Regional Office may waive the requirement to submit a copy of any reports or notifications at its discretion, except that electronic reporting to CEDRI cannot be waived, and as such, compliance with the provisions of this paragraph does not relieve owners or operators of affected facilities of the requirement to submit electronic reports required in this subpart to the EPA.


(2) *Submission of copies.* If any State requires a notice that contains all the information required in a report or notification listed in this subpart, an owner or operator may send the appropriate EPA Regional Office a copy of the report or notification sent to the State to satisfy the requirements of this subpart for that report or notification, except that performance test reports and performance evaluation reports required under paragraph (a)(10) of this section must be submitted to CEDRI in the format specified in that paragraph.




(3) *Method of submission.* Wherever this subpart specifies “postmark” dates, submittals may be sent by methods other than the U.S. Mail (e.g., by fax or courier). Submittals shall be sent on or before the specified date.


(4) *Submission by electronic media.* If acceptable to both the Administrator and the owner or operator of an affected source, reports may be submitted on electronic media.


(h) *Adjustment to timing of submittals and review of required communications*—(1) *Alignment with title V submission.* An owner or operator may submit Periodic Reports required by this subpart on the same schedule as the title V periodic report for the facility. The owner or operator using this option need not obtain prior approval, but must ensure that no reporting gaps occur. The owner or operator shall clearly identify the change in reporting schedule in the first report filed under this paragraph. The requirements of paragraph (f) of this section are not waived when implementing this change.


(2) *Establishment of a common schedule.* An owner or operator may arrange by mutual agreement (which may be a standing agreement) with the Administrator a common schedule on which periodic reports required by this subpart shall be submitted throughout the year as long as the reporting period is not extended. Procedures governing the implementation of this provision are specified in paragraphs (h)(3) through (7) of this section.


(3) *Submission requirements.* Except as allowed by paragraph (h)(1) of this section, until an adjustment of a time period or postmark deadline has been approved by the Administrator under paragraphs (h)(5) and (6) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected source remains strictly subject to the required submittal deadlines specified in this subpart and subparts referenced by this subpart.


(4) *Request for adjustment of reporting schedule.* Except as allowed by paragraph (h)(1) of this section, an owner or operator shall request the adjustment provided for in paragraphs (h)(5) and (6) of this section each time he or she wishes to change an applicable time period or postmark deadline specified in this subpart or subparts referenced by this subpart. A request for a change to the periodic reporting schedule need only be made once for every schedule change and not once for every semiannual report submitted.


(5) *Alteration of time periods or deadlines.* Notwithstanding time periods or postmark deadlines specified in this subpart for the submittal of information to the Administrator by an owner or operator, or the review of such information by the Administrator, such time periods or deadlines may be changed by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the Administrator. An owner or operator who wishes to request a change in a time period or postmark deadline for a particular requirement shall request the adjustment in writing as soon as practical before the subject activity is required to take place. The owner or operator shall include in the request whatever information he or she considers useful to convince the Administrator that an adjustment is warranted.


(6) *Approval of request for adjustment.* If, in the Administrator's judgment, an owner or operator's request for an adjustment to a particular time period or postmark deadline is warranted, the Administrator will approve the adjustment. The Administrator will notify the owner or operator in writing of approval or disapproval of the request for an adjustment within 15 calendar days of receiving sufficient information to evaluate the request.


(7) *Notification of delay.* If the Administrator is unable to meet a specified deadline, he or she will notify the owner or operator of any significant delay and inform the owner or operator of the amended schedule.



---

[N] [64 FR 34921, June 29, 1999, as amended at 64 FR 63709, Nov. 22, 1999; 79 FR 60928, Oct. 8, 2014; 85 FR 40437, July 6, 2020; 86 FR 66127, Nov. 19, 2021; 89 FR 23865, Apr. 4, 2024]




