# § 455.107   Disclosure of affiliations.

(a) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section only, the following terms apply to the definition of disclosable event in § 455.101:


(1) “Uncollected debt” only applies to the following:


(i) Medicare, Medicaid, or CHIP overpayments for which CMS or the State has sent notice of the debt to the affiliated provider or supplier.


(ii) Civil money penalties imposed under this title.


(iii) Assessments imposed under this title.


(2) “Revoked,” “Revocation,” “Terminated,” and “Termination” include situations where the affiliated provider or supplier voluntarily terminated its Medicare, Medicaid, or CHIP enrollment to avoid a potential revocation or termination.


(b) *General.* (1)(i) *Selection of option.* A State, in consultation with CMS, must select one of the two options identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section for requiring the disclosure of affiliation information.


(ii) *Change of selection.* A State may, in consultation with CMS, change its selection after it has been made from the option in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section to that in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.


(2)(i) *First option.* In a State that has selected the option in this paragraph (b)(2)(i), a provider that is not enrolled in Medicare but is initially enrolling in Medicaid or CHIP (or is revalidating its Medicaid or CHIP enrollment information) must disclose any and all affiliations that it or any of its owning or managing employees or organizations (consistent with the terms “person with an ownership or control interest” and “managing employee” as defined in § 455.101) has or, within the previous 5 years, had with a currently or formerly enrolled Medicare, Medicaid, or CHIP provider or supplier that has a disclosable event (as defined in § 455.101).


(ii) *Second option.* In a State that has selected the option in this paragraph (b)(2)(ii), and upon request by the State, a provider that is not enrolled in Medicare but is initially enrolling in Medicaid or CHIP (or is revalidating its Medicaid or CHIP enrollment information) must disclose any and all affiliations that it or any of its owning or managing employees or organizations (consistent with the terms “person with an ownership or control interest” and “managing employee” as defined in § 455.101) has or, within the previous 5 years, had with a currently or formerly enrolled Medicare, Medicaid, or CHIP provider or supplier that has a disclosable event (as defined in § 455.101). The State will request such disclosures when it, in consultation with CMS, has determined that the initially enrolling or revalidating provider may have at least one such affiliation.


(c) *Information.* The initially enrolling or revalidating provider must disclose the following information about each affiliation:


(1) General identifying information about the affiliated provider or supplier, which includes the following:


(i) Legal name as reported to the Internal Revenue Service or the Social Security Administration (if the affiliated provider or supplier is an individual).


(ii) “Doing business as” name (if applicable).


(iii) Tax identification number.


(iv) National Provider Identifier (NPI).


(2) Reason for disclosing the affiliated provider or supplier.


(3) Specific data regarding the affiliation relationship, including the following:


(i) Length of the relationship.


(ii) Type of relationship.


(iii) Degree of affiliation.


(4) If the affiliation has ended, the reason for the termination.


(d) *Mechanism.* The information described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section must be furnished to the State in a manner prescribed by the State in consultation with the Secretary.


(e) *Denial or termination.* The failure of the provider to fully and completely report the information required in this section when the provider knew or should reasonably have known of this information may result in, as applicable, the denial of the provider's initial enrollment application or the termination of the provider's enrollment in Medicaid or CHIP.


(f) *Undue risk.* Upon receipt of the information described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the State, in consultation with CMS, determines whether any of the disclosed affiliations poses an undue risk of fraud, waste, or abuse by considering the following factors:


(1) The duration of the affiliation.


(2) Whether the affiliation still exists and, if not, how long ago the affiliation ended.


(3) The degree and extent of the affiliation.


(4) If applicable, the reason for the termination of the affiliation.


(5) Regarding the affiliated provider's or supplier's disclosable event under paragraph (b) of this section, all of the following:


(i) The type of disclosable event.


(ii) When the disclosable event occurred or was imposed.


(iii) Whether the affiliation existed when the disclosable event occurred or was imposed.


(iv) If the disclosable event is an uncollected debt—


(A) The amount of the debt;


(B) Whether the affiliated provider or supplier is repaying the debt; and


(C) To whom the debt is owed.


(v) If a denial, revocation, termination, exclusion, or payment suspension is involved, the reason for the disclosable event.


(6) Any other evidence that the State, in consultation with CMS, deems relevant to its determination.


(g) *Determination of undue risk.* A determination by the State, in consultation with CMS, that a particular affiliation poses an undue risk of fraud, waste, or abuse will result in, as applicable, the denial of the provider's initial enrollment in Medicaid or CHIP or the termination of the provider's enrollment in Medicaid or CHIP.


(h) *Undisclosed affiliations.* The State, in consultation with CMS, may apply paragraph (g) of this section to situations where a reportable affiliation (as described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section) poses an undue risk of fraud, waste, or abuse, but the provider has not yet disclosed or is not required at that time to disclose the affiliation to the State.



---

[N] [84 FR 47856, Sept. 10, 2019, as amended at 87 FR 70249, Nov. 18, 2022]




