# ยง 93.3   Definitions.

(a) *Service of process.* Refers to the delivery of a summons and complaint, or other document the purpose of which is to give notice of a proceeding or to establish the jurisdiction of a court or administrative proceeding, in the manner prescribed by ยง 93.1(d), to an officer or agency of the United States named in court or administrative proceedings. 


(b) *Demand.* Refers to the delivery of a subpoena, order, or other directive of a court of competent jurisdiction, or other specific authority, for the production, disclosure, or release of official information, or for the appearance and testimony of NSA personnel as witnesses. 


(c) *NSA personnel.* (or NSA person) Includes present and former civilian employees of NSA (including non-appropriated fund activity employees), and present and former military personnel assigned to NSA. NSA personnel also includes non-U.S. nationals who perform services overseas for NSA under the provisions of status of forces or other agreements, and specific individuals hired through contractual agreements by or on behalf of NSA. 


(d) *Litigation.* Refers to all pretrial, trial, and post-trial stages of all existing or reasonably anticipated judicial or administrative actions, hearings, investigations, or similar proceedings before civilian courts, commissions, boards, or other tribunals, foreign and domestic. It includes responses to discovery requests, depositions, and other pretrial proceedings, as well as responses to formal or informal requests by attorneys or others in situations involving litigation. 


(e) *Official information.* Is information of any kind, in any storage medium, whether or not classified or protected from disclosure by ยง 93.l(c) that: 


(1) Is in the custody and control of NSA; or 


(2) Relates to information in the custody and control of NSA; or


(3) Was acquired by NSA personnel as part of their official duties or because of their official status within NSA. 


(f) *General Counsel.* Refers to the NSA General Counsel (GC), or in the GC's absence, the NSA Deputy GC, or in both of their absences, the NSA Assistant GC (Administration/Litigation). 


(g) *NSA attorney.* Refers to an attorney in the NSA Office of General Counsel (OGC).




