# § 766.351   Liquidation.

(a) *General.* (1) When a borrower cannot or will not meet a loan obligation, the Agency will consider liquidating the borrower's account in accordance with this subpart.


(2) The Agency will charge protective advances against the borrower's account as necessary to protect the Agency's interests during liquidation in accordance with § 765.203 of this chapter.


(3) When no surviving relative or third party assumes or repays a deceased borrower's loan in accordance with part 765, subpart J, of this chapter, or when the estate does not otherwise fully repay or sell loan security to repay a deceased borrower's FLP loans, the Agency will liquidate the security as quickly as possible in accordance with State and local requirements.


(b) *Liquidation for Program borrowers.* (1) If the borrower does not apply, does not accept, or is not eligible for primary loan servicing, conservation contract, market value buyout or homestead protection, and all administrative appeals are concluded, the Agency will accelerate the borrower's account in accordance with §§ 766.355 and 766.356, as appropriate.


(2) Borrowers may voluntarily liquidate their security in accordance with §§ 766.352, 766.353 and 766.354. In such case, the Agency will:


(i) Not delay involuntary liquidation action.


(ii) Notify the borrower in accordance with subpart C of this part, prior to acting on the request for voluntary liquidation, if the conditions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section have not been met.


(c) *Liquidation for Non-program borrowers.* If a borrower has both program and Non-program loans, the borrower's account will be handled in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. If a borrower with only Non-program loans is in default, the borrower may liquidate voluntarily, subject to the following:


(1) The Agency may delay involuntary liquidation actions when in the Agency's financial interest for a period not to exceed 60 days.


(2) The borrower must obtain the Agency's consent prior to the sale of the property.


(3) If the borrower will not pay the Agency in full, the minimum sales price must be the market value of the property as determined by the Agency.


(4) The Agency will accept a conveyance offer only when it is in the Agency's financial interest.


(5) If a Non-program borrower does not cure the default, or cannot or will not voluntarily liquidate, the Agency will accelerate the loan.



---

[N] [72 FR 63316, Nov. 8, 2007, asended at 89 FR 65045, Aug. 8, 2024]








