# § 542.23   What are the minimum internal control standards for surveillance for Tier A gaming operations?

(a) Tier A gaming operations must, at a minimum, maintain and operate an unstaffed surveillance system in a secured location whereby the areas under surveillance are continually recorded. 


(b) The entrance to the secured location shall be located so that it is not readily accessible by either gaming operation employees who work primarily on the casino floor, or the general public. 


(c) Access to the secured location shall be limited to surveillance personnel, designated employees, and other persons authorized in accordance with the surveillance department policy. Such policy shall be approved by the Tribal gaming regulatory authority. 


(d) The surveillance system shall include date and time generators that possess the capability to display the date and time of recorded events on video and/or digital recordings. The displayed date and time shall not significantly obstruct the recorded view. 


(e) The surveillance department shall strive to ensure staff is trained in the use of the equipment, knowledge of the games, and house rules. 


(f) Each camera required by the standards in this section shall be installed in a manner that will prevent it from being readily obstructed, tampered with, or disabled by customers or employees. 


(g) Each camera required by the standards in this section shall possess the capability of having its picture recorded. The surveillance system shall include sufficient numbers of recorders to simultaneously record multiple gaming and count room activities, and record the views of all dedicated cameras and motion activated dedicated cameras. 


(h) Reasonable effort shall be made to repair each malfunction of surveillance system equipment required by the standards in this section within seventy-two (72) hours after the malfunction is discovered. The Tribal gaming regulatory authority shall be notified of any camera(s) that has malfunctioned for more than twenty-four (24) hours. 


(1) In the event of a dedicated camera malfunction, the gaming operation and/or the surveillance department shall, upon identification of the malfunction, provide alternative camera coverage or other security measures, such as additional supervisory or security personnel, to protect the subject activity. 


(2) [Reserved] 


(i) *Bingo.* The surveillance system shall record the bingo ball drawing device, the game board, and the activities of the employees responsible for drawing, calling, and entering the balls drawn or numbers selected. 


(j) *Card games.* The surveillance system shall record the general activities in each card room and be capable of identifying the employees performing the different functions. 


(k) *Keno.* The surveillance system shall record the keno ball-drawing device, the general activities in each keno game area, and be capable of identifying the employees performing the different functions. 


(l) *Table games*—(1) *Operations with four (4) or more table games.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (l)(3), (l)(4), and (l)(5) of this section, the surveillance system of gaming operations operating four (4) or more table games shall provide at a minimum one (1) pan-tilt-zoom camera per two (2) tables and surveillance must be capable of taping: 


(i) With sufficient clarity to identify customers and dealers; and 


(ii) With sufficient coverage and clarity to simultaneously view the table bank and determine the configuration of wagers, card values, and game outcome. 


(iii) One (1) dedicated camera per table and one (1) pan-tilt-zoom camera per four (4) tables may be an acceptable alternative procedure to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph. 


(2) *Operations with three (3) or fewer table games.* The surveillance system of gaming operations operating three (3) or fewer table games shall: 


(i) Comply with the requirements of paragraph (l)(1) of this section; or 


(ii) Have one (1) overhead camera at each table. 


(3) *Craps.* All craps tables shall have two (2) dedicated cross view cameras covering both ends of the table. 


(4) *Roulette.* All roulette areas shall have one (1) overhead dedicated camera covering the roulette wheel and shall also have one (1) dedicated camera covering the play of the table. 


(5) *Big wheel.* All big wheel games shall have one (1) dedicated camera viewing the wheel. 


(m) *Progressive table games.* (1) Progressive table games with a progressive jackpot of $25,000 or more shall be recorded by dedicated cameras that provide coverage of: 


(i) The table surface, sufficient that the card values and card suits can be clearly identified; 


(ii) An overall view of the entire table with sufficient clarity to identify customers and dealer; and 


(iii) A view of the progressive meter jackpot amount. If several tables are linked to the same progressive jackpot meter, only one meter need be recorded. 


(2) [Reserved]


(n) *Gaming machines.* (1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (n)(2) and (n)(3) of this section, gaming machines offering a payout of more than $250,000 shall be recorded by a dedicated camera(s) to provide coverage of: 


(i) All customers and employees at the gaming machine; and 


(ii) The face of the gaming machine, with sufficient clarity to identify the payout line(s) of the gaming machine. 


(2) *In-house progressive machine.* In-house progressive gaming machines offering a base payout amount (jackpot reset amount) of more than $100,000 shall be recorded by a dedicated camera(s) to provide coverage of: 


(i) All customers and employees at the gaming machine; and 


(ii) The face of the gaming machine, with sufficient clarity to identify the payout line(s) of the gaming machine. 


(3) *Wide-area progressive machine.* Wide-area progressive gaming machines offering a base payout amount of $1 million or more and monitored by an independent vendor utilizing an on-line progressive computer system shall be recorded by a dedicated camera(s) to provide coverage of:


(i) All customers and employees at the gaming machine; and 


(ii) The face of the gaming machine, with sufficient clarity to identify the payout line(s) of the gaming machine. 


(4) Notwithstanding paragraph (n)(1) of this section, if the gaming machine is a multi-game machine, the Tribal gaming regulatory authority, or the gaming operation subject to the approval of the Tribal gaming regulatory authority, may develop and implement alternative procedures to verify payouts. 


(o) *Currency and coin.* The surveillance system shall record a general overview of all areas where currency or coin may be stored or counted. 


(p) *Video recording and/or digital record retention.* (1) All video recordings and/or digital records of coverage provided by the dedicated cameras or motion-activated dedicated cameras required by the standards in this section shall be retained for a minimum of seven (7) days. 


(2) Recordings involving suspected or confirmed gaming crimes, unlawful activity, or detentions by security personnel, must be retained for a minimum of thirty (30) days. 


(3) Duly authenticated copies of video recordings and/or digital records shall be provided to the Commission upon request. 


(q) *Video library log.* A video library log, or comparable alternative procedure approved by the Tribal gaming regulatory authority, shall be maintained to demonstrate compliance with the storage, identification, and retention standards required in this section. 


(r) *Malfunction and repair log.* (1) Surveillance personnel shall maintain a log or alternative procedure approved by the Tribal gaming regulatory authority that documents each malfunction and repair of the surveillance system as defined in this section. 


(2) The log shall state the time, date, and nature of each malfunction, the efforts expended to repair the malfunction, and the date of each effort, the reasons for any delays in repairing the malfunction, the date the malfunction is repaired, and where applicable, any alternative security measures that were taken. 



---

[N] [67 FR 43400, June 27, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 47107, Aug. 12, 2005]




