# ยง 175.100   What terms I should know for this part?

*Agreement* means the executed written form between you and the utility providing your service, except for service provided under a Special Agreement.


*BIA* means the Bureau of Indian Affairs within the United States Department of the Interior or the BIA's authorized representative.


*Bill* means our written statement notifying you of the charges and/or fees you owe the United States for the administration, operation, maintenance, rehabilitation, and/or construction of the electric power utility servicing you.


*CFR* means Code of Federal Regulations.


*Customer* means any person or entity to whom we provide service.


*Customer service* is the assistance or service provided to customers, except for the actual delivery of electric power or energy. Customer service may include: Line extension, system upgrade, meter testing, connections or disconnection, special meter reading, or other assistance or service as provided in the Operations Manual.


*Day(s)* means calendar day(s).


*Delinquent* means an account that has not been paid and settled by the due date.


*Due date* means the date by which you must pay your bill. The due date is printed on your bill.


*Electric energy* (see *Electric power*).


*Electric power* means the energy we deliver to meet customers' electrical needs.


*Electric power rate* means the charges we establish for delivery of energy to our customers, which includes administration costs and operation and maintenance costs in addition to the cost of purchased power.


*Electric power utility* means all structures, equipment, components, and human resources necessary for the delivery of electric service.


*Electric service* means the delivery of electric power by our utility to our customers.


*Energy* means electric power.


*Fee* (see *Service fee*).


*I, me, my, you,* and *your* means all interested parties, especially persons or entities to which we provide service and receive use of our electric power service.


*Must* means an imperative or mandatory act or requirement.


*Operations Manual* means the written policies, practices, procedures and requirements of the utility providing your service. The Operations Manual supplements this Part and includes our responsibilities to our customers and our customers' responsibilities to the utility.


*Past due bill* means a bill that has not been paid by the due date.


*Power* (see *Energy*).


*Public notice* is the notice provided by publishing information consistent with the utility's Operations Manual.


*Purchased power* means the power we must purchase from power marketing providers for resale to our customers to meet changing power demands. Each of our utilities establishes its own power purchasing agreement based on its power demands and firm power availability.


*Rate* (see *Electric power rate*).


*Reserve Funds* means funds held in reserve for maintenance, repairs, or unexpected expenses.


*Revenue* means the monies we collect from our customers through service fees and electric power rates.


*Service* (see *Electric service*).


*Service fee* means our charge for providing or performing a specific administrative or customer service.


*Special Agreement* means a written agreement between you and us for special conditions or circumstances including unmetered services.


*Taxpayer identification number* means either your Social Security Number or your Employer Identification Number.


*Utility(ies)* see (*Electric power utility*).


*Utility office(s)* means our facility used for conducting business with our customers and the general public.


*We, us,* and *our* means the United States Government, the Secretary of the Interior, the BIA, and all who are authorized to represent us in matters covered under this Part.




