# § 50.12   Applicant code of conduct for landowner engagement.

Under section 216(e)(1) of the Federal Power Act, any applicant that may, upon receipt of a permit, seek to acquire the necessary right-of-way by the exercise of the right of eminent domain must demonstrate to the Commission that it has made good faith efforts to engage with landowners and other stakeholders early in the applicable permitting process. An applicant's commitment to and compliance with the Applicant Code of Conduct during the permitting process is one way to demonstrate to the Commission that such good faith efforts have been made with respect to affected landowners.


(a) *Applicant code of conduct.* To promote good faith engagement with affected landowners, applicants committing to comply with the Applicant Code of Conduct must for the duration of the pre-filing and application review processes:


(1) Develop and maintain a log of discussions with affected landowners, organized by name and property address, that includes:


(i) The name of the affected landowner;


(ii) The substance of the items discussed;


(iii) The nature of the contact (such as in-person, virtual meeting, telephone, electronic mail);


(iv) The date of the contact; and


(v) The status of discussions with the affected landowner following the contact, including any permissions granted, negotiations, or future meetings scheduled.


(2) In addition to the Pre-filing Notification required by § 50.4(c)(1)(i) and (ii), provide to each affected landowner, prior to, during, or within 3 business days of the first contact, a document that, at a minimum, includes: a description of the project, a description of the Commission and its role, a map of the project route, an explanation that affected landowners may request from applicants copies of discussion log entries that pertain to their property and how to make such requests, and the Landowner Bill of Rights in the form described in § 50.4(c)(2)(ii)(B). If the first contact with the affected landowner is in-person, the applicant must offer to provide the affected landowner at least one paper copy of the document. If the first contact with the affected landowner is by telephone, text, or electronic mail, the applicant may provide the affected landowner with a copy of the document by electronic means or by first class mail, at the affected landowner's preference. The applicant must review the provisions of the document with the affected landowner upon request.


(3) Ensure that any representative acting on the applicant's behalf states their full name, title, and employer, as well as the name of the applicant that they represent, and presents a photo identification badge at the beginning of any discussion with an affected landowner, and provides the representative's and applicant's contact information, including mailing address, telephone number, and electronic mail address, prior to the end of the discussion.


(4) Ensure that all communications with affected landowners are factually correct. The applicant must correct any statements made by it or any representative acting on its behalf that it becomes aware were:


(i) Inaccurate when made; or


(ii) Have been rendered inaccurate based on subsequent events, within three business days of discovery of any such inaccuracy.


(5) Ensure that communications with affected landowners do not misrepresent the status of the discussions or negotiations between the parties. Provide an affected landowner upon request a copy of any discussion log entries that pertain to that affected landowner's property.


(6) Provide affected landowners with updated contact information whenever an applicant's contact information changes.


(7) Communicate respectfully with affected landowners and avoid harassing, coercive, manipulative, or intimidating communications or high-pressure tactics.


(8) Except as otherwise provided by State, Tribal, or local law, abide by an affected landowner's request to end the communication or for the applicant or its representative to leave the affected landowner's property.


(9) Except as otherwise provided by State, Tribal, or local law, obtain an affected landowner's permission prior to entering the property, including for survey or environmental assessment, and leave the property without argument or delay if the affected landowner revokes permission.


(10) Refrain from discussing an affected landowner's communications or negotiations status with any other affected landowner.


(11) Provide the affected landowner with a copy of any appraisal that has been prepared by, or on behalf of, the applicant for that affected landowner's property, if any, before discussing the value of the property in question.


(12) Ensure that any representative acting on the applicant's behalf complies with all provisions of the Applicant Code of Conduct described in this paragraph (a).


(b) *Compliance with Applicant Code of Conduct.* Applicants committing to comply with the Applicant Code of Conduct must:


(1) File, as part of the pre-filing request required by § 50.5(c), an affirmative statement that the applicant intends to comply with the Applicant Code of Conduct.


(2) Include, as part of the monthly status reports required by § 50.5(e)(11):


(i) An affirmation that the applicant and its representatives have, to the best of their knowledge, complied with the Applicant Code of Conduct during the month in question; or


(ii) A detailed explanation of any instances of non-compliance with the Applicant Code of Conduct during the month in question and any remedial actions taken or planned.


(3) Identify, in a filing with the Commission or as part of the monthly status reports required by § 50.5(e)(11), any known instances of non-compliance that were not disclosed in prior monthly status reports and explain any remedial actions taken in the current month to address instances of non-compliance occurring in prior months.


(4) File monthly status reports providing the information required in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section, for the duration of the application review process.


(c) *Compliance with an alternative method.* Applicants not committing to comply with the Applicant Code of Conduct must:


(1) File, as part of the pre-filing request required by § 50.5(c):


(i) An affirmative statement that the applicant intends to rely on an alternative method of demonstrating that it meets the good faith efforts standard;


(ii) A detailed explanation of the alternative method of demonstrating that it meets the good faith efforts standard, including any commitments to recordkeeping, information-sharing, or other conduct;


(iii) An explanation of how the alternative method is equal to or better than compliance with the Applicant Code of Conduct as a means to ensure the good faith efforts standard is met;


(iv) An explanation, for each component of the Applicant Code of Conduct with which it does not comply, why it did not follow that component; and


(v) An explanation, for each component of the Applicant Code of Conduct with which it does not comply, why the alternative method is an equal or better means to ensure the good faith standard is met notwithstanding that deviation from the Applicant Code of Conduct.








