# § 87.2   Applicability.

This part applies to grants awarded in HHS social service programs governed by either the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements at 45 CFR part 75 or Block Grant regulations at 45 CFR part 96, except as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.


(a) *Discretionary grants.* This part is not applicable to the discretionary grant programs that are governed by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) Charitable Choice regulations found at 42 CFR part 54a. This part is also not applicable to discretionary grant programs that are governed by the Community Services Block Grant (CSBG) Charitable Choice regulations at 45 CFR part 1050, with the exception of §§ 87.1 and 87.3(k) through (m) and (o), which do apply to such CSBG discretionary grants. Discretionary grants authorized by the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act are also not governed by this part.


(b) *Formula and block grants.* This part does not apply to non-discretionary and block grant programs governed by the SAMHSA Charitable Choice regulations found at 42 CFR part 54, or the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) Charitable Choice regulations at 45 CFR part 260. Block grants governed by the CSBG Charitable Choice regulations at 45 CFR part 1050 are not subject to this part, with the exception of §§ 87.1 and 87.3(k) through (m) and (o), which do apply to such CSBG block grants. This part is not applicable to Child Care and Development Block Grants governed by 45 CFR part 98.





---

[N] [81 FR 19426, Apr. 4, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 15721, Mar. 4, 2024]






