# § 21.322   Commencing dates of subsistence allowance.

(a) *General.* VA will determine the commencing date of an award or increased award of subsistence allowance under this section. VA will not authorize subsistence allowance for any period prior to the earliest date for which disability compensation is payable or would be payable but for the veteran's receipt of retired pay.


(b) *Entrance or reentrance into vocational rehabilitation, extended evaluation, independent living services.* Except in the case of retroactive induction into a rehabilitation program, as provided in § 21.282, the commencing date of an award of subsistence allowance shall be the earlier of:


(1) The date the facility requires the veteran to report for prescribed activities; or


(2) The date training or rehabilitation services begin.


(c) *Increases for dependents*—(1) *Dependency exists at the time of entrance or reentrance into a rehabilitation program.* A veteran may have one or more dependents on or before the date he or she enters or reenters a rehabilitation program. When this occurs, the following rules apply:


(i) The effective date of the increase will be the date of entrance or reentrance if:


(A) VA receives the claim for the increase within one year of the date of entrance or reentrance; and


(B) VA receives any necessary evidence within 1 year of the date VA requested the evidence and informed the veteran of the time limits during which this evidence must be submitted. If VA fails to inform the veteran of these time limits, the period of submission of the evidence is adjusted in accordance with § 21.32 of this part.


(ii) The effective date of the increase will be the date VA receives notice of the dependents existence if:


(A) VA receives the claim for the increase more than one year after the date of entrance or reentrance; and


(B) VA receives any necessary evidence within 1 year of the date VA requested the evidence and informed the veteran of the time limits during which this evidence must be submitted. If VA fails to inform the veteran of these time limits, the period for submission of the evidence is adjusted in accordance with § 21.32 of this part;


(iii) The effective date of the increase will be the date VA receives all necessary evidence if that evidence is received more than one year from the date VA requested the evidence and informed the veteran of the time limits during which this evidence must be submitted. If VA fails to inform the veteran of these time limits, the period for submission of the evidence is adjusted in accordance with § 21.32 of this part.


(2) *Dependency arises after entrance or reentrance into a rehabilitation program.* If the veteran acquires a dependent after he or she enters or reenters a rehabilitation program, the increase will be effective on the latest of the following dates:


(i) *Date of claim.* This term means the following listed in order of their applicability:


(A) Date of the veteran's marriage, or birth of his or her child, or his or her adoption of a child, if the evidence of the event is received within one year from the date of the event;


(B) Date notice is received of the dependents's existence if evidence is received within 1 year from the date VA requested the evidence and informed the veteran of the time limits during which this evidence must be submitted. If VA fails to inform the veteran of these time limits, the period for submission of the evidence is adjusted in accordance with § 21.32 of this part.


(C) Date VA receives evidence of the dependent's existence if this date is more than one year after VA requested this evidence and informed the veteran of the time limits during which this evidence must be submitted. If VA fails to inform the veteran of the time limits, the period for submission of the evidence is adjusted in accordance with § 21.32 of this part.


(ii) *Date dependency arises*—(3) *Increased award not permitted.* No increased award for dependency may be paid prior to the date the law permits benefits for dependents generally.


(d) *Correction of military records.* In accordance with the facts found, but not earlier than the date the change, correction, or modification was made by the service department, if eligibility of a veteran arises as the result of correction or modification of military records under 10 U.S.C. 1552, or change, correction or modification of a discharge or dismissal under 10 U.S.C. 1553, or other competent military authority.


(e) *Bar to benefits removed by VA.* In accordance with the facts found, but not earlier than the date the change was made by VA, if eligibility of a veteran arises as the result of review of the evidence of record regarding the character of discharge by VA, when the veteran's discharge or dismissal was a bar to benefits under 38 U.S.C. 5301.


(f) *Incarcerated veterans.* (1) Date of release from Federal, State, or local penal institution of a veteran incarcerated for conviction of a felony.


(2) Earlier of the following dates in the case of a veteran residing in a half-way house or participating in a work-release program as a result of a felony conviction.


(i) Date of release from the half-way house or work-release program, or 


(ii) Date a veteran becomes obligated to pay part of his or her living expenses.


(g) *Temporary 100 percent award terminated.* Date of reduction of a temporary award of disability compensation at the 100 percent rate because of hospitalization.


(h) *Liberalizing laws and VA issues.* In accordance with facts found, but not earlier than the date of the act or administrative issue.



---

[N] [49 FR 40814, Oct. 18, 1984, as amended at 51 FR 22808, June 23, 1986; 52 FR 42113, Nov. 3, 1987; 55 FR 12821, Apr. 6, 1990] 




