# § 145.44   Terminology and classification; States.

(a) *U.S. Pullorum-Typhoid Clean State.* (1) A State will be declared a U.S. Pullorum-Typhoid Clean State when it has been determined by the Service that: 


(i) The State is in compliance with the provisions contained in §§ 145.23(b)(3)(i) through (vii), 145.33(b)(3)(i) through (vii), 145.43(b)(3)(i) through (vi), 145.53(b)(3)(i) through (vii), 145.73(b)(2)(i), § 145.83(b)(2)(i), 145.93(b)(3)(i) through (vii), and 145.103(b)(3)(i) through (ix). 


(ii) No pullorum disease or fowl typhoid is known to exist nor to have existed in hatchery supply flocks within the State during the preceding 12 months: *Provided,* That pullorum disease or fowl typhoid found within the preceding 24 months in waterfowl, exhibition poultry, and game bird breeding flocks will not prevent a State, which is otherwise eligible, from qualifying. 


(2) Discontinuation of any of the conditions described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, or repeated outbreaks of pullorum or typhoid occur in hatchery supply flocks described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, or if an infection spreads from the originating premises, the Service shall have grounds to revoke its determination that the State is entitled to this classification. Such action shall not be taken until a thorough investigation has been made by the Service and the Official State Agency has been given an opportunity for a hearing in accordance with rules of practice adopted by the Administrator. 


(b) *U.S. Pullorum-Typhoid Clean State, Turkeys.* (1) A State will be declared a U.S. Pullorum-Typhoid Clean State, Turkeys, when it has been determined by the Service that: 


(i) The State is in compliance with the provisions contained in § 145.43(b)(3)(i) through (vi). 


(ii) No pullorum disease or fowl typhoid is known to exist nor to have existed in turkey hatchery supply flocks within the State during the preceding 24 months. 


(2) Discontinuation of any of the conditions described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, or repeated outbreaks of pullorum or typhoid occur in hatchery supply flocks described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, or if an infection spreads from the originating premises, Service shall have grounds to revoke its determination that the State is entitled to this classification. Such action shall not be taken until a thorough investigation has been made by the Service and the Official State Agency has been given an opportunity for a hearing in accordance with rules of practice adopted by the Administrator. 


(c) *U.S. M. Gallisepticum Clean State, Turkeys.* (1) A State will be declared a U.S. M. Gallisepticum Clean State, Turkeys when it has been determined by the Service that: 


(i) No *M. gallisepticum* is known to exist nor to have existed in turkey breeding flocks in production within the State during the preceding 12 months. 


(ii) All turkey breeding flocks in production are classified as U.S. M. Gallisepticum Clean or have met equivalent requirements for *M. gallisepticum* control under official supervision. 


(iii) All turkey hatcheries within the State handle products which are classified as U.S. M. Gallisepticum Clean or have met equivalent requirements for *M. gallisepticum* control under official supervision.


(iv) All shipments of turkey products other than those classified as U.S. M. Gallisepticum Clean, or equivalent, into the State are prohibited.


(v) All persons performing poultry disease diagnostic services within the State are required to report to the Official State Agency within 48 hours the source of all turkey specimens that have been identified as being infected with *M. gallisepticum.*

(vi) All reports of *M. gallisepticum* infection in turkeys are promptly followed by an investigation by the Official State Agency to determine the origin of the infection.


(vii) All turkey flocks found to be infected with *M. gallisepticum* are quarantined until marketed under supervision of the Official State Agency. 


(2) Discontinuation of any of the conditions described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, or if repeated outbreaks of *M. gallisepticum* occur in turkey breeding flocks described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, or if an infection spreads from the originating premises, the Service shall have grounds to revoke its determination that the State is entitled to this classification. Such action shall not be taken until a thorough investigation has been made by the Service and the Official State Agency has been given an opportunity for a hearing in accordance with rules of practice adopted by the Administrator.


(3) If a State retains this status for 2 or more years, individual breeding flocks in the State may qualify for an *M. gallisepticum* classification based on a negative test of a sample of 100 birds.


(d) *U.S. M. Synoviae Clean State, Turkeys.* (1) A State will be declared a U.S. M. Synoviae Clean State, Turkeys, if the Service determines that: 


(i) No *Mycoplasma synoviae* is known to exist nor to have existed in turkey breeding flocks in production within the State during the preceding 12 months; 


(ii) All turkey breeding flocks in production are tested and classified as U.S. M. Synoviae Clean or have met equivalent requirements for *M. synoviae* control under official supervision; 


(iii) All turkey hatcheries within the State only handle products that are classified as U.S. M. Synoviae Clean or have met equivalent requirements for *M. synoviae* control under official supervision; 


(iv) All shipments of products from turkey breeding flocks other than those classified as U.S. M. Synoviae Clean, or equivalent, into the State are prohibited; 


(v) All persons performing poultry disease diagnostic services within the State are required to report to the Official State Agency within 48 hours the source of all turkey specimens that have been identified as being infected with *M. synoviae;*

(vi) All reports of *M. synoviae* infection in turkeys are promptly followed by an investigation by the Official State Agency to determine the origin of the infection; and 


(vii) All turkey breeding flocks found to be infected with *M. synoviae* are quarantined until marketed under supervision of the Official State Agency. 


(2) The Service may revoke the State's classification as a U.S. M. Synoviae Clean State, Turkeys, if any of the conditions described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section are discontinued. The Service shall not revoke the State's classification as a U.S. M. Synoviae Clean State, Turkeys, until it has conducted an investigation and the Official State Agency has been given an opportunity for a hearing in accordance with rules of practice adopted by the Administrator of the Service. 


(e) *U.S. M. Meleagridis Clean State, Turkeys.* (1) A State will be declared a U.S. M. Meleagridis Clean State, Turkeys, if the Service determines that: 


(i) No *Mycoplasma meleagridis* is known to exist nor to have existed in turkey breeding flocks in production within the State during the preceding 12 months; 


(ii) All turkey breeding flocks in production are tested and classified as U.S. M. Meleagridis Clean or have met equivalent requirements for *M. meleagridis* control under official supervision; 


(iii) All turkey hatcheries within the State only handle products that are classified as U.S. M. Meleagridis Clean or have met equivalent requirements for *M. meleagridis* control under official supervision; 


(iv) All shipments of products from turkey breeding flocks other than those classified as U.S. M. Meleagridis Clean, or equivalent, into the State are prohibited; 


(v) All persons performing poultry disease diagnostic services within the State are required to report to the Official State Agency within 48 hours the source of all turkey specimens that have been identified as being infected with *M. meleagridis;*

(vi) All reports of *M. meleagridis* infection in turkeys are promptly followed by an investigation by the Official State Agency to determine the origin of the infection; and 


(vii) All turkey breeding flocks found to be infected with *M. meleagridis* are quarantined until marketed under supervision of the Official State Agency. 


(2) The Service may revoke the State's classification as a U.S. M. Meleagridis Clean State, Turkeys, if any of the conditions described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section are discontinued. The Service will not revoke the State's classification as a U.S. M. Meleagridis Clean State, Turkeys, until it has conducted an investigation and the Official State Agency has been given an opportunity for a hearing in accordance with rules of practice adopted by the Administrator. 



---

[N] [40 FR 1503, Jan. 8, 1975. Redesignated at 44 FR 61586, Oct. 26, 1979, and amended at 45 FR 10316, Feb. 15, 1980; 48 FR 57473, Dec. 30, 1983; 49 FR 19803, May 10, 1984; 54 FR 23957, June 5, 1989; 61 FR 11521, Mar. 21, 1996; 65 FR 8018, Feb. 17, 2000; 67 FR 8469, Feb. 25, 2002; 76 FR 15793, Mar. 22, 2011; 85 FR 62565, Oct. 5, 2020] 




