# § 223.133   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:


*Adequate evidence* means information sufficient to support the reasonable belief that a particular act or omission has occurred.


*Affiliates* are business concerns or persons, whose relationship entails the following:


(a) Either party directly or indirectly controls or has the power to control the other; or


(b) A third party directly or indirectly controls or has the power to control both. In determining whether affiliation exists, the Forest Service shall consider all appropriate factors, including, but not limited to, common ownership, common management, common facilities, and contractual relationships. Further guidelines to be used in determining affiliation are found in the Small Business Administration regulation in 13 CFR 121.401.


*Civil judgment* means a judgment or finding of a civil offense by any court of competent jurisdiction.


*Control* means the power to exercise, directly or indirectly, a controlling influence over the management, policies, or activities of an individual or business concern, whether through ownership of voting securities, through one or more intermediary individuals or business concerns, or otherwise.


*Conviction* means a judgment or conviction of a criminal offense by any court of competent jurisdiction, whether entered upon a verdict or a plea, and includes a conviction entered upon a plea of nolo contendere.


*Debarment* means action taken by a debarring official under §§ 223.136 through 223.140 to exclude a purchaser from Forest Service timber sale contracts for a reasonable, specified period of time. A purchaser so excluded is “debarred.” Debarment pursuant to the Forest Resources Conservation and Shortage Relief Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 620, *et seq.* means action taken by a debarring official under §§ 223.136-223.140 to exclude persons from entering into any contract for the purchase of unprocessed timber originating from Federal lands and from taking delivery of unprocessed Federal timber purchased by another party for the period of debarment.


*Debarring official* means the Chief of the Forest Service or the Deputy Chief, National Forest System, or the Associate Deputy Chief, Resources Divisions, National Forest System.


*Federal lands* means, for the purposes of the Forest Resources Conservation and Shortage Relief Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 620, *et seq.*), lands that are owned by the United States, but does not include any lands the title to which is:


(a) Held in trust by the United States for the benefit of any Indian tribe or individual,


(b) Held by any Indian tribe or individual subject to a restriction by the United States against alienation, or 


(c) Held by any Native Corporation as defined in section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602).


*Indictment* means indictment for a criminal offense. An information or other filing by competent authority charging a criminal offense shall be given the same effect as an indictment.


*Legal proceedings* means any civil judicial proceeding to which the Government is a party or any criminal proceeding. The term includes appeals from such proceedings.


*Notice* means a written communication served in person or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, or its equivalent, to the last known address of a party, its identified counsel, or agent for service of process. In the case of an organization, such notice may be sent to any partner, principal officer, director, owner or co-owner, or joint venturer.


*Person* means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other legal entity, and includes any subsidiary, subcontractor, parent company, and business affiliates.


*Preponderance of the evidence* means proof by information that, compared with that opposing it, leads to the conclusion that the fact at issue is more probably true than not.


*Purchaser* means any person, who:


(a) Submits bids for, is awarded, or reasonably may be expected to submit bids for or be awarded, a Forest Service timber sale contract; 


(b) Conducts business with the Forest Service as an agent or representative of another timber sale purchaser; or


(c) For the purposes of the Forest Resources Conservation and Shortage Relief Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 620, *et seq.*) (Act), any person who violates the Act or any regulation or contract issued under the Act, or any person who may reasonably be expected to enter into a contract to purchase or receive delivery of unprocessed Federal timber in violation of the Act or its implementing regulations.


*Suspending official* means the Chief of the Forest Service or the Deputy Chief, National Forest System or the Associate Deputy Chief, Resources Divisions, National Forest System.


*Suspension* means action taken by a suspending official under §§ 223.141 through 223.145 to immediately exclude a purchaser from bidding on or purchasing National Forest System timber for a temporary period of time pending completion of an investigation and such legal or debarment proceedings as may ensue; a purchaser so excluded is *suspended.*


---

[N] [52 FR 43329, Nov. 12, 1987, as amended at 60 FR 46921, Sept. 8, 1995]




