# § 2.903   Prohibition on authorization of equipment on the Covered List.

(a) All equipment on the Covered List, as established pursuant to § 1.50002 of this chapter, is prohibited from obtaining an equipment authorization under this subpart. This includes:


(1) Equipment that would otherwise be subject to certification procedures;


(2) Equipment that would otherwise be subject to Supplier's Declaration of Conformity procedures; and


(3) Equipment that would otherwise be exempt from equipment authorization.


(b) Each entity named on the Covered List as producing covered communications equipment, as established pursuant to § 1.50002 of this chapter, must provide to the Commission the following information: the full name, mailing address or physical address (if different from mailing address), email address, and telephone number of each of that named entity's associated entities (*e.g.,* subsidiaries or affiliates) identified on the Covered List as producing covered communications equipment.


(1) Each entity named on the Covered List as producing covered communications equipment must provide the information described in paragraph (b) of this section no later than March 8, 2023;


(2) Each entity named on the Covered List as producing covered communications equipment must provide the information described in paragraph (b) of this section no later than 30 days after the effective date of each updated Covered List; and


(3) Each entity named on the Covered List as producing covered communications equipment must notify the Commission of any changes to the information described in paragraph (b) of this section no later than 30 days after such change occurs.


(c) For purposes of implementing this subpart with regard to the prohibition on authorization of communications equipment on the Covered List, the following definitions apply:


*Affiliate.* The term “affiliate” means an entity that (directly or indirectly) owns or controls, is owned or controlled by, or is under common ownership or control with, another entity; for purposes of this paragraph, the term `own' means to have, possess, or otherwise control an equity interest (or the equivalent thereof) of more than 10 percent.


*Subsidiary.* The term “subsidiary” means any entity in which another entity directly or indirectly:


(i) Holds de facto control; or


(ii) Owns or controls more than 50 percent of the outstanding voting stock.


(d) The Commission delegates authority to the Office of Engineering and Technology and the Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau to develop and provide additional clarifications as appropriate regarding implementation of the prohibition on authorization of covered communications equipment. The Office of Engineering and Technology and Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau will issue through Public Notice, and publish on the Commission's website, the Commission's relevant guidance on covered communications equipment, as well as further clarifications, and will update and maintain this information as appropriate.



---

[N] [88 FR 7623, Feb. 6, 2023]










