# § 17.4115   VA use of Veterans Care Agreements.

(a) *Criteria for using.* VA may furnish hospital care, medical services, or extended care services through a Veterans Care Agreement only if:


(1) Such care or services are furnished to a covered individual who is eligible for such care or services under 38 U.S.C. chapter 17 and requires such care or services; and


(2) Such care or services are not feasibly available to that covered individual through a VA facility, contract, or sharing agreement. For purposes of this subparagraph, hospital care, medical services, or extended care services are not feasibly available through a VA facility, contract, or sharing agreement when VA determines that the medical condition of the covered individual, the travel involved, the nature of the care or services, or a combination of these factors make the use of a VA facility, contract, or sharing agreement impracticable or inadvisable.


(b) *Standards of conduct and improper business practices*—(1) *General.* (i) Government business shall be conducted in a manner above reproach and, except as authorized by statute or regulation, with complete impartiality and with preferential treatment for none. Transactions relating to the expenditure of public funds require the highest degree of public trust and an impeccable standard of conduct. The general rule is to avoid strictly any conflict of interest or even the appearance of a conflict of interest in Government-contractor relationships. The conduct of Government personnel must be such that they would have no reluctance to make a full public disclosure of their actions.


(ii) VA officials and employees are reminded that there are other statutes and regulations that deal with prohibited conduct, including:


(A) The offer or acceptance of a bribe or gratuity is prohibited by 18 U.S.C. 201. The acceptance of a gift, under certain circumstances, is prohibited by 5 U.S.C. 7353, and 5 CFR part 2635;


(B)(*1*) Certain financial conflicts of interest are prohibited by 18 U.S.C. 208 and regulations at 5 CFR part 2635.


(*2*) Contacts with an entity or provider that is seeking or receives certification under section 17.4110 of this part or is seeking, enters into, and/or furnishes services or care under a Veterans Care Agreement may constitute “seeking employment,” (see Subpart F of 5 CFR part 2635). Government officers and employees (employees) are prohibited by 18 U.S.C. 208 and 5 CFR part 2635 from participating personally and substantially in any particular matter that would affect the financial interests of any person from whom the employee is seeking employment. An employee who engages in negotiations or is otherwise seeking employment with an offeror or who has an arrangement concerning future employment with an offeror must comply with the applicable disqualification requirements of 5 CFR 2635.604 and 2635.606. The statutory prohibition in 18 U.S.C. 208 also may require an employee's disqualification from participation in matters pertaining to the certification of an entity or provider or a entering into and administering a Veterans Care Agreement with an entity or provider even if the employee's duties may not be considered “participating personally and substantially”;


(C) Post-employment restrictions are covered by 18 U.S.C. 207 and 5 CFR part 2641, that prohibit certain activities by former Government employees, including representation of an entity or provider before the Government in relation to any particular matter involving specific parties on which the former employee participated personally and substantially while employed by the Government. Additional restrictions apply to certain senior Government employees and for particular matters under an employee's official responsibility; and


(D) Using nonpublic information to further an employee's private interest or that of another and engaging in a financial transaction using nonpublic information are prohibited by 5 CFR 2635.703.


(2) *Standards and requirements for entities or providers that enter into Veterans Care Agreements.* An entity or provider that enters into a Veterans Care Agreement must comply with the following standards and requirements throughout the term of the Veterans Care Agreement:


(i) Must have a satisfactory performance record.


(ii) Must have a satisfactory record of integrity and business ethics.


(iii) Must notify VA within 30 calendar days of the existence of an indictment, charge, conviction, or civil judgment, or Federal tax delinquency in an amount that exceeds $3,500.


(iv) Must not engage in any of the following:


(A) Commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with—


(*1*) Obtaining;


(*2*) Attempting to obtain; or


(*3*) Performing a public contract or subcontract, or a Veterans Care Agreement;


(B) Violation of Federal or State antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers;


(C) Commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property;


(D) Delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,500. Federal taxes are considered delinquent for purposes of this provision if both of the following criteria apply:


(*1*) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed and all available administrative remedies and rights to judicial review have been exhausted or have lapsed.


(*2*) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded.


(E) Knowing failure by a principal, until 3 years after final payment on any Government contract awarded to the contractor (or any Veterans Care Agreement entered into with the entity or provider), to timely disclose to the Government, in connection with the award or agreement, performance, or closeout of the contract or agreement or a subcontract thereunder, credible evidence of—


(*1*) Violation of Federal criminal law involving fraud, conflict of interest, bribery, or gratuity violations found in Title 18 of the United States Code;


(*2*) Violation of the civil False Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3729-3733); or


(*3*) Significant overpayment(s) on the contract or Veterans Care Agreement, other than overpayments resulting from contract financing payments. Contract financing payments means an authorized Government disbursement of monies to a contractor prior to acceptance of supplies or services by the Government; or


(F) Commission of any other offense indicating a lack of business integrity or business honesty that seriously and directly affects the present responsibility of an entity or provider.


(v) Must not submit to VA a fraudulent claim, as that term is defined in 38 U.S.C. 1703D(i)(4), for payment for hospital care, medical services, or extended care services.




