# § 54.306   Alaska Plan for Rate-of-Return Carriers Serving Alaska.

(a) *Election of support.* For purposes of subparts A, B, C, D, H, I, J, K and M of this part, rate-of-return carriers (as that term is defined in § 54.5) serving Alaska have a one-time option to elect to participate in the Alaska Plan on a state-wide basis. Carriers exercising this option shall receive the lesser of;


(1) Support as described in paragraph (c) of this section or


(2) $3,000 annually for each line for which the carrier is receiving support as of the effective date of this rule.


(b) *Performance plans.* In order to receive support pursuant to this section, a rate-of-return carrier must be subject to a performance plan approved by the Wireline Competition Bureau. The performance plan must indicate specific deployment obligations and performance requirements sufficient to demonstrate that support is being used in the public interest and in accordance with the requirements adopted by the Commission for the Alaska Plan. Performance plans must commit to offer specified minimum speeds to a set number of locations by the end of the fifth year of support and by the end of the tenth year of support, or in the alternative commit to maintaining voice and Internet service at a specified minimum speeds for the 10-year term. The Bureau may reassess performance plans at the end of the fifth year of support. If the specific deployment obligations and performance requirements in the approved performance plan are not achieved, the carrier shall be subject to § 54.320(c) and (d).


(c) *Support amounts and support term.* For a period of 8 years beginning on or after January 1, 2017, at a date set by the Wireline Competition Bureau, each Alaska Plan participant shall receive monthly Alaska Plan support in an amount equal to:


(1) One-twelfth (1/12) of the amount of Interstate Common Line Support disbursed to that carrier for 2011, less any reduction made to that carrier's support in 2012 pursuant to the corporate operations expense limit in effect in 2012, and without regard to prior period adjustments related to years other than 2011 and as determined by USAC on January 31, 2012; plus


(2) One-twelfth (1/12) of the total expense adjustment (high cost loop support) disbursed to that carrier for 2011, without regard to prior period adjustments related to years other than 2011 and as determined by USAC on January 31, 2012.


(d) *Transfers.* Notwithstanding any provisions of § 54.305 or other sections in this part, to the extent an Alaska Plan participant (as defined in § 54.306 or § 54.317) transfers some or all of its customers in Alaska to another eligible telecommunications carrier, it may also transfer a proportionate amount of its Alaska Plan support and any associated performance obligations as determined by the Wireline Competition Bureau or Wireless Telecommunications Bureau if the acquiring eligible telecommunications carrier certifies it will meet the associated obligations agreed to in the approved performance plan.


(e) *Alaska Connect Fund Transition support.* Beginning January 1, 2025, and ending December 31, 2028, an Alaska Plan rate-of-return carrier (as that term is defined in § 54.5) serving Alaska that elected support pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be authorized to receive an amount of monthly support during the Alaska Connect Fund Transition equal to the amount authorized as of December 1, 2024, multiplied by 1.30.







---

[N] [81 FR 69712, Oct. 7, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 107227, Dec. 31, 2024]




