# ยง 2635.302   General standards.

(a) *Gifts to superiors.* Except as provided in this subpart, employees may not:


(1) Directly or indirectly, give a gift to or make a contribution toward a gift for an official superior, and an official superior may not knowingly accept such a gift; or


(2) Solicit a contribution from another employee for a gift to either their own or the other employee's official superior.


(b) *Gifts from employees receiving less pay.* Except as provided in this subpart, employees may not, directly or indirectly, accept a gift from an employee who receives less pay unless:


(1) There is a personal relationship between the two employees that would justify the gift and the employee receiving the gift is not the official superior of the employee giving the gift; or


(2) The employee giving the gift is the official superior of the employee receiving the gift.


*Example 1 to paragraph (b):* A GS-13 Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee has been close personal friends with a neighbor, a GS-15 employee in another government agency, for many years. During their friendship, the GS-13 employee has often allowed the neighbor's family to use their vacation house rent-free. The GS-15 employee recently accepted a position at DHS, and in the new position will be the direct supervisor of the GS-13 employee. Although the personal relationship between the two employees justified the gift of rent-free use of the vacation home before they were both employed at DHS, for the duration of their supervisor-subordinate relationship the GS-13 employee may not allow the GS-15 neighbor to use the vacation house rent-free or give other gifts, except as permitted by the exceptions contained in this subpart.


(c) *Limitation on use of exceptions.* Notwithstanding any exception provided in this subpart, an official superior may not coerce the offering of a gift from a subordinate.






