# § 294.33   Administrative determinations.

(a) *Policy.* An Agreement Holder who disagrees with the findings, interpretations, or decisions of MARAD with respect to the administration of this part or any other dispute or complaint concerning the Agreement Holder's TSP Operating Agreement(s) may submit an appeal to the Administrator. The appeals must be made in writing to the Maritime Administrator, within 60 days following the date of the document notifying the Agreement Holder of the administrative determination of MARAD. Such an appeal should be addressed to the Maritime Administrator, Attn.: TSP Operating Agreement Appeals, Maritime Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20590 or via email to *sealiftsupport@dot.gov.* An appeal is a prerequisite to exhausting administrative remedies.


(b) *DoD determinations.* 46 U.S.C. chapter 534 assigns joint and separate roles and responsibilities to the Secretary and the SecDef. The Administrator and the Commander will make joint and separate findings, interpretations, and decisions necessary to implement 46 U.S.C. chapter 534. An Agreement Holder who disagrees with the initial findings, interpretations, or decisions regarding the implementation of 46 U.S.C. chapter 534—whether joint or separate in nature—must communicate such disagreement to MARAD. Any disagreement or dispute of an Agreement Holder may, where determined appropriate by MARAD, be transferred to the Director of Policy and Plans, USTRANSCOM for resolution. An Agreement Holder who disagrees with the findings, interpretations, or decisions of the Director of Policy and Plans, USTRANSCOM, with respect to the administration of this part, may submit an appeal to the Commander. Such an appeal must be made in writing to the Commander within 60 days following the date of the document notifying the Agreement Holder of the administrative determination of the Director of Policy and Plans. Such an appeal should be addressed to the Commander, United States Transportation Command, 508 Scott Drive, Scott Air Force Base, IL 62225-5357. or via email to *transcom.scott.tccc.mbx.commander@mail.mil.*

(c) *Process.* The Administrator, or the Commander in the case of a DoD determination, may require the person making the request to furnish additional information, or proof of factual allegations, and may order any proceeding appropriate in the circumstances. The decision of the Administrator, or the Commander in the case of a DoD determination, will be administratively final.


