# § 396.12   Procedures for intermodal equipment providers to accept reports required by § 390.42(b) of this chapter.

(a) *System for reports.* Each intermodal equipment provider must establish a system for motor carriers and drivers to report to it any damage, defects, or deficiencies of intermodal equipment discovered by, or reported to, the motor carrier or driver which would—


(1) Affect the safety of operation of the intermodal equipment, or


(2) Result in its mechanical breakdown while transported on public roads.


(b) *Report content.* The system required by paragraph (a) of this section must include documentation of all of the following:


(1) Name of the motor carrier responsible for the operation of the intermodal equipment at the time the damage, defects, or deficiencies were discovered by, or reported to, the driver.


(2) Motor carrier's USDOT number; intermodal equipment provider's USDOT number, and a unique identifying number for the item of intermodal equipment.


(3) Date and time the report was submitted.


(4) All damage, defects, or deficiencies of the intermodal equipment must be reported to the equipment provider by the motor carrier or its driver. If no defect or deficiency in the intermodal equipment is discovered by or reported to the driver, no written report is required.


(5) The signature of the driver who prepared the report.


(c) *Corrective action.* (1) Prior to allowing or permitting a motor carrier to transport a piece of intermodal equipment for which a motor carrier or driver has submitted a report about damage, defects or deficiencies, each intermodal equipment provider or its agent must repair the reported damage, defects, or deficiencies that are likely to affect the safety of operation of the vehicle.


(2) Each intermodal equipment provider or its agent must certify on the original driver's report which lists any damage, defects, or deficiencies of the intermodal equipment that the reported damage, defects, or deficiencies have been repaired, or that repair is unnecessary, before the vehicle is operated again.


(d) *Retention period for reports.* Each intermodal equipment provider must maintain all documentation required by this section, including the driver report and the certification of repairs on all intermodal equipment, for a period of three months from the date that a motor carrier or its driver submits the report to the intermodal equipment provider or its agent.



---

[N] [73 FR 76824, Dec. 17, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 68709, Dec. 29, 2009; 77 FR 34852, June 12, 2012; 83 FR 16227, Apr. 16, 2018]




