# ยง 600.6   Eligibility.

(a) *General.* DOE shall solicit applications for financial assistance in a manner which provides for the maximum amount of competition feasible.


(b) *Restricted eligibility.* If DOE restricts eligibility, an explanation of why the restriction of eligibility is considered necessary shall be included in the funding opportunity announcement, program rule, or published notice.


(1) If the aggregate amount of DOE funds available for award under a funding opportunity announcement or published notice is $1million or more, unless authorized by statute or program rule, such restriction of eligibility shall be:


(i) Supported by a written determination initiated by the program office;


(ii) Concurred in by legal counsel and the Contracting Officer; and


(iii) Approved by an official no less than one level below the responsible program Assistant Secretary, Deputy Administrator, or other official of equivalent authority.


(2) Where the amount of DOE funds is less than $1 million, the cognizant HCA and the Contracting Officer may approve the determination.


(c) *Noncompetitive financial assistance.* DOE may award a grant or cooperative agreement or technology investment agreement on a noncompetitive basis only if the application satisfies one or more of the follow selection criteria:.


(1) The activity to be funded is necessary to the satisfactory completion of, or is a continuation or renewal of, an activity presently being funded by DOE or another Federal agency, and for which competition for support would have a significant adverse effect on continuity or completion of the activity.


(2) The activity is being or would be conducted by the applicant using its own resources or those donated or provided by third parties; however, DOE support of that activity would enhance the public benefits to be derived and DOE knows of no other entity which is conducting or is planning to conduct such an activity.


(3) The applicant is a unit of government and the activity to be supported is related to performance of a governmental function within the subject jurisdiction, thereby precluding DOE provision of support to another entity.


(4) The applicant has exclusive domestic capability to perform the activity successfully, based upon unique equipment, proprietary data, technical expertise, or other such unique qualifications.


(5) The award implements an agreement between the United States Government and a foreign government to fund a foreign applicant.


(6) Time constraints associated with a public health, safety, welfare or national security requirement preclude competition.


(7) The proposed project was submitted as an unsolicited proposal and represents a unique or innovative idea, method, or approach that would not be eligible for financial assistance under a recent, current, or planned funding opportunity announcement, and if, as determined by DOE, a competitive funding opportunity announcement would not be appropriate.


(8) The responsible program Assistant Secretary, Deputy Administrator, or other official of equivalent authority determines that a noncompetitive award is in the public interest. This authority may not be delegated.


(d) *Approval requirements.* (1) Where the amount of DOE funds is $1 million or greater, determinations of noncompetitive awards shall be:


(i) Documented in writing;


(ii) Concurred in by the responsible program technical official and local legal counsel; and


(iii) Approved, prior to award, by the responsible program Assistant Secretary, Deputy Administrator, or official of equivalent authority and the Contracting Officer. The approval authority may be delegated to one organizational level below the Assistant Secretary, Deputy Administrator, or official of equivalent authority.


(2) Where the amount of DOE funds is less than $1 million, determinations of noncompetitive awards shall be:


(i) Documented in writing;


(ii) Concurred in by local legal counsel, unless for a particular award or class of awards of $1 million or less, review is waived by legal counsel; and


(iii) Approved by the cognizant HCA and the Contracting Officer.



---

[N] [74 FR 44275, Aug. 28, 2009, as amended at 74 FR 48850, Sept. 25, 2009]




