# ยง 614.4540   Other financing institution access to Farm Credit Banks and agricultural credit banks for funding, discount, and other similar financial assistance.

(a) *Basic criteria for access.* Any national bank, State bank, trust company, agriculture credit corporation, incorporated livestock loan company, savings association, credit union, or any association of agricultural producers engaged in the making of loans to farmers and ranchers, and any corporation engaged in the making of loans to producers or harvesters of aquatic products may become an other financing institution (OFI) that funds, discounts, and obtains other similar financial assistance from a Farm Credit Bank or agricultural credit bank in order to extend short- and intermediate-term credit to eligible borrowers for authorized purposes pursuant to sections 1.10(b) and 2.4(a) and (b) of the Act. Each OFI shall be duly organized and qualified to make loans and leases under the laws of each jurisdiction in which it operates.


(b) *Assured access.* Each Farm Credit Bank or agricultural credit bank must fund, discount, or provide other similar financial assistance to any creditworthy OFI that:


(1) Maintains at least 15 percent of its loan volume at a seasonal peak in loans and leases to farmers, ranchers, aquatic producers and harvesters. The Farm Credit Bank or agricultural credit bank shall not include the loan assets of the OFI's parent, affiliates, or subsidiaries when determining compliance with the requirement of this paragraph; and


(2) Executes a general financing agreement with the Farm Credit Bank or agricultural credit bank that establishes a financing or discount relationship for at least 2 years.


(c) *Underwriting standards.* Each Farm Credit Bank and agricultural credit bank shall establish objective policies, procedures, pricing guidelines, and loan underwriting standards for determining the creditworthiness of each OFI applicant. A copy of such policies, procedures, guidelines, and standards shall be made available, upon request to each OFI and OFI applicant.


(d) *Denial of OFI access.* A Farm Credit Bank or an agricultural credit bank may deny the funding request of any creditworthy OFI that meets the conditions in paragraph (b) of this section only when such request would:


(1) Adversely affect a Farm Credit Bank or agricultural credit bank's ability to:


(i) Achieve and maintain established or projected capital levels; or


(ii) Raise funds in the money markets; or


(2) Otherwise expose the Farm Credit Bank or agricultural credit bank to safety and soundness risks.


(e) *Notice to applicants.* Each Farm Credit Bank or agricultural credit bank shall render its decision on an OFI application in as expeditious a manner as is practicable. Upon reaching a decision on an application, the Farm Credit Bank or agricultural credit bank shall provide prompt written notice of its decision to the applicant. When the Farm Credit Bank or agricultural credit bank makes an adverse credit decision on an application, the written notice shall include the specific reason(s) for the decision.


(f) *Reports to the board of directors.* Each Farm Credit Bank and agricultural credit bank shall provide its board of directors with a written annual report regarding the scope of OFI program activities during the preceding fiscal year.



---

[N] [63 FR 36547, July 7, 1998, as amended at 69 FR 29862, May 26, 2004]




