# § 60.5377b   What GHG and VOC standards apply to associated gas wells at well affected facilities?

(a) You must comply with either paragraph (a)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section for each associated gas well upon startup and at all times, except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section. You must also comply with paragraphs (h), (i), and (j) of this section.


(1) Recover the associated gas from the separator and route the recovered gas into a gas gathering flow line or collection system to a sales line.


(2) Recover the associated gas from the separator and use the recovered gas as an onsite fuel source.


(3) Recover the associated gas from the separator and use the recovered gas for another useful purpose that a purchased fuel or raw material would serve.


(4) Recover the associated gas from the separator and reinject the recovered gas into the well or inject the recovered gas into another well.


(b) For associated gas wells that commenced construction between May 7, 2024 and May 7, 2026, you can comply with the requirements in paragraph (f) of this section continually upon startup instead of paragraph (a) of this section until May 7, 2026 if you demonstrate and certify that it is not feasible to comply with paragraphs (a)(1), (2), (3), and (4) of this section due to technical reasons in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section. After May 7, 2026 you must continually comply with paragraph (a) of this section at all times.


(c) For associated gas wells that commenced construction between December 6, 2022, and May 7, 2024, and for associated gas wells that undergo reconstruction or modification after December 6, 2022, you can comply with the requirements in paragraph (f) of this section instead of paragraph (a) of this section if you demonstrate and certify that it is not feasible to comply with paragraph (a)(1), (2), (3), and (4) of this section due to technical reasons in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section. Associated gas wells that are modified or reconstructed must comply with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section upon startup and at all times thereafter.


(d) If you are complying with paragraph (a) of this section, you may temporarily route the associated gas to a flare or control device that achieves a 95.0 percent reduction in VOC and methane emissions in the situations and for the durations identified in paragraphs (d)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section. The associated gas must be routed through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(a) and (c) and the control device must meet the conditions specified in § 60.5412b during the period when the associated gas is routed to the flare. Records must be kept of all instances in which associated gas is temporarily routed to a flare or to a control device in accordance with § 60.5420b(c)(3)(i)(B) and reported in the annual report in accordance with § 60.5420b(b)(4)(i)(B).


(1) During a malfunction or incident that endangers the safety of operator personnel or the public you are allowed to route to a flare or control device for 24 hours or less per incident.


(2) During repair, maintenance including blow downs, a production test, or commissioning, you are allowed to route to a flare or control device for 24 hours or less per incident.


(3) For wells complying with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, during a temporary interruption in service from the gathering or pipeline system you are allowed to route to a flare or route to a control device for the duration of the temporary interruption not to exceed 30 days per incident.


(4) During periods when the composition of the associated gas does not meet pipeline specifications for sources complying with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, or when the composition of the associated gas does not meet the quality requirements for use as a fuel for sources complying with paragraph (a)(2) of this section, or when the composition of the associated gas does not meet the quality requirements for another useful purpose for sources complying with paragraph (a)(3) of this section, you are allowed to route to a flare or control device until the associated gas meets the required specifications or for 72 hours per incident, whichever is less.


(e) If you are complying with paragraph (a), (d), or (f) of this section, you may vent the associated gas in the situations and for the durations identified in paragraphs (e)(1), (2), or (3) of this section per incident. The cumulative period of venting must not exceed 24 hours for any calendar year. Records must be kept of all venting instances in accordance with § 60.5420b(c)(3)(ii) and reported in the annual report in accordance with § 60.5420b(b)(4)(ii).


(1) For up to 12 hours per incident to protect the safety of personnel.


(2) For up to 30 minutes per incident during bradenhead monitoring.


(3) For up to 30 minutes per incident during a packer leakage test.


(f) You must route the associated gas to a control device that reduces methane and VOC emissions by at least 95.0 percent. The associated gas must be routed through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(a) and (c) and the control device must meet the conditions specified in § 60.5412b.


(1) For associated gas wells identified in paragraph (b) of this section, you can comply with the requirements in paragraph (f) of this section for up to a one year period if you demonstrate and certify that it is not feasible to comply with paragraph (a)(1), (2), (3), and (4) of this section due to technical reasons in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section. This allowance is renewable each year with an updated technical infeasibility demonstration and certification in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section. Associated gas wells identified in paragraph (b) of this section are not allowed to comply with the requirements in paragraph (f) of this section after May 7, 2026.


(2) For associated gas wells identified in paragraph (c) of this section, you can comply with the requirements in paragraph (f) of this section for up to a one year period if you demonstrate and certify that it is not feasible to comply with paragraph (a)(1), (2), (3), and (4) of this section due to technical reasons in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section. This allowance is renewable each year with an updated technical infeasibility demonstration and certification in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.


(g) For affected sources identified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section that are complying with the requirements in paragraph (f) of this section, you must demonstrate that it is not feasible to comply with paragraph (a)(1), (2), (3), and (4) of this section due to technical reasons by providing a detailed analysis documenting and certifying the technical reasons for this infeasibility.


(1) The demonstration must address the technical infeasibility for all options identified in (a)(1), (2), (3), and (4) of this section.


(2) This demonstration must be certified by a professional engineer or another qualified individual with expertise in the uses of associated gas. The following certification, signed and dated by the qualified professional engineer or other qualified individual shall state: “I certify that the assessment of technical and safety infeasibility was prepared under my direction or supervision. I further certify that the assessment was conducted, and this report was prepared pursuant to the requirements of § 60.5377b(b). Based on my professional knowledge and experience, and inquiry of personnel involved in the assessment, the certification submitted herein is true, accurate, and complete.”


(3) This demonstration and certification are valid for no more than 12 months. You must re-analyze the feasibility of complying with paragraphs (a)(1), (2), (3), and (4) of this section and finalize a new demonstration and certification each year.


(4) Documentation of these demonstrations, along with the certifications, must be maintained in accordance with § 60.5420b(c)(3)(iii) and submitted in annual reports in accordance with § 60.5420b(b)(4)(iii)(C) and (D).


(h) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the standards that apply to associated gas wells as required by § 60.5410b(c).


(i) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the standards that apply to associated gas wells as required by § 60.5415b(c).


(j) You must perform the reporting as required by § 60.5420b(b)(1) and (4), and (b)(11) and (12), as applicable; and the recordkeeping as required by § 60.5420b(c)(3) and (8), and (c)(10) through (13), as applicable.



---

[N] [89 FR 17043, Mar. 8, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 62891, Aug. 1, 2024]




