# ยง 1101.24   Scope of comments Commission seeks.

(a) *Comment in regard to the information.* The section 6(b) opportunity to comment on information is intended to permit firms to furnish information and data to the Commission to assist the agency in its evaluation of the accuracy of the information. A firm's submission, therefore, must be specific and should be accompanied by documentation, where available, if the comments are to assist the Commission in its evaluation of the information. Comments of a general nature, such as general suggestions or allegations that a document is inaccurate or that the Commission has not taken reasonable steps to assure accuracy, are not sufficient to assist the Commission in its evaluation of the information or to justify a claim of inaccuracy. The weight accorded a firm's comments on the accuracy of information and the degree of scrutiny which the Commission will exercise in evaluating the information will depend on the specificity and completeness of the firm's comments and of the accompanying documentation. In general, specific comments which are accompanied by documentation will be given more weight than those which are undocumented and general in nature.


(b) *Claims of confidentiality.* If the manufacturer or private labeler believes the information involved cannot be disclosed because of section 6(a)(2) of the CPSA (15 U.S.C. 2055(a)(2)), which pertains to trade secret or other confidential material, the firm may make claims of confidentiality at the time it submits its comments to the Commission under this section. Such claims must identify the specific information which the firm believes to be confidential or trade secret material and must state with specificity the grounds on which the firm bases it claims. (See Commission's Freedom of Information Act regulation, 16 CFR part 1015, particularly 16 CFR 1015.18.)


(c) *Requests for nondisclosure of comments.* If a firm objects to disclosure of its comments or a portion thereof, it must notify the Commission at the time it submits its comments. If the firm objects to the disclosure of a portion of its comments, it must identify those portions which should be withheld.




