# ยง 1780.13   Rates and terms.

(a) *General.* (1) Each loan will bear interest at the rate prescribed in RD Instruction 440.1, exhibit B. The interest rates will be set by the Agency for each quarter of the fiscal year. All rates will be adjusted to the nearest one-eighth of one per centum. The rate will be the lower of the rate in effect at the time of loan approval or the rate in effect at the time of loan closing unless the applicant otherwise chooses.


(2) If the interest rate is to be that in effect at loan closing on a loan involving multiple advances of RUS funds using temporary debt instruments, the interest rate charged shall be that in effect on the date when the first temporary debt instrument is issued.


(3) For a loan for a specific project that has been approved, but not closed on or before May 22, 2008, the rate structure in effect at that time will determine the interest rates. For loans approved on or after May 23, 2008, a percentage of the market rate will be used to determine the poverty and intermediate interest rates.


(b) *Poverty rate.* The poverty interest rate will not exceed 5 per centum per annum. Loans approved on or after May 23, 2008, will have the poverty interest rate set at 60 percent of the market rate. All poverty rate loans must comply with the following conditions:


(1) The primary purpose of the loan is to upgrade existing facilities or construct new facilities required to meet applicable health or sanitary standards; and


(2) The median household income of the service area is below the higher of the poverty line, or 80 percent of the Statewide nonmetropolitan median household income.


(c) *Intermediate rate.* The intermediate interest rate will not exceed 7 percent per annum. For a loan for a specific project that has been approved, but not closed on or before May 22, 2008, the intermediate rate is the poverty rate plus one-half of the difference between the poverty rate and the market rate, not to exceed 7 percent per annum. Loans approved on or after May 23, 2008, will have the intermediate interest rate set at 80 percent of the market rate. The intermediate interest rate will apply to loans that do not meet the requirements for the poverty rate and for which the median household income of the service area is not more than 100 percent of the nonmetropolitan median household income of the State.


(d) *Market rate.* The market interest rate will be set using as guidance the average of the Bond Buyer Index (available in any Agency office or the program's Web site) for the four weeks prior to the first Friday of the last month before the beginning of the quarter. The market rate will apply to all loans that do not qualify for a different rate under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section.


(e) *Repayment terms.* The loan repayment period shall not exceed the useful life of the facility, State statute or 40 years from the date of the note or bond, whichever is less. Where RUS grant funds are used in connection with an RUS loan, the loan will be for the maximum term permitted by this part, State statute, or the useful life of the facility, whichever is less, unless there is an exceptional case where circumstances justify making an RUS loan for less than the maximum term permitted. In such cases, the reasons must be fully documented.


(1) Principal payments may be deferred in whole or in part for a period not to exceed 36 months following the date the first interest installment is due. If for any reason it appears necessary to permit a longer period of deferment, the Agency may authorize such deferment. Deferments of principal will not be used to:


(i) Postpone the levying of taxes or assessments;


(ii) Delay collection of the full rates which the borrower has agreed to charge users for its services as soon as those services become available;


(iii) Create reserves for normal operation and maintenance;


(iv) Make any capital improvements except those approved by the Agency which are determined to be essential to the repayment of the loan or to maintain adequate security; and


(v) Make payment on other debt.


(2) *Payment date.* Loan payments will be scheduled to coincide with income availability and be in accordance with State law. If State law only permits principal plus interest (P&I) type bonds, annual or semiannual payments will be used. Insofar as practical monthly payments will be scheduled one full month following the date of loan closing; or semiannual or annual payments will be scheduled six or twelve full months, respectively, following the date of loan closing or any deferment period. Due dates falling on the 29th, 30th or 31st day of the month will be avoided.


(3) In all cases, including those in which RUS is jointly financing with another lender, the RUS payments of principal and interest should approximate amortized installments.



---

[N] [62 FR 33478, June 19, 1997, as amended at 74 FR 395, Jan. 6, 2009; 82 FR 43671, Sept. 19, 2017]




