# § 63.7283   When do I have to comply with this subpart?

(a) If you have an existing affected source, you must comply with each emission limitation, work practice standard, and operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart that applies to you no later than April 14, 2006. This paragraph does not apply to the emission limitations listed in §§ 63.7290(b) through (d), 63.7296(c) through (f), 63.7297(a) through (d), and 63.7298(a) through (e) for capture systems and control devices applied to pushing emissions, battery stacks, HNR HRSG main stacks, and HNR HRSG bypass/waste heat stacks, respectively.


(b) If you have a new affected source and its initial startup date is on or before April 14, 2003, you must comply with each emission limitation, work practice standard, and operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart that applies to you by April 14, 2003. This paragraph does not apply to the emission limitations listed in §§ 63.7290(b) through (d), 63.7296(c) through (f), 63.7297(a) through (d), and 63.7298(a) through (e) for capture systems and control devices applied to pushing emissions, battery stacks, HNR HRSG main stacks, and HNR HRSG bypass/waste heat stacks, respectively.


(c) If you have a new affected source and its initial startup date is after April 14, 2003, you must comply with each emission limitation, work practice standard, and operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart that applies to you upon initial startup. This paragraph does not apply to the emission limitations listed in §§ 63.7290(b) through (d), 63.7296(c) through (f), 63.7297(a) through (d), and 63.7298(a) through (e) for capture systems and control devices applied to pushing emissions, battery stacks, HNR HRSG main stacks, and HNR HRSG bypass/waste heat stacks, respectively.


(d) With regard to the §§ 63.7290(b) through (d), 63.7296(c) through (f), 63.7297(a) through (d), and 63.7298(a) through (e) emission limitations for capture systems and control devices applied to pushing emissions, battery stacks, HNR HRSG main stacks, and HNR HRSG bypass/waste heat stacks, respectively:


(1) If you have an existing affected source or a new or reconstructed affected source for which construction or reconstruction commenced on or before August 16, 2023, you must be in compliance no later than January 5, 2026.


(2) If you have a new or reconstructed affected source for which construction or reconstruction commenced after August 16, 2023, you must be in compliance no later than January 5, 2026 or upon startup, whichever is later.


(e) With regard to the § 63.7299 opacity limitations for HNR HRSG bypass/waste heat stacks:


(1) If you have an existing affected source or a new or reconstructed affected source for which construction or reconstruction commenced on or before August 16, 2023, you must be in compliance no later than July 7, 2025.


(2) If you have a new or reconstructed affected source for which construction or reconstruction commenced after August 16, 2023, you must be in compliance no later than July 7, 2025, or upon initial startup, whichever is later.


(f) You must meet the notification and schedule requirements in § 63.7340. Several of these notifications must be submitted before the compliance date for your affected source.





---

[N] [89 FR 55742, July 5, 2024]




