# § 674.2   Definitions.

(a) The definitions of the following terms used in this part are set forth in subpart A of the Student Assistance General Provisions, 34 CFR part 668:


(b) The Secretary defines other terms used in this part as follows:


*Default:* The failure of a borrower to make an installment payment when due or to comply with other terms of the promissory note or written repayment agreement.


*Enter repayment:* The day following the expiration of the initial grace period or the day the borrower waives the initial grace period. This date does not change if a forbearance, deferment, or cancellation is granted after the borrower enters repayment.


*Federal capital contribution (FCC):* Federal funds allocated or reallocated to an institution for deposit into the institution's Fund under section 462 of the HEA.


**Financial need:* The difference between a student's cost of attendance and his or her EFC.


*Fund (Federal Perkins Loan Fund):* A fund established and maintained according to § 674.8.


*Initial grace period:* That period which immediately follows a period of enrollment and immediately precedes the date of the first required repayment on a loan. This period is generally nine months for Federal Perkins loans, Defense loans, and NDSLs made before October 1, 1980, and six months for other Direct loans.


**Institution of higher education (institution):* A public or private nonprofit institution of higher education, a proprietary institution of higher education, or a postsecondary vocational institution.


*Institutional capital contribution (ICC):* Institutional funds contributed to establish or maintain a Fund.


*Making of a loan:* When the institution makes the first disbursement of a loan to a student for an award year.


*Master Promissory Note (MPN):* A promissory note under which the borrower may receive loans for a single award year or multiple award years.


*National credit bureau:* Any one of the national credit bureaus with which the Secretary has an agreement.


**Need-based employment:* Employment provided by an institution itself or by another entity to a student who has demonstrated to the institution or the entity (through standards or methods it establishes) a financial need for the earnings from that employment for the purpose of defraying educational costs of attendance for the award year for which the employment is provided.


*Post-deferment grace period:* That period of six consecutive months which immediately follows the end of certain periods of deferment and precedes the date on which the borrower is required to resume repayment on a loan.


*Satisfactory repayment arrangement:* (1) For purposes of regaining eligibility for grant, loan, or work assistance under title IV of the HEA, to the extent that the borrower is otherwise eligible, the making of six on-time, consecutive, voluntary, full monthly payments on a defaulted loan. “On-time” means a payment made within 20 days of the scheduled due date. A borrower may obtain the benefit of this paragraph with respect to renewed eligibility once.


(2) Voluntary payments are payments made directly by the borrower, and do not include payments obtained by income tax offset, garnishment, or income or asset execution.


(3) A borrower has not used the one opportunity to renew eligibility for title IV assistance if the borrower makes six consecutive, on-time, voluntary, full monthly payments under an agreement to rehabilitate a defaulted loan, but does not receive additional title IV assistance prior to defaulting on that loan again.


*Student loan:* For this part means an NDSL Loan, Defense Loan, or a Federal Perkins Loan.


*Total monthly gross income:* The gross amount of income received by the borrower from employment (either full-time or part-time) and from other sources.



---

[N] [52 FR 45747, Dec. 1, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 52580, Dec. 28, 1988; 57 FR 32344, July 21, 1992; 59 FR 61404, 61415, Nov. 30, 1994; 60 FR 61814, Dec. 1, 1995; 61 FR 60608, Nov. 29, 1996; 64 FR 58308, Oct. 28, 1999; 65 FR 18002, Apr. 6, 2000; 67 FR 67076, Nov. 1, 2002; 69 FR 12276, Mar. 16, 2004; 71 FR 38003, July 3, 2006; 72 FR 62030, Nov. 1, 2007; 73 FR 35494, June 23, 2008; 78 FR 65804, Nov. 1, 2013]




