# § 622.374   Recordkeeping and reporting.

(a) *Commercial vessel owners and operators.* The owner or operator of a vessel that fishes for or lands coastal migratory pelagic fish for sale in or from the Gulf, Mid-Atlantic, or South Atlantic EEZ or adjoining state waters, or whose vessel is issued a commercial permit for king or Spanish mackerel, as required under § 622.370(a)(1) or (3), respectively, who is selected to report by the SRD, must maintain a fishing record on a form available from the SRD. These completed fishing records must be submitted to the SRD postmarked not later than 7 days after the end of each fishing trip. If no fishing occurred during a calendar month, a report so stating must be submitted on one of the forms postmarked not later than 7 days after the end of that month. Information to be reported is indicated on the form and its accompanying instructions.


(b) *Charter vessel/headboat owners and operators*—(1) *General reporting requirement*—(i) *Gulf of Mexico.* The owner or operator of a charter vessel or headboat for which a charter vessel/headboat permit for Gulf coastal migratory pelagic fish has been issued, as required under § 622.370(b)(1), and whose vessel is operating as a charter vessel or headboat, regardless of fishing location, must submit an electronic fishing report of all fish harvested and discarded, and any other information requested by the SRD for each trip within the time period specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section. An electronic fishing report must be submitted to the SRD via NMFS approved hardware and software, as specified in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section. If selected by the SRD, the owner or operator of a vessel for which a charter vessel/headboat permit for Gulf coastal migratory pelagic fish has been issued must report via the NMFS approved software for the Southeast Region Headboat Survey.


(ii) *Atlantic*—(A) *Charter vessels.* The owner or operator of a charter vessel for which a charter vessel/headboat permit for Atlantic coastal migratory pelagic fish has been issued, as required under § 622.370(b)(1), and whose vessel is operating as a charter vessel, must record all fish harvested and discarded, and any other information requested by the SRD for each trip, and submit an electronic fishing report within the time period specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section. The electronic fishing report must be submitted to the SRD via NMFS-approved hardware and software, as specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section. If the owner or operator subject to this paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) has been issued a Federal permit that requires more restrictive reporting requirements, as determined by NMFS and posted on the NMFS Southeast Region website, reporting under those more restrictive regulations will meet the requirements of this paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A).


(B) *Headboats.* The owner or operator of a headboat for which a charter vessel/headboat permit for Atlantic coastal migratory pelagic fish has been issued, as required under § 622.370(b)(1), and whose vessel is operating as a headboat in state or Federal waters, must record all fish harvested and discarded, and any other information requested by the SRD for each trip in state or Federal waters, and submit an electronic fishing report within the time period specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section. The electronic fishing report must be submitted to the SRD via NMFS-approved hardware and software, as specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.


(2) *Reporting deadlines*—(i) *Gulf of Mexico.* Completed electronic fishing reports required by paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section must be submitted to the SRD prior to removing any fish from the vessel. If no fish were retained by any person on the vessel during a trip, the completed electronic fishing report must be submitted to the SRD within 30 minutes of the completion of the trip, *e.g.,* arrival at the dock.


(ii) *Atlantic.* Completed electronic fishing reports required by paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section must be submitted to the SRD by the Tuesday following each previous reporting week of Monday through Sunday, or at shorter intervals if notified by the SRD. If no fishing activity as a charter vessel or headboat occurred during a reporting week, an electronic report so stating must be submitted by the Tuesday following that reporting week, or at a shorter interval if notified by the SRD.


(3) *Catastrophic conditions.* During catastrophic conditions only, NMFS provides for use of paper forms for basic required functions as a backup to the electronic reports required by paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. The RA will determine when catastrophic conditions exist, the duration of the catastrophic conditions, and which participants or geographic areas are deemed affected by the catastrophic conditions. The RA will provide timely notice to affected participants via publication of notification in the _Federal Register,_ and other appropriate means, such as fishery bulletins or NOAA weather radio, and will authorize the affected participants' use of paper-based components for the duration of the catastrophic conditions. The paper forms will be available from NMFS. During catastrophic conditions, the RA has the authority to waive or modify reporting time requirements.


(4) *Compliance requirement.* Electronic reports required by paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section must be submitted and received by NMFS according to the reporting requirements under this section. A report not received within the applicable time specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section is delinquent. A delinquent report automatically results in the owner and operator of a charter vessel or headboat for which a charter vessel/headboat permit for Gulf or Atlantic coastal migratory pelagic fish has been issued, as required under § 622.370(b)(1), being prohibited from harvesting or possessing such species, regardless of any additional notification to the delinquent owner and operator by NMFS. The owner and operator who are prohibited from harvesting or possessing such species due to delinquent reports are authorized to harvest or possess such species only after all required and delinquent reports have been submitted and received by NMFS according to the reporting requirements under this section.


(5) *Hardware and software requirements for electronic reporting*—(i) *Owner or operator applicability.* An owner or operator of a vessel for which a charter vessel/headboat permit for Gulf or Atlantic coastal migratory pelagic fish has been issued must submit electronic reports using NMFS-approved hardware and software as posted on the NMFS Southeast Region website.


(ii) *Vessel applicability.* For a vessel for which a charter vessel/headboat permit for Gulf coastal migratory pelagic fish has been issued, the NMFS-approved hardware and software must have a minimum capability of archiving GPS locations, and the cellular or satellite VMS must be permanently affixed to the vessel and have uninterrupted operation.


(iii) *Use of a NMFS-approved satellite VMS.* An owner or operator of a vessel for which a charter vessel/headboat permit for Gulf coastal migratory pelagic fish has been issued, and who uses a NMFS-approved satellite VMS to comply with the reporting and recordkeeping requirements of this section, must adhere to the VMS requirements for the Gulf reef fish fishery specified in § 622.28, except for the trip declaration requirements specified in § 622.28(e). For trip declaration requirements, see paragraph (b)(6) of this section.


(iv) *Use of NMFS-approved cellular VMS.* An owner or operator of a vessel for which a charter vessel/headboat permit for Gulf coastal migratory pelagic fish has been issued, and who uses NMFS-approved cellular VMS to comply with reporting and recordkeeping requirements of this section must comply with the following—


(A) *Cellular VMS unit operation and replacement.* Ensure that such vessel has an operating cellular VMS unit approved by NMFS on board at all times whether or not the vessel is underway, unless exempted by NMFS under the power-down exemption specified in paragraph (b)(5)(iv)(D) of this section. An operating cellular VMS unit includes an operating mobile transmitting unit on the vessel and a functioning communication link between the unit and NMFS as provided by a NMFS-approved communication service provider. NMFS maintains a current list of approved cellular VMS units and communication providers, which is available at *https://www.fisheries.noaa.gov/southeast/about-us/sustainable-fisheries-division-gulf-mexico-branch.* If NMFS OLE removes a cellular VMS unit from the approved list, a vessel owner who purchased and installed such a unit prior to its removal from the approved list will still comply with the requirement to have an approved unit, unless otherwise notified by NMFS. At the end of a cellular VMS unit's service life, it must be replaced with a currently approved unit.


(B) *Hourly position reporting requirement.* An owner or operator of a vessel using a NMFS-approved cellular VMS unit as specified in paragraph (b)(5)(iv)(A) of this section must ensure that the required cellular VMS unit archives the vessel's accurate position at least once per hour, 24 hours a day, every day of the year, unless exempted from this requirement under paragraphs (b)(5)(iv)(C) or (D) of this section.


(C) *In-port exemption.* While in port, an owner or operator of a vessel with a NMFS-approved cellular VMS unit configured with the 4-hour position reporting feature may utilize the 4-hour reporting feature rather than comply with the hourly position reporting requirement specified in paragraph (b)(5)(iv)(B) of this section. Once the vessel is no longer in port, the hourly position reporting requirement specified in paragraph (b)(5)(iv)(B) of this section applies. For the purposes of this section, “in port” means secured at a land-based facility, or moored or anchored after the return to a dock, berth, beach, seawall, or ramp.


(D) *Power-down exemption.* An owner or operator of a vessel subject to the requirement to have a cellular VMS unit operating at all times as specified in paragraph (b)(5)(iv)(A) of this section can be exempted from that requirement and may power down the required cellular VMS unit if—


(*1*) The vessel will be continuously out of the water or in port, as defined in paragraph (b)(5)(iv)(C) of this section, for more than 72 consecutive hours; and


(*2*) The owner or operator of the vessel applies for and obtains a valid letter of exemption from NMFS. The letter of exemption must be maintained on board the vessel and remains valid for the period specified in the letter for all subsequent power-down requests conducted for the vessel consistent with the provisions of paragraphs (b)(5)(iv)(D)(*3*) and (*4*) of this section.


(*3*) Prior to each power down, the owner or operator of the vessel files a report using a NMFS-approved form that includes the name of the person filing the report, vessel name, U.S. Coast Guard vessel documentation number or state vessel registration number, permit number of the Gulf coastal migratory pelagic charter vessel/headboat permit, vessel port location during cellular VMS power down, estimated duration of the power-down exemption, and reason for power down; and


(*4*) Prior to powering down the cellular VMS unit, the owner or operator of the vessel receives a confirmation from NMFS that the information was successfully delivered.


(E) *Installation and activation of a cellular VMS unit.* Only a cellular VMS unit that has been approved by NMFS for the Gulf coastal migratory pelagic fishery may be used, and the cellular VMS unit must be installed by a qualified marine electrician. When installing and activating or when reinstalling and reactivating the NMFS-approved cellular VMS unit, the vessel owner or operator must—


(*1*) Follow procedures indicated on the VMS installation and activation form, which is available from NMFS; and


(*2*) Submit a completed and signed VMS installation and activation form to NMFS as specified on the form.


(F) *Interference with the cellular VMS.* No person may interfere with, tamper with, alter, damage, disable, or impede the operation of the cellular VMS, or attempt any of the same.


(G) *Interruption of operation of the cellular VMS.* If a vessel's cellular VMS is not operating properly, the vessel owner or operator must immediately contact NMFS and follow NMFS' instructions. If notified by NMFS that a vessel's cellular VMS is not operating properly, the vessel owner or operator must follow NMFS' instructions. In either event, such instructions may include, but are not limited to, manually communicating to a location designated by NMFS the vessel's positions or returning to port until the cellular VMS is operable.


(v) *Access to position data.* As a condition of authorized fishing for or possession of Gulf coastal migratory pelagic fish subject to the reporting and recordkeeping requirements in this section, a vessel owner or operator subject to the hardware and software requirements in this section must allow NMFS, the U.S. Coast Guard, and their authorized officers and designees access to the vessel's position data obtained from the cellular VMS.


(6) *Trip declaration requirements in the Gulf.* For purposes of this paragraph (b)(6), a trip begins anytime the vessel departs from a dock, berth, beach, seawall, or ramp, and terminates with return to a dock, berth, beach, seawall, or ramp, regardless of the duration or purpose, including non-fishing activities. Prior to departure for each trip, the owner or operator of a vessel for which a charter vessel/headboat permit for Gulf coastal migratory pelagic fish has been issued must notify NMFS and report the type of trip, the U.S. Coast Guard vessel documentation number or state vessel registration number, and whether the vessel will be operating as a charter vessel or headboat, or is departing on another type of trip, such as a commercial trip. If the vessel will be operating as a charter vessel or headboat during the trip, the owner or operator must also report the expected trip completion date, time, and landing location.


(c) *Dealers.* (1) A dealer who first receives Gulf or Atlantic coastal migratory pelagic fish must maintain records and submit information as specified in § 622.5(c).


(2) *Alternate SRD.* For the purpose of § 622.5(c), in the states from New York through Virginia, or in the waters off those states, “SRD” means the Science and Research Director, Northeast Fisheries Science Center, NMFS, or a designee.



---

[N] [78 FR 22952, Apr. 17, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 6100, Feb. 3, 2014; 79 FR 19496, Apr. 9, 2014; 82 FR 17396, Apr. 11, 2017; 85 FR 10339, Feb. 24, 2020; 85 FR 44017, July 21, 2020]




