# ยง 1710.152   Primary support documents.

The following primary support documents and studies must be prepared by the borrower for approval by RUS in order to support a loan application: 


(a) *Load forecast.* The load forecast provides the borrower and RUS with an understanding of the borrower's future system loads, the factors influencing those loads, and estimates of future loads. The load forecast provides a basis for projecting annual electricity (kWh) sales and revenues, and for engineering estimates of plant additions required to provide reliable service to meet the forecasted loads. Subpart E of this part contains the information to be included in a load forecast and when an approved load forecast is required. 


(b) *Construction work plan (CWP).* The CWP shall specify and document the capital investments required to serve a borrower's planned new loads, improve service reliability and quality, and service the changing needs of existing loads. The requirements for a CWP are set forth in subpart F of this part. 


(c) *Long-range financial forecasts.* RUS encourages borrowers to maintain on a current basis a long-range financial forecast, which should be used by a borrower's board of directors and manager to guide the system toward its financial goals. The forecast submitted in support of a loan application shall show the projected results of future actions planned by the board of directors. The requirements for a long-range financial forecast are set forth in subpart G of this part. 


(d) *Environmental review requirements.* A borrower must comply with the environmental review requirements in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.


(e) *EE Program work plan (EEWP).* In the case of a loan application to finance an Eligible Energy Efficient Program, an EE Program work plan shall be prepared in lieu of a traditional CWP required pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section. The requirements for an EEWP are set forth in ยง 1710.255 and in subpart H of this part.



---

[N] [57 FR 1053, Jan. 9, 1992, as amended at 65 FR 14786, Mar. 20, 2000; 78 FR 73366, Dec. 5, 2013; 81 FR 11026, Mar. 2, 2016]




