# § 319.8-17   Importation for exportation, and importation for transportation and exportation; storage.

(a) Importation of cotton and covers for exportation, or for transportation and exportation, in accordance with this subpart shall also be subject to §§ 352.1 through 352.8 of this chapter, as amended. 


(b) Importation at northern ports of unfumigated lint, linters, waste, cottonseed cake, cottonseed meal and covers used only for cotton, for exportation or for transportation and exportation through another northern port, may be authorized by the inspector under permit if, in his judgment, such procedures can be authorized without risk of introducing the pink bollworm. 


(c) Entry under permit of lint, linters, or waste compressed to high density will be authorized for purposes of storage in the north pending exportation, fumigation, or utilization in an approved mill or plant provided the owner or operator of such proposed storage place has executed an agreement with the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs similar to those required for mills or plants to utilize lint, linters, and waste as specified in § 319.8-8(a)(2), and provided further that 


(1) Inspectors are available to supervise the storage, 


(2) The bales of material to be stored are free from surface contamination, 


(3) The material is kept segregated from other cotton and covers in a manner satisfactory to the inspector, and 


(4) The waste is collected and disposed of in a manner satisfactory to the inspector. 


(d) Except as provided in § 319.8-23(a)(4), compressed lint, linters, and waste, uncompressed waste derived from cotton milled in a non-cotton-producing country, 
4 and covers, arriving at a port in the north for entry for exportation, vacuum fumigation, or utilization in accordance with the requirements in this subpart, may be allowed movement in Customs custody for storage at a point in the north pending such exportation, or movement to an approved mill or plant for vacuum fumigation or utilization, when there are inspectors available to supervise such storage, if the bales are free of surface contamination, if they are kept segregated from other cotton and covers in a manner satisfactory to the inspector, and if waste is collected and disposed of in a manner satisfactory to the inspector. Such lint, linters, waste, and covers shall remain under Customs custody until released by the inspector. 


(e) Importation of lint, linters, and waste from Mexico for transportation and exportation will be authorized under permit if such material is compressed before, or immediately upon entering into the United States, or is compressed while en route to the port of export at a compress specifically authorized in the permit. The ports of export which may be named in the permit shall be limited to those that have been administratively approved for such exportation. Storage of such compressed cotton may be authorized, in approved bonded warehouses in Texas. 


(f) Entry of uncompressed lint, linters, and waste from Mexico may be authorized at ports named in the permit for exportation at ports within the generally infested pink bollworm regulated area or for transportation and exportation via rail to Canada under such conditions and over such routes as may be specified in the permit. 



---

[N] [24 FR 10788, Dec. 29, 1959, as amended at 27 FR 5390, June 7, 1962; 36 FR 24917, Dec. 24, 1971; 63 FR 31101, June 8, 1998; 78 FR 25570, May 2, 2013; 79 FR 19810, Apr. 10, 2014] 




