# § 156.140   Identification of container types.

For products other than plant-incorporated protectants, the following statements, as applicable, must be placed on the label or container. The information may be located on any part of the container except the closure. If the statements are placed on the container, they must be durably marked on the container. Durable marking includes, but is not limited to etching, embossing, ink jetting, stamping, heat stamping, mechanically attaching a plate, molding, or marking with durable ink.


(a) *Nonrefillable container.* For nonrefillable containers, the statements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section are required except as provided in paragraphs (a)(5), (c), (d), and (e) of this section. If placed on the label, the statements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section must be under an appropriate heading under the heading “Storage and Disposal.” If any of the statements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section are placed on the container, an appropriate referral statement such as “See container for recycling [or other descriptive word] information.” must be placed on the label under the heading “Storage and Disposal.”


(1) *Statement identifying a nonrefillable container.* The following phrase is required: “Nonrefillable container.”


(2) *Reuse statement.* One of the following statements is required. Products with labels that allow household/residential use must use the statement in paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (a)(2)(iii) of this section. All other products must use the statement in paragraph (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), or (a)(2)(iii) of this section.


(i) “Do not reuse or refill this container.”


(ii) “Do not reuse this container to hold materials other than pesticides or dilute pesticides (rinsate). After emptying and cleaning, it may be allowable to temporarily hold rinsate or other pesticide-related materials in the container. Contact your state regulatory agency to determine allowable practices in your state.”


(iii) The following statement may be used if a product is “ready-to-use” and its directions for use allow a different product (that is a similar, but concentrated formulation) to be poured into the container and diluted by the end user: “Do not reuse or refill this container unless the directions for use allow a different (concentrated) product to be diluted in the container.”


(3) *Recycling or reconditioning statement.* One of the following statements is required:


(i) “Offer for recycling if available.”


(ii) “Once cleaned, some agricultural plastic pesticide containers can be taken to a container collection site or picked up for recycling. To find the nearest site, contact your chemical dealer or manufacturer or contact [a pesticide container recycling organization] at [phone number] or [web site]. For example, this statement could be “Once cleaned, some agricultural plastic pesticide containers can be taken to a container collection site or picked up for recycling. To find the nearest site, contact your chemical dealer or manufacturer or contact the Ag Container Recycling Council (ACRC) at 1-877-952-2272 (toll-free) or *www.acrecycle.org.*”


(iii) A recycling statement approved by EPA and published in an EPA document, such as a Pesticide Registration Notice.


(iv) An alternative recycling statement that has been reviewed and approved by EPA.


(v) “Offer for reconditioning if appropriate.”


(4) *Batch code.* A lot number, or other code used by the registrant or producer to identify the batch of the pesticide product which is distributed and sold is required.


(5) *Exemptions.* Pesticide products in the following types of nonrefillable containers, and their packaging, are exempt from the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section:


(i) Aerosol cans.


(ii) Devices as defined in § 152.500 of this chapter.


(iii) One-time use caulking tubes and other one-time use squeezable tube containers for paste, gel, or other similar substances.


(iv) Foil packets for water soluble packaging, repellent wipes, and other one-time use products.


(v) One-time use portion control packets, such as polyethylene sleeve packages, or rodenticide placepacks.


(vi) One-time use bait stations.


(vii) One-time use cages for repellent or trapping strips.


(viii) Pet collars or animal ear tags, such as cattle ear tags.


(ix) One-time use semiochemical dispersion devices.


(x) Any container that is destroyed by the use of the product contained.


(xi) Any container that would be destroyed if reuse of the container were attempted.


(b) *Refillable container.* For refillable containers, one of the following statements is required, except as provided in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section. If placed on the label, the statement must be under the heading “Storage and Disposal.” If the statement is placed on the container, an appropriate referral statement, such as “Refilling limitations are on the container.” must be placed under the heading “Storage and Disposal.”


(1) “Refillable Container. Refill this container with pesticide only. Do not reuse this container for any other purpose.”


(2) “Refillable Container. Refill this container with [*common chemical name*] only. Do not reuse this container for any other purpose.”


(c) *Modification.* EPA may, on its own initiative or based on data or information submitted by any person, modify or waive the requirements of this section or permit or require alternative labeling statements.


(d) *Exemption for articles.* Pesticidal articles that are not exempted from FIFRA regulation by § 152.25(a) of this chapter are exempt from the requirements of this section.


(e) *Exemption for transport vehicles.* Transport vehicles are exempt from the requirements of this section.



---

[N] [71 FR 47420, Aug. 16, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 64224, Oct. 29, 2008]




