# ยง 202.1   Definition of terms.

(a) *The Administrator* means the Administrator of the Agency for International Development. 


(b) *The Committee* means the Advisory Committee on Voluntary Foreign Aid of the Agency for International Development. 


(c) *Supplies* means development, relief and rehabilitation supplies shipped in support of programs approved by AID as well as administrative supplies and equipment shipped in support of such programs. In no case shall such supplies include items for the personal use of representatives of the registered agency. 


(d) *Agency* or *agencies* means the American Red Cross and any United States voluntary non-profit relief agency registered with and approved by the Committee. 


(e) *Duty free* means exempt from all customs duties, and other duties, tolls, and taxes of any kind. 


(f) *Recipient country* means any country or area in which voluntary non-profit relief agencies registered with and approved by the Advisory Committee on Voluntary Foreign Aid have programs approved by AID. 


(g) *Reimbursement* means (1) payment directly to an agency by AID, or (2) payment to an agency by a banking institution in the United States acting under letter of commitment issued by AID guaranteeing subsequent reimbursement to the banking institution of such payment. 


(h) *Port of entry* means an ocean port in the recipient country. 


(i) *Point of entry* means the first customs point, or any otherwise designated point in a recipient country which receives imported commodities via an ocean port not located in the recipient country. 




