# § 1115.22   Prohibited acts and sanctions.

(a) *Statements generally.* Whoever knowingly and willfully falsifies, or conceals a material fact in a report under the CPSA and rules thereunder, is subject to criminal penalties under 18 U.S.C. 1001.


(b) *Timeliness and adequacy of reporting.* A failure to inform the Commission immediately and adequately, as required by section 15(b) of the CPSA, is a prohibited act within section 19(a)(4) of the CPSA (15 U.S.C. 2068(a)(4)).


(c) *Failure to make reports.* The failure or refusal to make reports or provide information as required under the CPSA is a prohibited act within the meaning of section 19(a)(3) of the CPSA (15 U.S.C. 2068(a)(3)).


(d) *Noncomplying products.* The manufacture for sale, offering for sale, distribution in commerce, and/or importation into the United States of a consumer product which is not in conformity with an applicable consumer product safety rule under CPSA is a prohibited act within the meaning of sections 19 (a)(1) and (a)(2) of the CPSA (15 U.S.C. 2068 (a)(1) and (a)(2)).


(e) *Orders issued under section 15 (c) and/or (d).* The failure to comply with an order issued under section 15 (c) and/or (d) of the CPSA is a prohibited act within the meaning of section 19(a)(5) of the CPSA (15 U.S.C. 2068(a)(5)).


(f) *Consequences of engaging in prohibited acts.* A knowing violation of section 19(a) of the CPSA subjects the violator to a civil penalty in accordance with section 20 of the CPSA (15 U.S.C. 2069). “Knowing,” as defined in section 20(c) of the CPSA (15 U.S.C. 2069(c)), means the having of actual knowledge or the presumed having of knowledge deemed to be possessed by a reasonable person who acts in the circumstances, including knowledge obtainable upon the exercise of due care to ascertain the truth of representations. A knowing and willful violation of section 19(a), after the violator has received notice of noncompliance, subjects the violator to criminal penalties in accordance with section 21 of the CPSA (15 U.S.C. 2070).




