# § 4284.940   Application processing.

(a) *Eligibility evaluation.* The Agency will review all applications to determine if they are eligible for assistance based on the requirements in this subpart and other applicable Federal laws and regulations. An application must include all application requirements identified in § 4284.931, or the Agency will determine that it is not eligible for assistance.


(b) *Risk evaluation.* (1) The Agency will review those applications that are determined to be eligible for the program for risk based on the following information. Typically, the Agency will not determine that an application is ineligible for funding based on the results of the risk evaluation, unless the Agency cannot find a way to reasonably mitigate the risk posed by making an award. However, if risk evaluation findings identify significant shortcomings in the Applicant's ability to manage Federal funds, the Agency may determine that the application is not eligible for funding.


(2) The Agency will determine if the Applicant has satisfactory performance for all Federal awards received in the last five (5) years, based upon review of deficiencies reported in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System, or its successor system, the Do Not Pay system, or its successor system, and the Agency's own internal financial and record-keeping systems and files. Satisfactory performance includes timely submission of required reports and documents, timely completion of tasks, and proper use of funds.


(c) *Merit evaluation.* The Agency will conduct a merit evaluation for those applications that are determined to be eligible for the program. The maximum number of points that will be awarded to an application is 100 points. The Agency's annual notification will provide additional instructions to assist Applicants when responding to the criteria in paragraphs (c)(1) through (7) of this section. The merit evaluation will be based on the following criteria, but may be amended at the Agency's discretion:


(1) *Nature of the proposed venture (0 to 30 points).* Applicants must describe the technological feasibility, operational efficiency, and profitability and economic sustainability of the Project. Applications that demonstrate a high likelihood of success in these areas will receive higher points. In response to this criterion, Working Capital Grant Applicants must provide accurate and factual information for the Project that demonstrates a viable Project ready to be implemented upon award. Planning Grant Applicants only need to discuss anticipated needs and expected outcomes for the Project.


(i) Technological feasibility should include discussion of the value-added process; the Applicant's expectations for sufficient Agricultural Commodity as well as the value to be added to the Agricultural Commodity through the value-added process; potential markets and distribution channels; Applicant's experience in marketing the proposed or similar product; and any other relevant information that supports the feasibility of the Project.


(ii) Operational efficiency should include discussion of the cost of inputs; cost of processing commodity; sufficient labor and expertise; use of own facility, shared space, or contracted processing; adequate processing equipment; and logistics for storage, distribution, transportation, and/or shipping of the Value-Added Agricultural Product. Applicants should also address any anticipated challenges or risks associated with the Project.


(iii) Profitability and economic sustainability should include discussion of the market expansion strategy and break-even point analysis completed for the Project. Include a summary of historical financial and pro forma financial projections, as applicable, to support the viability of the Project. Other relevant sources such as a Business Plan or Feasibility Study may be cross-referenced.


(2) *Qualifications of Key Personnel (0 to 20 points).* Applicants must provide the qualifications and expertise of all identified Key Personnel. If staff or consultants have not been hired at the time of application, Applicants must provide specific descriptions of the qualifications required for the positions to be filled. Applications that demonstrate Key Personnel with strong credentials will receive higher points.


(3) *Work plan and budget (0 to 20 points).* Applicants must submit a comprehensive work plan and budget. Applications that provide a clear, comprehensive work plan detailing all Project goals, tasks, timelines, costs, and Key Personnel in a logical and realistic manner demonstrating a high likelihood of success will receive higher points. The Project work plan and budget must demonstrate eligible sources and allowable uses of funds and must:


(i) Present a detailed narrative description of the eligible activities and tasks related to the processing and/or marketing of the Value-Added Agricultural Product along with a detailed breakdown of all estimated costs allocated to those activities and tasks;


(ii) Identify the Key Personnel that will be responsible for overseeing and/or completing the activities or tasks and provide reasonable and specific timeframes for completion of the activities and tasks;


(iii) Identify the sources and uses of grant and Matching Funds for all activities and tasks specified in the budget; and indicate that Matching Funds will be spent at a rate equal to or in advance of grant funds; and


(iv) Identify the basis of the valuation of the grant and Matching Funds for all activities and tasks specified in the budget.


(4) *Matching Funds commitment (up to 5 points).* Applications that demonstrate financial commitment in the form of cash matching contributions will receive more points. Applications with a higher percentage of cash match will receive more points.


(5) *Prior VAPG assistance (up to 5 points).* The Applicant must disclose the number of prior VAPG awards they have received. Applicants that have not received a VAPG award will receive more points.


(6) *Priority points (0 to 10 points).* Priority points may be awarded in both the general funds and the reserved funds competitions. Points will be awarded as follows:


(i) 5 priority points will be awarded if the Applicant meets the requirements for one of the following categories and provides the documentation described in §§ 4284.923 and 4284.924, as applicable: Beginning Farmer or Rancher, Socially-Disadvantaged Farmer or Rancher, Veteran Farmer or Rancher, or operator of a Small- or Medium-Sized Farm or Ranch that is structured as a Family Farm, Farmer or Rancher Cooperative, or are proposing a Mid-Tier Value Chain Project. Applicants will not be awarded more than five (5) points even if they qualify for more than one of the priority categories.


(ii) 5 additional priority points will be awarded if the Applicant is an Agricultural Producer Group, Farmer or Rancher Cooperative, or Majority-Controlled Producer-Based Business Venture whose Project “best contributes to creating or increasing marketing opportunities” for operators of Small- and Medium-Sized Farms or Ranches that are structured as Family Farms, Beginning Farmers or Ranchers, Socially-Disadvantaged Farmers or Ranchers, or Veteran Farmers or Ranchers.


(7) *Administrator/State Director priority categories (0 to 10 points).* Unless otherwise specified in a notification issued under § 4284.930, the Administrator of the Agency or State Director has discretion to award up to 10 points to an application to improve the geographic diversity of recipients in a Fiscal Year, fund unserved or underserved areas, assist areas experiencing emergency conditions, or prioritize Projects that advance the Department or Agency's key priorities, goals, and objectives. In the event of a national competition, the Administrator will award points and for a State-allocated competition, the State Director will award points.






