# § 110.4   Contributions in the name of another; cash contributions (52 U.S.C. 30122, 30123, 30102(c)(2)).

(a) [Reserved]


(b) *Contributions in the name of another.* (1) No person shall—


(i) Make a contribution in the name of another;


(ii) Knowingly permit his or her name to be used to effect that contribution; or


(iii) Knowingly accept a contribution made by one person in the name of another.


(2) Examples of *contributions in the name of another* include—


(i) Giving money or anything of value, all or part of which was provided to the contributor by another person (the true contributor) without disclosing the source of money or the thing of value to the recipient candidate or committee at the time the contribution is made, *see* 11 CFR 110.6; or


(ii) Making a contribution of money or anything of value and attributing as the source of the money or thing of value another person when in fact the contributor is the source.


(c) *Cash contributions.* (1) With respect to any campaign for nomination for election or election to Federal office, no person shall make contributions to a candidate or political committee of currency of the United States, or of any foreign country, which in the aggregate exceed $100.


(2) A candidate or committee receiving a cash contribution in excess of $100 shall promptly return the amount over $100 to the contributor.


(3) A candidate or committee receiving an anonymous cash contribution in excess of $50 shall promptly dispose of the amount over $50. The amount over $50 may be used for any lawful purpose unrelated to any Federal election, campaign, or candidate.



---

[N] [54 FR 34112, Aug. 17, 1989, and 54 FR 48580, Nov. 24, 1989, as amended at 54 FR 48582, Nov. 24, 1989; 55 FR 1139, Jan. 11, 1990; 67 FR 69948, Nov. 19, 2002; 88 FR 33817, May 25, 2023]




