# ยง 122.184   Change of identification; change in circumstances of employee; additional employer responsibilities.

(a) *Change of identification.* The Customs access seal may be removed from the employee by the port director where, for security reasons, a change in the nature of the identification card or other medium on which it appears is necessary. 


(b) *Change in circumstances of employee.* If, after issuance of a Customs access seal to an employee, any circumstance arises (for example, an arrest or conviction for a disqualifying offense) that constitutes a ground for denial of access to the Customs security area under ยง 122.183(a) or for revocation or suspension of access to the Customs security area and surrender of the Customs access seal under ยง 122.187(a), the employee must within 24 hours advise the port director in writing of that change in circumstance. In the case of an arrest or prosecution for a disqualifying offense listed in ยง 122.183(a)(4), the employee also must within 5 calendar days advise the port director in writing of the final disposition of that arrest or prosecution. In addition, if an airport operator or an aircraft operator suspends an employee's unescorted access authority to a Security Identification Display Area pursuant to regulations promulgated by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration or other appropriate government agency and the employee also has an approved Customs access seal, the employee must within 24 hours advise the port director in writing of the fact of, and basis for, the suspension. 


(c) *Additional employer responsibilities.* If an employer becomes aware of any change in the circumstances of its employee as described in paragraph (b) of this section, the employer must immediately advise the port director of that fact even though the employee may have separately reported that fact to the port director under paragraph (b) of this section. In addition, each employer must submit to the port director during the first month of each calendar quarter a report setting forth a current list of all its employees who have an approved Customs access seal. The quarterly report must list separately all additions to, and deletions from, the previous quarterly report. Moreover, each employer must take appropriate steps to ensure that an employee uses an approved Customs access seal only in connection with activities relating to his employment.



---

[N] [T.D. 02-40, 67 FR 48986, July 29, 2002; 67 FR 51928, Aug. 9, 2002]




