# ยง 19.3   Bonded warehouses; alterations; relocation; suspensions; discontinuance.

(a) *Alterations or relocation.* Alterations to or relocation of a warehouse may be made with the permission of the director of the port nearest to where the facility is located.


(b) *Suspensions.* The use of all or part of a bonded warehouse or bonded floor space may be temporarily suspended by the port director of a period not to exceed one year on written application of the proprietor if there are no bonded goods in the area. Upon written application of the proprietor and upon the removal of all nonbonded goods, if any, the premises may again be used for the storage of bonded goods. If the application is approved, the port director shall indicate the approval by endorsement on the application. Rebonding will not be necessary as long as the original bond remains in force.


(c) *Discontinuance.* If a proprietor wishes to discontinue the bonded status of the warehouse, he shall make written application to the port director. The port director shall not approve the application until all goods in the warehouse are transferred to another bonded warehouse without expense to the Government. To reestablish the bonded warehouse, application shall be made and approved under the provision of ยง 19.2 of this chapter.


(d) *Employee lists.* The port director may make a written demand upon the proprietor to submit, within 30 days after the date of demand, a written list of the names, addresses, social security numbers, and dates and places of birth of all persons employed by the proprietor in the carriage, receiving, storage, or delivery of any bonded merchandise. If a list has been previously furnished the proprietor shall advise the port director in writing of the names, addresses, social security numbers, and dates and places of birth of any new personnel employed by him in the carriage, receiving, storage, or delivery of bonded merchandise within 10 days after such employment. For the purpose of this part a person shall not be deemed to be employed by a warehouse proprietor if he is an officer or employee of an independent contractor engaged by the warehouse proprietor to load, unload, transport, or otherwise handle bonded merchandise.


(e) *Revocation or suspension for cause.* The port director may revoke or suspend for cause the right of a proprietor to continue the bonded status of the warehouse for any ground specified in this paragraph. An action to suspend or revoke the right to operate a bonded warehouse shall be taken in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph (f) of this section. If the bonded status is revoked or suspended for cause, the port director shall require all goods in the warehouse to be transferred to a bonded warehouse without expense to the Government. The bonded status of a warehouse may be revoked or suspended for cause if:


(1) The approval of the application to bond the warehouse was obtained through fraud or the misstatement of a material fact;


(2) The warehouse proprietor refuses or neglects to obey any proper order of a Customs officer or any Customs order, rule, or regulation relative to the operation or administration of a bonded warehouse;


(3) The warehouse proprietor or an officer of a corporation which has been granted the right to operate a bonded warehouse is convicted of or has committed acts which would constitute a felony, or a misdemeanor involving theft, smuggling, or a theft-connected crime. Any change in the employment status of the corporate officer, (e.g., discharge, resignation, demotion, or promotion) prior to conviction of a felony or prior to conviction of a misdemeanor involving theft, smuggling, or a theft-connected crime, resulting from acts committed while a corporate officer, will not preclude application of this provision;


(4) The warehouse proprietor does not provide secured facilities or properly safeguard merchandise within the bonded warehouse;


(5) The warehouse proprietor fails to furnish a current list of names, addresses, and other information required by ยง 19.3(d);


(6) The bond required by ยง 19.2(c) or (d) of this chapter is determined to be insufficient in amount or lacking sufficient sureties, and a satisfactory new bond with goods and sufficient sureties is not furnished within a reasonable time;


(7) Bonded merchandise has not been stored in the warehouse for a period of 2 year; or


(8) The warehouse proprietor or an employee of the warehouse proprietor discloses proprietary information in, or proprietary information contained on, documents to be included in the permit file folder to an unauthorized person.


(9) The proprietor of a Class 9 warehouse is or has been unable to provide reasonable assurance that conditionally duty-free merchandise is or was exported in compliance with the regulations of this part.


(f) *Procedure for revocation or suspension for cause.* The port director may at any time serve notice in writing upon any proprietor of a bonded warehouse to show cause why his right to continue the bonded status of his warehouse should not be revoked or suspended for cause. Such notice shall advise the proprietor of the grounds for the proposed action and shall afford the proprietor an opportunity to respond in writing within 30 days. Thereafter, the port director shall consider the allegations and responses made by the proprietor unless the proprietor in his response requests a hearing. If a hearing is requested, it shall be held before a hearing officer designated by the Commissioner of Customs or his designee within 30 days following the proprietor's request. The proprietor may be represented by counsel at such hearing, and all evidence and testimony of witnesses in such proceedings, including substantiation of the allegations and the responses thereto shall be presented, with the right of cross-examination to both parties. A stenographic record of any such proceeding shall be made and a copy thereof shall be delivered to the proprietor of the warehouse. At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall promptly transmit all papers and the stenographic record of the hearing to the Assistant Commissioner, Office of Field Operations or designee together with his recommendation for final action. The proprietor may submit in writing additional views or arguments to the Assistant Commissioner, Office of Field Operations or designee following a hearing on the basis of the stenographic record, within 10 days after delivery to him of a copy of such record. The Assistant Commissioner, Office of Field Operations or designee shall thereafter render his decision in writing, stating his reasons therefor. Such decision shall be served on the proprietor of the warehouse, and shall be considered the final administrative action.


(g) *Review by the Court of International Trade.* Any proprietor adversely affected by a decision of the Assistant Commissioner, Office of Field Operations or designee may appeal the decision in the Court of International Trade.



---

[N] [T.D. 82-204, 47 FR 49369, Nov. 1, 1982, as amended by T.D. 85-90, 50 FR 21431, May 24, 1985; T.D. 88-63, 53 FR 40219, Oct. 14, 1988; T.D. 92-81, 57 FR 37697, Aug. 20, 1992; T.D. 95-99, 60 FR 62733, Dec. 7, 1995; T.D. 99-27, 64 FR 13675, Mar. 22, 1999]




