# ยง 165.3   Procedures for submitting original information.

(a) A whistleblower will need to submit the whistleblower's information to the Commission. A whistleblower may submit the whistleblower's information:


(1) By completing and submitting a Form TCR online and submitting it electronically through the Commission's Web site at *http://www.cftc.gov,* or the Commission's Whistleblower Program Web site at *www.whistleblower.gov;* or


(2) By completing the Form TCR and mailing or faxing the form to the Whistleblower Office at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters.


(b) Further, to be eligible for an award, the whistleblower must declare under penalty of perjury at the time the whistleblower submits the whistleblower's information pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section that the whistleblower's information is true and correct to the best of the whistleblower's knowledge and belief.


(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, if the whistleblower submitted the whistleblower's original information to the Commission anonymously, then the whistleblower's identity must be disclosed to the Commission and verified in a form and manner acceptable to the Commission consistent with the procedure set forth in ยง 165.7(c) prior to Commission's payment of any award.


(d) If the whistleblower submitted original information in writing to the Commission after July 21, 2010 (the date of enactment of the Wall Street Transparency and Accountability Act of 2010) but before the effective date of these rules, the whistleblower will be eligible for an award only in the event that the whistleblower provided the original information to the Commission in a format or manner other than that described in paragraph (a) of this section, the whistleblower submits a completed Form TCR within 120 days of the effective date of these rules and otherwise follows the procedures set forth above in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.



---

[N] [76 FR 53200, Aug. 25, 2011, as amended at 82 FR 24497, May 30, 2017; 89 FR 71820, Sept. 4, 2024]




