# ยง 95.587   FRS additional requirements.

Each FRS transmitter type must be designed to meet the following additional requirements.


(a) *Transmit frequency capability.* FRS transmitter types must not be capable of transmitting on any frequency or channel other than those listed in ยง 95.563.


(b) *Antenna.* The antenna of each FRS transmitter type must meet the following requirements.


(1) The antenna must be a non-removable integral part of the FRS transmitter type.


(2) The gain of the antenna must not exceed that of a half-wave dipole antenna.


(3) The antenna must be designed such that the electric field of the emitted waves is vertically polarized when the unit is operated in the normal orientation.


(c) *Digital data transmissions.* FRS transmitter types having the capability to transmit digital data must be designed to meet the following requirements.


(1) FRS units may transmit digital data containing location information, or requesting location information from one or more other FRS or GMRS units, or containing a brief text message to another specific FRS or GMRS unit or units.


(2) Digital data transmissions may be initiated by a manual action or command of the operator or on an automatic or periodic basis, and FRS units may be designed to automatically respond with location data upon receiving an interrogation request from another 

(3) Digital data transmissions must not exceed one second in duration.


(4) Digital data transmissions must not be sent more frequently than one digital data transmission within a thirty-second period, except that an FRS unit may automatically respond to more than one interrogation request received within a thirty-second period.


(d) *Packet mode.* FRS transmitter types must not be capable of transmitting data in the store-and-forward packet operation mode.


(e) Effective September 30, 2019, no person shall manufacture or import hand-held portable radio equipment capable of operating under this subpart (FRS) and other licensed or licensed-by-rule services in this chapter (part 15 unlicensed equipment authorizations are permitted if consistent with part 15 rules).



---

[N] [82 FR 41104, Aug. 29, 2017, as amended at 86 FR 53565, Sept. 28, 2021]

 


