# § 417.410   Qualifying conditions: General rules.

(a) *Basic requirement.* In order to qualify for a contract with CMS under this subpart, an HMO or CMP must demonstrate its ability to enroll Medicare beneficiaries and other individuals and groups and to deliver a specified comprehensive range of high quality services efficiently, effectively, and economically to its Medicare enrollees.


(b) *Other qualifying conditions.* An HMO or CMP must meet qualifying conditions that pertain to operating experience, enrollment, range of services, furnishing of services, and a quality assurance program.


(c) *Standards.* Generally, each qualifying condition is interpreted by a series of standards that are used in surveying an HMO or CMP to determine its qualifications for a Medicare contract.


(d) *Application of standards.* Application of the standards enables the surveyor to determine—


(1) The HMO's or CMP's activities;


(2) The extent to which the HMO or CMP complies with each condition;


(3) The nature and extent of any deficiencies; and


(4) The need for improvement if CMS should enter into a contract with the HMO or CMP.


(e) *Requirements for a risk contract.* An HMO or CMP may enter into a risk contract with CMS if it—


(1) Meets all the applicable requirements in the statute and regulations;


(2) Has at least 5,000 enrollees or 1,500 enrollees if it serves a primarily rural area as defined in § 417.413(b)(3);


(3) Has at least 75 Medicare enrollees or has an acceptable plan to achieve this Medicare membership within 2 years;


(4) Satisfies CMS that it can bear the potential losses of a risk contract; and


(5) Has not previously terminated or failed to renew a risk contract within the preceding 5 years, unless CMS determines that circumstances warrant special consideration.


(f) *Requirements for a reasonable cost sontract.* An HMO or CMP may enter into a reasonable cost contract if it meets one of the following:


(1) The HMO or CMP qualifies for a risk contract, but chooses a reasonable cost contract.


(2) The HMO or CMP meets the conditions for entering into a risk contract specified in paragraph (e) of this section except that CMS does not judge the HMO or CMP capable of bearing the potential losses of a risk contract.


(g) Regulations on reasonable cost and risk reimbursement are set forth in subparts O and P of this part.



---

[N] [50 FR 20570, May 17, 1985, as amended at 58 FR 38078, July 15, 1993; 60 FR 45676, Sept. 1, 1995]




