# § 2200.34   Employer contests.

(a) *Complaint.* (1) The Secretary shall file a complaint with the Commission no later than 21 days after receipt of the notice of contest.


(2) The complaint shall set forth all alleged violations and proposed penalties which are contested, stating with particularity:


(i) The basis for jurisdiction;


(ii) The time, location, place, and circumstances of each such alleged violation; and


(iii) The considerations upon which the period for abatement and the proposed penalty of each such alleged violation are based.


(3) Where the Secretary seeks in the complaint to amend the citation or proposed penalty, the Secretary shall set forth the reasons for amendment and shall state with particularity the change sought.


(b) *Answer.* (1) Within 21 days after service of the complaint, the party against whom the complaint was issued shall file an answer with the Commission.


(2) The answer shall contain a short and plain statement denying those allegations in the complaint which the party intends to contest. Any allegation not denied shall be deemed admitted.


(3) The answer shall include all affirmative defenses being asserted. Such affirmative defenses include, but are not limited to, “infeasibility,” “unpreventable employee misconduct,” and “greater hazard.”


(4) The failure to raise an affirmative defense in the answer may result in the party being prohibited from raising the defense at a later stage in the proceeding, unless the Judge finds that the party has asserted the defense as soon as practicable.


(c) *Motions filed in lieu of an answer.* A motion filed in lieu of an answer pursuant to this subpart shall be filed no later than 21 days after service of the complaint. The form and content of the motion shall comply with § 2200.40.




