# § 208.108   Requirements.

(a) *Projects specified in § 208.104(a) that are automated.* Project owners of applicable projects under § 208.104(a) who currently use an automated software package to process certifications and recertifications and to provide subsidy billings to HUD must update their software packages and begin electronic transmission of that data in a HUD specified format by March 21, 1994. These project owners are required to transmit data collected for the 12 months preceding March 21, 1994, as well as data collected on or after this date. Data collected for the 12 months preceding March 21, 1994, is to include only the tenant's most recent “complete certification” (move-in, initial certification, interim recertification, or annual recertification). When the most recent certification for a tenant is a partial certification (gross rent change, unit transfer, or correction), both the complete and partial certifications must be transmitted. 


(b) *Projects specified in § 208.104(a) that are not automated.* Nonautomated project owners and agents (those owners and agents that currently prepare the certification, recertification, and subsidy billing forms manually) of applicable projects under § 208.104(a) must:


(1) Complete the search and either obtain the necessary hardware or software, or sign service contracts;


(2) Complete their data loading; and


(3) Begin electronic transmission by May 20, 1994. These project owners are required to transmit data collected for the 12 months preceding May 20, 1994, as well as data collected on or after this date. Data collected for the 12 months preceding May 20, 1994, is to include only the tenant's most recent “complete certification” (move-in, initial certification, interim recertification, or annual recertification). When the most recent certification for a tenant is a partial certification (gross rent change, unit transfer, or correction), both the complete and partial certifications must be transmitted. 


(c) *Projects specified in § 208.104(b)*—(1) *Project owners.* Project owners of applicable projects under § 208.104(b) must electronically transmit data for certification, recertification and subsidy billing procedures in a HUD specified format to the contract administrator. These project owners are required to transmit data collected for the 12 months preceding September 23, 1994, as well as data collected on or after that date. Data collected for the 12 months preceding September 23, 1994 is to include only the tenant's most recent “complete certification” (move-in, initial certification, interim recertification, or annual recertification). When the most recent certification for a tenant is a partial certification (gross rent change, unit transfer, or correction), both the complete and partial certifications must be transmitted. 


(2) *Contract administrators.* State housing finance and development agencies and Public Housing Agencies that serve as the subsidy contract administrator must accept the electronic transmission of the HUD forms listed below in § 208.108(e) from the projects they administer, and electronically transmit that data to HUD in a HUD specified format after appropriate review and correction of the data. 


(d) *Projects specified in § 208.104(c).* Project owners of applicable projects under § 208.104(c) must electronically transmit data for certification, recertification and subsidy billing procedures to HUD in a HUD specified format. In the case of partially assisted section 202 projects, owners are required to electronically transmit data only for subsidized units. These project owners are required to transmit data collected for the 12 months preceding the effective date of the rule, as well as data collected on or after the effective date of the rule. Data collected for the 12 months preceding September 23, 1994 is to include only the tenant's most recent “complete certification” (move-in, initial certification, interim recertification, or annual recertification). When the most recent certification for a tenant is a partial certification (gross rent change, unit transfer, or correction), both the complete and partial certifications must be transmitted. 


(e) *Data to be transmitted.* Electronic transmission consists of data transmitted from the HUD-50059, 50059 worksheets, 52670 and 52670A, Parts 1 and 2 and 52671 A through D correctly formatted in accord with the HUD data requirements and in lieu of the hard copy forms.



---

[N] [58 FR 61022, Nov. 19, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 43474, Aug. 24, 1994]




