# ยง 63.7782   What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?

(a) This subpart applies to each new and existing affected source at your integrated iron and steel manufacturing facility.


(b) The affected sources are each new or existing sinter plant, blast furnace, and basic oxygen process furnace (BOPF) shop at your integrated iron and steel manufacturing facility.


(c) This subpart covers emissions from the sinter plant windbox exhaust, discharge end, and sinter cooler; the blast furnace casthouse; the blast furnace stove; and the BOPF shop including each individual BOPF and shop ancillary operations (hot metal transfer, hot metal desulfurization, slag skimming, and ladle metallurgy). This subpart also covers fugitive and intermittent particulate emissions from blast furnace unplanned bleeder valve openings, blast furnace planned bleeder valve openings, blast furnace and BOPF slag processing, handling, and storage, blast furnace bell leaks, beaching of iron from blast furnaces, blast furnace casthouse fugitives, and BOPF shop fugitives.


(d) A sinter plant, blast furnace, blast furnace stove, or BOPF shop at your integrated iron and steel manufacturing facility is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source before July 13, 2001.


(e) A sinter plant, blast furnace, blast furnace stove, or BOPF shop at your integrated iron and steel manufacturing facility is new if you commence construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or after July 13, 2001. An affected source is reconstructed if it meets the definition of reconstruction in ยง 63.2.

















---

[N] [68 FR 27663, May 20, 2003, as amended at 89 FR 23319, Apr. 3, 2024]






