# § 413.184   Payment exception: Pediatric patient mix.

(a) *Qualifications.* To qualify for an exception to its prospective payment rate based on its pediatric patient mix a facility must demonstrate that—


(1) At least 50 percent of its patients are individuals under 18 years of age;


(2) Its nursing personnel costs are allocated properly between each mode of care;


(3) The additional nursing hours per treatment are not the result of an excess number of employees;


(4) Its pediatric patients require a significantly higher staff-to-patient ratio than typical adult patients; and


(5) These services, procedures, or supplies and their per treatment costs are clearly prudent and reasonable when compared to those of pediatric facilities with a similar patient mix.


(b) *Documentation.* (1) A pediatric ESRD facility must submit a listing of all outpatient dialysis patients (including all home patients) treated during the most recently completed and filed cost report (in accordance with cost reporting requirements under § 413.198) showing—


(i) Age of patients and percentage of patients under the age of 18;


(ii) Individual patient diagnosis;


(iii) Home patients and ages;


(iv) In-facility patients, staff-assisted, or self-dialysis;


(v) Diabetic patients; and


(vi) Patients isolated because of contagious disease.


(2) The facility also must—


(i) Submit documentation on costs of nursing personnel (registered nurses, licensed practical nurses, technicians, and aides) incurred during the most recently completed fiscal year cost report showing—


(A) Amount each employee was paid;


(B) Number of personnel;


(C) Amount of time spent in the dialysis unit; and


(D) Staff-to-patient ratio based on total hours, with an analysis of productive and nonproductive hours.


(ii) Submit documentation on supply costs incurred during the most recently completed fiscal or calendar year cost report showing—


(A) By modality, a complete list of supplies used routinely in a dialysis treatment;


(B) The make and model number of each dialyzer and its component cost; and


(C) That supplies are prudently purchased (for example, that bulk discounts are used when available).


(iii) Submit documentation on overhead costs incurred during the most recently completed fiscal or calendar year cost reporting year showing—


(A) The basis of the higher overhead costs;


(B) The impact on the specific cost components; and


(C) The effect on per treatment costs.



---

[N] [62 FR 43668, Aug. 15, 1997, as amended at 70 FR 70331, Nov. 21, 2005]




