# ยง 51.1   Definitions.

The following definitions are applicable to this part:


*Department* means the United States Department of State.


*Electronic passport* means a passport containing an electronically readable device, an electronic chip encoded with the bearer's personal information printed on the data page, a digitized version of the bearer's photograph, a unique chip number, and a digital signature to protect the integrity of the stored information.


*Minor* means an unmarried, unemancipated person under 18 years of age.


*Non-personal services contractor,* for purposes of this part, is an individual working under a non-personal services contract as defined in 48 CFR 37.101.


*Passport* means a travel document regardless of format issued under the authority of the Secretary of State attesting to the identity and nationality of the bearer.


*Passport acceptance agent* means a U.S. national designated by the Department to accept passport applications and to administer oaths and affirmations in connection with such applications.


*Passport agent* means a U.S. citizen employee of the Department of State, including consular officers, diplomatic officers and consular agents abroad, and such U.S. citizen Department of State employees or contractors as the Assistant Secretary for Consular Affairs may designate for the purpose of administering oaths and affirmations for passport applications.


*Passport application* means the application form for a United States passport, as prescribed by the Department pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 213 and all documents, photographs, and statements submitted with the form or thereafter in support of the application.


*Passport authorizing officer* means a U.S. citizen employee who is authorized by the Department to approve the issuance of passports.


*Personal services contractor,* for purposes of this part, means a contractor who is working under a personal services contract as described in 48 CFR 37.104.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of State.


*Special issuance passport* means a regular passport for which no passport fee is collected pursuant to ยง 51.52, and a service, official or diplomatic passport as defined in ยง 51.3.


*United States* when used in a geographical sense means the continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and all other United States territories and possessions.


*U.S. citizen* means a person who acquired U.S. citizenship at birth or upon naturalization as provided by law and who has not subsequently lost such citizenship.


*U.S. national* means a U.S. citizen or a U.S. non-citizen national.


*U.S. non-citizen national* means a person on whom U.S. nationality, but not U.S. citizenship, has been conferred at birth under 8 U.S.C. 1408, or under other law or treaty, and who has not subsequently lost such non-citizen nationality.



---

[N] [72 FR 64931, Nov. 19, 2007; 73 FR 5435, Jan. 30, 2008, as amended at 81 FR 67157, Sept. 30, 2016]




