# § 4.1114   Advancement of proceedings.

(a) Except in expedited review proceedings under § 4.1180, or in temporary relief proceedings under § 4.1266, at any time after commencement of a proceeding, any party may move to advance the scheduling of a proceeding.


(b) Except as otherwise directed by the administrative law judge or the Board, any party filing a motion under this section shall—


(1) Make the motion in writing;


(2) Describe the exigent circumstances justifying advancement;


(3) Describe the irreparable harm that would result if the motion is not granted; and


(4) Incorporate in the motion affidavits to support any representations of fact.


(c) Service of a motion under this section shall be accomplished by personal delivery or telephonic communication followed by mail or by electronic transmission under the terms specified in the OHA Standing Orders on Electronic Transmission. Service is complete upon mailing or, if service is made by electronic transmission, at the time of transmission.


(d) Unless otherwise directed by the administrative law judge or the Board, all parties to the proceeding in which the motion is filed shall have 10 days from the date of service of the motion to file a statement in response to the motion.


(e) Following the timely receipt by the administrative law judge of statements in response to the motion, the administrative law judge may schedule a hearing regarding the motion. If the motion is granted, the administrative law judge may advance pleading schedules, prehearing conferences, and the hearing, as deemed appropriate: *Provided,* A hearing on the merits shall not be scheduled with less than 5 working days notice to the parties, unless all parties consent to an earlier hearing.


(f) If the motion is granted, the Board may, if it deems such action to be appropriate, advance the appeal on its calendar and order such other advancement as may be appropriate, including an abbreviated schedule for briefing or oral argument.



---

[N] [36 FR 7186, Apr. 15, 1971, as amended at 88 FR 5795, Jan. 30, 2023]




