# § 93.50   Formula allocation.

(a) *Allocations to States.* HUD will provide to the States allocations of funds in amounts determined by the formula described in this part.


(b) *Amount available for allocation.* The amount of funds available for allocation by the formula is the balance remaining after providing for other purposes authorized by Congress, in accordance with the Act and appropriations.


(c) *Allocations for the insular areas.* The allocation amount for each insular area is determined by multiplying the funds available times the ratio of renter households in each insular area to the total number of renter households in the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the insular areas.


(d) *Allocations for the 50 States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia*—(1) *Amounts available for allocations.* The amount of funds that is available for allocation by the formula to the 50 States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia is determined using the most current data available from the U.S. Census Bureau that is available for the same year for all these geographic areas. The amount is equal to the balance of funds remaining after determining formula allocations for the insular areas under § 93.50(c). For purposes of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section, the term “State” means any of the 50 United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia.


(2) *Allocations.* (i) Allocations to the States are determined using the four needs factors described in § 93.51(a) through (d), multiplying each factor by the amount available under § 93.51(d)(1) by its priority weight, and summing the four factors for each State.


(ii) The factor described in § 93.51(a) is weighted 0.5. The factors described in § 93.51(b) and (d) are weighted at 0.125 and the factor described in § 93.51(c) of this section is weighted at 0.25.


(iii) The sum of the four needs factors for each State is then multiplied by the construction cost factor described in § 93.51(e) of this section and by the total amount of funds available for State allocations.




