# § 173.115   Class 2, Divisions 2.1, 2.2, and 2.3—Definitions.

(a) *Division 2.1 (Flammable gas).* For the purpose of this subchapter, a *flammable gas* (Division 2.1) means any material which is a gas at 20 °C (68 °F) or less and 101.3 kPa (14.7 psia) of pressure (a material which has a boiling point of 20 °C (68 °F) or less at 101.3 kPa (14.7 psia)) which—


(1) Is ignitable at 101.3 kPa (14.7 psia) when in a mixture of 13 percent or less by volume with air; or


(2) Has a flammable range at 101.3 kPa (14.7 psia) with air of at least 12 percent regardless of the lower limit. Except for aerosols, the limits specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section shall be determined at 101.3 kPa (14.7 psia) of pressure and a temperature of 20 °C (68 °F) in accordance with the ASTM E681-85, Standard Test Method for Concentration Limits of Flammability of Chemicals or other equivalent method approved by the Associate Administrator. The flammability of aerosols is determined by the tests specified in paragraph (l) of this section.


(b) Division 2.2 (*non-flammable, nonpoisonous compressed gas—including compressed gas, liquefied gas, pressurized cryogenic gas, compressed gas in solution, asphyxiant gas and oxidizing gas*). For the purpose of this subchapter, a non-flammable, nonpoisonous compressed gas (Division 2.2) means any material (or mixture) which—


(1) Exerts in the packaging a gauge pressure of 200 kPa (29.0 psig/43.8 psia) or greater at 20 °C (68 °F), is a liquefied gas or is a cryogenic liquid, and


(2) Does not meet the definition of Division 2.1 or 2.3.


(c) *Division 2.3 (Gas poisonous by inhalation).* For the purpose of this subchapter, a *gas poisonous by inhalation* (Division 2.3) means a material which is a gas at 20 °C (68 °F) or less and a pressure of 101.3 kPa (14.7 psia) (a material which has a boiling point of 20 °C (68 °F) or less at 101.3 kPa (14.7 psia)) and which—


(1) Is known to be so toxic to humans as to pose a hazard to health during transportation, or


(2) In the absence of adequate data on human toxicity, is presumed to be toxic to humans because when tested on laboratory animals it has an LC_50_ value of not more than 5000 mL/m
3 (see § 173.116(a) of this subpart for assignment of Hazard Zones A, B, C or D). LC_50_ values for mixtures may be determined using the formula in § 173.133(b)(1)(i) or CGA P-20 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). 


(d) *Non-liquefied compressed gas.* A gas, which when packaged under pressure for transportation is entirely gaseous at −50 °C (−58 °F) with a critical temperature less than or equal to −50 °C (−58 °F), is considered to be a non-liquefied compressed gas.


(e) *Liquefied compressed gas.* A gas, which when packaged under pressure for transportation is partially liquid at temperatures above −50 °C (−58 °F), is considered to be a liquefied compressed gas. Gas mixtures with component(s) that are liquefied gases may be described using the hazardous materials description of a compressed gas in the Hazardous Materials Table in § 172.101 of this subchapter when the partial pressure(s) of the liquefied gas component(s) in the mixture are reduced so that the mixture is entirely in the gas phase at 20 °C (68 °F). A liquefied compressed gas is further categorized as follows:




(1) *High pressure liquefied gas* which is a gas with a critical temperature between −50 °C (−58 °F) and + 65 °C (149 °F), and


(2) *Low pressure liquefied gas* which is a gas with a critical temperature above + 65 °C (149 °F).


(f) *Compressed gas in solution.* A *compressed gas in solution* is a non-liquefied compressed gas which is dissolved in a solvent.


(g) *Cryogenic liquid.* A *cryogenic liquid* means a refrigerated liquefied gas having a boiling point colder than −90 °C (−130 °F) at 101.3 kPa (14.7 psia) absolute. A material meeting this definition is subject to requirements of this subchapter without regard to whether it meets the definition of a non-flammable, non-poisonous compressed gas in paragraph (b) of this section.


(h) *Flammable range.* The term *flammable range* means the difference between the minimum and maximum volume percentages of the material in air that forms a flammable mixture.


(i) *Service pressure.* The term *service pressure* means the authorized pressure marking on the packaging. For example, for a cylinder marked “DOT 3A1800”, the service pressure is 12410 kPa (1800 psig).


(j) *Refrigerant gas or Dispersant gas.* The terms *Refrigerant gas* and *Dispersant gas* apply to all nonpoisonous refrigerant gases; dispersant gases (fluorocarbons) listed in § 172.101 of this subchapter and §§ 173.304, 173.314(c), 173.315(a), and 173.315(h) and mixtures thereof; and any other compressed gas having a vapor pressure not exceeding 260 psia at 54 °C(130 °F), used only as a refrigerant, dispersant, or blowing agent.


(k) For Division 2.2 gases, the oxidizing ability shall be determined by tests or by calculation in accordance with ISO 10156:2017(E) (IBR, *see* § 171.7 of this subchapter).


(l) The following applies to aerosols (see § 171.8 of this subchapter):


(1) An aerosol must be assigned to Division 2.1 if the contents include 85% by mass or more flammable components and the chemical heat of combustion is 30 kJ/g or more;


(2) An aerosol must be assigned to Division 2.2 if the contents contain 1% by mass or less flammable components and the heat of combustion is less than 20 kJ/g.


(3) Aerosols not meeting the provisions of paragraphs (l)(1) or (1)(2) of this section must be classed in accordance with the appropriate tests of the UN Manual of Tests and Criteria (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). An aerosol which was tested in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter in effect on December 31, 2005, is not required to be retested.


(4) Division 2.3 gases may not be transported in an aerosol container.


(5) When the contents are classified as Division 6.1, PG III or Class 8, PG II or III, the aerosol must be assigned a subsidiary hazard of Division 6.1 or Class 8, as appropriate.


(6) Substances of Division 6.1, PG I or II, and substances of Class 8, PG I are forbidden from transportation in an aerosol container.


(7) Flammable components are Class 3 flammable liquids, Division 4.1 flammable solids, or Division 2.1 flammable gases. The chemical heat of combustion must be determined in accordance with the UN Manual of Tests and Criteria (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). 


(m) *Adsorbed gas.* A gas which when packaged for transport is adsorbed onto a solid porous material resulting in an internal receptacle pressure of less than 101.3 kPa at 20 °C and less than 300 kPa at 50 °C.



---

[N] [Amdt. 173-224, 55 FR 52634, Dec. 21, 1990]


