# ยง 423.61   Notifying the public of special use areas.

When establishing, revising, or terminating a special use area, Reclamation must notify the public as required by this section.


(a) *What notices must contain.* The notice must specify: (1) The location of the special use area; and


(2) The public use limits, conditions, restrictions, allowances, or prohibitions on uses and activities that are to be applied to the area or that are to be revised or terminated.


(b) *How notice must be made.* Reclamation must notify the public at least 15 days before the action takes place by one or more of the following methods:


(1) Signs posted at conspicuous locations, such as normal points of entry and reasonable intervals along the boundary of the special use area;


(2) Maps available in the local Reclamation office and other places convenient to the public;


(3) Publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the affected area; or


(4) Other appropriate methods, such as the use of electronic media, brochures, and handouts.


(c) *When notice may be delayed.* (1) Notice under this section may be delayed in an emergency or situation of immediate need where delaying designation, revision, or termination of a special use area would result in significant risk to:


(i) National security;


(ii) The safety or security of a Reclamation facility, Reclamation employees, or the public; or


(iii) The natural or cultural environment.


(2) If the exception in paragraph (c)(1) of this section applies, Reclamation must comply with paragraph (b) of this section within 30 days after the effective date of the designation.


(3) Failure to meet the notice deadlines in paragraphs (b) or (c)(2) of this section will not invalidate an action, so long as Reclamation meets the remaining notification requirements of this section.


(d) *When advance notice is not required.* Advance notice as described in paragraph (b) of this section is not required if all the following conditions are met:


(1) The action will not result in a significant change in the public use of the area;


(2) The action will not adversely affect the area's natural, esthetic, scenic, or cultural values;


(3) The action will not require a long-term or significant modification in the resource management objectives of the area; and


(4) The action is not highly controversial.




