# § 113.326   Avian Pox Vaccine.

Fowl Pox Vaccine and Pigeon Pox Vaccine shall be prepared from virus-bearing cell culture fluids or embryonated chicken eggs. Only Master Seed Virus which has been established as pure, safe, and immunogenic in accordance with the requirements in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section shall be used for preparing the production seed virus for vaccine production. All serials shall be prepared from the first through the fifth passage from the Master Seed Virus. 


(a) The Master Seed Virus shall meet the applicable requirements prescribed in § 113.300 except paragraph (c) of this section and shall meet the requirements prescribed in this section. 


(b) Each lot of Master Seed Virus shall be tested for pathogens by the chicken inoculation test prescribed in § 113.36. 


(c) Each lot of Master Seed Virus shall be tested for immunogenicity and the selected virus dose to be used shall be established as follows: 


(1) Fowl pox susceptible birds all of the same age and from the same source, shall be used as test birds. Twenty or more birds shall be used as vaccinates for each method of administration recommended on the label. Ten additional birds of the same age and from the same source as the vaccinates shall be held as unvaccinated controls. 


(2) A geometric mean titer of the dried vaccine produced from the highest passage of the Master Seed Virus shall be established before the immunogenicity test is conducted. Each vaccinate shall receive a predetermined quantity of vaccine virus. Five replicate virus titrations shall be conducted on an aliquot of the vaccine virus to confirm the amount of virus administered to each bird used in the test. At least three appropriate (not to exceed tenfold) dilutions shall be used and the test conducted as follows: 


(i) For each dilution, inoculate at least five embryos, 9 to 11 days old, on the chorioallantoic membrane with at least 0.2 ml each. Disregard all deaths during the first 24 hours post-inoculation. To be a valid test, at least four embryos in each dilution shall remain viable beyond 24 hours. 


(ii) Examine the surviving embryos for evidence of infection 5 to 7 days post-inoculation. 


(iii) A satisfactory titration shall have at least one dilution with between 50 and 100 percent positives and at least one dilution with between 50 and 0 percent positives. 


(iv) Calculate the EID_50_ by the Spearman-Karber or Reed-Muench method. 


(3) Fourteen to twenty-one days post-vaccination, all vaccinates and controls shall be challenged by the wing web method and observed each day for 10 days. If the wing web method was used for vaccination, the opposite wing shall be used for challenge. Challenge virus shall be provided or approved by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. 


(4) If at least 90 percent of the controls do not develop fowl pox during the observation period, the test is a No Test and may be repeated. If at least 19 of 20, or 27 of 30, or 36 of 40 of the vaccinates in each group do not remain free from clinical signs of fowl pox during the observation period, the Master Seed Virus is unsatisfactory. 


(5) An Outline of Production change shall be made before authority for use of a new lot of Master Seed Virus shall be granted by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. 


(d) After a lot of Master Seed Virus has been established as prescribed in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, each serial and subserial shall meet the requirements in § 113.36, in § 113.300 except paragraph (c), and in this paragraph. 


(1) *Safety test.* Final container samples of completed product from each serial shall be tested. Vaccines recommended for use in birds 10 days of age or younger shall be tested in accordance with paragraphs (d)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section. 


(i) Each of 25 susceptible birds 5 days of age or younger, properly identified and obtained from the same source and hatch, shall be vaccinated with the equivalent of 10 doses of vaccine by each of all routes recommended on the label and observed each day for 14 days. Severe clinical signs or death shall be counted as failures. Two-stage sequential testing may be conducted if the first test (which then becomes stage one) has three failures. 


(ii) The results shall be evaluated according to the following table:


(iii) If unfavorable reactions occur which are not attributable to the product, the test shall be declared a No Test and may be repeated or, in lieu thereof, the serial declared unsatisfactory.


(iv) Vaccines not recommended for use in birds 10 days of age or younger shall be tested for safety as follows: Each of twenty-five 3- to 5-week-old, fowl-pox susceptible birds shall be vaccinated with the equivalent of 10 doses of vaccine by each of all routes recommended on the label and observed each day for 14 days. If any of the birds show severe clinical signs of disease or death during the observation period due to causes attributable to the product, the serial is unsatisfactory. If unfavorable reactions occur which are not attributable to the product, the test shall be declared a No Test and may be repeated or, in lieu thereof, the serial declared unsatisfactory. 


(2) *Virus titer requirements.* Final container samples of completed product shall be tested for virus titer using the titration method used in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. To be eligible for release, each serial and each subserial shall have a virus titer sufficiently greater than the titer of vaccine virus used in the immunogenicity test prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section to assure that when tested at any time within the expiration period, each serial and subserial shall have a virus titer of 10 
0.7 greater than that used in such immunogenicity test but not less than 10 
2.0 EID_50_ per dose.



---

[N] [39 FR 44724, Dec. 27, 1974, as amended at 40 FR 18406, Apr. 28, 1975; 40 FR 41089, Sept. 5, 1975; 44 FR 33051, June 8, 1979; 48 FR 33473, July 22, 1983. Redesignated at 55 FR 35562, Aug. 31, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 66784, 66786, Dec. 26, 1991; 72 FR 72564, Dec. 21, 2007] 




