# § 173.161   Chemical kits and first aid kits.

(a) *Applicability.* Chemical kits and first aid kits contain one or more compatible items of hazardous materials in boxes, cases, *etc.* that, for example, are used for medical, analytical, diagnostic, testing, or repair purposes.


(b) *Authorized materials.* (1) The kits may only contain hazardous materials for which packaging exceptions are provided in column 8(A) of the § 172.101 Hazardous Materials Table in this subchapter. For transportation by aircraft, the kits may only contain quantities of hazardous materials authorized as excepted quantities or as limited quantities in §§ 173.4a and 173.27(f) of this part, respectively. Materials forbidden for transportation by passenger aircraft or cargo aircraft may not be included in the kits.


(2) The packing group assigned to the chemical kit and first aid kit as a whole must be the most stringent packing group assigned to any individual substance in the kit. The packing group must be shown on the shipping paper. Where the kit contains only hazardous materials to which no packing group is assigned, the packagings shall meet the Packing Group II performance level. Where the kit contains only hazardous materials to which no packing group is assigned, the packing group does not have to be indicated on the shipping paper.


(c) *Packaging.* Except for transportation by aircraft or vessel, chemical kits and first aid kits must be packaged in combination packagings conforming to the packaging requirements of subpart B of this part. For transportation by aircraft or vessel, chemical kits and first aid kits must be packaged in specification combination packagings based on the performance level of the most stringent packing group of material contained within the kit. For transportation by aircraft, friction-type closures must be secured by secondary means and inner packagings intended to contain liquids must be capable of meeting the pressure differential requirements prescribed in § 173.27(c) of this subchapter. Inner and outer packaging quantity limits for packages are as follows:


(1) Except for liquids of Division 5.2 (organic peroxide), inner packagings containing not more than 250 mL. Except for transportation by aircraft, for Division 5.2 (organic peroxide) liquids of Type B and C, inner packagings containing not more than 25 mL and for Division 5.2 (organic peroxide) liquids of Type D, E and F, inner packagings containing not more than 125 mL. For transportation by aircraft, for Division 5.2 (organic peroxide) liquids of Type D, E and F (only), inner packagings containing not more than 125 mL;


(2) Except for solids of Division 5.2 (organic peroxide) of Type B and C, inner packagings containing not more than 250 g. Except for transportation by aircraft, for a Division 5.2 (organic peroxide) solid of Type B and C, inner packagings containing not more than 100 g. For transportation by aircraft, for a Division 5.2 (organic peroxide) solid of Type D, E and F (only), inner packagings containing not more than 250 g;


(3) No more than 10 L or 10 kg of hazardous material may be contained in one outer package (excluding dry ice). For transportation by aircraft, no more than 1 L or 1 kg of hazardous material may be contained in one kit (excluding dry ice);


(4) Each package must conform to the packaging requirements of subpart B of this part and may not exceed 30 kg (66 pounds) gross weight;


(5) Except for Carbon dioxide, solid (Dry ice), UN1845, no other hazardous materials may be packed within the same outer packaging as the kits. Dry ice must be packaged in accordance with § 173.217 of this subchapter;


(6) The kits must include sufficient absorbent material to completely absorb the contents of any liquid hazardous materials contained in the kits. The contents must be separated, placed, or packed, and closed with cushioning material to protect them from damage; and


(7) The contents of the kits must be packed so there will be no possibility of the mixture of contents causing dangerous evolution of heat or gas.


(d) *Exceptions.* (1)(i) Chemical kits and first aid kits are eligible for the excepted quantity exceptions provided in §§ 173.4 and 173.4a of this part. For transportation by aircraft, chemical kits and first aid kits are eligible for the limited quantity provisions provided in § 173.27(f) of this part. For inner packaging quantity limits, *see* § 173.27(f), Table 3.


(ii) A package conforming to the provisions of this section is not subject to the shipping paper requirements of subpart C of part 172 of this subchapter, unless the material meets the definition of a hazardous substance, hazardous waste, marine pollutant, or is offered for transportation and transported by aircraft or vessel. Chemical kits and First aid kits conforming to this section may be marked as a limited quantity as prescribed in § 172.315 of this subchapter and, if applicable, are eligible for the exceptions provided in § 173.156 of this part. Additionally, chemical and first aid kits conforming to this section are not subject to part 174 (carriage by rail) or part 177 (carriage by highway) of this subchapter when marked in accordance with § 172.315 of this subchapter.


(2) Kits that are carried on board transport vehicles for first aid or operating purposes are not subject to the requirements of this subchapter.



---

[N] [76 FR 3375, Jan. 19, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 1115, Jan. 7, 2013; 80 FR 1157, Jan. 8, 2015; 87 FR 79776, Dec. 27, 2022]




