# ยง 1252.2   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions given in sections 101, 106, and 108 of the CPSIA, the following definitions apply for this part 1252.


*Post-consumer wood waste* describes wood waste that is comprised of materials that are recovered from their original use and subsequently used in a new product. Examples of this type of waste include recycled demolition wood, packaging materials such as pallets and crates, used wood from landscape care (*i.e.,* from urban and highway trees, hedges, and gardens), discarded furniture, and waste wood from industrial, construction, and commercial activities.


*Pre-consumer wood waste* describes wood materials that have been recycled from an industrial process before being made available for consumer use. Examples of this type of waste include trimmings from engineered wood product (EWP) panel manufacturing, sawdust from cutting logs, or remaining wood pieces from sawing a log into framing lumber.


*Unfinished* means an EWP that does not have any surface treatments applied at manufacture, such as factory-applied coatings. Examples of such treatments may include paint or similar surface coating materials, wood glue, or metal fasteners, such as nails or screws.


*Untreated* means an EWP that does not have any additional finishes applied at manufacture. Examples of such finishes may include flame retardants or rot resistant finishes.


*Virgin wood* describes wood logs, fibers, chips, or layers that have not been recycled from a previous use.




