# § 721.3764   Fluorene substituted aromatic amine.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a fluorene substituted aromatic amine (PMN P-91-43) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). However, these requirements do not apply after the PMN substance is adhered onto film or incorporated into prepreg form (resin impregnated substrate).


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5) during manufacture.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(l).


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [62 FR 42692, Aug. 8, 1997]




