# ยง 460.2   Definitions.

*Approved Insurance Provider (AIP)* means a legal entity which has entered into a reinsurance agreement with FCIC for the applicable reinsurance year and is authorized to sell and service policies or plans of insurance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act.


*Assignment of Indemnity* means a transfer of crop insurance policy rights whereby a policyholder assigns rights to an indemnity payment for the crop year to creditors or other persons to whom they have a financial debt or other pecuniary obligation.


*Crop insurance policy* means an insurance policy reinsured by FCIC under the provisions of the Federal Crop Insurance Act, as amended. It does not include private plans of insurance.


*Crop year* means the period within which the insured crop is normally grown and is designated by the calendar year in which the insured crop is normally harvested.


*Federal Crop Insurance Act* means the legal authority codified in 7 U.S.C. 1501-1524.


*Final planting date* means the latest date, established by RMA for each insurable crop, by which the crop must initially be planted in order to be insured for the full production guarantee or amount of insurance per acre.


*FCIC* means the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, a wholly owned Government Corporation of USDA that administers the Federal crop insurance program.


*FSA* means the Farm Service Agency.


*Insured crop* means a crop for which the participant has purchased a crop insurance policy from an AIP.


*NAP* means the Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program under section 196 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7333) and part 1437 of this title and administered by FSA.


*Person* has the same meaning as defined in ยง 457.8(1) of this title.


*Prevent plant base factor* means the value announced by the Secretary used to calculate the payment for crops covered under a plan of insurance that is not a revenue protection plan of insurance, or is a revenue protection plan of insurance with the harvest price exclusion elected.


*Prevent plant revenue factor* means value announced by the Secretary used to calculate the payment for crops covered under a plan of insurance that provides revenue protection unless the harvest price exclusion is elected for that crop.


*Prevented planting* means the inability to plant an insured crop with proper equipment during the planting period as a result of an insured cause of loss, as determined by the AIP.


*Prevented planting payment* means a payment made under a crop insurance policy to compensate the policyholder when they are prevented from planting an insured crop.


*Qualifying prevented planting payment* means a prevented planting payment made under a crop insurance policy that qualifies for a prevented planting supplemental disaster payment, as specified in this subpart.


*Revenue protection* has the same meaning as defined in ยง 457.8(1) of this title.


*Second crop* has the same meaning as defined in ยง 457.8(1) of this title.






