# § 20.1   Definitions.

As used in, and solely for the purposes of, this part:


*Business day* means “business day” as that term is defined in § 1.3 of this chapter.


*Cleared product* means a paired swap or swaption that a clearing organization offers or accepts for clearing.


*Clearing member* means any person who is a member of, or enjoys the privilege of, clearing trades in its own name through a clearing organization.


*Clearing organization* means the person or organization that acts as a medium between clearing members for the purpose of clearing swaps or swaptions or effecting settlements of swaps or swaptions.


*Closed swap or closed swaption* means a swap or swaption that has been settled, exercised, closed out or terminated.


*Commodity reference price* means the price series (including derivatives contract and cash market prices or price indices) used by the parties to a swap or swaption to determine payments made, exchanged, or accrued under the terms of the contracts.


*Counterparty* means, from the perspective of one side to a contract, the person that is the direct legal counterparty corresponding to the other side of the contract.


*Clearing member customer* means any person for whom a reporting entity clears a swap or swaption position.


*Futures equivalent* means an economically equivalent amount of one or more futures contracts that represents a position or transaction in one or more paired swaps or swaptions consistent with the conversion guidelines in appendix A of this part.


*Open swap or swaption* means a swap or swaption that has not been closed.


*Paired swap or paired swaption* means an open swap or swaption that is:


(1) Directly or indirectly linked, including being partially or fully settled on, or priced at a differential to, the price of any commodity futures contract listed in § 20.2; or


(2) Directly or indirectly linked, including being partially or fully settled on, or priced at a differential to, the price of the same commodity for delivery at the same location or locations.


*Person* means any “person” as that term is defined in § 1.3 of this chapter.


*Reportable account or consolidated account that is reportable* means a consolidated account that includes a reportable position.


*Reportable position* means:


(1)(i) A position, in any one futures equivalent month, comprised of 50 or more futures equivalent paired swaps or swaptions based on the same commodity underlying a futures contract listed in § 20.2, grouped separately by swaps and swaptions, then grouped by gross long contracts on a futures equivalent basis or gross short contracts on a futures equivalent basis;


(ii) For a consolidated account (described in § 20.4(a)) that includes a reportable position as defined in paragraph (1)(i) of this definition, all other positions in that account that are based on the commodity that renders the account reportable; and


(iii) The first reporting day on which a consolidated account (described in § 20.4(a)) no longer includes a reportable position as described in paragraph (1)(i) of this definition (because on such day, the reporting entity's consolidated account shall continue to be considered and treated as if it in fact included reportable positions as described in paragraph (1)(i) of this definition); or


(2) At the discretion of a reporting entity, and as an alternative to paragraph (1) of this definition, so long as the same method is consistently applied to all consolidated accounts (as described in § 20.4(a)) of the reporting entity, all positions on a gross basis in a consolidated account that are based on the same commodity.


*Reporting day* means the period of time between a clearing organization or reporting entity's usual and customary last internal valuation of paired swaps or swaptions and the next such period, so long as the period of time is consistently observed on a daily basis and the Commission is notified, upon its request, of the manner by which such period is calculated and any subsequent changes thereto.


*Reporting entity* means:


(1) A clearing member; or


(2) A swap dealer in one or more paired swaps or swaptions as that term is defined in section 1a of the Act and any Commission definitional regulations adopted thereunder.


*Swap* means:


(1) Until the effective date of any definitional rulemaking regarding “swap” by the Commission under section 1a of the Act, an agreement (including terms and conditions incorporated by reference therein) which is a commodity swap (including any option to enter into such swap) within the meaning of “swap agreement” under § 35.1(b)(1) of this chapter, or a master agreement for a commodity swap together with all supplements thereto; or


(2) “Swap” as defined in section 1a of the Act and any Commission definitional regulations adopted thereunder, upon the effective date of such regulations.


*Swaption* means an option to enter into a swap or a swap that is an option.




