# § 148.77   Entry of effects on termination of assignment to extended duty, or on evacuation.

(a) *General procedure.* All articles for which free entry is claimed under subheading 9805.00.50, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202), shall be entered or withdrawn in accordance with the requirements prescribed by the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended. Port directors shall be satisfied in all cases that the articles for which free entry is claimed under subheading 9805.00.50, HTSUS, are personal and household effects of the importer entitled to the benefits of item 817.00, particularly in those cases where the quantity of effects imported may appear to be unreasonable for personal or household use. No invoice shall be required for articles accorded free entry under this provision. 


(b) *Declaration and entry*—(1) *Person entitled to exemption.* Declaration and entry for articles claimed to be exempt from duty and tax under subheading 9805.00.50, HTSUS (19 U.S.C. 1202), may be made on Customs Form 3299, or its electronic equivalent or Department of Defense Form (DD) 1252 when entry is made in the name of the person who is entitled to the benefits of the exemption. The date of the person's last departure from the United States shall be indicated on the declaration and entry. 


(2) *Designated official.* Customs Form 3299, or its electronic equivalent, or Department of Defense Form 1252 executed on behalf of the owner of unaccompanied personal and household effects by either a United States Dispatch Agent or a designated responsible military official in his own name, may be accepted by the Customs officer as the declaration and entry if there is a valid reason evident from the owner's travel orders or information at hand why the United States Government agency concerned is unable to present Department of Defense Form (DD) 1252 or Customs Form 3299 executed by the owner. The date of the owner's last departure from the United States need not be indicated on the form. The following statement shall be added across the face or to the back of Customs Form 3299 or Department of Defense Form 1252.


(c) *Verification of claim for exemption*—(1) *By travel orders.* The declaration and entry shall be verified by the Customs officer by an inspection of the owner's travel orders. If the port director accepts an inspection of the owner's travel orders as evidence that the effects were brought into the United States within the requirements of subheading 9805.00.50, the owner's travel orders shall be identified on the entry, which shall be handled like a free baggage declaration. 


(2) *By other evidence.* The declaration and entry may be verified by other evidence which satisfies the port director that the effects were brought into the United States in connection with: 


(i) The person's return to the United States upon the termination of assignment to extended duty, as explained in § 148.74(d); 


(ii) The return of members of his family who have resided with him at his post or station upon the termination of his assignment; or 


(iii) The evacuation of a person to the United States under Government orders or instructions.



---

[N] [T.D. 73-27, 38 FR 2449, Jan. 26, 1973, as amended by T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35478, Aug. 16, 1982; T.D. 85-123, 50 FR 29955, July 23, 1985; T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51266, Dec. 21, 1988; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61291, Oct. 13, 2015] 




