# ยง 884.4910   Specialized surgical instrumentation for use with urogynecologic surgical mesh.

(a) *Identification.* Specialized surgical instrumentation for use with urogynecologic surgical mesh is a prescription device specifically intended for use as an aid in the insertion, placement, fixation, or anchoring of surgical mesh during urogynecologic procedures. These procedures include transvaginal pelvic organ prolapse repair, sacrocolpopexy (transabdominal pelvic organ prolapse repair), and treatment of female stress urinary incontinence. Examples of specialized surgical instrumentation include needle passers and trocars, needle guides, fixation tools, and tissue anchors. This device is not a manual gastroenterology-urology surgical instrument and accessories (ยง 876.4730) or a manual surgical instrument for general use (ยง 878.4800).


(b) *Classification.* Class II (special controls). The special controls for specialized surgical instrumentation for use with urogynecologic surgical mesh are:


(1) The device must be demonstrated to be biocompatible;


(2) The device must be demonstrated to be sterile and, if reusable, it must be demonstrated that the device can be adequately reprocessed;


(3) Performance data must support the shelf life of the device by demonstrating package integrity and device functionality over the requested shelf life;


(4) Non-clinical performance testing must demonstrate that the device meets all design specifications and performance requirements, and that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use; and


(5) Labeling must include:


(i) Information regarding the mesh design that may be used with the device;


(ii) Detailed summary of the clinical evaluations pertinent to use of the device;


(iii) Expiration date; and


(iv) Where components are intended to be sterilized by the user prior to initial use and/or are reusable, validated methods and instructions for sterilization and/or reprocessing of any reusable components.



---

[N] [82 FR 1603, Jan. 6, 2017]




