# § 5.214   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions in § 5.100, the following definitions apply to this subpart B: 


*Assistance applicant.* Except as excluded pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 3543(b) and 3544(a)(2), this term means the following: 


(1) For any program under 24 CFR parts 215, 221, 236, 290, or 891, or any program under Section 8 of the 1937 Act: A family or individual that seeks rental assistance under the program.


(2) For the public housing program: A family or individual that seeks admission to the program. 


(3) For any program under 24 CFR part 235: A homeowner or cooperative member seeking homeownership assistance (including where the individual seeks to assume an existing mortgage). 


*Computer match* means the automated comparison of data bases containing records about individuals. 


*Computer matching agreement* means the agreement that describes the responsibilities and obligations of the parties participating in a computer match. 


*Consent form* means any consent form approved by HUD to be signed by assistance applicants and participants for the purpose of obtaining income information from employers and SWICAs; return information from the Social Security Administration (including wages, net earnings from self-employment, and payments of retirement income), as referenced at 26 U.S.C. 6103(l)(7)(A); and return information for unearned income from the Internal Revenue Service, as referenced at 26 U.S.C. 6103(l)(7)(B). The consent forms expire after a certain time and may authorize the collection of other information from assistance applicants or participants to determine eligibility or level of benefits as provided in §§ 813.109, 913.109, and 950.315 of this title. 


*Employer Identification Number (EIN)* means the nine-digit taxpayer identifying number that is assigned to an individual, trust, estate, partnership, association, company, or corporation pursuant to sections 6011(b), or corresponding provisions of prior law, or 6109 of the Internal Revenue Code. 


*Entity applicant.* (1) Except as excluded pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 3543(b), 3544(a)(2), and paragraph (2) of this definition, this term means a partnership, corporation, or any other association or entity, other than an individual owner applicant, that seeks to participate as a private owner in any of the following: 


(i) The project-based assistance programs under Section 8 of the 1937 Act;


(ii) The programs in 24 CFR parts 215, 221, or 236; or 


(iii) The other mortgage and loan insurance programs in 24 CFR parts 201 through 267, except that the term “entity applicant” does not include a mortgagee or lender. 


(2) The term does not include a public entity, such as a PHA, IHA, or State Housing Finance Agency. 


*Federal agency* means a department of the executive branch of the Federal Government. 


*Income information* means information relating to an individual's income, including: 


(1) All employment income information known to current or previous employers or other income sources that HUD or the processing entity determines is necessary for purposes of determining an assistance applicant's or participant's eligibility for, or level of assistance in, a covered program; 


(2) All information about wages, as defined in the State's unemployment compensation law, including any Social Security Number; name of the employee; quarterly wages of the employee; and the name, full address, telephone number, and, when known, Employer Identification Number of an employer reporting wages under a State unemployment compensation law; 


(3) With respect to unemployment compensation: 


(i) Whether an individual is receiving, has received, or has applied for unemployment compensation; 


(ii) The amount of unemployment compensation the individual is receiving or is entitled to receive; and 


(iii) The period with respect to which the individual actually received such compensation; 


(4) Unearned IRS income and self-employment, wages and retirement income as described in the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. 6103(l)(7); and 


(5) Wage, social security (Title II), and supplemental security income (Title XVI) data obtained from the Social Security Administration. 


*Individual owner applicant.* Except as excluded pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 3543(b), 3544(a)(2), or paragraph (2) of this definition, this term means: 


(1) An individual who seeks to participate as a private owner in any of: 


(i) The project-based assistance programs under Section 8 of the 1937 Act; or


(ii) The programs in 24 CFR parts 215, 221, 235 (without homeownership assistance), or 236, including where the individual seeks to assume an existing mortgage; or 


(2) An individual who: 


(i) Either: (A) Applies for a mortgage or loan insured or coinsured under any of the programs referred to in paragraph (1)(iii) of the definition of “entity applicant” in this section; or 


(B) Seeks to assume an existing mortgage or loan; and 


(ii) Intends to hold the mortgaged property in his or her individual right. 


*IRS* means the Internal Revenue Service. 


*Owner* means the person or entity (or employee of an owner) that leases an assisted dwelling unit to an eligible family and includes, when applicable, a mortgagee. 


*Participant.* Except as excluded pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 3543(b) and 3544(a)(2), this term has the following meaning: 


(1) For any program under 24 CFR part 891, or Section 8 of the 1937 Act: A family receiving rental assistance under the program;


(2) For the public housing program: A family or individual that is assisted under the program; 


(3) For 24 CFR parts 215, 221, 236, and 290: A tenant or qualified tenant under any of the programs; and 


(4) For 24 CFR part 235: A homeowner or a cooperative member receiving homeownership assistance. 


*Processing entity* means the person or entity that, under any of the programs covered under this subpart B, is responsible for making eligibility and related determinations and an income reexamination. (In the Section 8 and public housing programs, the “processing entity” is the “responsible entity” as defined in § 5.100.) 


*Social Security Number (SSN)* means the nine-digit number that is assigned to a person by the Social Security Administration and that identifies the record of the person's earnings reported to the Social Security Administration. The term does not include a number with a letter as a suffix that is used to identify an auxiliary beneficiary. 


*SSA* means the Social Security Administration. 


*State Wage Information Collection Agency (SWICA)* means the State agency, including any Indian tribal agency, receiving quarterly wage reports from employers in the State, or an alternative system that has been determined by the Secretary of Labor to be as effective and timely in providing employment-related income and eligibility information. 



---

[N] [61 FR 11113, Mar. 18, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 23853, Apr. 30, 1998; 65 FR 16715, Mar. 29, 2000]




