# § 1033.235   Emission testing required for certification.

This section describes the emission testing you must perform to show compliance with the emission standards in § 1033.101.


(a) Select an emission-data locomotive (or engine) from each engine family for testing. It may be a low mileage locomotive, or a development engine (that is equivalent in design to the engines of the locomotives being certified), or another low hour engine. Use good engineering judgment to select the locomotive configuration that is most likely to exceed (or have emissions nearest to) an applicable emission standard or FEL. In making this selection, consider all factors expected to affect emission control performance and compliance with the standards, including emission levels of all exhaust constituents, especially NO_X_ and PM.


(b) Test your emission-data locomotives using the procedures and equipment specified in subpart F of this part. In the case of dual-fuel locomotives, measure emissions when operating with each type of fuel for which you intend to certify the locomotive. In the case of flexible-fuel locomotives, measure emissions when operating with the fuel mixture that best represents in-use operation or is most likely to have the highest NO_X_ emissions, though you may ask us instead to perform tests with both fuels separately if you can show that intermediate mixtures are not likely to occur in use.


(c) We may perform confirmatory testing by measuring emissions from any of your emission-data locomotives or other locomotives from the engine family.


(1) We may decide to do the testing at your plant or any other facility. If we do this, you must deliver the locomotive to a test facility we designate. If we do the testing at your plant, you must schedule it as soon as possible and make available the instruments, personnel, and equipment we need.


(2) If we measure emissions from one of your locomotives, the results of that testing become the official emission results for the locomotive. Unless we later invalidate these data, we may decide not to consider your data in determining if your engine family meets applicable requirements.


(3) Before we test one of your locomotives, we may set its adjustable parameters to any point within the adjustable ranges (*see* § 1033.115(b)).


(4) Before we test one of your locomotives, we may calibrate it within normal production tolerances for anything we do not consider an adjustable parameter. For example, this would apply for a parameter that is subject to production variability because it is adjustable during production, but is not considered an adjustable parameter (as defined in § 1033.901) because it is permanently sealed.


(d) You may ask to use carryover emission data from a previous model year instead of doing new tests if all the following are true:


(1) The engine family from the previous model year differs from the current engine family only with respect to model year, items identified in § 1033.225(a), or other factors not related to emissions. We may waive this criterion for differences we determine not to be relevant.


(2) The emission-data locomotive from the previous model year remains the appropriate emission-data locomotive under paragraph (b) of this section.


(3) The data show that the emission-data locomotive would meet all the requirements that apply to the engine family covered by the application for certification.


(e) You may ask to use emission data from a different engine family you have already certified instead of testing a locomotive in the second engine family if all the following are true:


(1) The same engine is used in both engine families.


(2) You demonstrate to us that the differences in the two families are sufficiently small that the locomotives in the untested family will meet the same applicable notch standards calculated from the test data.


(f) We may require you to test a second locomotive of the same or different configuration in addition to the locomotive tested under paragraph (b) of this section.


(g) If you use an alternate test procedure under 40 CFR 1065.10 and later testing shows that such testing does not produce results that are equivalent to the procedures specified in subpart F of this part, we may reject data you generated using the alternate procedure.


(h) The requirement to measure smoke emissions is waived for certification and production line testing, except where there is reason to believe your locomotives do not meet the applicable smoke standards. 


(i) Measure CO_2_ with each test. Measure CH_4_ with each low-hour certification test using the procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1065 starting in the 2012 model year. Also measure N_2_O with each low-hour certification test using the procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1065 for any engine family that depends on NOx aftertreatment to meet emission standards. Small manufacturers/remanufacturers may omit measurement of N_2_O and CH_4_. Use the same units and modal calculations as for your other results to report a single weighted value for CO_2_, N_2_O, and CH_4_. Round the final values as follows:


(1) Round CO_2_ to the nearest 1 g/bhp-hr.


(2) Round N_2_O to the nearest 0.001 g/bhp-hr.


(3) Round CH_4_ to the nearest 0.001g/bhp-hr.



---

[N] [73 FR 37197, June 30, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 56508, Oct. 30, 2008; 75 FR 22984, Apr. 30, 2010; 81 FR 74005, Oct. 25, 2016]




