# ยง 336.2   Duration of normal unemployment benefits.

(a) *130 compensable day limitation.* A qualified employee who has satisfied the waiting period for a benefit year may receive benefits for a maximum of 130 days of unemployment within such benefit year, subject to the limitation on payment explained in paragraph (b) of this section. In any registration period beginning after the end of the waiting period and before the beginning of the next ensuing benefit year, benefits are payable for days of unemployment in excess of four, but the aggregate number of compensable days may not exceed 130 for the benefit year. An employee who is unemployed on all days during a registration period could have a maximum of 10 compensable days of unemployment in such registration period. The amount of benefits for each compensable day of unemployment is the amount of the daily benefit rate computed for such employee pursuant to part 330 of this chapter.


(b) *Base year compensation limit.* Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, the Board will not pay unemployment benefits to a qualified employee, with respect to his or her days of unemployment within a benefit year, in an amount greater than the amount of his or her base year compensation, as computed under ยง 336.4 of this part.


(c) *Unemployment due to a strike.* The limitations set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section also apply to an employee whose unemployment is due to a stoppage of work because of a strike in the establishment, premises, or enterprise at which he was last employed. But no unemployment benefits are payable for the employee's first 14 days of unemployment due to such stoppage of work.




