# § 60.5421b   What are my additional recordkeeping requirements for process unit equipment affected facilities?

You must maintain a record of each equipment leak monitoring inspection and each leak identified under § 60.5400b and § 60.5401b as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (17) of this section. The record must be maintained either onsite or at the nearest local field office for at least 5 years. Any records required to be maintained that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.


(a) You may comply with the recordkeeping requirements for multiple process unit equipment affected facilities in one recordkeeping system if the system identifies each record by each facility.


(b) You must maintain the monitoring inspection records specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (17) of this section.


(1) Equipment Identification. Note that connectors need not be individually identified if all connectors in a designated area or length of pipe subject to the provisions of this subpart are identified as a group, and the number of connectors subject is indicated.


(2) Date and start and end times of the monitoring inspection.


(3) Inspector name.


(4) Leak determination method used for the monitoring inspection (*i.e.,* OGI, Method 21, or AVO).


(5) Monitoring instrument identification (OGI and Method 21 only).


(6) Type of equipment monitored.


(7) Process unit identification.


(8) The records specified in Section 12 of appendix K of this part, for each monitoring inspection conducted with OGI.


(9) The records in paragraph (b)(9)(i) through (vii), for each monitoring inspection conducted with Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part.


(i) Instrument reading.


(ii) Date and time of instrument calibration and initials of operator performing the calibration.


(iii) Calibration gas cylinder identification, certification date, and certified concentration.


(iv) Instrument scale used.


(v) A description of any corrective action taken if the meter readout could not be adjusted to correspond to the calibration gas value in accordance with section 10.1 of Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part.


(vi) Results of the daily calibration drift assessment.


(vii) If you make your own calibration gas, a description of the procedure used.


(10) For visual inspections of pumps in light liquid service, keep the records specified in paragraphs (b)(10)(i) through (iii), for each monitored equipment:


(i) Date of inspection.


(ii) Inspector name.


(iii) Result of inspection (*i.e.,* visual indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal or no visual indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal).


(11) For each leak detected, the records specified in paragraphs (b)(11)(i) through (v) of this section:


(i) The instrument and operator identification numbers and the process unit and equipment identification numbers. For leaks identified via AVO methods, enter the specific sensory method for instrument identification number.


(ii) The date the leak was detected.


(iii) For each attempt to repair the leak, record:


(A) The date.


(B) The repair method applied.


(C) Indication of whether a leak was still detected following each attempt to repair the leak.


(iv) The date of successful repair of the leak and the method of monitoring used to confirm the repair, as specified in paragraph (b)(11)(iv)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) If Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part is used to confirm the repair, maintain a record of the maximum instrument reading measured by Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part.


(B) If OGI conducted in accordance with appendix K of this part is used to confirm the repair, maintain a record of video footage of the repair confirmation.


(C) If the leak is repaired by eliminating AVO indications of a leak, maintain a record of the specific sensory method used to confirm that the evidence of the leak is eliminated.


(v) For each repair delayed beyond 15 calendar days after detection of the leak, record:


(A) “Repair delayed” and the reason for the delay.


(B) The signature of the certifying official who made the decision that repair could not be completed without a process shutdown.


(C) The expected date of successful repair of the leak.


(D) Dates of process unit shutdowns that occur while the equipment is unrepaired.


(12) A list of identification numbers for equipment that are designated for no detectable emissions complying with the provisions of § 60.5401b.


(13) A list of identification numbers for valves, pumps, and connectors that are designated as unsafe-to-monitor, an explanation for each valve, pump, or connector stating why the valve, pump, or connector is unsafe-to-monitor, and the plan for monitoring each valve, pump, or connector.


(14) A list of identification numbers for valves that are designated as difficult-to-monitor, an explanation for each valve stating why the valve is difficult-to-monitor, and the schedule for monitoring each valve.


(15) A list of identification numbers for equipment that is in vacuum service.


(16) A list of identification numbers for equipment you designate as having the potential to emit methane or VOC less than 300 hr/yr.


(17) A list of identification numbers for valves where it was infeasible to replace leaking valves with low-e valves or repack existing valves with low-e packing technology, including the reasoning for why it was infeasible.



---

[N] [89 FR 17043, Mar. 8, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 62916, Aug. 1, 2024]






