# § 22.30   Appeal from or review of initial decision.

(a) *Notice of appeal and appeal brief*—(1) *Filing an appeal*—(i) *Filing deadline and who may appeal.* Within 30 days after the initial decision is served, any party may file an appeal from any adverse order or ruling of the Presiding Officer.


(ii) *Filing requirements.* Appellant must file a notice of appeal and an accompanying appellate brief with the Environmental Appeals Board as set forth in § 22.5(a). One copy of any document filed with the Clerk of the Board shall also be served on the Headquarters or Regional Hearing Clerk, as appropriate. Appellant also shall serve a copy of the notice of appeal upon the Presiding Officer. Appellant shall simultaneously serve one copy of the notice and brief upon all other parties and non-party participants.


(iii) *Content.* The notice of appeal shall summarize the order or ruling, or part thereof, appealed from. The appellant's brief shall contain tables of contents and authorities (with appropriate page references), a statement of the issues presented for review, a statement of the nature of the case and the facts relevant to the issues presented for review (with specific citation or other appropriate reference to the record (*e.g.,* by including the document name and page number)), argument on the issues presented, a short conclusion stating the precise relief sought, alternative findings of fact, and alternative conclusions regarding issues of law or discretion. If any appellant includes attachments to its notice of appeal or appellate brief, the notice of appeal or appellate brief shall contain a table that provides the title of each appended document and assigns a label identifying where it may be found in the record.


(iv) *Multiple appeals.* If a timely notice of appeal is filed by a party, any other party may file a notice of appeal and accompanying appellate brief on any issue within 20 days after the date on which the first notice of appeal was served or within the time to appeal in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, whichever period ends later.


(2) *Response brief.* Within 20 days of service of notices of appeal and briefs under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, any other party or non-party participant may file with the Environmental Appeals Board an original and one copy of a response brief responding to arguments raised by the appellant, together with specific citation or other appropriate reference to the record, initial decision, and opposing brief (*e.g.,* by including the document name and page number). Appellee shall simultaneously serve one copy of the response brief upon each party, non-party participant, and the Regional Hearing Clerk. Response briefs shall be limited to the scope of the appeal brief. If any responding party or non-party participant includes attachments to its response brief, the response brief shall contain a table that provides the title of each appended document and assigns a label identifying where it may be found in the record. Further briefs may be filed only with leave of the Environmental Appeals Board.


(3) *Length*—(i) *Briefs.* Unless otherwise ordered by the Environmental Appeals Board, appellate and response briefs may not exceed 14,000 words, and all other briefs may not exceed 7000 words. Filers may rely on the word-processing system used to determine the word count. As an alternative to this word limitation, filers may comply with a 30-page limit for appellate and response briefs, or a 15-page limit for replies. Headings, footnotes, and quotations count toward the word limitation. The table of contents, table of authorities, table of attachments (if any), statement requesting oral argument (if any), statement of compliance with the word limitation, and any attachments do not count toward the word or page-length limitation. The Environmental Appeals Board may exclude any appeal, response, or other brief that does not meet word or page-length limitations. Where a party can demonstrate a compelling and documented need to exceed such limitations, such party must seek advance leave of the Environmental Appeals Board to file a longer brief. Such requests are discouraged and will be granted only in unusual circumstances.


(ii) *Motions.* Unless otherwise ordered by the Environmental Appeals Board, motions and any responses or replies may not exceed 7000 words. Filers may rely on the word-processing system used to determine the word count. As an alternative to this word limitation, filers may comply with a 15-page limit. Headings, footnotes, and quotations count toward the word or page-length limitation. The Environmental Appeals Board may exclude any motion that does not meet word limitations. Where a party can demonstrate a compelling and documented need to exceed such limitations, such party must seek advance leave of the Environmental Appeals Board. Such requests are discouraged and will be granted only in unusual circumstances.


(b) *Review initiated by the Environmental Appeals Board.* Whenever the Environmental Appeals Board determines to review an initial decision on its own initiative, it shall issue an order notifying the parties and the Presiding Officer of its intent to review that decision. The Clerk of the Board shall serve the order upon the Regional Hearing Clerk, the Presiding Officer, and the parties within 45 days after the initial decision was served upon the parties. In that order or in a later order, the Environmental Appeals Board shall identify any issues to be briefed by the parties and establish a time schedule for filing and service of briefs.


(c) *Scope of appeal or review.* The parties' rights of appeal shall be limited to those issues raised during the course of the proceeding and by the initial decision, and to issues concerning subject matter jurisdiction. If the Environmental Appeals Board determines that issues raised, but not appealed by the parties, should be argued, it shall give the parties written notice of such determination to allow preparation of adequate argument. The Environmental Appeals Board may remand the case to the Presiding Officer for further proceedings.


(d) *Argument before the Environmental Appeals Board.* The Environmental Appeals Board may, at its discretion in response to a request or on its own initiative, order oral argument on any or all issues in a proceeding. To request oral argument, a party must include in its substantive brief a statement explaining why oral argument is necessary. The Environmental Appeals Board may, by order, establish additional procedures governing any oral argument before the Environmental Appeals Board.


(e) *Motions on appeal*—(1) *General.* All motions made during the course of an appeal shall conform to § 22.16 unless otherwise provided. In advance of filing a motion, parties must attempt to ascertain whether the other party(ies) concur(s) or object(s) to the motion and must indicate in the motion the attempt made and the response obtained.


(2) *Disposition of a motion for a procedural order.* The Environmental Appeals Board may act on a motion for a procedural order at any time without awaiting a response.


(3) *Timing on motions for extension of time.* Parties must file motions for extensions of time sufficiently in advance of the due date to allow other parties to have a reasonable opportunity to respond to the request for more time and to provide the Environmental Appeals Board with a reasonable opportunity to issue an order.


(f) *Decision.* The Environmental Appeals Board shall adopt, modify, or set aside the findings of fact and conclusions of law or discretion contained in the decision or order being reviewed, and shall set forth in the final order the reasons for its actions. The Environmental Appeals Board may assess a penalty that is higher or lower than the amount recommended to be assessed in the decision or order being reviewed or from the amount sought in the complaint, except that if the order being reviewed is a default order, the Environmental Appeals Board may not increase the amount of the penalty above that proposed in the complaint or in the motion for default, whichever is less. The Environmental Appeals Board may adopt, modify or set aside any recommended compliance or corrective action order or Permit Action. The Environmental Appeals Board may remand the case to the Presiding Officer for further action.



---

[N] [64 FR 40176, July 23, 1999, as amended at 68 FR 2204, Jan. 16, 2003; 69 FR 77639, Dec. 28, 2004; 79 FR 65901, Nov. 6, 2014; 80 FR 13252, Mar. 13, 2015; 82 FR 2235, Jan. 9, 2017]




