# ยง 27.300   Orders.

(a) *Orders generally.* When the Executive Assistant Director determines that a facility is in violation of any of the requirements of this part, the Executive Assistant Director may take appropriate action including the issuance of an appropriate Order.


(b) *Orders Assessing Civil Penalty and Orders to Cease Operations.* (1) Where the Executive Assistant Director determines that a facility is in violation of an Order issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the Executive Assistant Director may enter an Order Assessing Civil Penalty, Order to Cease Operations, or both.


(2) Following the issuance of an Order by the Executive Assistant Director pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the facility may enter further consultations with the Department.


(3) Where the Executive Assistant Director determines that a facility is in violation of an Order issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section and issues an Order Assessing Civil Penalty pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a chemical facility is liable to the United States for a civil penalty of not more than $25,000 for each day during which the violation continues, if the violation of the Order occurred on or before November 2, 2015, or $41,093 for each day during which the violation of the Order continues, if the violation occurred after November 2, 2015.


(c) *Procedures for Orders.* (1) At a minimum, an Order shall be signed by the Executive Assistant Director, shall be dated, and shall include:


(i) The name and address of the facility in question;


(ii) A listing of the provision(s) that the facility is alleged to have violated;


(iii) A statement of facts upon which the alleged instances of noncompliance are based;


(iv) A clear explanation of deficiencies in the facility's chemical security program, including, if applicable, any deficiencies in the facility's Security Vulnerability Assessment, Site Security Plan, or both;


(v) A statement indicating what action(s) the facility must take to remedy the instance(s) of noncompliance; and


(vi) The date by which the facility must comply with the terms of the Order.


(2) The Executive Assistant Director may establish procedures for the issuance of Orders.


(d) A facility must comply with the terms of the Order by the date specified in the Order unless the facility has filed a timely Notice of Application for Review under ยง 27.310.


(e) Where a facility or other person contests the determination of the Executive Assistant Director to issue an Order, a chemical facility may seek an adjudication pursuant to ยง 27.310.


(f) An Order issued under this section becomes final agency action when the time to file a Notice of Application for Review under ยง 27.310 has passed without such a filing or upon the conclusion of adjudication or appeal proceedings under this subpart. 



---

[N] [72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 81 FR 43001, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 8579, Jan. 27, 2017; 83 FR 13834, Apr. 2, 2018; 84 FR 13508, Apr. 5, 2019; 85 FR 36478, June 17, 2020; 86 FR 41892, Aug. 4, 2021; 86 FR 57539, Oct. 18, 2021; 87 FR 1326, Jan. 11, 2022; 88 FR 2182, Jan. 13, 2023]




