# § 1006.301   Eligible families.

(a) *General.* Assistance for eligible housing activities under the Act and this part is limited to low-income Native Hawaiian families who are eligible to reside on the Hawaiian Home Lands, except as provided under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.


(b) *Exception to low-income requirement*—(1) *Other Native Hawaiian families.* The DHHL may provide assistance for homeownership activities, which may include assistance in conjunction with loan guarantee activities to Native Hawaiian families who are not low-income families, as approved by HUD, to address a need for housing for those families that cannot be reasonably met without that assistance. DHHL must determine and document the need for housing for each family that cannot reasonably be met without such assistance.


(2) *HUD approval.* HUD approval is required, except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, if the DHHL plans to use grant amounts provided under the Act for assistance in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section. HUD approval shall be obtained by DHHL submitting proposals in its housing plan, by amendment of the housing plan, or by special request to HUD at any time.


(3) *Limitations.* (i) DHHL may use up to 10 percent of the amount planned in its Housing Plan for its fiscal year for families whose income is 81 to 100 percent of the median income without HUD approval. HUD approval is required if DHHL plans to use more than 10 percent of the amount planned for its fiscal year for such assistance or to provide housing for families with income over 100 percent of median income.


(ii) Non-low-income families cannot receive the same benefits provided low-income Native Hawaiian families. The amount of assistance non-low-income families may receive will be determined by DHHL as established in its written policies.


(iii) The requirements set forth in paragraphs 3(i) and (ii) of this section do not apply to other families who are non-low income that DHHL has determined to be essential under paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Other families.* The DHHL may provide housing or NHHBG assistance to a family that is not low-income and is not a Native Hawaiian family without HUD approval if the DHHL documents that:


(1) The presence of the family in the housing involved is essential to the well-being of Native Hawaiian families; and


(2) The need for housing for the family cannot be reasonably met without the assistance.


(d) *Written policies.* The DHHL must develop, follow, and have available for review by HUD written policies governing the eligibility, admission, and occupancy of families for housing assisted with NHHBG funds and governing the selection of families receiving other assistance under the Act and this part.





---

[N] [89 FR 9761, Feb. 12, 2024]








