# § 107.585   Distributions and reductions in Regulatory Capital.

(a) *Non-leveraged Licensees.* If you are a Non-leveraged Licensee, you may make distributions to your private investors without SBA prior approval. At all times, you must retain sufficient Regulatory Capital to meet the minimum capital requirements in the Act and in § 107.210, unless such amounts are in accordance with your SBA approved Wind-down Plan (see § 107.590). You must report any reductions of Regulatory Capital to SBA within 30 days via an updated Capital Certificate (see § 107.300).


(b) *Non-Accrual Leveraged Licensees.* If you are a Standard Debenture Leveraged Licensee that is also an Early Stage SBIC, you are subject to the distributions identified in § 107.1180. If you are a Standard Debenture Leveraged Licensee, you may distribute READ to your private investors without SBA approval only after considering any material adverse changes to your portfolio. You must obtain SBA's prior written approval to reduce your Regulatory Capital by more than two percent in any fiscal year. In seeking SBA's prior written approval, you must disclose any material adverse changes or certify that you have no material adverse changes and provide an updated Wind-down Plan. You must retain sufficient Regulatory Capital to meet the minimum capital requirements of § 107.210 and sufficient Leverageable Capital to avoid having excess Leverage in violation of section 303 of the Act and § 107.1150. You must report any reductions of Regulatory Capital to SBA within 30 days via an updated Capital Certificate (see § 107.300).


(c) *Accrual SBICs and Reinvestor SBICs.* If you are an Accrual SBIC or Reinvestor SBIC, unless you receive prior written approval from SBA to make a distribution solely to cover tax liabilities, you may only distribute as follows:


(1) *Payment of Annual Charges and accrued interest.* Prior to any non-tax distribution, you must pay any Annual Charges owed to SBA and all accrued interest on your outstanding Leverage.


(2) *Calculate SBA's share of distribution.* Prior to any non-tax distribution, you must make payments to SBA on a pro rata basis with any distributions based on your SBA Total Intended Leverage Commitment relative to your Total Private Capital Commitments, inclusive of Qualified Non-Private Funds, determined within 12 months of Licensure calculated as follows: SBA's Share = Total Distributions × [Total Intended Leverage Commitment/(Total Intended Leverage Commitment + Total Private Capital Commitments)] where:


(i) Total Distributions means any prior tax distributions plus the total amount of distributions, whether profit or return of capital, you intend to make after paying all accrued interest and Annual Charges;


(ii) Total Intended Leverage Commitment is as defined in § 107.300.


(iii) Total Private Capital Commitments is as defined in § 107.300.


(3) *Apply SBA Share.* You must repay SBA outstanding Leverage in an amount no less than SBA's Share to the extent of Outstanding Leverage and report the SBA calculation to SBA. If SBA's Share is greater than Outstanding Leverage and you have unfunded Leverage commitments, you must submit a Leverage commitment cancellation equal to SBA's Share minus the SBA Leverage redemption up to the unfunded Leverage commitments.


(4) *Distribute to private investors.* You must report SBA's Share calculation to SBA prior to distributing READ to your private investors without SBA approval and only after considering any adverse changes to your portfolio. You must pay Annual Charges to SBA prior to distributing READ. After repaying all accrued interest, Annual Charges, and outstanding Leverage calculated as SBA's Share, you may distribute READ to your private investors without SBA approval only after considering any adverse changes to your portfolio. You must obtain SBA's prior written approval to reduce your Regulatory Capital by more than two percent in any fiscal year. In seeking SBA's prior written approval, you must disclose any material adverse changes or certify that you have no material adverse changes and provide an updated Wind-down Plan. You must retain sufficient Regulatory Capital to meet the minimum capital requirements of § 107.210 and sufficient Leverageable Capital to avoid having excess Leverage in violation of section 303 of the Act and § 107.1150. You must report any reductions of Regulatory Capital to SBA within 30 days. Prior to any reduction in Regulatory Capital, if you have made a tax distribution, you must make a distribution to SBA pursuant to the formula set forth in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, as if you had made a non-tax distribution.


(5) *Report distribution to SBA.* You must report to SBA the distribution, the calculations, and the amounts distributed to each party as part of your annual and quarterly Form 468 (see §§ 107.630 and 107.1220).



---

[N] [88 FR 46009, July 18, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 3548, Jan. 19, 2024]




