# § 611.1151   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply:


*Articles of formation* means registration certificates, charters, articles of organization, partnership agreements, membership or trust agreements, operating, administration or management agreements, fee agreements or any other documentation on the establishment, ownership, or operation of a UBE.


*Control* means that one System institution, directly or indirectly, owns more than 50 percent of the UBE's equity *or* serves as the general partner of an LLLP, or constitutes the sole manager or the managing member of a UBE. However, under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the power to control may also exist with a lesser percentage of ownership, for example, if a System institution is the UBE's primary beneficiary, exercises significant influence over the UBE or establishes control under other facts and circumstances in accordance with GAAP. Under this definition, a System institution also will be deemed to have control over the UBE if it exercises decision-making authority in a principal capacity of the UBE as defined under GAAP.


*Equity investment* means a System institution's contribution of money or assets to the operating capital of a UBE that provides ownership rights in return.


*System institution* means each System bank under titles I or III of the Act, each System association under title II of the Act, and each service corporation chartered under section 4.25 of the Act.


*Third-party UBE* means a UBE that is owned or controlled by one or more non-System persons or entities as the term “control” is defined under GAAP.


*UBE* means a Limited Partnership (LP), Limited Liability Partnership (LLP), Limited Liability Limited Partnership (LLLP), Limited Liability Company (LLC), Business or other Trust Entity (TE), or other business entity established and maintained under State law that is not incorporated under any law or chartered under Federal law.


*UBE business activity* means the services and functions delivered by a UBE for one or more System institutions.


*Unusual and complex collateral* means acquired property that may expose the owner to risks beyond those commonly associated with loans, including, but not limited to, acquired industrial or manufacturing properties where there is increased risk of incurring potential environmental or other liabilities that may accrue to the owners of such properties.




