# ยง 242.45   Early commencement of work.

(a) *Site preparation.* Prior to or following the submission of an application, the mortgagor may request for good cause the commencement of certain limited site preparation for the project within legal guidelines and state law. Such work can commence only after the review of the work and concurrence by HUD, including the environmental review under 24 CFR 242.79, previous participation review, and the agreement to certain conditions by the applicant. HUD will not approve such request until it has completed the environmental review under 24 CFR 242.79. The work must meet all requirements and guidelines as if it were approved for mortgage insurance and is to be accomplished at the sole risk of the mortgagor.


(b) *Construction completed prior to application.* Structures completed more than 2 years prior to application are eligible to be refinanced with insured mortgage proceeds.


(c) *Pre-commitment work.* Subsequent to submission of an application but prior to the issuance of a commitment or denial by HUD, the hospital and lender may request for good cause the commencement of certain necessary early site work and limited construction activity in connection with the improvements, within legal guidelines and state law. This work must be requested by both the hospital and the lender to be approved. Such work may be eligible to be financed with insured mortgage proceeds if the application is approved and the work complies with all specified conditions of HUD as set forth in a written agreement between the hospital and HUD. It is understood that in some cases the application submitted in order for pre-commitment work to begin may not be complete in all respects. However, at a minimum, the application shall include the approved FHA application form, the application fee (based on the amount of the total proposed insured loan), the inspection fee (based on the cost of the pre-commitment work), a project description of the pre-commitment work and its relation to the total project, and plans and specifications for the proposed pre-commitment work in sufficient detail to allow HUD to conduct its architectural and engineering review and obtain the necessary previous participation information and evidence of compliance with federal and state environmental regulations. Such work can commence only after the review of the work and concurrence by the lender and HUD, including previous participation review. HUD will not approve such request until it has completed the environmental review under 24 CFR 242.79. The work must meet all requirements and guidelines as if it were approved for mortgage insurance and is to be accomplished at the sole risk of the hospital. A request shall be accompanied by documentation required by HUD. That documentation shall include:


(1) A justification explaining the urgent and compelling circumstances that make it necessary to begin construction without waiting for the application process to run its course. The justification must specify the harm the hospital would suffer from waiting.


(2) A plan detailing how the hospital will finance the limited construction if the application for mortgage insurance is denied.


(3) A statement that financing the limited construction by means other than a HUD-insured mortgage in the event the application is denied will impose no significant financial hardship on the hospital. The statement shall be accompanied by supporting historical and projected financial data.


(4) A statement that the hospital recognizes that HUD's agreement to include the cost of the limited construction in a subsequently approved application does not in any way indicate that the application will be approved.


(5) A resolution of the governing body (or, at HUD's discretion, the executive committee of the governing body) of the mortgagor attesting to paragraphs (c)(1) through (4).


(d) *Early Start.* Subsequent to the issuance of a commitment, if the hospital and lender request the commencement of the project, the work may commence after the review and approval of the request by HUD, including the agreement by the hospital and the lender to any conditions that HUD may require. Any work undertaken prior to the initial endorsement shall be at the sole risk of the hospital.


(e) *Prepayment of inspection fee.* The hospital shall pay a non-refundable inspection fee to HUD before the work described in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section commences. The fee shall be based on the amount of the pre-commitment and/or early start work requested to be included in the insured mortgage loan.


(f) *No expressed or implied intent.* Approval to proceed under paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section shall in no way be construed as indicating any intent, expressed or implied, on the part of HUD to approve, disapprove, or make any undertaking or promise whatsoever with respect to the application or with respect to any commitment for mortgage insurance. Any work under paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section shall be undertaken at the sole risk and responsibility of the hospital.




