# ยง 223.3   Definitions.

These terms and their definitions are for the purposes of this part:


(a) *Atomic Energy Defense Programs.* Activities, equipment, and facilities of the Department of Defense that are capable of the following:


(1) Development, production, testing, sampling, maintenance, repair, modification, assembly, utilization, transportation, or retirement of nuclear weapons or nuclear weapon components.


(2) Production, utilization, or transportation of DoD SNM for military applications.


(3) Safeguarding of activities, equipment, or facilities that support the functions in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, including the protection of nuclear weapons, nuclear weapon components, or DoD SNM for military applications at a fixed facility or in transit.


(b) *Document or material.* The physical medium on or in which information is recorded, or a product or substance that contains or reveals information, regardless of its physical form or characteristics.


(c) *DoD UCNI.* Unclassified information on the physical protection of DoD SNM, SNM equipment, and SNM facilities, including unclassified information on the physical protection of nuclear weapons containing SNM that are in DoD custody.


(d) *Information.* Any fact or concept, regardless of the physical form or characteristics of the medium on or in which it is recorded, contained, or revealed.


(e) *Intelligence Community.* An element or agency of the U.S. Government identified in or designated pursuant section 3.5(h) of Executive Order 12333, as amended.


(f) *Reviewing official.* An individual appointed by the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Nuclear, Chemical, and Biological Defense Programs who may make a determination that a document or material contains, does not contain, or no longer contains DoD UCNI.


(g) *Safeguards.* An integrated system of physical protection, document and material accounting, and control measures designed to deter, prevent, detect, and respond to unauthorized possession, use, or sabotage of DoD SNM, SNM equipment, SNM facilities, or nuclear weapons in DoD custody.


(h) *SNM.* Defined in 42 U.S.C. 2014.


(i) *SNM equipment.* Equipment, systems, or components whose failure or destruction would cause an impact on safeguarding DoD SNM resulting in an unacceptable interruption to a national security program or an unacceptable impact on the health and safety of the public.


(j) *SNM facility.* A DoD facility that performs a function in support of Atomic Energy Defense Programs whose disruption could reasonably be expected to have a significant adverse effect on safeguarding DoD SNM, the health and safety of the public or the common defense and security.


(k) *Unauthorized dissemination.* The intentional or negligent transfer, in any manner and by any person, of information contained in a document or material determined by a reviewing official to contain DoD UCNI, and so marked in accordance with the procedures in ยง 223.6 of this part, to any person or entity other than an individual or entity authorized access to DoD UCNI in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 128 and this part.




