# ยง 190.33   Person entitled to claim unused merchandise drawback.

(a) *Direct identification.* (1) Under 19 U.S.C. 1313(j)(1), as amended, the exporter or destroyer will be entitled to claim drawback.


(2) The exporter or destroyer may waive the right to claim drawback and assign such right to the importer or any intermediate party. A drawback claimant under 19 U.S.C. 1313(j)(1) other than the exporter or destroyer must secure and retain a certification signed by the exporter or destroyer waiving the right to claim drawback, and stating that it did not and will not authorize any other party to claim the exportation or destruction for drawback (*see* ยง 190.82). The certification provided for under this section may be a blanket certification for a stated period. The claimant must file such certification with each claim.


(b) *Substitution.* (1) Under 19 U.S.C. 1313(j)(2), as amended, the following parties may claim drawback:


(i) In situations where the exporter or destroyer of the substituted merchandise is also the importer of the imported merchandise, that party will be entitled to claim drawback.


(ii) In situations where the person who imported and paid the duty on the imported merchandise transfers the imported merchandise, substituted merchandise, or any combination of imported and substituted merchandise to the person who exports or destroys that merchandise, the exporter or destroyer will be entitled to claim drawback. (Any such transferred merchandise, regardless of its origin, will be treated as imported merchandise for purposes of drawback under 19 U.S.C. 1313(j)(2), and any retained merchandise will be treated as domestic merchandise.)


(iii) In situations where the transferred merchandise described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section is the subject of further transfer(s), such transfer(s) must be documented by records, including records kept in the normal course of business, and the exporter or destroyer will be entitled to claim drawback (multiple substitutions are not permitted).


(2) The exporter or destroyer may waive the right to claim drawback and assign such right to the importer or to any intermediate party, provided that the claimant had possession of the substituted merchandise prior to its exportation or destruction. A drawback claimant under 19 U.S.C. 1313(j)(2) other than the exporter or destroyer must secure and retain a certification signed by the exporter or destroyer that such party waived the right to claim drawback, and stating that it did not and will not authorize any other party to claim the exportation or destruction for drawback (*see* ยง 190.82). The certification provided for under this section may be a blanket certification for a stated period. The claimant must file such certification with each claim.




