# ยง 63.10022   How do I demonstrate continuous compliance under the emissions averaging provision?

(a) Following the compliance date, the owner or operator must demonstrate compliance with this subpart on a continuous basis by meeting the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) For each 30- (or 90-) day rolling average period, demonstrate compliance with the average weighted emissions limit for the existing units participating in the emissions averaging option as determined in ยง 63.10009(f) and (g);




(2) For each existing unit participating in the emissions averaging option that is equipped with PM CPMS, maintain the average parameter value at or below the operating limit established during the most recent performance test. On or after July 6, 2027 you may not use PM CPMS for filterable PM compliance demonstrations unless it is for an IGCC unit;




(3) For each existing unit participating in the emissions averaging option venting to a common stack configuration containing affected units from other subcategories, maintain the appropriate operating limit for each unit as specified in Table 4 to this subpart that applies. Since on or after July 6, 2027 you may not use PM CPMS, unless it is for an IGCC unit, for compliance demonstrations with the applicable filterable PM limits, the Table 4 p.m. CPMS operating limits do not apply.




(4) For each existing EGU participating in the emissions averaging option, operate in accordance with the startup or shutdown work practice requirements given in Table 3 to this subpart.


(b) Any instance where the owner or operator fails to comply with the continuous monitoring requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section is a deviation.



---

[N] [77 FR 9464, Feb. 16, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 23404, Apr. 19, 2012; 79 FR 68791, Nov. 19, 2014; 89 FR 38567, May 7, 2024]




