# ยง 98.517   Records that must be retained.

In addition to the information required by ยง 98.3(g), you must retain the records specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section for each caprolactam, glyoxal, or glyoxylic acid production facility:


(a) Documentation of how accounting procedures were used to estimate production rate.


(b) Documentation of how process knowledge was used to estimate abatement technology destruction efficiency (if applicable).


(c) Documentation of the procedures used to ensure the accuracy of the measurements of all reported parameters, including but not limited to, calibration of weighing equipment, flow meters, and other measurement devices. The estimated accuracy of measurements made with these devices must also be recorded, and the technical basis for these estimates must be provided.


(d) The applicable verification software records as identified in this paragraph (d). You must keep a record of the file generated by the verification software specified in ยง 98.5(b) for the applicable data specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section. Retention of this file satisfies the recordkeeping requirement for the data in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) Monthly production quantity of caprolactam from each process line at the caprolactam, glyoxal, or glyoxylic acid production facility (metric tons).


(2) Monthly production quantity of glyoxal from each process line at the caprolactam, glyoxal, or glyoxylic acid production facility (metric tons).


(3) Monthly production quantity of glyoxylic acid from each process line at the caprolactam, glyoxal, or glyoxylic acid production facility (metric tons).


(4) Destruction efficiency of N_2_O abatement technology from each process line, fraction (decimal fraction of N_2_O removed from vent stream).






