# § 75.833   Handling high-voltage trailing cables.

(a) *Cable handling.* (1) Miners must not handle energized trailing cables unless they are wearing high-voltage insulating gloves, which include the rubber gloves and leather outer protector gloves, or are using insulated cable handling tools that meet the requirements of paragraph (c) or (d) of this section.


(2) Miners must not handle energized high-voltage cables with any parts of their bodies except by hand in accordance with paragraph (1) above.


(b) *Availability.* Each mine operator must make high-voltage insulating gloves or insulated cable handling tools available to miners handling energized high-voltage trailing cables.


(c) *High-voltage insulating gloves.* High-voltage insulating gloves must meet the following requirements:


(1) The rubber gloves must be designed and maintained to have a voltage rating of at least Class 1 (7,500 volts) and tested every 30 days in accordance with publication ASTM F496-02a, “Standard Specification for In-Service Care of Insulating Gloves and Sleeves” (2002). The Director of the Federal Register approved this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 522(a) and 1 CFR part 51. ASTM F496-02a may be obtained from the American Society for Testing and Materials, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959, call 610-832-9500 or go to *http://www.astm.org.* ASTM F496-02a is available for inspection at any MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health District Office, at the MSHA Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(2) The rubber glove portion must be air-tested at the beginning of each shift to assure its effectiveness.


(3) Both the leather protector and rubber insulating gloves must be visually examined before each use for signs of damage or defects.


(4) Damaged rubber gloves must be removed from the underground area of the mine or destroyed. Leather protectors must be maintained in good condition or replaced.


(d) *Insulated cable handling tools.* Insulated cable handling tools must be:


(1) Rated and properly maintained to withstand at least 7,500 volts;


(2) Designed and manufactured for cable handling;


(3) Visually examined before each use for signs of damage or defects; and


(4) Removed from the underground area of the mine or destroyed if damaged or defective.



---

[N] [75 FR 17549, Apr. 6, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 52992, Sept. 2, 2015]




