# ยง 1245.7   Adjustment of status of certain Soviet and Indochinese parolees under the Foreign Operations Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 1990 (Pub. L. 101-167).

(a) *Application.* Each person applying for benefits under section 599E of Public Law 101-167 (103 Stat. 1195, 1263) must file Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, with the director having jurisdiction over the applicant's place of residence and must pay the appropriate filing and fingerprinting fee, as prescribed in 8 CFR 103.7 and 8 CFR 103.17. Each application shall be accompanied by Form I-643, Health and Human Services Statistical Data for Refugee/Asylee Adjusting Status, and the results of a medical examination given in accordance with ยง 1245.8. In addition, if the applicant has reached his or her 14th birthday but is not over 79 years of age, the application shall be accompanied by a completed Form G-325A, Biographic Information, and the applicant shall be fingerprinted on Form FD-258, Applicant Card, as prescribed in ยง 103.2(e) of this chapter.


(b) *Aliens eligible to apply for adjustment.* The benefits of this section shall only apply to an alien who:


(1) Was a national of the Soviet Union, Vietnam, Laos, or Cambodia, and


(2) Was inspected and granted parole into the United States during the period beginning on August 15, 1988, and ending on September 30, 1990, after being denied refugee status.


(c) *Eligibility.* Benefits under Section 599E of Public Law 101-167 are limited to any alien described in paragraph (b) of this section who:


(1) Applies for such adjustment,


(2) Has been physically present in the United States for at least one year and is physically present in the United States on the date the application for such adjustment is filed,


(3) Is admissible to the United States as an immigrant, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, and


(4) Pays a fee for the processing of such application.


(d) *Waiver of certain grounds for inadmissibility.* The provisions of paragraphs (14), (15), (20), (21), (25), (28) (other than subparagraph (F), and (32) of section 212(a) of the Act shall not apply to adjustment under this section. The Attorney General may waive any other provision of section 212(a) (other than paragraph (23)(B), (27), (29), or (33)) with respect to such an adjustment for humanitarian purposes, to assure family unity, or when it is otherwise in the public interest.


(e) *Date of approval.* Upon approval of such an application for adjustment of status, the Attorney General shall create a record of the alien's admission as a lawful permanent resident as of the date of the alien's inspection and parole described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(f) *No offset in number of visas available.* When an alien is granted the status of having been lawfully admitted for permanent residence under this section, the Secretary of State shall not be required to reduce the number of immigrant visas authorized to be issued under the Immigration and Nationality Act.



---

[N] [55 FR 24860, July 19, 1990. Redesignated at 56 FR 49841, Oct. 2, 1991, as amended at 59 FR 33905, July 1, 1994; 63 FR 12987, Mar. 17, 1998; 85 FR 82794, Dec. 18, 2020] 




