# § 483.1   Basis and scope.

(a) *Statutory basis.* (1) Sections 1819(a), (b), (c), (d), and (f) of the Act provide that—

(i) Skilled nursing facilities participating in Medicare must meet certain specified requirements; and


(ii) The Secretary may impose additional requirements (see section 1819(d)(4)(B)) if they are necessary for the health and safety of individuals to whom services are furnished in the facilities.


(2) Section 1861(l) of the Act requires the facility to have in effect a transfer agreement with a hospital. 


(3) Sections 1919(a), (b), (c), (d), and (f) of the Act provide that nursing facilities participating in Medicaid must meet certain specific requirements.


(4) Sections 1128I(b) and (c) require that—


(i) Skilled nursing facilities or nursing facility have in operation a compliance and ethics program that is effective in preventing and detecting criminal, civil, and administrative violations.


(ii) The Secretary establish and implement a quality assurance and performance improvement program for facilities, including multi-unit chains of facilities.


(5) Section 1150B establishes requirements for reporting to law enforcement crimes occurring in federally funded LTC facilities.


(b) *Scope.* The provisions of this part contain the requirements that an institution must meet in order to qualify to participate as a Skilled Nursing Facility in the Medicare program, and as a nursing facility in the Medicaid program. They serve as the basis for survey activities for the purpose of determining whether a facility meets the requirements for participation in Medicare and Medicaid.



---

[N] [56 FR 48867, Sept. 26, 1991, as amended at 57 FR 43924, Sept. 23, 1992; 60 FR 50443, Sept. 29, 1995; 81 FR 68848, Oct. 4, 2016]




