# § 1.63-1   Change of treatment with respect to the zero bracket amount and itemized deductions.

(a) *In general.* An individual who files a return on which the individual itemizes deductions in accordance with section 63(g) may later make a change of treatment by recomputing taxable income for the taxable year to which that return relates without itemizing deductions. Similarly, an individual who files a return on which the individual computes taxable income without itemizing deductions may later make a change of treatment by itemizing deductions in accordance with section 63(g) in recomputing taxable income for the taxable year to which that return relates.


(b) *No extension of time for claiming credit or refund.* A change of treatment described in paragraph (a) of this section does not extend the period of time prescribed in section 6511 within which the taxpayer may make a claim for credit or refund of tax.


(c) *Special requirements if spouse filed separate return*—(1) *Requirements.* If the spouse of the taxpayer filed a separate return for a taxable year corresponding to the taxable year of the taxpayer, the taxpayer may not make a change of treatment described in paragraph (a) of this section for that year unless—


(i) The spouse makes a change of treatment on the separate return consistent with the change of treatment sought by the taxpayer; and


(ii) The taxpayer and the taxpayer's spouse file a consent in writing to the assessment of any deficiency of either spouse to the extent attributable to the change of treatment, even though the assessment of the deficiency would otherwise be prevented by the operation of any law or rule of law. The consent must be filed with the district director for the district in which the taxpayer applies for the change of treatment, and the period during which a deficiency may be assessed shall be established by agreement of the spouses and the district director.


(2) *Corresponding taxable year.* A taxable year of one spouse corresponds to a taxable year of the other spouse if both taxable years end in the same calendar year. If the taxable year of one spouse ends with death, however, the corresponding taxable year of the surviving spouse is that in which the death occurs.


(d) *Inapplicable if tax liability has been compromised.* The taxpayer may not make a change of treatment described in paragraph (a) of this section for any taxable year if—


(1) The tax liability of the taxpayer for the taxable year has been compromised under section 7122; or


(2) The tax liability of the taxpayer's spouse for a taxable year corresponding to the taxable year of the taxpayer has been compromised under section 7122. See paragraph (c)(2) of this section for the determination of a corresponding taxable year.


(e) *Effective date.* This section applies to taxable years beginning after 1976.



---

[N] [T.D. 7585, 44 FR 1105, Jan. 4, 1979]




