# § 17.605   Selection of participants.

(a) *General.* In deciding which HPSP application to approve, VA will first consider applications submitted by applicants entering their final year of education or training and applicants who previously received HPSP scholarships and who meet the conditions of paragraph (f) of this section. Except for paragraph (f) of this section, applicants will be evaluated and selected using the criteria specified in paragraph (b) of this section. If there are a larger number of equally qualified applicants than there are awards to be made, then VA will first select veterans, and then use a random method as the basis for further selection. In selecting participants to receive awards as part-time students, VA may, at VA's discretion—


(1) Award scholarships geographically to part-time students so that available scholarships may be distributed on a relatively equal basis to students working throughout the VA health care system, and/or 


(2) Award scholarships on the basis of retention needs within the VA health care system.


(b) *Selection.* In evaluating and selecting participants, the Secretary will take into consideration those factors determined necessary to assure effective participation in the Scholarship Program. The factors may include, but not be limited to— 


(1) Work/volunteer experience, including prior health care employment and Department of Veterans Affairs employment;


(2) Faculty and employer recommendations; 


(3) Academic performance; and 


(4) Career goals.


(c) *Selection of part-time students.* Factors in addition to those specified in paragraph (b) of this section, which may be considered in awarding scholarships to part-time students may include, but are not limited to: 


(1) Length of service of a VA employee in a health care facility; 


(2) Honors and awards received from VA, and other sources; 


(3) VA work performance evaluation; 


(4) A recommendation for selection for a part-time scholarship from a VA Medical District.


(d) *Notification of approval.* VA will notify the individual in writing that his or her application has been accepted and approved. An individual becomes a participant in the program upon receipt of such approval by VA.


(e) *Duration of scholarship award.* Subject to the availability of funds for the Scholarship Program, the Secretary will award a participant a full-time scholarship under these regulations for a period of from 1 to 4 school years and a participant of a part-time scholarship for a period of 1 to 6 school years. 


(f) *Continuation awards.* Subject to the availability of funds for the Scholarship Program and selection, the Secretary will award a continuation scholarship for completion of the degree for which the scholarship was awarded if—


(1) The award will not extend the total period of Scholarship Program support beyond 4 years for a full-time scholarship, and beyond 6 years for a part-time scholarship; and 


(2) The participant remains eligible for continued participation in the Scholarship Program.



---

[N] [48 FR 37399, Aug. 18, 1983, as amended at 54 FR 28674, July 7, 1989; 78 FR 51070, Aug. 20, 2013]




