# ยง 820.28   Prehearing actions.

(a) *General.* The Presiding Officer shall establish a schedule for the adjudication and take such other actions as he determines appropriate to conduct the adjudication in a fair and expeditious manner. 


(b) *Prehearing conference.* The Presiding Officer, at any time before a hearing begins, may direct the parties and their counsel, or other representatives, to appear at a conference before him to consider, as appropriate: 


(1) The settlement of the case; 


(2) The simplification of issues and stipulation of facts not in dispute; 


(3) The necessity or desirability of amendments to pleadings; 


(4) The exchange of exhibits; 


(5) The limitation of the number of expert or other witnesses; 


(6) Setting a time and place for the hearing; and 


(7) Any other matters that may expedite the disposition of the proceeding. 


(c) *Exchange of witness lists and documents.* Unless otherwise ordered by the Presiding Officer, at least five (5) days before any prehearing conference, each party shall make available to all other parties, as appropriate, the names of the expert and other witnesses it intends to call, together with a brief narrative summary of their expected testimony, and copies of all documents and exhibits that each party intends to introduce into evidence. Documents and exhibits shall be marked for identification as ordered by the Presiding Officer. Documents that have not been exchanged and witnesses whose names have not been exchanged shall not be introduced into evidence or allowed to testify without permission of the Presiding Officer. The Presiding Officer shall allow the parties reasonable opportunity to review new evidence. 


(d) *Prehearing conference order.* The Presiding Officer shall prepare an order incorporating any action taken at the conference. The summary shall incorporate any written stipulations or agreements of the parties and all rulings and appropriate orders containing directions to the parties. 


(e) *Alternative to prehearing conference.* If a prehearing conference is unnecessary or impracticable, the Presiding Officer, on motion or *sua sponte,* may direct the parties to make appropriate filings with him to accomplish any of the objectives set forth in this section. 


(f) *Other discovery.* (1) Except as provided by paragraph (c) of this section, further discovery under this section shall be permitted only upon determination by the Presiding Officer: 


(i) That such discovery will not in any way unreasonably delay the proceeding; 


(ii) That the information to be obtained is not otherwise obtainable; and 


(iii) That such information has significant probative value. 


(2) The Presiding Officer shall order depositions upon oral questions only upon a showing of good cause and upon a finding that: 


(i) The information sought cannot be obtained by alternative methods; or 


(ii) There is substantial reason to believe that relevant and probative evidence may otherwise not be preserved for presentation by a witness at the hearing. 


(3) Any party to the proceeding desiring an order to take further discovery shall make a motion therefor. Such a motion shall set forth: 


(i) The circumstances warranting the taking of the discovery; 


(ii) The nature of the information expected to be discovered; and 


(iii) The proposed time and place where it will be taken. If the Presiding Officer determines that the motion should be granted, he shall issue an order for the taking of such discovery together with the conditions and terms thereof. 


(4) When the information sought to be obtained is within the control of one of the parties, failure to comply with an order issued pursuant to this paragraph may lead to the inference that the information to be discovered would be adverse to the party from whom the information was sought, or the issuance of a default order under 820.38. 




