# § 172.695   Xanthan gum.

The food additive xanthan gum may be safely used in food in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:


(a) The additive is a polysaccharide gum derived from *Xanthomonas campestris* by a pure-culture fermentation process and purified by recovery with isopropyl alcohol. It contains D-glucose, D-mannose, and D-glucuronic acid as the dominant hexose units and is manufactured as the sodium, potassium, or calcium salt.


(b) The strain of *Xanthomonas campestris* is nonpathogenic and nontoxic in man or other animals.


(c) The additive is produced by a process that renders it free of viable cells of *Xanthomonas campestris.*

(d) The additive meets the following specifications:


(1) Residual isopropyl alcohol not to exceed 750 parts per million. 


(2) An aqueous solution containing 1 percent of the additive and 1 percent of potassium chloride stirred for 2 hours has a minimum viscosity of 600 centipoises at 75 °F, as determined by Brookfield Viscometer, Model LVF (or equivalent), using a No. 3 spindle at 60 r.p.m., and the ratio of viscosities at 75 °F and 150 °F is in the range of 1.02 to 1.45.


(3) Positive for xanthan gum when subjected to the following procedure:


(4) Positive for xanthan gum when subjected to the following procedure:


(e) The additive is used or intended for use in accordance with good manufacturing practice as a stabilizer, emulsifier, thickener, suspending agent, bodying agent, or foam enhancer in foods for which standards of identity established under section 401 of the Act do not preclude such use.


(f) To assure safe use of the additive:


(1) The label of its container shall bear, in addition to other information required by the Act, the name of the additive and the designation “food grade”.


(2) The label or labeling of the food additive container shall bear adequate directions for use.




