# § 18.1   In-bond application and entry; general rules.

(a) *General requirement.* In order to transport merchandise in-bond (transport imported merchandise, secured by a bond, from one port to another prior to the appraisement of the merchandise and without the payment of duties), an in-bond application as described in paragraph (d) of this section is required. An in-bond application consists of a transportation entry and a manifest. A transportation entry as described in paragraph (b) of this section may be made for any imported merchandise upon its arrival at a port of entry, subject to the prohibitions and restrictions provided in this part.


(b) *Types of transportation entries and withdrawals.* The following types of transportation entries and withdrawals may be made for merchandise to be transported in-bond:


(1) Entry for immediate transportation (IT).


(2) Warehouse withdrawal for immediate transportation.


(3) Warehouse withdrawal for immediate exportation or for transportation and exportation.


(4) Entry for transportation and exportation (T&E).


(5) Entry for immediate exportation (IE).


(6) Entry of vessel and aircraft supplies for immediate exportation (IE).


(7) Entry of vessel and aircraft supplies for transportation and exportation (T&E).


(c) *Who may file.* A transportation entry may be filed by:


(1) The carrier, or authorized agent of the carrier, that brings the merchandise to the origination port;


(2) The carrier, or authorized agent of the carrier, that is to accept the merchandise under its bond or a carnet for transportation to the port of destination or the port of exportation; or


(3) Any person or the authorized agent of any person, who has a sufficient interest in the merchandise as shown by the bill of lading or manifest, a certificate of the importing carrier (such as a power of attorney or letter of authorization), or by any other document. CBP may request evidence to demonstrate sufficient interest.


(d) *In-bond application.* An in-bond application consisting of a transportation entry and manifest must be transmitted to CBP via a CBP-approved EDI system as specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section in order to transport merchandise in-bond.


(1) *Contents.* Except for the other identifying information described in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section which is optional, the in-bond application must contain the following information:


(i) *Commodity HTSUS number.* The six-digit Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) number of the merchandise must be provided.


(ii) *Description of merchandise subject to regulation by another government agency.* Merchandise subject to regulation by a U.S. government agency other than CBP must contain a sufficient description of the merchandise to enable the agency concerned to determine the contents of the shipment.


(iii) *Other identifying information.* If a visa, permit, license, entry number, or other similar number or identifying information has been issued by the U.S. Government, foreign government or other issuing authority, relating to the merchandise, the visa, permit, license, entry number, or other similar number or identifying information may be provided.


(iv) *Quantity.* The quantity of the cargo laden aboard the conveyance must be provided. This means the quantity of the smallest external packing unit. Containers and pallets do not constitute acceptable information. For example, a container holding 10 pallets with 200 cartons should be described as 200 cartons. If the reported quantity is not correct or if it changes, the in-bond record must be updated or amended in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section. The updating of the quantity of the merchandise does not relieve the carrier whose bond is obligated from liquidated damages for any shortage.


(v) *Container number and seals.* The container number of the container in which the merchandise is being transported and the seal number of the seal that seals the container (see § 18.4) must be provided. If the seal number is not known when the in-bond application is filed, the in-bond application must be updated with the seal number within two business days from the date the initial carrier takes possession of the sealed merchandise.


(vi) *Destination.* For IT shipments, the port of destination in the United States must be provided. For T&E and IE shipments, the port of exportation and the first foreign port must be provided. If any of this information changes, the in-bond record must be updated or amended in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section.


(2) *Method of submission.* The in-bond application must be electronically transmitted to CBP via a CBP-approved EDI system, except as described in § 18.31 relating to the in-bond transportation of merchandise by pipeline, or air (see 19 CFR part 122) or under a TIR carnet (see 19 CFR part 115). In the event that EDI functionality is unavailable for filing an in-bond application, or any related in-bond filing, the Commissioner or his designee may authorize an alternative method.


(3) *Timing.* The in-bond application may be submitted at any time prior to the merchandise departing the origination port.


(e) *Bond required.* A custodial bond on CBP Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.63 of this chapter, is required in order to transport merchandise in-bond under the provisions of this part.


(f) *Movement authorization required.* Authorization from CBP is required before merchandise can be transported in-bond. Authorization for the movement of merchandise will be transmitted by CBP via a CBP-approved EDI system.


(g) *Supervision*—(1) *Generally.* When merchandise is delivered to a bonded carrier for transportation in-bond, CBP may, in its discretion, require that the merchandise be laden on the conveyance only under CBP supervision.


(2) *Merchandise delivered from warehouse.* When merchandise is delivered from a warehouse to a bonded carrier for transportation in-bond, supervision of lading will be accomplished in accordance with the procedure set forth in § 19.6(b) of this chapter.


(3) *Merchandise delivered from foreign trade zone.* When merchandise is delivered from a foreign trade zone to a bonded carrier for transportation in-bond, supervision of lading will be accomplished in accordance with the procedure set forth in § 146.71(a) of this chapter.


(h) *Updating and amending the in-bond record.* The filer of the in-bond application or any other party named in paragraph (c) of this section, with authorization of the party whose bond is obligated, must update and/or amend the in-bond record as required under the provisions of this part via a CBP-approved EDI system. The in-bond record must be updated or amended within two business days of the event that requires updating and/or amending of the in-bond record.


(i) *In-transit time*—(1) *Maximum in-transit time.* Except for merchandise to be transported via barge, merchandise to be transported in-bond must be delivered to CBP at the port of destination or port of exportation within 30 days from the date of conveyance arrival at the origination port (if the in-bond application has been received and approved prior to conveyance arrival), or the date CBP provides movement authorization to the in-bond applicant, whichever is later. Merchandise to be transported via barge for all or part of the in-bond movement, must be delivered to CBP at the port of destination or port of exportation within 60 days from the date of conveyance arrival at the origination port (if the in-bond application has been received and approved prior to conveyance arrival), or the date CBP provides movement authorization to the in-bond applicant, whichever is later. If the merchandise is subject to examination or inspection by CBP or another government agency, the time that the merchandise is held due to the examination or inspection will not be considered part of the 30-day or 60-day in-transit time. Neither the diversion to another port nor the filing of a new in-bond application extends the maximum in-transit time. Failure to deliver the merchandise within the prescribed period constitutes an irregular delivery. In-bond merchandise transported by pipeline is not subject to the time limits in this section.


(2) *Extension of in-transit time.* The in-transit requirement may be extended by CBP upon a written request to the port director of the port of destination or port of exportation. The decision to extend the in-transit time period is within the discretion of CBP. Factors that may be considered, among any others deemed applicable by CBP, include extraordinary circumstances such as major transportation network disruptions, natural disasters, and other emergencies beyond the control of the party requesting the extension.


(3) *Restriction of in-transit time.* CBP or any other government agency with jurisdiction over the merchandise may shorten the in-transit time to less than 30 or 60 days. CBP will provide notice of a government-shortened in-transit time with the movement authorization.


(j) *Report of arrival.* Within two business days after the arrival of any portion of an in-bond shipment at the port of destination or the port of exportation, CBP must be notified via a CBP-approved EDI system that the merchandise has arrived. The notification must include the Facilities Information and Resources Management System (FIRMS) code of the location of the merchandise within the port. Failure to report the arrival or the FIRMS code for the physical location of the merchandise transported in-bond within the prescribed period constitutes an irregular delivery.


(k) *General order merchandise; exportation.* Any merchandise covered by an in-bond shipment that has arrived at the port of destination or the port of exportation must be entered, exported, or admitted to a foreign-trade zone pursuant to this part within 15 calendar days from the date of arrival of the entire in-bond shipment at the port of destination or port of exportation. Sixteen days after in-bond merchandise arrives in the port of destination or port of exportation, the merchandise will become subject to general order requirements pursuant to § 4.37, § 122.50, or § 123.10 of this chapter, as applicable.


(l) *Special classes of merchandise*—(1) *Health, safety and conservation.* CBP may determine that merchandise not in compliance with an applicable rule, regulation, law, standard or ban, relating to health, safety or conservation, will not be released for transportation in-bond without the authorization of the governmental agency administering such rule, regulation, law, standard or ban.


(2) *Plants and plant products.* Merchandise subject upon importation to examination, disinfection, or further treatment under the USDA Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), Plant Protection and Quarantine program, will only be released for transportation in-bond with the authorization of APHIS under regulations issued by that program. (See §§ 12.10 to 12.15 of this chapter).


(3) *Prohibited articles.* Articles prohibited admission into the commerce of the United States may not be entered for transportation in-bond. Any such merchandise offered for entry for that purpose may either be denied entry or be seized. However, CBP may permit exportation or transportation and exportation either with authorization from the governmental agency having regulatory authority over the prohibited articles or in compliance with the regulations of such agency.


(4) *Narcotics and other drugs, medicines, or chemicals*—(i) *Narcotics.* Narcotics prohibited admission into the commerce of the United States may not be entered for transportation in-bond and any such merchandise offered for entry for that purpose will be seized, except that exportation or transportation and exportation may be permitted with authorization from the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) and/or compliance with the regulations of the DEA.


(ii) *Other drugs, medicines, or chemicals.* Articles entered for transportation in-bond that are manifested merely as drugs, medicines, or chemicals, without evidence to satisfy the port director that they are non-narcotic, will be detained and subjected, at the carrier's risk and expense, to such examination as may be necessary to satisfy the port director that they are not of a narcotic character. A properly verified certificate of the shipper, specifying the items in the shipment and stating that they are not narcotic, may be accepted by the port director to establish the character of such a shipment.


(5) *Explosives.* Explosives may not be transported in-bond unless the importer has first obtained a license or permit from the proper governmental agency. In such case the explosives may be entered for immediate transportation, for transportation and exportation, or for immediate exportation as specified by the approving government agency. Governmental agencies with regulatory authority over explosives include the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF), the Department of Transportation (DOT), and the U.S. Coast Guard (USCG).


(6) *Livestock.* Carload shipments of livestock will not be entered for in-bond transportation unless they will arrive at the port of destination named in the in-bond application before it becomes necessary to remove the seals for the purpose of watering and feeding the animals, or unless the route is such that the removal of the seals and the watering, feeding, and reloading of the stock may be done under CBP supervision.


(m) *Divided shipments.* After reaching the destination port, the port to which the merchandise has been diverted under § 18.5(a), in-bond merchandise may be divided into multiple shipments with a portion of the initial in-bond shipment being entered for consumption or warehouse, and the remainder shipped under a new in-bond application. The carrier or any of the parties named in paragraph (c) of this section must, in accordance with the filing requirements of this section, submit a new in-bond application for each portion of the original shipment to be transported in-bond. Divided shipments for merchandise being transported under cover of a carnet are prohibited.




