# ยง 1203.603   Systematic review for declassification:

(a) *General.* (1) NASA must establish and conduct a program for systematic declassification review of NASA-originated records of permanent historical value exempted from automatic declassification under section 3.3 of this Order. The NASA Office of Protective Services shall prioritize the review of such records in coordination with the Center Protective Service Offices.


(2) The Archivist shall conduct a systematic declassification review program for classified records:


(i) Accessioned into the National Archives;


(ii) Transferred to the Archivist pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 2203; and


(iii) For which the National Archives serves as the custodian for an agency or organization that has gone out of existence.


(3) The Chairperson, NISPC, shall designate experienced personnel to assist the Archivist in the systematic review of U.S. originated information and foreign information exempted from automated declassification. Such personnel shall:


(i) Provide guidance and assistance to the National Archives and Records Service in identifying and separating documents and specific categories of information within documents which are deemed to require continued classification; and


(ii) Develop reports of information or document categories so separated, with recommendations concerning continued classification.


(iii) Develop, in coordination with NASA organizational elements, guidelines for the systematic review for declassification of classified information under NASA's jurisdiction. The guidelines shall state specific limited categories of information which, because of their national security sensitivity, should not be declassified automatically, but should be reviewed to determine whether continued protection beyond 25 years is needed. These guidelines are authorized for use by the Archivist and the Director of the Information Security Oversight Office, with the approval of the Senior Agency Official, which is the Assistant Administrator, Office of Protective Services, for categories listed in section 3.3 of the Order. These guidelines shall be reviewed at least every five years and revised as necessary, unless an earlier review for revision is requested by the Archivist. Copies of the declassification guidelines promulgated by NASA will be provided to the Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). All security classified records exempt from automatic declassification, whether held in storage areas under installation control or in Federal Records Centers, will be surveyed to identify those requiring scheduling for future disposition.


(A) Classified information or material over which NASA exercises exclusive or final original classification authority and which is to be declassified in accordance with the systematic review guidelines shall be so marked.


(B) Classified information or material over which NASA exercises exclusive or final original classification authority and which, in accordance with the systematic review guidelines is to be kept protected, shall be listed by category by the responsible custodian and referred to the Chairperson, NASA Information Security Program Committee. This listing shall:


(*1*) Identify the information or material involved.


(*2*) Recommend classification beyond 25 years to a specific event scheduled to happen or a specific period of time in accordance with the Order.


(*3*) The Administrator shall delegate to the Senior Agency Official the authority to determine which category shall be kept classified and the dates or event for declassification.


(*4*) Declassification by the Director of the Information Security Oversight Office (DISOO). If the Director determines that NASA information is classified in violation of the Order, the Director may require the information to be declassified. Any such decision by the Director may be appealed through the NASA ISPC to the National Security Council. The information shall remain classified pending a prompt decision on the appeal.


(b) [Reserved]



---

[N] [78 FR 5120, Jan. 24, 2013]




