# § 179.400-5   Materials.

(a) Stainless steel of ASTM A 240/A 240M (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter), Type 304 or 304L must be used for the inner tank and its appurtenances, as specified in AAR Specifications for Tank Cars, appendix M (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter), and must be—


(1) In the annealed condition prior to fabrication, forming and fusion welding;


(2) Suitable for use at the temperature of the lading; and


(3) Compatible with the lading.


(b)(1) Any steel casting, steel forging, steel structural shape or carbon steel plate used to fabricate the outer jacket or heads must be as specified in AAR Specifications for Tank Cars, appendix M.


(2) For DOT-113C120W9 tank cars, the outer jacket shell and outer jacket heads must be made of AAR TC-128, Grade B normalized steel plate as specified in § 179.100-7(a).


(c) *Impact tests* must be—


(1) Conducted in accordance with AAR Specifications for Tank Cars, appendix W, W9.01;


(2) Performed on longitudinal specimens of the material;


(3) Conducted at the tank design service temperature or colder; and


(4) Performed on test plate welds and materials used for inner tanks and appurtenances and which will be subjected to cryogenic temperatures.


(d) Impact test values must be equal to or greater than those specified in AAR Specifications for Tank Cars, appendix W. The report of impact tests must include the test values and lateral expansion data.



---

[N] [Amdt. 179-32, 48 FR 27708, June 16, 1983, as amended at 67 FR 51660, Aug. 8, 2002; 68 FR 75763, Dec. 31, 2003; 85 FR 45030, July 24, 2020]




