# ยง 21.3133   Payment procedures.

(a) *Release of payments and payment procedures.* In determining whether payments of educational assistance allowance may be made in a lump sum, in advance, for an interval or if a certification is required from an eligible person before a payment may be made, VA will apply the provisions of ยง 21.4138.


(b) *Payee.* (1) VA will pay an educational assistance allowance to the eligible person if he or she has attained majority and has no known legal disability. 


(2) If an eligible person has not attained majority, VA will pay an educational assistance allowance directly to an eligible person, a relative, or some other person for the use and benefit of the eligible person notwithstanding a legal disability on the part of the eligible person when VA determines: 


(i) The best interest of the eligible person would be served; 


(ii) Undue delay in payment would be avoided; or 


(iii) Payment would otherwise not be feasible.


(c) *Payment of accrued benefits.* Educational assistance remaining due and unpaid at the date of the eligible person's death is payable under the provisions of ยง 3.1000 of this chapter.


(d) *Tutorial assistance.* An individual who is otherwise eligible to receive benefits under the Survivors' and Dependents' Educational Assistance program may receive supplemental monetary assistance to provide tutorial services. In determining whether VA will pay the individual this assistance, VA will apply the provisions of ยง 21.4236.


(e) *Offsets: 38 U.S.C. chapter 35, compensation, pension and dependency and indemnity compensation.* Payment of dependents' educational assistance will be subject to offset of amounts of pension, compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation paid over the same period on behalf of a child based on school attendance.


(f) *Final payment.* VA may withhold final payment until VA receives proof of continued enrollment and adjusts the eligible person's account.



---

[N] [61 FR 26111, May 24, 1996]




