# § 1230.43   Enforcement.

(a) *Enforcement agency.* The Federal Caustic Poison Act shall be enforced by the Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services. 


(b) *Enforcement of provisions.* The enforcement of the provisions of the Federal Caustic Poison Act as they relate to imported dangerous caustic or corrosive substances, will, as a general rule, be under the direction of the chief of the local inspection district of the Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services, and District Directors of Customs acting as administrative officers in carrying out directions relative to the detention, exportation, and sale, or other disposition of such substances and action under the bond in case of noncompliance with the provisions of the Federal Caustic Poison Act. 


(c) *Chief of district as customs officer.* The chief of district shall be deemed a customs officer in enforcing import regulations. 


(d) *Nonlaboratory ports.* (1) At the ports of entry where there is no district of the Food and Drug Administration, the District Director of Customs or deputy, on the day when the first notice of expected shipment of containers is received, either by invoice or entry, shall notify the chief of district in whose territory the port is located. 


(2) On the day of receipt of such notice the chief of district shall mail to the District Director of Customs appropriate notice, if no sample is desired. This notice serves as an equivalent to stamping the invoices at district ports with the legend “No sample desired, Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services, per (initials of inspecting officer).” 


(3) If samples are desired, the Chief of district shall immediately notify the District Director of Customs. 


(4) The District Director of Customs at once shall forward samples, accompanied by description of shipment. 


(5) When samples are desired from each shipment of containers, the chief of district shall furnish to District Director of Customs and deputies at ports within the district's territory a list of such containers, indicating the size of sample necessary. Samples should then be sent promptly on arrival of containers without awaiting special request. 


(6) In all other particulars the procedure shall be the same at nonlaboratory ports as at laboratory ports, except that the time consumed in delivery of notices by mail shall be allowed for. 




