# § 416.1331   Termination of your disability or blindness payments.

(a) *General.* The last month for which we can pay you benefits based on disability or blindness is the second month after the month in which your disability or blindness ends. (See §§ 416.987(e), 416.994(b)(6) and 416.994a(g) for when disability ends, and § 416.986 for when blindness ends.) See § 416.1338 for an exception to this rule if you are participating in an appropriate program of vocational rehabilitation services, employment services, or other support services. You must meet the income, resources, and other eligibility requirements to receive any of the benefits referred to in this paragraph. We will also stop payment of your benefits if you have not cooperated with us in getting information about your disability or blindness.


(b) *After we make a determination that you are not now disabled or blind.* If we determine that you do not meet the disability or blindness requirements of the law, we will send you an advance written notice telling you why we believe you are not disabled or blind and when your benefits should stop. The notice will explain your right to appeal if you disagree with our determination. You may still appeal our determination that you are not now disabled or blind even though your payments are continuing because of your participation in an appropriate program of vocational rehabilitation services, employment services, or other support services. You may also appeal a determination that your completion of, or continuation for a specified period of time in, an appropriate program of vocational rehabilitation services, employment services, or other support services will not increase the likelihood that you will not have to return to the disability or blindness benefit rolls and, therefore, you are not eligible to continue to receive benefits.


(c) *When benefits terminate due to 12 consecutive suspension months for failure to comply with treatment for drug addiction or alcoholism.* If you are disabled and drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability as described in § 416.935, your benefits will terminate after 12 consecutive months of suspension for noncompliance with treatment requirements as described in § 416.1326.


(d) *When benefits terminate due to payment of 36 months of benefits based on disability when drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability.* If you are disabled and drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability as described in § 416.935, your benefits will terminate after you receive a total of 36 months of SSI benefits. The 36-month limit is no longer effective for benefits for months beginning after September 2004.


(e) *Months we count in determining the 36 months of benefits when drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability.* Beginning March 1995, we will count all months for which you were paid an SSI benefit, a federally-administered State supplement, a special SSI cash benefit, or you were in special SSI eligibility status, toward the 36 months described in paragraph (d) of this section. Months for which you were not eligible for benefits will not count toward the 36 months.



---

[N] [49 FR 22274, May 29, 1984, as amended at 60 FR 8152, Feb. 10, 1995; 65 FR 42792, July 11, 2000; 70 FR 36508, June 24, 2005]




