# ยง 115.14   Loss of Principal's eligibility for future assistance and reinstatement of Principal.

(a) *Ineligibility.* A Principal and its Affiliates lose eligibility for further SBA bond guarantees if any of the following occurs under an SBA-guaranteed bond issued on behalf of the Principal: 


(1) Legal action under the guaranteed bond has been initiated. 


(2) The Obligee has declared the Principal to be in default under the Contract. 


(3) The Surety has established a claim reserve for the bond of at least $10,000. 


(4) The Principal, or any of its Affiliates, has defaulted on an SBA-guaranteed bond resulting in a Loss that has not been fully reimbursed to SBA, or SBA has not been fully reimbursed for any Imminent Breach payments.


(5) The guarantee fee has not been paid by the Principal. 


(6) The Principal committed fraud or material misrepresentation in obtaining the guaranteed bond.


(b) *Reinstatement of Principal's eligibility.* At any time after a Principal becomes ineligible for further bond guarantees under paragraph (a) of this section:


(1) A Prior Approval Surety may recommend that such Principal's eligibility be reinstated, and OSG may agree to reinstate the Principal if:


(i) The Surety has settled its claim with the Principal, or any of its Affiliates, for an amount that results in no Loss to SBA or in no amount owed for Imminent Breach payments, or OSG finds good cause for reinstating the Principal notwithstanding the Loss to SBA or amount owed for Imminent Breach payments; or


(ii) OSG and the Surety determine that further bond guarantees are appropriate after the Principal was deemed ineligible for further SBA bond guarantees under paragraph (a)(1), (2), (3), (5) or (6) of this section.


(2) A PSB Surety may:


(i) Recommend that such Principal's eligibility be reinstated, and OSG may agree to reinstate the Principal, if the Surety has settled its claim with the Principal, or any of its Affiliates, for an amount that results in no Loss to SBA or in no amount owed for Imminent Breach payments, or OSG finds good cause for reinstating the Principal notwithstanding the Loss to SBA or amount owed for Imminent Breach payments; or


(ii) Reinstate a Principal's eligibility upon the Surety's determination that further bond guarantees are appropriate after the Principal was deemed ineligible for further SBA bond guarantees under paragraph (a)(1), (2), (3), (5) or (6) of this section.


(c) *Underwriting after reinstatement.* A guarantee application submitted after reinstatement of the Principal's eligibility is subject to a very stringent underwriting review.



---

[N] [61 FR 3271, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 81 FR 23565, Apr. 22, 2016; 87 FR 48084, Aug. 8, 2022]




