# ยง 58.6071-1   Time for filing returns.

(a) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a stock repurchase excise tax return required by ยง 58.6011-1(a) must be filed by the due date of the Form 720, *Quarterly Federal Excise Tax Return,* that is for the first full calendar quarter after the end of the taxable year of the covered corporation (as defined in section 4501(b) of the Internal Revenue Code (Code)), or person treated as a covered corporation (as described in section 4501(d)(1)(A) or (d)(2)(A)).


(b) *Example.* Corporation X is a covered corporation with a taxable year that ends on December 31. During its 2024 taxable year, Corporation X makes a repurchase within the meaning of section 4501(c)(1). Because Corporation X's taxable year ends in the fourth quarter of the calendar year, Corporation X must file a stock repurchase excise tax return reporting liability for the tax imposed by chapter 37 of the Code by the due date for a first-quarter Form 720 (that is, April 30, 2025).


(c) *Taxable years ending on or before June 28, 2024.* With respect to a covered corporation, or person treated as a covered corporation, with a taxable year ending after December 31, 2022, and on or before June 28, 2024, the stock repurchase excise tax return required by ยง 58.6011-1(a) for such taxable year must be filed by the due date of the Form 720 for the first full calendar quarter after June 28, 2024. If a covered corporation, or person treated as a covered corporation, has more than one taxable year ending after December 31, 2022, and on or before June 28, 2024, the covered corporation, or person treated as a covered corporation, should file a single Form 720 with two separate Forms 7208, *Excise Tax on Repurchase of Corporate Stock* (one for each taxable year) attached.


(d) *Example.* Corporation Y is a covered corporation with a taxable year ending December 31, 2023. During its 2023 taxable year, Corporation Y makes a repurchase within the meaning of section 4501(c)(1). Corporation Y is required to file the stock repurchase excise tax return for its 2023 taxable year by the due date of the Form 720 for the first full calendar quarter after June 28, 2024. The due date for the Form 720 for the first full calendar quarter after June 28, 2024 (that is, the third quarter Form 720), is October 31, 2024.


(e) *Applicability date.* This section applies to stock repurchase excise tax returns required to be filed after June 28, 2024, and during taxable years ending after June 28, 2024.






