# § 273.15   Procedures.

(a) *Sale of surplus and FEPP, scrap generated from QRPS, and non-QRP scrap*—(1) *Authority and scope*—(i) *FPMR and FMR.* The provisions of this section are pursuant to 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102, also known as the FPMR and FMR, respectively.


(ii) *Additional guidance.* (A) Policy and procedures for the control of MLIs and Commerce Control List (CCL) items are contained in DoD Instruction 4160.28, DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3, DoD Instruction 4140.62, “Materiel Potentially Presenting an Explosive Hazard” (available at *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/414062p.pdf*), the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) in 22 CFR parts 120 through 130, and the EAR in 15 CFR parts 730 through 774, and incorporated in the provisions of DoD Instruction 2030.08.


(B) 31 U.S.C. 3711-3720E provides an additional statutory requirement applicable to the sale of personal property.


(C) 48 CFR part 33 provide additional guidance on handling disputes from the sale of personal property.


(D) 48 CFR subpart 9.4 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), current edition, provides direction on the debarment or suspension of individuals or entities.


(E) Sales of FEPP, although briefly addressed in the FMR, are managed by the agency head and must be in compliance with foreign policy of the United States and the terms and conditions of any applicable host-nation agreement. For additional information on processing FEPP, see Enclosure 4 to DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 2.


(F) DoD Directive 3230.3, “DoD Support for Commercial Space Launch Activities” (available at *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/323003p.pdf*) allows the sale of dedicated expendable launch vehicle (ELV) equipment directly to commercial ELV vendors in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation.


(2) *Exclusions.* This subpart does not govern the sale of property that is regulated by the laws or agencies identified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section. The information in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) is included for the DoD Components to reference when commodities in their possession become excess and disposal requires compliance with this part.


(i) The Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 98 *et seq.*) provides for the acquisition, disposal (sale) and retention of stocks of certain strategic and critical materials and encourages the conservation and development of sources of such materials within the United States. These materials when acquired and stored constitute and are collectively known as the National Defense Stockpile (NDS) or the “stockpile.”


(ii) The Department of Transportation Maritime Administration has jurisdiction over the disposal of vessels of 1,500 gross tons or more that the Secretary of Transportation determines to be merchant vessels or capable of conversion to merchant use, excluding specified combatant vessels.


(iii) Under the provisions of 10 U.S.C. 2576, the Secretary of Defense may sell designated items (such as pistols, revolvers, shotguns, rifles of a caliber not exceeding .30, ammunition for such firearms, and other appropriate equipment) to State and local law enforcement, firefighting, homeland security, and emergency management agencies, at fair market value if the designated items:


(A) Have been determined to be surplus property.


(B) Are certified as being necessary and suitable for the operation and exclusive use of such agency by the Governor (or such State official as he or she may designate) of the State in which such agency is located.


(C) Do not include used gas masks and any protective body armor.


(iv) DLA Disposition Services provides a sales service to the DoD pursuant to the exchange or sale according to the procedures in DoD Manual 4140.01 that implement the authority in 41 CFR part 102-39; however, general and specific provisions through this method of sale are not addressed in this subpart. More information may be obtained from the DLA Disposition Services Exchange Sale Web site at *http://www.dispositionservices.dla.mil/sales/typesale.shtml.*

(3) *Sales of surplus property, FEPP, scrap generated by QRPs, and other scrap.* (i) DLA Disposition Services is the primary agency for managing surplus and FEPP sales, to include sales of scrap released by Military Department QRPs and non-QRP scrap.


(ii) DoD Components are responsible for disposing of surplus property, FEPP, scrap released by QRPs, and other scrap through sales to the general public and State and local governments through execution of an awarded contract.


(iii) The Military Departments are authorized to sell eligible scrap released by their respective QRPs and non-excess property eligible for exchange or sale without the involvement of DLA Disposition Services in accordance with their internal operating guidance, DoD Manual 4140.01, and 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102.


(iv) DoD Components advertise excess and surplus personal property for sale only after all prescribed screening actions are taken, unless screening is not required. See DoD Manual 4160.21 Volume 4 for exempt items.


(v) Sales actions include planning, merchandising, pre-award reviews, bid evaluation and award, contract administration, proceeds receipt and disbursement, and releasing the property.


(vi) Information on surplus and FEPP sales can be obtained from the DLA Customer Contact Center, accessible 24 hours a day, 7 days a week on the DLA Disposition Services Government Sales Web site at *https://www.dispositionservices.dla.mil/sales/index.shtml*.


(vii) Within the CONUS, DLA Disposition Services has partnered with a commercial firm to sell usable, non-hazardous surplus demilitarization (DEMIL) Code A and safe to sell Q property that is not reutilized, transferred, or donated. The commercial venture partner schedules and holds sales of property released to it by DLA Disposition Services. DLA Disposition Services has partnered with a commercial firm to sell scrap property. The scrap venture partner schedules and holds sales of scrap property released to it by DLA Disposition Services.


(viii) DLA Disposition Services conducts the balance of surplus and FEPP sales. This includes hazardous and chemical sales and DEMIL- and mutilation-required property and scrap sales in controlled property groups.


(A) DoD Components implement controls to mitigate security risks associated with the release or disposition of DEMIL Code B MLI and DEMIL Code Q CCL items that are sensitive for reasons of national security. Certain categories of DEMIL Q items that pose no risk to national security will be available for reutilization, transfer, or donation (RTD) and sales following normal procedures. However, only FEPP with DEMIL Code A (no export license requirements except to restricted parties) may be sold in foreign countries that are not restricted parties, in accordance with 15 CFR parts 730 through 774. DEMIL B and DEMIL Q items, including those posing no risk to national security are not permitted for sale.


(*1*) DEMIL B and sensitive DEMIL Q property can only be reutilized by authorized DoD Components, and approved Special Programs (FMS, law enforcement agencies (LEAs) and fire fighters).


(*2*) After DLA Disposition Services conducts initial screening, serviceable DEMIL B and sensitive DEMIL Q property will be transferred to a long term storage (LTS) facility and will remain available for reutilization screening by DoD and approved Special Programs customers.


(*3*) LTS property can be screened electronically on the DLA Disposition Services Web site at *https://www.DispositionServices.dla.mil/asset/govegeo1.html*. No physical screening is permitted at the LTS facility.


(B) DoD Components may offer for sale any property designated as unsafe for use as originally intended, with mutilation as a condition of sale. DoD Components incorporate the method and degree of mutilation into the sales offering, as required by an official notification of the safety defects. The sales offering must include a condition of sale stipulating that title of the property cannot pass from the Government to the purchaser until DoD representatives have certified and verified the mutilation has been satisfactorily accomplished and have documented this certification.


(C) SCC Q materiel with Management Code S (as defined in DLM 4000.25-1 is hazardous to public health, safety, or national security. If sold, it must require mutilation as a condition of sale. Property assigned SCC Q with Management Code O may be offered for sale without mutilation as a condition of sale, but the seller must ensure that all sales include a restrictive resale provision. In addition, any sales offerings must indicate that the restrictive resale provision is to be perpetuated to all future sales to deter reentry of the materiel to the DoD supply system.


(D) Hazardous property may be offered for sale with appropriate terms and conditions. Prior to award, DoD Components conduct a pre-award review to determine whether the prospective purchaser meets the responsibility criteria in 41 CFR chapter 102. The prospective purchaser must display the ability to comply with applicable laws and regulations before the DoD Components can make an award.


(E) Only FEPP with DEMIL Code A (no export control requirements except to restricted parties) may be offered for sale in foreign countries that are not restricted parties in accordance with 15 CFR parts 730 through 774 and with additional DoD guidance in DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3. The sales offering must include terms and conditions relating to taxes and duties, import stipulations, and compliance with international and local laws and regulations. See Enclosure 4 to DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 2 for additional information.


(F) Other types of sales offerings for property requiring special handling must include applicable terms and conditions.


(ix) All persons or organizations are entitled to purchase property offered by DLA Disposition Services except for:


(A) Anyone under contract to conduct a specific sale, their agents or employees, and immediate members of their households.


(B) DoD military and civilian personnel and military and civilian personnel of the United States Coast Guard (USCG) whose duties include any functional or supervisory responsibilities for or within the Defense Materiel Disposition Program, their agents, employees, and immediate members of their households.


(C) Any persons or organizations intending to ship FEPP, excess and surplus personal property to restrictedparties. See *http://pmddtc.state.gov/embargoed_csuountries/index.html* or *https://demil.osd.mil/* or *http://treas.gov/offices/enforcement/ofac/programs* for additional information on shipments to restricted parties.


(D) Persons under 18 years of age.


(E) Individuals or firms who are ineligible to be awarded government contracts due to suspension or debarment. See the GSA Excluded Parties List at *http://epls.gov* or *https://demil.osd.mil/* or *http://treas.gov/offices/enforcement/ofac/sdn/* or *http://bis.doc.gov/complianceandenforcement/liststocheck.htm.*

(F) Persons or entities who wish to purchase MLI or CCL items who do not meet the requirements to receive an end user certificate (EUC) as specified in 22 U.S.C. 2778 *et seq.,* also known as the Arms Export Control Act, and the implementing regulations 22 CFR parts 120 through 130, also known as the International Traffic In Arms Regulations and 15 CFR parts 730 through 774, also known as the Export Administration Regulations. Information on demilitarized materiel is provided at *https://demil.osd.mil/*. A consolidated list of prohibited entities or destinations may be found at *http://export.gov/ecr/eg_main_023148.asp.*

(x) Disposable assets (FEPP, scrap, NAF property, disposable (MAP property, etc.) may not be sold directly or indirectly to restricted parties or any other areas designated by DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3.


(xi) DoD Components will update the DoD IUID Registry when an item of personal property with a UII is declared FEPP, excess and surplus personal property and is subject to reutilization, transfer, or sale. The procedures required to update the DoD IUID Registry are in § 273.9.


(4) *Responsibilities in selling personal property*—(i) *Selling agencies*. Selling agencies:


(A) Determine whether to sell as the holding agency or request another agency to sell on behalf of the holding agency.


(B) Ensure the sale complies with the provisions of 40 U.S.C. 549, and any other applicable laws.


(C) Issue internal guidance for utilizing methods of sale stipulated in subchapter B of 41 CFR chapter 102, and promote uniformity of sales procedures.


(D) Obtain appropriate authorization to conduct sales of certain property or under certain conditions (*e.g.,* approval by the agency head to use the negotiation method of sale).


(E) Ensure that all sales are made after publicly advertising for bids, except as provided for negotiated sales in 41 CFR 102-38.100 through 102-38.125.


(F) Document the required terms and conditions of each sale, including but not limited to those terms and conditions specified in 41 CFR 102-38.75.


(G) Sell personal property upon such terms and conditions as the head of the agency deems appropriate to promote fairness, openness, and timeliness. Standard Government forms (*e.g.,* the Standard Form (SF) 114 series, “Sale of Government Property”) are no longer mandatory, but may be used to document terms and conditions of the sale.


(H) Assure that only representatives designated in writing by the selling agency as selling agent representatives (SARs) are appointed to approve the sale and bind the United States in a written contractual sales agreement. The DLA Disposition Services equivalent of SARs are SCOs. The selling agency determines the requirements for approval (*e.g.,* select the monetary thresholds for awarding sales contracts).


(I) Adequately train SARs in regulatory requirements and limitations of authority. Ensure SARs are cognizant in identifying and referring matters relating to fraud, bribery, or criminal collusion to the proper authorities in accordance with 41CFR 102-38.50 and 102-38.225.


(J) Obtain approvals as necessary prior to award of the property (*e.g.,* an approval by the Attorney General of the United States to award property with a fair market value of $3 million or more or if it involves a patent, process, technique, or invention) as specified in 41 CFR 102-38.325.


(K) Be accountable for the care, handling, and associated costs of the personal property prior to its removal by the buyer.


(L) Reconcile property and financial records to reflect the final disposition.


(M) Make the property available to FCAs when a bona fide need exists and when no like items are located elsewhere prior to transfer of title to the property, to the maximum extent practicable.


(N) Subject small quantities of low dollar value property in poor condition to the A/D Economy Formula (see Enclosure 3 to DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 2). If there is no reasonable prospect of disposing of the property by sale (including a scrap sale), dispose of the property with the A/D processes.


(O) Ensure that the DoD IUID Registry is updated for DoD personal property items marked with a UII in accordance with § 273.6.


(ii) *Sales conducted by DLA Disposition Services.* As the major selling agency for the Department of Defense and an approved GSA Personal Property Sales Center, DLA Disposition Services must, in compliance with requirements in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section:


(A) Carefully consider all factors and determine the best method of sale for personal property utilizing identification, segregation, merchandising, advertising, bid evaluation, and award principles to protect the integrity of the sales process.


(B) Utilize any publicly accessible electronic media for providing information regarding upcoming sales, invitations for bid (including sales terms and conditions), acceptance of bids, and bid results.


(C) Provide direction to the DLA Disposition Services site through its internal operating procedures and automated systems.


(D) Verify that personal property items marked with a UII and offered for sale have been updated in the DoD IUID Registry.


(iii) *Authorized methods of sale*—(A) *General.* Sale of personal property is authorized in 41 CFR part 102-38 by the methods of sale identified in paragraphs (a)(4)(iii)(A)(*1*) through (*4*) of this section. (See § 273.12 for definitions.)


(*1*) Sealed bid.


(*2*) Spot bid.


(*3*) Auction.


(*4*) Negotiated sale. Criteria for negotiated sales include:


(*i*) The estimated fair market value is not in excess of $15,000 and the sale is considered to be in the best interest of the USG. Large quantities of materiel were not divided nor disposed through multiple sales in order to avoid these requirements.


(*ii*) For FEPP, the estimated fair market value is less than $250,000; sale is managed by DLA Disposition Services and authorized by DLA Disposition Services Director or designee.


(*iii*) Disposal is to a State, territory, possession, political subdivision thereof, or tax-supported agency therein, and the estimated fair market value of the property and other satisfactory terms of disposal are obtained by negotiation.


(*iv*) Bid prices after advertising are not reasonable and re-advertising would serve no useful purpose.


(*v*) Public exigency does not permit delay, such as that caused by the time required to advertise a sale (*e.g.,* disposal of perishable food or other property that may spoil or deteriorate rapidly).


(*vi*) The sale promotes public health, safety, or national security.


(*vii*) The sale is in the public interest in a national emergency declared by the President or Congress. This authority may be used only with specific lots of property or for categories determined by the GSA Administrator for a designated period but not more than 3 months.


(*viii*) Selling the property competitively (sealed bid) would have an adverse impact on the national economy, provided that the estimated fair market value of the property and other satisfactory terms of disposal can be obtained by negotiation (*e.g.,* sale of large quantities of an agricultural product that impacts domestic markets).


(*ix*) The sale is otherwise authorized by 41 CFR chapter 102 or other law.


(*5*) Negotiated fixed price.


(*i*) The head of the selling agency or designee must determine and document that this method of sale serves the best interest of the government.


(*ii*) This type of sale must include appropriate terms and conditions; must be publicized consistent with the nature and value of the property involved; and be awarded on a first-come, first-served basis.


(B) *Sales of surplus, foreign excess, and other categories of property.* Within the constraints of the FMR-authorized methods of sale in paragraphs (a)(4)(iii)(A)(*1*) through (*5*) of this section, the types of sales that may be conducted for surplus, foreign excess, and other categories of property sold in the DoD Defense Materiel Disposition Program are:


(*1*) One-time sales for disposal of property already generated. Actual deliveries may comprise several release transactions.


(*2*) Term sales for the disposal of property generated over a period of time and in quantities that can be reasonably estimated for a specific period of time or are offered with minimum and maximum quantity provisions.


(iv) *Negotiated sales reporting.* Negotiated sales reports are required by GSA within 60 calendar days after the close of each fiscal year. DoD Components include in the report a listing and description of all negotiated sales with an estimated fair market value in excess of $5,000. For each sale negotiated, the report must provide:


(A) A description of the property.


(B) The acquisition cost and date. If not known, an estimate of the acquisition cost, identified as such.


(C) The estimated fair market value, including the date of the estimate and name of the estimator.


(D) The name and address of purchaser.


(E) The date of sale.


(F) The gross and net sales proceeds.


(G) A justification for conducting the negotiated sale.


(v) *GSA or DoD-authorized retail method of sale.* Sales of small quantity, consumer-oriented property at negotiated, auction, or bid prices that are conducted on a first-come; first-served; and as-is, where-is basis are considered retail sales. Credit or debit cards are the only authorized payment methods. Property having a fair market value exceeding $15,000 is subject to the limitations applicable to negotiated sales of surplus personal property.


(A) Retail sales of surplus, FEPP, and abandoned privately owned property may be conducted whenever such a program can effectively and economically be used to supplement other methods of sale. Retail sales must be approved in writing at an agency level on a case-by-case basis, and the approval must specify the quantities and types of property and time period covered. These authorizations are limited to specific situations and types of property for which deviation can be fully justified. In addition:


(*1*) All items must undergo screening, as appropriate, before being offered for retail sale.


(*2*) Each item being sold must have a fair market value of less than $15,000.


(*3*) All property received as items, if offered for sale by retail, must be sold as items and not by weight or lot, with the exception of scrap authorized for retail sale.


(*4*) Prices established must reflect the estimated fair market value of the property and must be publicized to the extent consistent with the nature and value of the property.


(*5*) Retail sales are limited to the Federal Supply Classification Codes (FSCs), according to the DEMIL code assigned and GSA approval, which are in 41 CFR chapter 102.


(*6*) Property must be DEMIL Code A and have a DEMIL Integrity Code 1, 7, or 9.


(*7*) The retail selling price of the property, based on the condition, may not be set below the price it would bring from a commercial vendor.


(B) Approval in accordance with 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102 is required to sell scrap by the retail sale method.


(C) Only trained cashiers are authorized to collect and deposit proceeds received from a retail sale. Retail sales are open to the public and all USG personnel except:


(*1*) DoD military and civilian personnel and contractors and military and civilian personnel and contractors of the USCG whose duties at the installation where the property is sold include any functional or supervisory responsibility for or within the DoD Materiel Disposition Program.


(*2*) An agent, employee, or immediate member of the household of personnel in paragraph (a)(4)(v)(C)(*1*) of this section.


(vi) *Market impact.* (A) DoD Components will give careful consideration to the adverse market impact that may result from the untimely sale of large quantities of certain surplus items. Where applicable, the selling agency or partner organizations consult with organizations associated with the commodity proposed for sale to obtain advice on the market impact.


(B) Property reporting and sale schedules are developed to ensure expeditious property disposal, maximum competition, maximum sale proceeds, good public relations, and uniform workload.


(C) The selling agency will provide advance notice of all proposed or scheduled competitive bid sales (except negotiated) of surplus usable property. This includes property:


(*1*) Located in the 50 United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Northern Mariana Islands, Palau, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.


(*2*) With a total acquisition cost of $250,000 or more per sale.


(*3*) With a minimum potential return of $5,000 per sale of scrap and recyclable material.


(5) *Advertising to promote free and open competition.* DoD Components will:


(i) Bring property offered for sale to the attention of the buying public by free publicity and paid advertising.


(ii) Make every effort to obtain maximum free publicity through sites such as a Government-wide point of entry, *https://www.fedbizopps.gov.*

(iii) Employ the amount of paid advertising commensurate with the type and value of property being sold.


(iv) Distribute sale offerings to prospective purchasers before the first day of the inspection period.


(6) *Pre-sale activities*—(i) *Preparation and distribution of sale offerings*—(A) Include in the offer to sell sale date and time, method of sale, description of the property being offered, selling agency, location of property, time and place for receipt of bids, acceptable forms of bid deposits and payments, and general and special terms and conditions of sale. DLA Disposition Services sale offerings are available on the DLA Disposition Services Web site (*www.dispositionservices.dla.mil*).


(B) Establish a sales offering file that contains information about the property offered for sale from initiation to bid opening (*e.g.,* sale catalog, withdrawals prior to bid opening, agreements with holding activities).


(C) Prepare sale offerings to provide prospective purchasers with general information and instructions.


(D) Include in each offering the specific conditions of sale, the contents of which are determined by the selling agency. The SF 114 series may be used to document the terms and conditions of a sale, but their use is not mandatory. Conditions of sale include, but are not limited to:


(*1*) Inspection results.


(*2*) Condition and location of property.


(*3*) Eligibility of bidders.


(*4*) Consideration of bids.


(*5*) Bid deposits and payments.


(*6*) Submission of bids.


(*7*) Bid price determination.


(*8*) Legal title of ownership.


(*9*) Delivery, loading, and removal of property.


(*10*) Default, returns, or refunds.


(*11*) Modifications, withdrawals, or late bids.


(*12*) Requirements to comply with applicable laws and regulations.


(*13*) Certificate of independent price determination.


(*14*) Covenant against contingent fees.


(*15*) Limitation of government liability.


(*16*) Award of contract.


(E) DEMIL-required MLI property may not be sold unless DEMIL has been accomplished or it is offered for sale with DEMIL as a condition of sale. Incorporate the method and degree of DEMIL into the sales offering.


(*1*) If DEMIL is a condition of sale, the sales offering must include a condition of sale stipulating that title of the property will not pass from the government to the purchaser until the property has been satisfactorily DEMIL and has been certified and verified in accordance with DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3.


(*2*) The sales offering must also include a requirement for the bidder to provide an EUC to the selling agency specifying the intended use and disposition of the property. The sales offering will also include an agreement by the buyer that they will obtain appropriate export authorizations from the Departments of Commerce or State prior to any export of the item. DLA Disposition Services uses DLA Form 1822, “End-Use Certificate.” The EUC must be processed through designated approval channels prior to award of the property to the prospective customer.


(*3*) The EUC for scrap mutilation residue must be incorporated into the sales offering for all MLI and CCL items property, including mutilation residue that may still be classified as DEMIL Code B or Q.


(ii) *Inspections.* Each sales offering will include an electronic or physical inspection period of at least 7 calendar days before the bid opening.


(iii) *Bid deposits.* The selling agency may incorporate a requirement for bidders to provide or post a bid deposit or a bid deposit bond in lieu of cash or other acceptable forms of deposit to protect the government's interest.


(iv) *PM bid deposits.* PM offerings will include a 20 percent bid deposit. A deposit bond may be used in lieu of cash or other acceptable form of deposit when permitted by the sales offering. If awarded, the bid deposit will be applied to the total contract price. Unsuccessful bid deposits will be returned. Bid deposit bonds will be returned to the bidder when no longer needed to secure the property.


(v) *Payments.* (A) Selling agencies will implement a payment policy, pursuant to 41 CFR chapter 102 that protects the government against fraud.


(B) Acceptable forms of payment include but are not limited to:


(*1*) Guaranteed negotiable instruments made payable to or endorsed to the U.S. Treasury in any form (*e.g.,* cashier's check, certified check, traveler's check, bank draft, or postal or telegraphic money order).


(*2*) Canadian postal money orders designed for payment in the United States must state specifically that they are payable in U.S. dollars in the United States.


(*3*) Electronic funds transfer. Special instructions are available through the DLA Disposition Services Web site and must be followed if this option is chosen.


(*4*) Credit or debit cards.


(*5*) Combinations of payment methods in paragraphs (a)(6)(v)(B)(*1*) through (*5*) of this section.


(*6*) Other acceptable forms of payment include:


(*i*) Uncertified personal or company check for amounts over $25.00 accompanied by an irrevocable commercial letter of credit issued by a U.S. bank, payable to the Treasurer of the United States or to the selling agency. The check may not exceed the amount of the letter of credit. Each letter of credit must be an original or clearly state on its face that reproductions of the original document may be considered as an original document, and clearly state that requests for payment will be honored at any time they are presented by the selling agency. Selling agents will reject letters of credit with an expiration date. In addition, the minimum criteria required for acceptance of letters of credit are to state clearly that it is a commercial letter of credit (it need not say it is irrevocable, but it cannot say it is revocable); be on bank stationery; state the maximum amount guaranteed; state the name and address of the company or individual submitting the bid; state the sales offering number and opening date; and be signed by the issuer (authorized signature of bank official).


(*ii*) Uncertified personal or company checks in the amount of $25.00 or less when submitted for ancillary charges (*e.g.,* debt payment, storage charge, liquidated damages, interest).


(*iii*) Any form of payment received from a NAF instrumentality or a State or local government.


(*7*) Acceptable country currencies and information on exchange rates used must be provided in the sales offering and be incorporated into the sales offering. Generally, the exchange rate for receipt of monies or payments in designated currencies is established on the date of the deposit, which is generally the date of receipt.


(*8*) FEPP buyers must pay in U.S. dollars or the equivalent in foreign currency that is readily convertible into U.S. dollars. Where U.S. dollars are not available, the acceptance of foreign currency is authorized subject to these conditions:


(*i*) Payments exceeding the equivalent of $5,000 U.S. in individual sale transactions (that is, for the total of all items offered in a single sale, not for individual items included in a sale) may be accepted only after obtaining prior approval from the Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS). When required, DFAS will submit the requests through the chain of command to DoS and Department of Treasury for approval. In countries where a considerable amount of FEPP may be available for sale and it may be necessary to accept foreign currency, the selling agency will request from DFAS an annual authorization, on a calendar year basis, to accept foreign currency.


(*ii*) Payments of up to the equivalent of $5,000 U.S. for individual transactions, at the rate of exchange applicable to the USG, may be accepted without further consultation if assurance has been obtained through the local DoS representative that such currency may be used in payment of any or all USG expenditures in the country whose currency is accepted. This provision is applicable only when annual authorizations have not been received; it is not feasible to sell for U.S. dollars or to ship the property to a country (other than the United States, except where property is a type authorized for return) where it may be sold for U.S. dollars or a freely convertible foreign currency; the currency is not that of a country whose assets in the United States are blocked by Department of Treasury regulations; the currency is that of a country with which the United States maintains diplomatic relations; and foreign currency accepted need not be the currency of the country of sale if the currency offered is otherwise acceptable to DoS and Department of Treasury and can be accepted pursuant to U.S. and host government agreements governing the sale of FEPP. In this connection, the sales offerings will indicate the foreign currencies that will be accepted for a particular sale.


(vi) *Transfer of title.* Selling agencies must document the transfer of title of the property from the government to the purchaser:


(A) By providing to the purchaser a bill of sale.


(B) By notification within a contract clause stipulating when the transfer is affected. For instance:


(*1*) Upon removal from the exact location specified in the sales offering.


(*2*) Upon certification and signature by the government that all required demilitarization has been accomplished in accordance with DoD Instruction 4160.28.


(C) By providing certifications required from the buyer prior to a transfer of title. An SF 97, “Certificate of Release of a Motor Vehicle,” (available at *http://www.gsa.gov/forms*) is required for the sale of vehicles. Selling agencies must provide internal guidance on how the transfer will occur and what documentation is required.


(vii) *Defaults.* If a purchaser breaches a contract by failure to make payment within the time allowed or by failure to remove the property as required, or breaches other contractual provisions, the purchaser is in default. The selling agency representative will give the purchaser a written notice of default and a period of time to cure the default.


(A) If the purchaser fails to cure the default, the selling agency is entitled to collect or retain liquidated damages as specified in the sales offer or contract.


(B) If a bid deposit was required and the bidder secured the deposit with a deposit bond, the selling agency must issue the notice of default to the bidder and the surety company.


(viii) *Disputes.* All sales offers will include the disputes clause contained in 48 CFR 52.233-1 of the FAR.


(7) *Bidder eligibility criteria.* (i) As a rule, selling agencies may accept bids from any person, representative, or agent from any entity. To be considered eligible for award of a sales contract, the bidder must be of legal age and not be debarred, suspended, or indebted to the USG, or from a restricted party. Any exceptions must be authorized by the selling agency head, who has determined that there is a compelling reason to make the award. A list of parties excluded from federal procurement and non-procurement programs can be obtained on the GSA Excluded Parties List System Web site at *http://epls.gov* or the OSD DEMIL Web site at *https://demil.osd.mil/.*

(ii) Personal property may be sold to a federal employee whose agency does not prohibit the employees from purchasing such property. Unless allowed by a federal or agency regulation, employees having non-public information regarding property offered for sale may not participate in that sale. This applies to an immediate member of the employee's household.


(8) *Suspension and debarment of bidders.* (i) 41 CFR 102-38.170, 31 U.S.C. 6101 note, Executive Order 12549, “Debarment and Suspension” (February 18, 1986), and Executive Order 12689, “Debarment and Suspension” (August 16, 1989) provide the authority for the suspension or debarment of bidders or contractors purchasing personal property from the government. The selling agent must follow the procedures described in 48 CFR subpart 9.4 of the FAR to debar or suspend a person or entity from the purchase of personal property. The debarring official for DLA Disposition Services sales is the DLA Special Assistant for Contracting Integrity.


(ii) Appointed SARs and SCOs will:


(A) Prepare recommendations for suspension or debarment from the sale of Federal property and acquisition contracts.


(B) Forward them to their respective servicing legal offices.


(C) Prepare reports recommending suspension or debarment using the procedures described in 48 CFR subpart 209.4 of the Defense FAR Supplement, current edition, in all cases where purchasers are recommended for suspension or debarment.


(iii) In addition to applicable guidance in 48 CFR subpart 9.4 and 48 CFR 45.602-1, 52.233-1, and 14.407 of the FAR and 48 CFR subpart 209.4 of the Defense FAR Supplement, current edition, contractors who are suspended, debarred, or proposed for debarment are also excluded from conducting business with the government as agents or representatives of another contractor. Firms or individuals who submit bids on sale solicitations on behalf of suspended or debarred contractors, or who in any other manner conduct business with the government as agents or representatives of suspended or debarred contractors, may be treated as affiliates as described in 48 CFR 9.403 of the FAR, and may be suspended or debarred.


(iv) Parties who violate trade security control (TSC) policies may be recommended for debarment or suspension.


(9) *Indebted bidders and purchasers.* (i) No awards may be made to bidders indebted to the government. Selling agencies will coordinate with DFAS to determine if a bidder is indebted to DoD and maintain local listings containing bidder name, address, sales contract information, amount of indebtedness, and date indebted.


(ii) Circumstances where the SAR or SCO must initiate action include:


(A) At bid opening. Bidders can bid if they cure the debt prior to the opening.


(B) As the result of monies owed the contractor as a refund.


(C) As a result of monies received for bid deposit.


(D) As a result of failure to make payment for overages, ancillary charges, etc.


(E) As a result of affiliation with suspended bidder.


(iii) Checks received for debts will be deposited immediately and the bidder will not be notified until the check has cleared its bank. Cash or negotiable instruments will be deposited immediately.


(iv) SARs or SCOs will contact the bidder and advise that the monies have been deposited to offset the specific indebtedness.


(v) If a SAR or SCO suspects affiliation, the SAR or SCO will contact the bidder and advise that the monies have been deposited according to the procedures in 31 U.S.C. 3711-3720E for the collection of debts owed to the United States.


(10) *Bid evaluation*—(i) *Responsive bids and responsible bidders.* (A) Only responsive bids (as defined in the § 273.12) may be considered for award.


(B) Bidders do not have to use authorized bid forms. The bid may be considered when the bidder agrees to all of the terms and conditions and acknowledges that the offer may result in a binding contract award.


(C) The selling agency must determine that the bidder is a responsible person or represents a responsible entity.


(ii) *Late bids.* The selling agency will consider late bids for award if the bid was delivered in a timely fashion to the address specified in the sales offering but did not reach the official designated to accept the bid by the bid opening time due to a government delay.


(iii) *Bid modification or withdrawal.* (A) A bidder may modify or withdraw its bid prior to the start of the bid opening. After the start of the sale, the bidder will not be allowed to modify or withdraw its bid.


(B) The selling agency representative may consider late bid modifications to an otherwise successful bid at any time, but only when it makes the terms of the bid more favorable to the government.


(iv) *Mistakes in bids prior to award.* (A) The administrative procedures for handling mistakes in bids (prior to or after award) are contained in 41 CFR 102-38.260, which utilizes the processes of 48 CFR 14.407 of the FAR for federal property sales.


(B) The selling agency head or designee may delegate the authority to make administrative decisions regarding mistakes in bid to a central authority or alternate. This delegation may not be re-delegated by the authority or alternate.


(C) A signed copy of the administrative determination must be included in the contract file and provided to the Government Accountability Office, when requested.


(v) *Bid rejections.* In the event a bid is rejected, the next most advantageous bid may be considered. If an entire sales offering is rejected, all items within that sale may be reoffered on another sale.


(vi) *Identical bids.* If there are multiple high bids of the same amount, the SAR or SCO must consider other factors of the sale (*e.g.,* payment arrangements, estimated removal time) that would make one offer more advantageous to the government. Otherwise, the SAR or SCO may use random tie breakers to avoid expense of reselling or reoffering the property.


(vii) *Suspected collusion.* The SAR or SCO must refer any suspicion of collusion to the agency's Office of the Inspector General or the Department of Justice (DOJ) through its legal counsel.


(viii) *Protests.* Protests by bidders regarding validity of determinations made on the sale of personal property may be submitted to the DLA Disposition Services Comptroller General or comptroller general for the selling agent.


(11) *Awarding sales contracts*—(i) *Selling agents.* SARs or SCOs will:


(A) Be appointed by agency heads or their designees to act as selling agents for the USG.


(B) Enter into and administer contracts for the sale of government property pursuant to the provisions of 40 U.S.C. 101 *et seq.* and other applicable statutes and regulations.


(C) Award and distribute contracts to responsible bidders whose bids conform to the sales offering and are the most advantageous to the government.


(D) Be authorized to reject bids in accordance with paragraph (a)(10)(v) of this section.


(E) Sign under the title of “Sales Agency Representative” or “Sales Contracting Officer.”


(F) Sign all contracting documentation on behalf of the USG.


(G) Be responsible for the proper distribution of sales proceeds.


(ii) *Approvals required for sales and awards.* (A) Selling agencies will designate the dollar limitations of authority of their appointed SARs or SCOs. DLA Disposition Services SCOs may make awards of contracts on sales of usable property having a fair market value of less than $100,000. Except for antitrust advice limitations, awards of scrap property do not require approval by higher authority.


(B) Selling agencies will notify the U.S. Attorney General whenever an award is proposed for personal property with an estimated fair market value of $3 million or more or if the sale involves a patent, process, technique, or invention per 41 CFR 102-38.325. Selling agencies will otherwise comply with all requirements of 41 CFR chapter 102 including but not limited to the prohibition to dispose any such item until confirmation from the U.S. Attorney General that the proposed transaction would not violate antitrust laws.


(C) The head of a selling agency or designee must approve all negotiated sales of personal property. Selling agencies must submit explanatory statements for each sale by negotiation of any personal property with an estimated fair market value in excess of $15,000 through GSA to the House and Senate Oversight Committee to obtain approval for the sale in accordance with 40 U.S.C. 549.


(iii) *Processing mistakes in bid after award, claims, disputes, and appeals.* Keeping the interests of the government in the forefront, SARs or SCOs will process these actions expeditiously and fairly, in accordance with established internal and external regulations and laws. SARs or SCOs will respond to each issue pertaining to mistakes in bids, claims, disputes, or appeals until it is resolved and provide a written final decision to the claimant or adjudicating agency, as appropriate, until the issue is closed. Retain any decisions made or actions taken in regard to these issues as official records, as required by agency or higher authority directives.


(12) *Notification process for dissemination of awards information.* (i) The selling agency may only disclose bid results after the award of any item or lot of property has been made. No information other than names may be disclosed regarding the bidder(s).


(ii) Bids are disclosed as they are submitted on spot bids or auctions.


(13) *Contract administration.* Selling agencies will prescribe contract administration procedures for the various methods of sale, to include procedures for:


(i) Disseminating award information.


(ii) Billing.


(iii) Default and liquidation.


(iv) Establishing contract folders, including file maintenance and disposition.


(A) Contract administration files will consist of a sale folder, financial folder, individual contract folder(s), and an unsuccessful bids folder for each sale.


(B) Selling agencies will develop procedures for maintaining, completing, reviewing, and auditing these files. All pertinent documentation, including EUC, licenses, pre-award reviews, etc., must be included in the files.


(C) Documentation found in these files may be subject to 5 U.S.C. 552, also known as the Freedom of Information Act. All Privacy Act, privileged, exempt, classified, For Official Use Only, or sensitive information must be obliterated prior to release to the public.


(v) Collection and distribution of sales proceeds.


(vi) Ensuring all requirements of the contract (*e.g.,* non-payment, required licenses) are met prior to releasing the property.


(vii) Making modifications to contracts resulting from changes to the original contract.


(viii) Handling public requests for information.


(ix) Timely review and closure of each contract.


(x) Timely review and closure of each sale.


(14) *Cashier functions and SAR or SCO responsibilities.* (i) Cashiers must be duly trained in the handling and processing of monies collected as payment on sales.


(ii) Cashiers must credit sales proceeds in accordance with chapter 5 of Volume 11A of DoD 7000.14-R, “Department of Defense Financial Management Regulations (FMRs)” (available at *http://comptroller.defense.gov/fmr/current/11a/11a_05.pdf*).


(15) *Inquiries regarding suspended or debarred bidders.* Refer all inquiries regarding suspended or debarred bidders to the office effecting the action.


(16) *Release requirements following sales.* (i) Removal of property is subject to general and special conditions of sale and the loading table as set forth in the sale offering and resulting contract.


(ii) Prior to releasing sold property, assigned personnel will:


(A) Verify the sale items to be delivered or shipped to purchasers against the sale documents to prevent theft, fraud, or inappropriate release of property.


(B) When DLA Disposition Services is managing the sale and where an in-place receipt memorandum of understanding (MOU) has been executed, installation commanders will provide, by letter designation and upon request from DLA Disposition Services site, the names, telephone numbers, and titles of those non-DLA Disposition Services site personnel authorized to release property located at their activities. As changes occur, installation commanders will provide additions, deletions, and revisions in writing to DLA Disposition Services.


(C) Weigh property sold by weight at the time of delivery to the purchaser.


(D) Count or measure property sold by unit at the time of delivery.


(iii) Purchasers are required to pay, before delivery, the purchase price of item(s) to be removed, based upon the quantity or weight as set forth in the sale offering, except for term sales. If prepayment of an overage quantity is not practicable or possible, payment will be due upon issuance of a statement of account after release of property. Sales of property to State and local governments do not require payment prior to removal. The DLA Disposition Services contract with its sales partners does not require payment prior to delivery of property to State and local governments only.


(17) *Withdrawal from sale.* (i) Property that has been physically inspected, determined to be usable or needed, and thereby has survived screening is eligible for sale and may be requested to satisfy valid requirements within limitations specified in this paragraph. Generally, property past the screening cycle may not be withdrawn from sale. However, circumstances may require the withdrawal of property from sale to satisfy valid needs within the Department of Defense or FCAs. Donation recipients are not eligible to withdraw property from the sale unless they can provide DLA Disposition Services with documentation that an error was made by DLA Disposition Services and they should have been issued the property or the property was never available for electronic screening in GSA personal property database GSAXcess®.


(ii) In many instances, the property remains at a DLA Disposition Services site after the title has been transferred. This property is ineligible for withdrawal to satisfy DoD needs. If the DoD Component intends to pursue purchasing the property from the commercial partner, transactions must be handled between the partner and the DoD Component without intervention from the DLA Disposition Services.


(iii) Pursuant to 41 CFR chapter 102, due to the potential for adverse public relations, every effort will be made to keep withdrawals from sales to a minimum. These efforts will include searching for assets elsewhere in the disposal process. Exceptions to this policy will be implemented only when all efforts to otherwise satisfy a valid need have been exhausted and the withdrawal action is determined to be cost effective and in the best interest of the government. DoD Component heads will ensure that withdrawal authority is stringently controlled and applied.


(iv) Make requests to the selling agency by the most expeditious means. With the exception of ICP or IMM and NMCS orders, requests will provide full justification including a statement that the property is needed to satisfy a valid requirement.


(v) Withdrawals may not be processed subject to property inspection for acceptability. Inspect property before requesting withdrawal.


(vi) Orders submitted by ICPs or IMMs do not require justification statements before award.


(vii) With the exception of ICPs and IMMs, minimum written information required in the package for withdrawal requests includes:


(A) Detailed justification as to why the property is required, including how the property will be used; such as applicability of materiel to active weapons systems.


(B) Mission impact statement from a support, procurement, and funding standpoint if property is not withdrawn from sale (*e.g.,* the effect on operational readiness requirements within a specified period of time).


(C) A summary of efforts made to find assets meeting the requirement from other sources, including consideration of substitute items.


(viii) When the DLA Office of Investigations, TSC Assessment Office, determines that property was incorrectly described, and that TSC or DEMIL requirements are applicable, property will either be withdrawn or a provision made to accomplish TSC or DEMIL, as appropriate. The TSC Assessment Office may request withdrawal of property and suspend further action regarding the property until the matter is resolved in accordance with the procedures in DoD Instruction 2030.08.


(ix) As property moves through the sales cycle, constraints are placed on requests for withdrawals from sale.


(A) The area manager can approve requests for withdrawal during the period between the end of screening and the date the property is referred to DLA Disposition Services for sale cataloging or until a delivery order is signed by the commercial venture partner. The area manager can also approve withdrawals prior to bid opening for items on authorized local sales.


(B) DLA Disposition Services can approve withdrawal requests from date of referral until the property is awarded. DLA Disposition Services can also return requests for withdrawal after award that do not include the required written information.


(x) DLA approval, with DLA legal concurrence, is required on any withdrawal request after the award but before removal.


(xi) When title has passed to the purchaser, the requestor must work directly with the purchaser. This includes commercial venture property. The SAR or SCO will provide contract information when requested.


(18) *Reporting requirement.* (i) In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2583, the Secretary of Defense will prepare an annual report identifying each public sale conducted (including property offered for sale and property awarded) by a DoD Component of military items that are controlled on the U.S. Munitions List pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 121 and assigned a DEMIL Code of B in accordance with DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3. For each sale, the report will specify:


(A) The date of the sale.


(B) The DoD Component conducting the sale.


(C) The manner in which the sale was conducted (method of sale).


(D) Description of the military items that were sold or offered for sale.


(E) The purchaser of each item, if awarded.


(F) The stated end-use of each item sold.


(ii) The report is submitted not later than March 31 of each year. The Secretary of Defense is required to submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate the report required by this section for the preceding fiscal year. DLA Disposition Services includes shipments made during the reporting period to its business partner.


(19) *Special program sales*—(i) *Resource recovery and recycling program.* (A) All DoD installations worldwide will have recycling programs as required by DoD Instruction 4715.4 with goals for recycling as outlined in Executive Order 13514.


(*1*) Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2577 and 48 CFR subpart 209.4 of the DFARS, each installation worldwide will have or be associated with a QRP or recycling program available to the installation to appropriately dispose of all recyclable materials for all activities. This includes all DoD facilities not on a military installation, tenant, leased, and government owned-contractor operated (GOCO) space.


(*2*) Installations having several recycling programs will incorporate them into the single installation QRP if possible, however a separate recycling program may be established to appropriately dispose of recyclable materials that cannot be recycled through the QRP.


(*3*) Each DoD Component will designate a coordinator for each QRP and ensure the GOCO facilities participate in QRP.


(B) Recyclable material includes material diverted from the solid waste stream and the beneficial use of such material. It may be beneficial to use waste material as a substitute for a virgin material in a manufacturing process, as a fuel, or as a secondary material. Examples of material that can be recycled through QRP are provided in Table 1 of this section and those that cannot be recycled through QRP are provided in Table 2 of this section, both from the complete list in DoD Instruction 4715.4.


(C) Continually review each QRP to identify material appropriate for waste stream diversion, explore recycling methods, and identify potential markets. Additional recyclable material includes not only material generating profit, but material whose diversion from the waste stream generate a savings to the Department of Defense in disposal costs, or when diversion is required by State or local law or regulation. Material generated from nonappropriated or personal funds (*e.g.,* post consumer wastes from installation housing, and installation concessions) may be included.


(D) Installation commanders authorized by their DoD Component head, as appropriate, may sell directly recyclable and other QRP materials, or consign them to the DLA Disposition Services for sale. If selling directly, installations will:


(*1*) Maintain operational records for annual reporting requirements, review, and program evaluation purposes.


(*2*) Manage processes, reports, and proceeds distribution in accordance with 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102 and DoD 7000.14-R.


(E) Excluded material is identified in Attachment 2 to DoD Instruction 4715.4, which provides a guide of eligible and ineligible materials.


(F) Although scrap recyclable materials do not require formal screening, those purchased with appropriated funds, as surplus property under the FPMR and FMR, are available to meet RTD requirements.


(G) When sold directly by the installation, use proceeds to reimburse the installation level costs incurred in operating the recycling program. After reimbursement of the costs incurred by the installation for operations (*e.g.,* operation and maintenance and overhead), installation commanders may use the remaining proceeds as authorized by DoD Instruction 4715.4.


(ii) *Commercial Space Launch Act (CSLA).* (A) The purpose of the CSLA, 51 U.S.C. Chapter 509, is to promote economic growth and entrepreneurial activity through the utilization of the space environment for peaceful purposes; encourage the private sector to provide launch vehicles and associated launch services; and to facilitate and encourage the acquisition (sale, lease, transaction in lieu of sale, or otherwise) by the private sector of launch property of the United States that is excess or otherwise not needed for public use, in consultation with Secretary of Transportation. Donation screening is not required prior to sale.


(B) The DoD Chief Information Officer (DoD CIO) has the primary responsibility for coordinating DoD issues or views with the Department of Treasury, other Executive department organizations, and the Congress on matters arising from private sector commercial space activities, particularly the operations of commercial ELVs and national security interests.


(C) The DLA Disposition Services is the primary office to conduct CSLA sales following the direction for pricing and disposition as specified in DoD Directive 3230.3 Sales will be by competitive bid to U.S. firms or persons having demonstrated action toward becoming a commercial launch provider. The DoD CIO and the Secretary of the U.S. Air Force (USAF) designated representative will support DLA Disposition Services, as necessary, in the sale or transfer of excess and surplus personal property to the private sector, including the identification of potential bidders and any special sales terms and conditions. The generating activity will assist, as necessary, in completing sales transactions.


(b) *Security assistance or FMS*—(1) *Statutory authority.* Authority for security assistance is provided primarily under 22 U.S.C. 2751 *et seq.* (also known as the Arms Export Control Act) and annual appropriation acts for foreign operations, export financing, and related programs.


(2) *Security assistance program requirements.* (i) Security assistance transfers are authorized under the premise that if these transfers are essential to the security and economic well-being of friendly governments and international organizations, they are equally vital to the security and economic well-being of the United States. Security assistance programs support U.S. national security and foreign policy objectives.


(ii) In coordination and cooperation with DOS, the Defense Security Cooperation Agency (DSCA) directs, administers, and provides overall procedural guidance for the execution of security cooperation and additional DoD programs in support of U.S. national security and foreign policy objectives; and promotes stable security relationships with friends and allies through military assistance, in accordance with DoD 5105.38-M.


(3) *Foreign purchased property.* Disposal initiatives and actions will be in accordance with DoD 5105.38-M or guidance provided by security assistance implementing agencies on a case-by-case basis.


(4) *FMS disposal process summary*—(i) *Defense disposal services.* (A) FEPP, excess, and surplus personal property may be made available to foreign countries and international organizations designated as eligible to purchase property or services in accordance with 22 U.S.C. 2151, 2321b, 2321j, 2443, 2751, and 2778 *et seq.* Such defense articles may be made available for sale under the FMS Program. Transactions under this authority are reimbursable.


(B) FMS transactions are completed by use of letters of offer and acceptance and the procedures specified in DoD 5105.38-M.


(ii) *Grant transfer of excess defense articles (EDAs).* 22 U.S.C. 2321j authorizes the U.S. Government to grant transfer of EDA to eligible foreign governments. For a transfer under this authority, DoD funds may not be used for packing, crating, handling, and transportation except under certain circumstances consistent with the guidance in 22 U.S.C. 2321j(e).


(iii) *FMS transportation.* (A) As a general rule, FMS customers are responsible for all transportation costs.


(*1*) The transportation costs can be written into the letters of agreement or the items can be shipped on a collect commercial basis. The implementing DoD Component or DLA Disposition Services will identify exceptions to this rule.


(*2*) Sensitive and some other FMS shipments may be made via the Defense Transportation System (DTS).


(*i*) Sensitive shipments not going through the DTS must be routed through a DoD-controlled port (Delivery Term Codes 8, B, or C). See Appendix E, paragraph H.1, Part II of the Defense Transportation Regulations 4500.9-R, “Defense Transportation Regulations”, current edition (available at *http://www.transcom.mil/dtr/part-ii/dtr_part_ii_app_e.pdf*).


(*ii*) For these shipments, the implementing agency will provide separate instructions and funds citations. Transportation arrangements may be made by the supporting Transportation Office or DLA Disposition Services.


(B) Unless otherwise directed by the implementing agency or DLA Disposition Services FMS Office:


(*1*) Send small items collect via Federal Express or other parcel service to designated freight forwarder.


(*2*) Send less than truckload shipments collect via common carrier to designated freight forwarder.


(*3*) Prepare and send DD Form 1348-5, “Notice of Availability/Shipment,” for larger than truckload shipments to freight forwarder or other designated address. Upon receipt of DD Form 1348-5, the recipient will provide shipping instructions or advise of pick-up date. If shipping instructions are not received within 15 days after DD Form 1348-5 is issued, follow up with freight forwarder and notify DLA Disposition Services if they are the implementing agency.


(*4*) For sensitive Delivery Term Code 8 property, in accordance with Part II of the Defense Transportation Regulation 4500.9-R, and hazardous material property, the supporting transportation office must ensure that the property is released in accordance with all applicable regulatory requirements. The preferred option is to let the supporting transportation office accomplish notice of availability and property shipment processes.


(*5*) On rare occasions, property may be transferred on a no-fee basis. The implementing agency or DLA Disposition Services will provide appropriate instructions on a case-by-case basis.


(C) In accordance with 22 U.S.C. 2403, construction equipment, including but not limited to tractors, scrapers, loaders, graders, bulldozers, dump trucks, generators, and compressors are not considered EDA for purposes of this section.


(iv) *FMS eligibility.* Eligibility for FMS is listed in Table C4.T2 of DoD 5105.38-M. Eligibility to receive excess property as a grant pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 2151, 2321, 2751, 2778 *et seq.* is established by the DOS and provided to DSCA. DoD Components will follow the latest guidance from DSCA showing which countries are eligible under the various authorities.


(v) *Controlled assets.* (A) Foreign countries and international organizations may screen and request DLA Disposition Services assets during DLA Disposition Services reutilization screening periods.


(B) 10 U.S.C. 2562 prohibits the sale or transfer of fire equipment to foreign countries and international organizations until RTD has been accomplished. Fire equipment remaining after these periods may be made available to security assistance customers with a certification to DSCA that the property is not defective and has completed all required excess property processes.


(C) DSCA will provide guidance for the transfer of items.


(D) Pricing of FMS is governed by DoD 7000.14-R.


(c) *Reutilization or transfer, excess screening, and issue (includes donation of DLA Disposition Services assets)*—(1) *Authority and scope.* (i) The provisions of this section are based on the guidelines of 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102.


(ii) The scope of this section includes the RTD screening, ordering, issuing, and shipment of DoD FEPP, excess, and surplus personal property.


(A) These procedures apply to the Military Departments, FCAs, donees, eligible foreign governments and international agencies, and any other activities authorized to screen and order FEPP, excess, and surplus personal property.


(B) See § 273.8 for additional guidance on the DoD HAP, LEAs, DoD or Service museums, National Guard units, Senior Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) units, morale, welfare, recreational activities (MWRAs), the MARS, Civil Air Patrol (CAP), and DoD contractors.


(C) See § 273.8 and paragraph (b) of this section for additional information on foreign governments and international organizations.


(2) *General.* (i) DoD policy, in accordance with 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102, is to reutilize DoD excess property and FEPP to the maximum extent feasible to fill existing needs before initiating new procurement or repair. All DoD activities will shop for available excess assets and review referrals for assets to satisfy valid needs. DLA Disposition Services provide asset referrals via front end screening to ICPs daily. See individual Military Department guidance regarding eligibility and authority to withdraw excess property from DLA Disposition Services.


(ii) Customers can electronically request specific NSNs for orders, whether DLA Disposition Services assets are available at the time the need arises. When an asset becomes available in the DLA Disposition Services inventory, an electronic notification will be sent to the customer for initiating an official order. See paragraph (c)(3)(vii) of this section for procedures on the automated want lists.


(iii) The UII mark, if applicable, will not be removed from a personal property item offered for RTD.


(3) *Screening for personal property*—(i) *Screening.* (A) DoD reutilization is accomplished electronically via MILSTRIP and DLA Transaction Services, through the DLA Disposition Services Web site.


(B) At the end of the DoD exclusive internal screening cycle, DoD excess property (excluding FEPP, scrap and HW) is transmitted to the GSAXcess®, and GSA assumes control of federal agency transfer and donation screening. The property remains in DLA Disposition Services accounts and can be viewed on their Web site.


(C) GSA federal screening is accomplished through the GSAXcess® platform that is a customer interface to the Federal Disposal System (FEDS). DoD personnel may shop in GSAXcess® at any time and search and select property from DoD and other FCAs. Transportation costs for other FCA property are borne by the DoD screener. DLA Disposition Services makes shipping arrangements for DoD orders in GSAXcess® and includes the transportation costs in the cost of the item.


(D) Enclosure 7 to DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 2 and Enclosure 3 to DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 4 provides additional information on screening for excess personal property by category.


(E) All references to days are calendar days unless otherwise specified.


(F) With electronic screening, physical tagging of property at a DLA Disposition Services site to place a “hold” until an order has been submitted is no longer authorized.


(G) DLA Disposition Services provides reasonable access to authorized personnel for inspection and removal of excess personal property.


(ii) *CONUS screening timeline for excess personal property*—(A) *Accumulation period.* DLA Disposition Services accumulates property throughout the week as it is inspected and added to the inventory system. As property is added to the inventory system, it is visible for ordering by DoD customers only. This accumulation period ends each Friday, prior to the start of the official 42 day screening timeline.


(B) *DoD and Special Programs screening Cycle (14 days).* DoD and the Special Programs identified in § 273.8 have exclusive ordering authority during the first 14 days of the screening timeline. DoD reutilization requirements have priority during this cycle, and property will not be issued to Special Programs until the end of this cycle.


(C) *FCA and donees screening cycle (21 days).* FCAs and GSA-authorized donees screen property in GSAXcess® during the following 21 days. FCA requirements have priority during this cycle, and property will not be issued to donees until the end of this cycle. During this cycle, DoD will search and select property in GSAXcess® rather than submit MILSTRIP orders, with the exception of priority designator (PD) 01-03 and NMCS requisitions. DoD customers will submit PD 01-03 and NMCS requisitions to DLA Disposition Services, who will immediately fill these orders and notify GSA to make the record adjustment in GSAXcess®.


(D) *GSA allocation to donees (5 days).* The following 5 days are set aside for GSA to allocate assets to fill donee requests. During this allocation period, no GSAXcess® ordering can be made.


(E) *Final reutilization/transfer/donation (RTD2) screening (2 days).* The final 2 days of screening are available to all RTD customers for any remaining property on a first come, first served basis.


(F) Table 3 of this section summarizes the priority of issue and the timelines associated with screening and issue of property.


(iii) *FEPP screening timeline.* (A) Screening timeline and procedures for FEPP will generally follow those listed in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section.


(B) During contingency operations, the ASD (L&MR) may approve expedited screening timelines and changes to issue priorities.


(iv) *DoD screening methods.* (A) DoD reutilization screening is accomplished electronically via MILSTRIP and DLA Transaction Services through the DLA Disposition Services Web site. If the electronic method is unsuccessful, please fax the following on agency letterhead: Name, phone number, point of contact, internet provider (IP) address, and two signatures of authorized individuals to DLA Disposition Services Reutilization Office at fax commercial 269-961-7348 or DSN 661-7348.


(B) Local screening at the DLA Disposition Services sites is on-site (visual) viewing of excess property. Physical inspection of property may not be possible for assets at depot recycling control points (RCPs), receipts in-place, or remote locations.


(v) *GSAXcess® screening.* (A) Users must obtain an access code from GSA to screen through GSAXcess®. To learn about GSAXcess® and obtain access code information, see: *http://apps.fss.gsa.gov/Manuals/Feds_Users_guide.*

(B) DoD customers must obtain access from GSAXcess® to search and select property. The DoD Accountable (Supply) Property Officer must provide GSA a letter (on official letterhead) or email (from a “.mil” address) requesting access for their representatives and include addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, and DoDAAC of those authorized to select property from GSAXcess®. Customers may select items once the access is granted.


(C) DoD customers who only want to search for available property in GSAXcess® can also register for search only access at *www.gsaxcess.gov.*

(vi) *Screening exceptions.* Generally, property cannot be screened before it is entered on DLA Disposition Services site's accountable records. However, instances where screening prior to entry may be justified include:


(A) Property needed to fulfill emergency orders, (*e.g.,* PD 01-03, NMCS, disaster relief) and which may be processed as a “wash-post” transaction. The DLA Disposition Services site must be able to fully justify these actions and ensure a signed receipt copy of the DTID is returned to the generating activity.


(B) Backlog situations where usable property is in danger of being damaged by the elements due to a lack of adequate storage and an authorized customer is on location.


(vii) *Automated want lists.* (A) Customers may use the automated pre-receipt information to flag desired NSNs. Use of this tool does not guarantee the items will become available. If notified that the item is in the excess inventory, customers must use standard MILSTRIP order procedures. For more guidance, see *https://www.dispositionservices.dla.mil/rtd03/index.shtml.*

(B) Customers may submit automated searches for recurring NSNs through the DoD Property Search Web site at *https://www.dispositionservices.dla.mil/rtd03/index.shtml.* Results are emailed to the customer.


(C) Customers may also submit a “Want List” in GSAXcess®, which can help them locate excess property from civilian agencies.


(viii) *Specialized screening for ICPs.* (A) DLA Disposition Services will electronically report to designated ICPs those assets with valid NSNs meeting dollar value and condition code criteria established by each DoD Component. The notification will be sent electronically to the recorded DoD wholesale manager (ICP or IMM) concurrently with recording the excess in the DLA Disposition Services system for accounting for excess property in DoD. Component IMMs may view the NSNs they requested during the first 5 days of the accumulation period before the items become available to other DoD activities. The ICPs must send their request to: DLA Disposition Services, Hart-Dole-Inouye Federal Center, 74 North Washington Avenue, Suite 2429, Battle Creek, Michigan 49037.


(B) The DoD ICP or IMM will screen these notifications to determine if needs exist. DLA Disposition Services site excesses will be reutilized to satisfy known or projected buy and repair needs.


(C) Orders for property during the internal screening periods will be prepared according to MILSTRIP and submitted to DLA Disposition Services.


(ix) *Issues to and turn-ins by special programs and activities*—(A) *DoD HAP.* (*1*) The DoD HAP is authorized to dispose excess property through DoD DLA Disposition Services site channels.


(*2*) Providing non-lethal DoD excess personal property for humanitarian purposes is authorized pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2557. Preparation and transportation of this property is carried out in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2661. HAP allows DoD to make available, prepare, and transport non-lethal, excess DoD property for distribution by DOS for humanitarian reasons. The program is managed by the DSCA Office of Humanitarian Assistance and Demining.


(*3*) In most instances, property issues will be from DLA Disposition Services inventories. The most commonly requested types of property are medical equipment, field gear, tools, clothing, rations, light vehicles, construction, and engineering equipment. DLA Disposition Services sites will issue all property destined for the HAP, with the exception of drugs and biologicals (Federal Supply Classification Code (FSC) 6505), which may be issued directly by the Military Departments. HAP orders and issues will be documented on DD Form 1348-1A “Issue Release/Receipt Document.”


(B) *LEAs.* In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2576a, DLA has established an office to permit civil police authority to acquire excess DoD property, and the Web site *https://www.dispositionservices.dla.mil/rtd03/leso/index.shtml* provides information to assist with the process. LEAs can contact DLA Disposition Services at: DLA Disposition Services, Hart-Dole-Inouye Federal Center, 74 North Washington Avenue, Suite 2429, Battle Creek, Michigan 49037, Toll free: 1-877-DLA-CALL, DSN: 661-7766, Commercial/FTS 269-961-7766.


(*1*) 10 U.S.C. 2576a authorizes the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Director, Office of National Drug Control Policy, and DOJ, to transfer excess DoD property, including small arms, light weapons, and ammunition, to federal and State LEAs, including counterdrug and counterterrorism activities. The federal program is known as the 1033 Program. The DLA Disposition Services has managerial responsibilities in support of such transfers and will establish business relationships with participating States by memorandum of agreement (MOA).


(*2*) LEAs will return sensitive or controlled DEMIL-required property originally ordered from DLA Disposition Services when no longer needed. DEMIL-required equipment that is the responsibility of the LEA must be demilitarized in accordance with DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3. Due to constant changes and development of new technology, Table 4 of this section is only a partial list of NSNs that may contain radioactive components as identified for Army Navy (AN) night vision equipment codes in DoD 4160.28-M, Volume 2. These NSNs and many others should not be transferred to DLA Disposition Services sites. The turn-in activity will verify with the DLA Disposition Services site whether equipment contains radioactive components before turning in any night vision equipment.


(C) *DoD or service museums.* (*1*) Legal authority is provided by 10 U.S.C. 2572, which allows the loan, gift, or exchange of specified historic or obsolete or condemned military property. Approval authority for museum acquisitions from DLA Disposition Services sites expressly for the purpose of exchange must be granted by the activity having staff supervision over the museum. Approval authority includes:


(*i*) U.S. Army: Chief of Military History (DAMH-MD), 1099 14th Street NW., Washington, DC 20005-3402.


(*ii*) U.S. Navy: Curator for the Navy, Naval Historical Center, Building 108, Washington Navy Yard, Washington, DC 20374-0571.


(*iii*) U.S. Air Force: Director, National Museum of the United States Air Force, HQAFMC, 1100 Spaatz Street, Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio 45433-7102.


(*iv*) U.S. Marine Corps: Marine Corps History Division, 3079 Moreel Avenue, Quantico, Virginia 22134.


(*v*) U.S. Coast Guard: Coast Guard Historian, Commandant (CG-09224), U.S. Coast Guard Headquarters, Douglas A. Munro Building, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr., Avenue, South East Stop 7031, Washington, DC 20593-7031.


(*2*) The DoD or Military Department museums will use standard DoD processes to dispose excess property using DoDAACs.


(*3*) The DoD and Military Department museums may obtain property from DLA Disposition Services sites for use, display, or exchange. With the exception of historical artifacts, stockpiling of property obtained from DLA Disposition Services sources for future exchange is prohibited.


(*4*) The normal ordering procedures apply. The DD Form 1348-1A, in addition to routine information, will include:


(*i*) The museum's individual DoDAAC or the DoDAAC of the Service headquarters with central responsibility for historical property.


(*ii*) A statement if the property is to be used for display, exchange, or use (*e.g.,* property needed to maintain the museums' buildings and grounds, for day-to-day housekeeping operations, or to maintain displays).


(*iii*) Only DEMIL Code “A” property is requested. Examples of DEMIL Code A items suitable for housekeeping purposes by DoD museums may include: Federal Supply Classification Groups (FSGs) 52—hand tools; 53—hardware; 55—lumber; 56—construction materials; 61—electric wire; 62—lighting fixtures; 71—furniture; 72—furnishings; 75—office supplies; 79—cleaning equipment; 80—brushes and paints. Orders of property for exchange will reflect the DoDAAC of the DoD Military Department museums. An exception to this procedure applies to M151 series, M561, and M792 (Gamma Goat) vehicles. Although coded as DEMIL Code A, exchange of the vehicles is prohibited.


(*5*) DLA Disposition Services sites will:


(*i*) Ensure DEMIL Code A property ordered by a museum for exchange purposes has no current challenges to that code. This applies to all items whether recorded in the DLA Logistic Information Service Federal Logistics Information System Master Item File or not, including scrap and captured military items. Excluded are the M151 series vehicles, hazardous property, and MLI and CCL items, which are not authorized for museum exchanges.


(*ii*) Ensure authorized property ordered by museums for exchange is released to the ordering museum personnel only. Identification of the individual is required. These personnel must be military or civilian employees of the museum, not volunteers or members of the museums' private supporting organizations.


(*6*) The DoD operating activities and Military Departments will:


(*i*) Maintain accountable records according to appropriate DoD and Service regulations of all items withdrawn from DLA Disposition Services sites, to include all materiel transactions, receipts from the DLA Disposition Services site, and transfer and exchange documents.


(*ii*) Provide to DLA Disposition Services a list of all the DoD museums and Service museums authorized to negotiate with DLA Disposition Services sites, including the name of the institution, address, telephone number, and the DoDAAC of the museum.


(D) *National Guard units.* (*1*) National Guard Units will use the standard DoD processes to dispose excess DoD property through the use of DoDAACs.


(*2*) Issues of excess DoD property and FEPP to National Guard units must be approved by the National Guard Bureau or the U.S. Property and Fiscal Officer (USP&FO), or their authorized representative, for the State in which the National Guard unit is located. Requests received from National Guard units that do not contain the signature of the USP&FO, their authorized representative, or the National Guard Bureau, will not be honored.


(E) *Senior ROTC units.* (*1*) Senior ROTCs will use standard DoD processes to dispose excess DoD property using DoDAACs.


(*2*) Military Departments' Senior ROTC units may obtain excess DoD property and FEPP from DLA Disposition Services sites to support supplemental proficiency training programs. Orders to DLA Disposition Services sites must be approved by the installation commander or designee, normally responsible for providing logistical support to the instructors group. Property will be issued to the accountable officer of the school concerned.


(F) *USCG.* As a recognized military service and a branch of the U.S. Armed Forces, and due to the association of the USCG to the U.S. Navy, DLA Disposition Services will accept USCG (DHS) excess property, USCG excess DoD property and FEPP for disposal. The principles outlined in paragraph (c)(3)(i) through (viii) of this section apply.


(*1*) USCG excess DoD property may be transferred to the nearest DLA Disposition Services site after internal USCG screening. Physical retention of the property by the USCG is preferred, especially if size or economics prevent physical transfer.


(*2*) Property physically turned in to the DLA Disposition Services site does not qualify for reimbursement.


(*3*) After the USCG completes all RTD screening for aircraft and vessels, DLA Disposition Services may provide sales services through an in-place MOU that outlines all USCG and DLA Disposition Services responsibilities.


(*4*) USCG aircraft may be transferred to the Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Group (AMARG), Davis-Monthan Air Force Base, Arizona, according to the ISSA between the USCG and the USAF.


(*5*) USCG orders must include a citation as to the USCG directive authorizing the unit to obtain the property listed on the order. In addition, the fund citation for transportation must be included on the DTID. Individual floating and shore units of the USCG may be delegated authority to order excess DoD property without Commandant, USCG approval. Indicate the delegating authority on all orders. The DLA Disposition Services site need not validate the authenticity of the authority, but only the fact that such authorization appears on the order.


(G) *U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (COE) civil works property.* (*1*) Based on the association of Civil Works with the U.S. Army, the COE will use Department of the Army DoDAACs to transfer personal property through DLA Disposition Services for disposal, including hazardous property through a service contract.


(*2*) COE civil works activities may order property through DLA Disposition Services as a DoD activity, using an assigned Army DoDAAC or as an FCA, using an address activity code through GSAXcess®.


(H) *MAP Property and Property for FMS.* DoD Directive 5105.22 and paragraph (b) of this section provide additional procedures for MAP property or for property that can be purchased by eligible organizations through FMS.


(*1*) Following the country decision to dispose through DLA Disposition Services, the country and Security Assistance Office will determine, in coordination with DLA Disposition Services, the proper disposal method (*e.g.,* DEMIL or mutilation requirements, security classification, reimbursement decisions).


(*2*) DLA Disposition Services, in coordination with the country and Security Assistance Office will make provision for in-country U.S. personnel, with assistance from local personnel, as appropriate, to act as DLA Disposition Services agent where turn-in by the generating activity and physical handling by the DLA Disposition Services site is impractical. In addition to MILSTRIP documentation requirements of DLM 4000.25-1, the generating activity will include the following data on the electronic turn-in document or DTID for MAP items.


(*i*) Country.


(*ii*) DTID number, to include at a minimum, in the first position, a service code (B, D, K, P, or T); in the second position, a country or activity code in accordance with DoD Directive 5230.20, and in the third position, the Julian date.


(*iii*) Identification of MAP Address Directory Security Assistance Offices initiating turn-in.


(*iv*) MAP account fund citation.


(*3*) Screen disposable MAP property for reutilization, FMS, and transfer to fill known federal needs. Process disposable MAP property surviving reutilization, FMS screening, and other transfers to sale.


(*4*) Process MAP property used for any purpose other than to meet approved DoD needs for RTD or sale on a reimbursable basis.


(*5*) The allocation of weapons, ammunition, flyable aircraft (rotary and fixed-wing) and selected property will be accomplished by DLA, as coordinated with the Office of Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Supply Chain Integration.


(*6*) All other excess DoD property will be processed through DLA Disposition Services on a first-come, first-served basis.


(I) *DoD contractors and contractor inventory.* (*1*) The disposal of DoD contractor inventory is generally the contractor's responsibility in accordance with 48 CFR 45.602-1 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, unless the contract specifies that excess DoD property be returned to the government, as a result of a determination by the CO at contract expiration that DLA Disposition Services disposal would be in the best interests of the government. Property physically turned in to the DLA Disposition Services site does not qualify for reimbursement to the generating activity.


(*2*) If property is purchased and retained by a DoD contractor, net proceeds from the sale of the property will be deposited into the generating activity's suspense account.


(*3*) DLM 4000.25-1 permits the Military Department or Defense Agency management control activity (MCA) to withdraw or authorize the withdrawal of specified excess DoD property from DLA Disposition Services sites for use as government-furnished material or government-furnished equipment to support contractual requirements.


(*4*) Orders will be completed in accordance with Chapter 11 of DLM 4000.25-1 and include the DoDAAC assigned to the contractor. These orders must be processed by the MCA having cognizance of the applicable contract.


(*5*) Property ordered must be authorized and listed in the DoD contract(s) for which the property will be used, recorded in the ICP's MCA responsible for the contract, and the use of the ordered property approved by the CO or CO's representative (COR) for such contract(s). Each electronic or manual order (DD Form 1348-1A) must contain the signature and title of the CO or COR authorizing the withdrawal of excess DoD property from the disposal system. Each order must also contain the certification: “For use under Contract No(s)._____.” The certification should be signed by an authorized official and should indicate his or her official title.


(*6*) DLA Disposition Services sites cannot guarantee the property withdrawn meets minimum specifications and standards in terms of quality, condition, and safety.


(J) *NAF activities.* (*1*) Includes expense items and NAF resale goods procured by NAF activities such as military exchanges and MWRAs or Services, but excludes commissary store trust fund account equipment.


(*2*) DLA Disposition Services will not process property typically reclaimed from customers by the military exchanges such as used batteries, tires, oils, etc., as a part of their normal business. The NAF must process property in accordance with the guidance shown under Army and Air Force Exchange Service in DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 4 for disposal of these assets.


(*3*) Acceptable types of property will be processed for federal screening only and are not eligible for donation. They are eligible for reutilization or transfer provided the generating NAF activities waive reimbursement or negotiate reimbursement with the ordering activity.


(*i*) The generating activity will provide a statement on the DTID that the property was purchased with NAF to obtain appropriate reimbursement. If the DTID does not contain this citation, the property will be processed as normal excess DoD property.


(*ii*) In addition to standard entries, documentation will contain the unit cost (in lieu of the Federal Logistics Data acquisition cost) recorded in the financial and accounting records of the NAF activity. DLA Disposition Services sites will use this value for inventory, reporting, reutilization, transfer, and sale purposes.


(*iii*) Reimbursement will be completed between the generating activity and the order for property reutilized or transferred. Sales proceeds will be deposited in accordance with Volume 11a, chapter 5 of DoD 7000.14-R (unless otherwise directed or superseded).


(*4*) DoD MWRAs or Services may order excess DoD property and FEPP through the MWRAs/Services that have a DoDAAC on file with the DAAS. Requests for small arms or light weapons must be ordered by servicing accountable officers only and be approved by the designated DoD focal point as identified in Table 4 of this subpart. See DoD Manual 4160.21 Volume 4 for guidelines on reutilization of small arms and light weapons.


(*5*) NAF property ordered by or through a servicing accountable officer will be used and accounted for the same as all procurements, according to applicable Military Department or Defense Agency procedures.


(*6*) Orders received by DLA Disposition Services sites directly from an MWRA or Military Department accountable officer will be for administrative and other purposes from which individuals will realize no direct benefits.


(*7*) Orders will contain the MWRA or Service account number, the signature of the MWRA or Service Accountable Officer, and a statement that the property obtained without reimbursement will be identified separately in accounting records from property for which reimbursement was made. The order will include the statement that, when such property is obtained without reimbursement is no longer needed, it will be turned in to the nearest DLA Disposition Services site and that no part of the proceeds from sale or other disposition will be returned to the MWRAs or Services. Perpetuate this information from the order in follow-on documentation.


(*8*) If the property is not reutilized, transferred, or sold, DLA Disposition Services will notify the NAF activity that accountability will revert to the NAF activity and further disposal processing will be the responsibility of the NAF activity. If the DLA Disposition Services site has taken physical custody, the NAF activity will be responsible for retrieving the property.


(K) *MARS.* (*1*) MARS is an appropriated fund activity that operates under the jurisdiction of the Military Departments and is an integral part of the DoD communication system. MARS units will use standard DoD processes to dispose excess DoD property using DoDAACs.


(*2*) The Military Departments responsible for MARS are authorized to order excess DoD property and FEPP through their respective accountable officers. The following ordering stipulations apply:


(*i*) Designation of accountable officers and representatives authorized to screen and obtain excess DoD property and FEPP at DLA Disposition Services sites is described in this section.


(*ii*) The property ordered is for immediate use by a MARS member or member station for its intended purpose; property may not be acquired for storage. When property requested is to be used for reclamation, written approval for such action must be obtained in advance from the Military Department MARS chief in coordination with the accountable officer. Property ordered for reclamation is limited to materiel in DCC X or S.


(*iii*) Excess DoD property and FEPP ordered from a DLA Disposition Services site for MARS may be shipped to a DoD activity or picked up at a DLA Disposition Services site by personnel who are appropriately identified and approved. Property ordered for reclamation is designated for local pickup only at the DLA Disposition Services site. Maintain accountability of residue in accordance with Military Department directives.


(*3*) The accountable officer will maintain accountability for all property acquired and issued to MARS members and MARS member stations. The property remains government property.


(*4*) When the property is no longer needed for use by the MARS, the accountable officer arranges for the equipment to be turned in to the nearest DLA Disposition Services site, if economically feasible. If it is not economically feasible to turn in the property, the accountable officer will employ A/D procedures according to Enclosure 4 of DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 2.


(*5*) The respective Military Department may limit MARS orders to selected FSCs.


(*6*) The release of property to MARS activities is governed by the following procedures:


(*i*) *Army MARS.* In CONUS, the authority to order and obtain excess DoD property and FEPP to fill valid requirements is vested in the accountable MARS Program Manager (MPM) appointed by the Chief, Army MARS. Outside the CONUS, the authority to order and obtain excess DoD property and FEPP for the Army MARS program is vested in the 5th Signal Command MARS Director (Europe); 1st Signal Brigade U.S. Army Information System Command (USAISC) (Korea); USAISC Japan; and USAISC Western Command (Hawaii). The MPM who is the accountable officer appointed by the Chief, Army MARS will originate and sign all orders. Process orders through the applicable accountable officer for MARS equipment.


(*ii*) *Navy/Marine Corps MARS (NAVMARCORMARS).* In CONUS, the authority to originate orders for excess DoD property and FEPP to fill valid requirements in the NAVMARCORMARS program is vested in the Chief, NAVMARCORMARS; Deputy Chief, NAVMARCORMARS; Directors of the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 7th MARS Regions; and the Officer in Charge, Headquarters Radio Station. All orders must be signed by the Chief, NAVMARCORMARS, or the Deputy Chief, NAVMARCORMARS. Process orders through the applicable accountable officer. Outside the CONUS, the authority to originate orders comes from Chief, NAVMARCORMARS; the Deputy Chief, NAVMARCORMARS; or a regional director or a specific designee of the Chief, NAVMARCORMARS. Process orders through the applicable accountable officer.


(*iii*) *USAF MARS.* The Office of the Chief, USAF MARS, and staff, active duty Installation MARS Directors (IMDs), and active MARS affiliates are authorized to screen and identify property for USAF MARS use. MARS affiliates are identified by a valid AF Form 3666, “Military Affiliate Radio System Station License and Identification Card,” signed by the Chief, USAF MARS. The IMD is appointed in writing by the installation commander or a designated representative; this appointment constitutes authority for screening and identification of property. Orders for property for MARS reutilization must be approved by the Chief, USAF MARS, or designated representative; this approval authority cannot be delegated. All approved orders will be processed through the USAF MARS Accountable Property Officer or designated alternate, who will initiate and sign a DD Form 1348-1A to authorize release of identified property. Authority to sign release documents will not be delegated. The accountable officer maintains current and valid identification of their MARS members to prevent unauthorized screening by MARS members or former members.


(L) *CAP.* (*1*) The CAP is the official auxiliary of the USAF and is eligible to receive excess DoD property and FEPP without reimbursement subject to the approval of the Headquarters USAF, CAP (HQ CAP-USAF). Title to the property is transferred to the CAP upon the condition that the property be used by the CAP to support valid mission requirements. Authority for the CAP members to screen and obtain excess DoD property will be in writing and signed by an authorized official of the CAP-USAF. HQ CAP-USAF retains the authority to approve and control the types and amounts of items obtained by the CAP.


(*2*) The CAP will remain accountable for all property acquired from the DoD disposal system and will maintain and safeguard the property from loss or damage. The CAP and its members are strictly prohibited from selling, donating, or bartering property previously obtained from the DoD disposal system under any circumstances.


(*3*) The CAP is not eligible to screen or receive AMARG aircraft reported by the Military Departments and other governmental agencies. If flyable non-AMARG category “A” aircraft made available for screening by an owning Military Department are selected for issue and approved by the HQ CAP-USAF to fulfill valid CAP mission needs, the following procedures apply:


(*i*) *Flyable aircraft.* The head of the owning Military Department will issue the aircraft to the accounts specified by the HQ CAP-USAF, ensuring that data plates and all available historical and modification records accompany the aircraft. The aircraft will be issued to the CAP upon condition that it be used by the CAP to support valid mission requirements. Prior to issuance, the appropriate CAP corporate officer (wing commander or higher) will execute a conditional gift agreement that specifies that the aircraft (parts, etc.) be issued and delivered to AMARG when it becomes excess to CAP's mission needs. When the aircraft is no longer needed by the CAP, or as otherwise directed by the HQ CAP-USAF, the CAP will make arrangements through the HQ CAP-USAF for issue and delivery of the aircraft, data plates, and historical and modification records to AMARG.


(*ii*) *Reclamation of parts.* If the HQ CAP-USAF elects to allow the CAP to use the aircraft for parts reclamation, the HQ CAP-USAF will contact the owning Military Department to make arrangements concerning reclamation of parts by the CAP. If the CAP declines to reclaim parts and components from the aircraft, the CAP will arrange through the HQ CAP-USAF for issue and delivery of the aircraft, data plates, and historical and modification records to AMARG.


(*iii*) *CAP aircraft.* All CAP aircraft delivered to AMARG will be reported to the GSA for use by FCAs and authorized donees. The CAP and its members are strictly prohibited from selling, donating, or bartering aircraft obtained from a Military Department under any circumstances.


(*4*) The CAP units will use assigned DoDAACs beginning in “FG” to transfer and order excess personal property.


(*5*) CAP members will identify themselves for pickup of property as stated in this section.


(M) *Federal Civilian Agencies (FCAs).* (*1*) These organizations include any non-defense executive agency or any member of the legislative or judicial branch of the government.


(*2*) The processes discussed in this section apply to FCAs transferring to and ordering excess DoD property from DLA Disposition Services sites.


(*3*) FCAs that want to use DLA Disposition Services for disposition management instead of GSA are required to review and follow instructions provided on the DLA Disposition Services Web site and to:


(*i*) Comply with 31 U.S.C. 1535 (also known as the Economy Act).


(*ii*) Initiate an Economy Act Order with DLA Disposition Services Comptroller for establishing financial transactions. Final acceptance of the Economy Act Order constitutes authority for FCAs to use DLA Disposition Services. The Economy Act Order must be renewed on October 1 of each year. DLA Disposition Services transaction activity billing (TAB) rates, sales rates, and actual disposal rates are used for billing FCAs. TAB rates are available on the DLA Disposition Services Web site. DLA Disposition Services will bill and the FCA will pay all costs for services rendered. Billing documentation will include contract line item number, administrative, and services costs, and will be processed quarterly.


(*iii*) Ensure all laws and regulations are properly met prior to initiating a transfer transaction. Use DoD Instruction 4160.28; 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102; 48 CFR subpart 9.4 and 48 CFR 45.602-1, 52.233-1, and 14.407 of the FAR, current edition; and 5 U.S.C. 552, Volume 11a, Chapter 5 of DoD 7000.14-R, and Office of Management and Budget Circular A-76, “Performance of Commercial Activities” (available at 


(*iv*) Comply with DLM 4000.25-1, since in-transit control requirements are not applicable to FCA turn-ins.


(*v*) Comply with § 273.7(d), (e), and (f) for transferring excess DoD property, using DD Form 1348-1A or DD Form 1348-2, “Issue Release/Receipt Document with Address Label,” as DTIDs. Schedule turn-ins with the DLA Disposition Services site and assume responsibility for delivering usable and scrap property to DLA Disposition Services sites. Non-hazardous property may be received in-place using the standard DoD receipt in-place processes. Hazardous property cannot be physically accepted at the DLA Disposition Services site and will be processed in-place only, in accordance with paragraphs (c)(3)(viii)(M)(*3*)(*vi*) and (*vii*) of this section. Property will normally be turned in as individual line items; however, batchlotting by FSC of non-hazardous items with a combined acquisition value of up to $800 is permitted. Identify the transaction by using their officially assigned FCA activity address code (AAC). The first position of the AAC begins with 1 through 9. Annotate “XP” funding code in blocks 52 and 53 and a disposal authority code of “F” in position 64 of the DTID. Annotate the DLA Disposition Services Economy Act Order Assigned Number in block 27. Include appropriate hazardous property documents containing the required information found in Volume 4 of DoD 4160.21-M. Ensure that no radioactive material, waste, or other excluded hazardous property is turned in to the DLA Disposition Services site. Cover costs associated with substantiated sale contracts claims, if negligence or fault is established. Contact the appropriate DLA Disposition Services site for procedures to use when inventory discrepancies surface for property that the FCA is designated the custodian. The FCA will research and provide a report of the lost, damaged, or destroyed property. Procedures are contained in accordance with Volume 12, Chapter 7 of DoD 7000.14-R.


(*vi*) Work with DLA Disposition Services to obtain HW disposal contract support, pursuant to the provisions of the FAR; for hazardous property, FCAs will define disposal service requirements for HW disposal and provide a yearly estimate of HW streams that may be generated and placed on DLA Disposition Services disposal service contracts; cover costs associated with substantiated contracts claims, if negligence or fault is established; maintain physical custody of hazardous property; provide a designated FCA representative to act as a CO's technical representative during pickup of hazardous property, and identify who will be trained and authorized to release the property for shipment, including signing shipping documents according to the procedures provided in 49 CFR part 172, subpart H.


(*vii*) Comply with the following liability provisions. Should any DLA HW disposal contractors' actions on behalf of the FCA result in a notice of potential liability to DLA or the FCA under 42 U.S.C. 9601 *et seq.* (also known as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act), 42 U.S.C. 6901 *et seq.* (also known as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act), or any other provision of federal or State law, immediate notification will be provided to DLA Disposition Services or the FCA. The FCA retains ultimate liability for hazardous property; FCAs will be responsible for environmental response costs attributable to their generated hazardous property. FCA is considered the generator for reporting purposes in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 6901 *et seq.* and 9601 *et seq.;* According to the terms of DLA Disposition Services HW disposal contracts, DLA Disposition Services disposal contractors are responsible for spills or leaks during the performance of their contracts, which result from the actions of the contractors' agents or employees; At no time will the DLA Disposition Services site dispose FCA excess DoD property or any provision of a HW contract for FCA property be interpreted or construed to require that funds be obligated or paid in violation of 31 U.S.C. 1341 or any other provisions of law.


(*4*) FCAs will:


(*i*) Work with DLA Disposition Services for DEMIL-required disposal support in accordance with the provisions of DoD Instruction 4160.28.


(*ii*) Reimburse DLA Disposition Services for A/D-related services.


(*iii*) Continue to turn in PM-bearing property at no charge in support of the DoD PMRP according to the procedures in Enclosure 5 to DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 2. These transactions are accomplished through an ISSA.


(*iv*) Pay for all services rendered, according to established requirements and fees.


(*5*) Two months prior to the Economy Act Order's expiration, the FCA will notify the DLA Disposition Services Comptroller whether continued services are desired.


(*i*) If the Economy Act Order has not been re-established, DLA Disposition Services will continue to receive property for 60 days.


(*ii*) FCAs will continue payments until all property that was received within the fiscal year has been processed, even if the Economy Act Order has expired.


(*iii*) FCAs will pay at the rates established or re-established and maintain internal procedures to track DTIDs against billings for reconciliation.


(*6*) The policies in 41 CFR chapter 101 will be implemented when:


(*i*) An official Economy Act Order is finalized and the DLA Disposition Services Finance Office ensures that an officially assigned FCA AAC is in the DLA Disposition Services Accounting System. (This will indicate to DLA Disposition Services sites that receipt of excess property from the requesting FCA is authorized.)


(*ii*) A provisional copy or signed copy of a DD Form 1348-1A is the instant at which accountability for the FCA property (non-hazardous or hazardous) is transferred to a DLA Disposition Services site.


(*7*) If at any time any issue requires resolution, a team approach will be used at the turn-in activity and DLA Disposition Services site level. Disputes that cannot be resolved will be elevated to the next corresponding level of the FCA and the DLA Disposition Services. If necessary, alternative dispute resolution will be used.


(*8*) DLA Disposition Services sites will:


(*i*) Reserve the right to refuse any turn-in due to workload or resource constraints if support would seriously impair the DLA mission for the DoD.


(*ii*) Receive and screen FCA property using the same method used for excess DoD property, except property will not be made available to those special program organizations who, because of enabling legislation, may only obtain excess DoD property; *e.g.,* HAP, law enforcement support offices, and SEAs.


(*9*) Sales proceeds, if any, will be deposited into the U.S. Treasury as miscellaneous receipts, unless otherwise specified by law. No reimbursement of proceeds will be made to the FCA. Contract claims resulting from the sale of federal property may be the responsibility of the FCA.


(*10*) For hazardous property, DLA Disposition Services will notify FCAs of any:


(*i*) New procedures pertaining to the disposal process or funding changes. HW contracts may be modified by mutual written consent of the parties. Modifications requiring resource changes may be given with enough advance notification for revisions or adjustments to be made during the budget formulation process and the hazardous disposal service contract process.


(*ii*) Proposed changes to administrative support costs at least 60 days in advance of a change.


(*11*) DLA Disposition Services will ensure DEMIL-required property and property that may require export controls are processed appropriately. Property requiring DEMIL may be shipped to an alternate location either by DLA Disposition Services or by an FCA. These charges are included in the TAB rates.


(*12*) FCAs desiring to order excess DoD property from DLA Disposition Services sites will follow the GSA procedures for acquiring property through GSAXcess®. Once excess DoD property is physically obtained from DLA Disposition Services, the property belongs to and must be disposed by the FCA. This includes property that is DEMIL or mutilation required. Turn-in of previously ordered property from the DLA Disposition Services will be accepted from only those FCAs that have established an Economy Act Order.


(*13*) FCAs may continue to participate in the DoD PMRP at no charge, in accordance with Enclosure 5 to DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 2. These transactions are accomplished via an ISSA between DLA Disposition Services and FCAs.


(O) *U.S. Postal Service (USPS).* (*1*) USPS is not authorized to dispose excess DoD property through DLA Disposition Services without an FCA intragovernmental agreement.


(*2*) If such an agreement is executed:


(*i*) Items of a strictly postal nature, such as a carrier satchel embossed “U.S. Mail,” postal scales, or other equipment so similar in nature or design to official USPS equipment as to cause confusion may not be turned in to DLA Disposition Services sites, sold, or disposed to the general public until the USPS has been notified of the intended disposition and offered an opportunity to inspect the equipment. DLA Disposition Services sites will notify local post office inspectors of the existence of this property and arrange for its inspection if the USPS wants to prevent it from falling into the hands of unauthorized persons.


(*ii*) DoD purchased or owned postal equipment with official postal identification markings may be transferred to the USPS through DLA Disposition Services site processing, under the standard transfer policies in 41 CFR chapter 101. If transferred from DoD Components without going through an official DLA Disposition Services site, the DoD activity will negotiate with USPS for fair market reimbursement.


(*iii*) Property not transferred that contains markings that would tend to confuse this property with official USPS equipment will have the markings removed before release for DLA Disposition Services site processing.


(*iv*) Excess DoD postal equipment loaned to DoD Components by the USPS will be returned to the USPS.


(P) *American National Red Cross.* Property that was processed or donated by the American National Red Cross to a Military Department and becomes excess DoD property may not be disposed without notice to and consultation with the American National Red Cross. This property will be returned without reimbursement to the American National Red Cross upon request, if that organization pays packing and shipping costs.


(Q) *DoD Computers for Learning (CFL).* The DoD CFL program implements Executive Order 12999, “Educational Technology: Ensuring Opportunity for All Children in the Next Century” and enables DoD to transfer excess IT equipment to pre-kindergarten through grade 12 schools and educational non-profit organizations through a DLA Disposition Services web-based program. The DLA Disposition Services program replaces the DoD Computers for School, Educational Institution Partnership Program that was overseen by the Defense Information Systems Agency.


(*1*) Eligible educational organizations serve pre-kindergarten through grade 12 students and are public, private, or parochial schools or educational nonprofits classified as tax-exempt under section 501c of the United States tax code. Schools and educational nonprofits must be located within the United States and its territories.


(*i*) Schools must register in the DLA Disposition Services web-based CFL program and complete all point of contact and profile information.


(*ii*) Schools must ensure that IT equipment transferred will be used for student and faculty training to augment existing IT equipment, to strengthen their infrastructure, or for other academic-related programs.


(*iii*) All costs incurred in connection with the transfer of equipment through the CFL will be the responsibility of the school and include: Expenses in connection with the school's inspection of the IT equipment at DoD sites; cost of packing, crating, marking, and loading the equipment on the carrier's conveyance for transportation; and cost of transportation from DoD sites.


(*2*) DoD IT equipment FSG 70 with a DEMIL Code of A and DEMIL Code of Q with an Integrity Code of 6 that is located in CONUS and has been accepted to a DLA Disposition Services site's accountability records is eligible for transfer within DoD CFL once DoD screening is complete and the inventory is not requisitioned by DoD.


(*3*) IT equipment is available on an “as-is” basis, without warranties from DoD as to the condition of the equipment. Eligible equipment includes mainframes, minicomputers, microcomputers, modems, disk drives, printers, and items that are defined within the FSG 70 and are appropriate for use in CFL.


(*4*) After the DoD excess screening is completed, providing there are no DoD requests, DLA Disposition Services will:


(*i*) Make provisions for schools to receive information concerning DoD IT equipment that is available for transfer.


(*ii*) Notify the schools of available equipment that matches the profile submitted by the school.


(*iii*) “Freeze” the equipment when the school verifies a need so that other schools cannot be offered the same equipment.


(*iv*) Review, approve, and notify generating activities to transfer to a school by generating a MRO from DLA Disposition Services system for accounting for excess surplus property in DoD to decrement quantity and preclude transmission to the FEDS.


(*v*) While holding for transfer to schools, the following applies: 7-day accumulation (DoD can order anytime) and 14-day DoD screening (DoD can order anytime).


(*vi*) On day 14, if still available, DLA Disposition Services will freeze the property and create a MILSTRIP initiating a transfer to school transaction. DLA Disposition Services will send MILSTRIP to the generating activity, who will arrange for the school to remove the item. Schools authorized a transfer are responsible for arranging the pickup or shipping of IT equipment.


(*vii*) The IT equipment not designated to schools during the DoD CFL timeframe will be transmitted to GSAXcess® for FCAs and donees.


(*viii*) Generating activities can specify a school for intended transfer once DLA Disposition Services has accountability of the equipment, through the DLA Disposition Services web-based CFL program. From the DLA Disposition Services Home Page, the user may click on Property Search for Military, Federal, State, and Special Programs, then click on “Computers for Learning.” The CFL Program enables the generating activity to view the IT equipment that was turned in under their DoDAAC and then designate that equipment to approved schools. The generating activity has 7 days to make this selection; otherwise, the equipment can be viewed by any eligible educational activity.


(*ix*) Equipment not identified by a generating activity for a specific school will be made available to schools and educational non-profit organizations that are approved within CFL.


(*x*) The authorized school is responsible for coordinating with the generating activity for the removal of equipment.


(*xi*) The authorized school has 14 days after receipt of authorization to remove the equipment.


(*xii*) If the school does not remove the equipment within the 14 days, the generating activity will notify the DLA Disposition Services site of the non-removal.


(*xiii*) Upon receipt of notification, the DLA Disposition Services site will notify DLA Disposition Services to cancel the order.


(R) *Firefighter Transfer Program.* The DoD has authorized the U.S. Department of Agriculture Forestry Service (USDA FS) to manage DoD firefighting property transfers provided for in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2576b. Title to all Firefighter Property Transfer Program property will pass to the State upon:


(*1*) The State taking possession of the equipment (such as removing or having the equipment removed from a DLA Disposition Services site).


(*2*) The State receiving a DD 1348, “DoD Single Line Item Requisition System Document (Manual),” or SF 97 or both for the equipment. The DD Form 1348 or SF 97 will indicate which property requires DEMIL (DEMIL Codes C, D, and F).


(*3*) The USDA FS will track all equipment requiring DEMIL until final disposition and require the State to ensure that such equipment is either transferred to another DoD agency authorized to receive it or is returned to a DLA Disposition Services site when no longer required. USDA FS will require the State coordinate any such transfers and returns with the Distribution Reutilization Policy Directorate at DLA prior to the transfer. The recipients are responsible for funding shipment or removal.


(x) *Expedited processing (EP).* (A) EP is the approved reduction of screening timeframes. In the zone of interior (ZI), EP may be used on a case-by-case basis. Situations where EP may be considered include backlog situations, potential deterioration from outside storage, or other compelling reasons.


(B) GSA is the approving authority for EP for non-DEMIL required property within the ZI. DLA Disposition Services is the approving authority for DEMIL-required property within the ZI.


(C) Current automation technology allows items going through EP to be visible on the DLA Disposition Services Web site and GSAXcess®.


(D) In contingency operations the supported Combatant Command has the authority to accelerate screening timelines based on mission requirements and operational tempo.


(xi) *Screener identification and authorization.* (A) Individuals visiting DLA Disposition Services sites to view, order, or remove property or for any other reason are required to provide proper identification as authorized representatives of a valid recipient activity.


(*1*) Upon arrival at the DLA Disposition Services site, the individuals will sign the vehicle or visitor register indicating the vehicle registration number and the purpose of their visit.


(*2*) Visitors representing donation recipients will only be allowed to complete the tasks identified under “purpose of visit” on the vehicle or visitor register.


(*3*) All screeners will specify the DoDAAC or AAC for which they are inspecting.


(B) DoD screeners will further identify themselves as authorized representatives of a DoD Component by means of a current employee or Military personnel identification issued by the DoD activity.


(C) FCA screeners will present current employee identification as valid authorization. This also applies to screeners representing mixed-ownership USG corporations.


(D) Non-federal screeners will present an authorization on the letterhead of the sponsoring activity, identifying the bearer and indicating the nature of the authorization. This letter of authorization will be updated at least annually or as changes occur.


(E) All SEA screeners will present a valid driver's license or other State-approved picture identification or the letter of authorization.


(F) DLA Disposition Services sites will refer problems in identifying screeners to the activity commander. For FCA and donation screeners, refer to the proper GSA regional office.


(xii) *Screening for property at DLA Disposition Services sites.* (A) DLA Disposition Services sites will assist customers interested in obtaining property by referring them to the DLA Disposition Services Web site or by providing guidance for physical inspection and location of property. Assistance may also include use of a customer-designated personal computer to screen assets worldwide and establish a pre-defined customer want list.


(B) When a prospective donation recipient contacts a DLA Disposition Services site or military installation regarding possible acquisition of surplus property, the individual or organization will be advised to contact the applicable SASP for determination of eligibility and procedures.


(4) *Orders for FEPP, excess, and surplus property from DLA Disposition Services and GSA*—(i) *General.* (A) DoD activities, FCAs, and other authorized activities are permitted to order DoD FEPP, excess, and surplus personal property based on the property status at the time the authorized screener identifies its availability from the DLA Disposition Services Web site. This property may be ordered through DLA Disposition Services or GSA.


(B) DLM 4000.25-1 requires orders for property on the DLA Disposition Services site's accountable records to be prepared on DD Forms 1348-1A or 1348-2. The use of the DLA Disposition Services Web site allows orders to be processed without hard copies of DD Forms 1348-1A or 1348-2. A separate order is required for each line item on a DLA Disposition Services site's inventory (except batchlots that are grouped together). The shopper will furnish the appropriate information either electronically or by hard copy.


(C) Orders for property in the GSA screening cycle will be submitted through GSAXcess®. Customers are required to complete and submit the SF 122 “Transfer Order Excess Personal Property” to GSA. GSA will then transmit the order to DLA Disposition Services.


(D) DoD activities (other than MWRAs or Services, which are covered in § 273.6) must request Military Department or Defense Agency excess and FEPP through servicing accountable officers or their designated representatives.


(E) See § 273.6 for special guidance affecting USCG ordering.


(F) U.S. Army accountable supply officers should check with their finance accounting office prior to requesting items from DLA Disposition Services. Often, Army customers are billed internally for the items they have ordered from DLA Disposition Services.


(G) The following principles apply to acquiring property from these sources, including Federal regulations, which apply to the Department of Defense, special programs and activities, FCAs, and donees when acquiring excess or surplus personal property:


(*1*) There must be an authorized requirement.


(*2*) The cost of acquiring and maintaining the excess personal property (including packaging, shipping, pickup, and necessary repairs) does not exceed the cost of purchasing and maintaining new materiel and does not exceed the value of property requested.


(*3*) The sources of spare parts or repair and maintenance services to support the acquired item are readily accessible.


(*4*) The supply of excess parts acquired must not exceed the life expectancy of the equipment supported.


(*5*) The excess personal property will fulfill the required need with reasonable certainty without sacrificing mission or schedule.


(*6*) Excess personal property must NOT be acquired with the intent to sell or trade for other assets.


(*7*) DoD activities will request only that property that is authorized by the parent HQ or command. Activities may not request quantities of property exceeding authorized retention limits.


(H) The special screening programs will request only property that is authorized by the program or activity accountable officer or program manager, whichever is applicable. If the special screening programs want DLA Disposition Services site to verify the FSC has been authorized before release, the accountable officer or program manager must provide a current authorized FSC list to the DLA Disposition Services site. The removal agent must sign any certification required, acknowledging understanding of rules of disposal, prior to removal of the property.


(I) The Military Department accountable officer who designates DoD individuals to sign orders on their behalf must provide DLA Disposition Services sites with an electronic letter of authorization, identifying those individuals. The template for the letter is on the DLA Disposition Services Web site. It will include the full name, activity, DoDAAC, telephone number, address, and signature of the individuals authorized to sign and authenticate MROs. These individuals may be different from those who are the initial shoppers or those picking up the property.


(ii) *Emergency requests.* (A) Telephone requests during non-duty hours may be made by contacting the DLA Disposition Services staff duty officer (SDO) (DSN 661-4233; Commercial, 269-961-4233). Under these circumstances, the SDO will record the request and will contact the DLA Disposition Services program manager to initiate proper action.


(B) If a DoD activity has an emergency need for a surplus DoD item in the possession of a SASP, it may be requested from that SASP. The acquiring DoD activity must pay any costs of care, handling, and transportation that were incurred by the SASP in acquiring this property.


(C) For requests for property to fill training aid and target need orders, see “Training Aids and Target Requirements” in paragraph 147 of Enclosure 3 of DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 4.


(iii) *Late orders.* (A) If a DoD order is received after the screening timeline has expired, the customer will provide justification as to the true necessity for the property requested, indicating why other comparable property in the DLA Disposition Services inventory does not satisfy the need. See paragraph (a) of this section for more guidance if the property needs to be withdrawn from sale.


(B) Orders for property received during the GSAXcess® screening period must be submitted according to GSA ordering procedures.


(iv) *Requests for small arms and light weapons.* Small arms and light weapons (see § 273.12) will be processed according to the guidance in DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 4. Table 5 of this section contains a list of Military Department and Defense Agency designated control points authorized to initiate orders or through which orders must be routed for review and approval before issue can be effected.


(5) *Condition of property ordered.* Orders authorized by DLA Disposition Services or GSA regional offices will be processed as expeditiously as possible and according to the Uniform Materiel Movement and Issue Priority System priority on the requisition.


(i) DLA Disposition Services sites will determine the property requested is in as good a condition as it was during screening.


(ii) If the ordered property has materially deteriorated from screening or receipt to inspection for shipment, the DLA Disposition Services site will advise the customer before shipment. The shipment will be suspended pending agreement by the customer that the property will be accepted in its present condition.


(iii) Once ordered, and pending receipt of an approved transfer document or removal of the property, no parts may be removed without prior approval of DLA Disposition Services (for DoD orders) or GSA (for transfers and donations), and agreement by the customer that the property will be accepted in its altered condition.


(6) *Reimbursement requirements.* (i) The generating activity will identify reimbursement requirements on the DTID when transferring property to the DLA Disposition Services site. Although not specifically a DLA Disposition Services responsibility, DLA Disposition Services sites may contact the generating activity when they suspect the generator may be eligible for reimbursement but has not noted it on the DTID.


(ii) Issue of declared Military Department or Defense Agency FEPP, excess and surplus personal property to DoD users will be on a non-reimbursable basis except when the customer is prohibited by law from acquiring FEPP, excess and surplus property without reimbursement or where reimbursement is required by annotations on the receipt DTID. Issues to the USPS require fair-market value reimbursement.


(iii) The requester will transfer funds to the generating activity without DLA Disposition Services site involvement.


(iv) The DLA Disposition Services site will provide the name of the property requiring reimbursement when it is requested by the DoD or an FCA. The requesting activity and the generating activity must agree on the appropriate amount of funds, and how they will be transferred. When this is accomplished, the generating activity must give the DLA Disposition Services site a letter indicating what property is to be transferred and to whom. The DLA Disposition Services site will file a copy of this letter with the issue document to create an audit trail.


(v) Issues of DoD FEPP, excess, and surplus personal property, other than foreign purchased property and other property identified as reimbursable, will be at no cost to FCAs and to SASPs.


(A) Property purchased with working capital funds is not eligible for reimbursement in the transfer or donation program. GSA may direct transfers be made with reimbursement at fair market value.


(B) Public law may prohibit FCAs from obtaining certain property.


(C) FCAs, for the purpose of issue of excess property, include federal executive agencies other than the DoD; wholly owned government corporations; the Senate; the House of Representatives; the Architect of the Capitol and any activities under their direction; the municipal government of the District of Columbia; or non-federal agencies for whom GSA procures.


(vi) Foreign purchased property reimbursements will be at the acquisition value.


(vii) For special programs and activities, DLA Disposition Services sales to special account fund citations may be required in accordance with Volume 11a, Chapter 5 of DoD 7000.14-R. For DLA Disposition Services to provide timely and accurate reimbursements, the transportation account code address in DLA Transaction Services must be correct and current.


(A) In accordance with DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3, all DoD MLI and Commerce Control List (CCL) personal property, whether located within or outside the United States, will be transferred in accordance with 22 CFR parts 120 through 130 and 15 CFR parts 730 through 774.


(*1*) DoD MLI or CCL personal property will not be transferred to any foreign person or entity without DoS or DOC approval, authorization, license, license exception, exemption, or other authorization for the transfer.


(*2*) Such property will not be transferred to prohibited or sanctioned entities identified by the Departments of State, Commerce, and Treasury. A consolidated list of prohibited entities by these Departments may be found at *http://export.gov/ecr/eg_main_023148.asp*.


(*3*) Property will not be transferred to persons or entities from countries proscribed from trade under regulations maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. The agency (*e.g.,* GSA or USAF CAP Program Manager) approving the transaction must determine recipient eligibility prior to issuing the requisition to DLA Disposition Services.


(*4*) If the agency approving the requisition cannot determine that a U.S. person or entity is involved with the property transaction, the recipient must obtain and provide the appropriate license or approval to the agency approving the transaction.


(*5*) Approving agencies must be involved in any subsequent re-transfer requests by the recipient. The recipient must request the agency's permission prior to taking any disposition action. If the approving agency authorizes the potential transfer, the recipient must then comply with 22 CFR parts 120 through 130, also known as the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), or 15 CFR parts 730 through 780, also known as the Export Administration Regulations (EAR), as appropriate.


(B) For USML and CCL property, DLA Disposition Services sites will require recipients to sign a statement acknowledging their responsibility to comply with U.S. export laws and regarding regulations. The statement must be signed prior to the release of the property according to the DEMIL procedures in DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3. If property is destined for export, the recipient must get appropriate export authorizations from the DoS or DOC in accordance with DoD Instruction 2030.08.


(C) DLA Disposition Services sites may issue DEMIL-required property to approved special programs or GSA eligibility-approved FCAs without DEMIL being accomplished.


(*1*) Prior to release from DoD control, DLA Disposition Services sites must obtain a written agreement (see Appendixes 1 and 2 of this section) from the requesting special program or FCA.


(*2*) This agreement acknowledges that the recipient will DEMIL the USML property in accordance with DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3, when the property is no longer needed.


(*3*) The agreement further states that if the property is to be re-transferred, the recipient must obtain approval from its program manager (approving agency) and in coordination with the DoD DEMIL program manager prior to further disposition or before releasing the USML property outside their control. The representative of the recipient is required to sign the DEMIL agreement before release of any USML property.


(*4*) If the recipient requests DLA Disposition Services to perform final disposition, an MOA must be executed or in place with DLA Disposition Services for such services.


(*5*) The DLA Disposition Services site will provide a completed copy of the certification to the GSA and retain a copy with the issue documentation.


(D) DLA Disposition Services sites may transfer CCL (DEMIL Code Q) and non-DEMIL-required USML (DEMIL Code B) property that may have import and export controls to approved special programs or FCAs. Prior to release of such CCL and non-DEMIL-required USML property, the requesting special program or FCA must provide written notification to the DLA Disposition Services site (see Appendixes 3 and 4 of this section). This notification confirms recipient's understanding that export or import of the CCL or non-DEMIL-required USML property is regulated by the USG and in many cases cannot be transferred (exported, imported, sold, etc.) to a foreign person, entity or foreign country without valid USG license or other authorization.


(viii) GSA reviews and approves each order, each in its respective screening cycle (transfer or donation).


(7) *Shipment or pick-up elections by customers*—(i) *Criteria for non-RCP property.* (A) DLA Disposition Services will make arrangements for shipment of non-RCP property from Military Department orders unless notified by the DoD Component of the intent to physically pick up the property. DLA Disposition Services has been authorized to use ground services for the movement of reutilization property. The DLA Disposition Services Transportation Office will notify DLA Disposition Services sites of the authorized carrier.


(B) The DoD Component and special programs have 14 calendar days (15 days from the date on the order) to remove the non-RCP property ordered during the DoD screening cycles.


(C) Transfer (FCA) and donee (State agency) customers are always required to make their own pickup and shipment arrangements for non-RCP property orders and have 21 calendar days to remove non-RCP property ordered during the GSAXcess® screening cycle.


(D) Standard transportation or preferred pick up of the property requested by DoD customers who are allocated property by GSA apply.


(*1*) If DoD transfers customers order from the GSAXcess®, they also have 21 days to remove the non-RCP property.


(*2*) Customers required to pick up or arrange direct pickup must do so within the allotted standard removal time period unless it is extended by the DLA Disposition Services site chief. An example of justification for extended removal time would be as a result of a natural disaster (flood, snow, etc.). DLA Disposition Services site personnel may refuse MILSTRIPs or walk-in removals for customers who fail to pick up their property within the removal period and request cancellation of the order.


(ii) *Criteria for RCP property.* (A) DLA Disposition Services will arrange for shipment of RCP property from Military Department and special program orders.


(B) FCAs will designate the method of transportation for RCP property ordered using one of the following options:


(*1*) The FCA arrange with carriers of their choice to remove the property from a designated staging area at the depot; or


(*2*) The FCAs requests the DLA Disposition Services RCP Office to use an approved carrier under the DoD blanket purchase agreement awarded carrier for Domestic Express Small Package Service under the GSA Multiple Award Schedule for shipments of 150 pounds or less at *http://private.amc.af.mil/a4/domexpress/spsindex.html*. Use of this option for the smaller shipments requires a one-time notification to DLA Disposition Services of the preferred carrier and account number in the format.


(C) FCAs must arrange with the carriers of their choice for shipments in excess of 150 pounds.


(D) Donee (State agency) customers are always required to make their own pickup or shipment arrangements for RCP property orders from designated staging areas.


(8) *Packing, crating, and handling.* See § 273.7.


(9) *Shipment and removals (transportation).*—(i) *DoD and designated DoD-supported customers.* (A) Prudence in transportation services benefits the Military Departments, Defense Agencies, MARS, CAP, National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Space Shuttle Support), National Guard Units, Reserve Units, DoD contractor when approved by the CO, Senior ROTC, and MWRA/Services when ordered through the Military Department accountable officer and DLA Disposition Services.


(B) In cases where the cost of the transportation exceeds the acquisition value of the property, DLA Disposition Services sites will evaluate the commodity and its actual value; make a judgment as to its true condition and the priority of the order.


(*1*) The DLA Disposition Services site will contact the customer and provide the property's estimated value and transportation cost to ship the property.


(*2*) If a lower cost transportation mode is available, meets the requirements of the order, and the customer and DLA Disposition Services site agree, the DLA Disposition Services site will arrange for the alternate shipment mode. If it would not be cost effective to ship the property as requested, the customer will be asked to cancel the order.


(*3*) If the customer reconfirms the need for the property, the following certification information will be provided to a DLA Disposition Services site along with the customer reconfirmation statement found in Appendix 5 of this section. DoD activities must prepare, sign, and submit a justification statement for property where the transportation costs exceed 50 percent of the acquisition value of the property. The justification statement will be signed by the Property Book Officer or designated representative and will state:


(*i*) The purpose for which the item is to be used and whether the item is mission-essential to the operation of the requestor's activity.


(*ii*) Any additional information deemed necessary to show criticality of the requisition. The statement should be included with the DD Form 1348. Failure to provide a statement may result in the requisition being canceled.


(C) If the customer determines the shipment is not needed, the customer will initiate cancellation action according to the procedures in DLM 4000.25-1.


(D) The shipper will finance parcel post shipments between DoD agencies without reimbursement.


(ii) *Other customers (excluding transfer and donation customers).* (A) LEAs are responsible for removing or making arrangements for shipments.


(B) MWRAs not ordering property through a military accountable supply officer, DoD museums, academic institutions, and non-profit organizations for educational purposes, Senior ROTC units and FCAs must pay for transportation costs and must provide a fund citation prior to shipment or pick up of the property.


(C) Only one carrier is authorized per agency, and once the agency has designated a carrier, 30 days notice is required to change a carrier.


(D) FMS customers are responsible for most transportation costs associated with the movement of ordered property.


(*1*) The DLA Disposition Services FMS Office will identify exceptions to this rule. Transportation of sensitive and other critical FMS shipments will be coordinated between the DLA Disposition Services FMS Office, the purchasing country, and other DoD agencies, as required. For these shipments, the DLA Disposition Services FMS Office will provide separate instructions and fund citations.


(*2*) Transportation arrangements will be made by the DLA Disposition Services site or by the supporting transportation office.


(E) HAP orders are shipped by DLA Disposition Services by surface to the central point using the most cost-effective mode (and must remain within the assigned theater). At no time will HAP property be shipped by air unless directed by DLA Disposition Services.


(10) *Shipment or denial notifications.* (i) DLA Disposition Services sites will use the guidance in DLM 4000.25-1 to prepare materiel release confirmations in response to MROs received from DLA Disposition Services.


(ii) When shipments are complete, DLA Disposition Services sites will furnish a copy of the shipping document to the customer. This document confirms shipment. The customer will notify the DLA Disposition Services site if the property is not received within a reasonable period of time. FCAs will only be provided a copy of the SF 122, with annotation of the transportation data, when arrangements for DLA Disposition Services sites to ship the property have been made in advance.


(iii) DLA Disposition Services sites will:


(A) Advise the customer if the property requested is no longer available or of acceptable condition.


(B) Document non-availability by a materiel release denial prepared in accordance with DLM 4000.25-1, if item(s) for an MRO are not available.


(C) Issue a letter for all other non-availability notifications, with a copy to GSA if they approved the order. The letter will contain the following data at a minimum:


(*1*) NSN.


(*2*) Order number.


(*3*) Quantity not available.


(11) *Customer removal of ordered property*—(i) *Identification requirements.* When a customer (DoD election to pick up property ordered from the DLA Disposition Services site or an FCA or donee) makes removal arrangements, the individuals removing the property must be properly identified. Coordinate with DLA Disposition Services prior to arrival to complete and transmit documents for identification.


(A) Upon arrival at the DLA Disposition Services site, the individuals will identify themselves, sign a DLA Disposition Services visitor and vehicle register and indicate on the register the DoDAAC represented (for DoD activities) or AAC represented (for non-DoD activities), and the purpose of the visit.


(B) Visitor and vehicle registers will be readily accessible (see paragraph (c) of this section).


(ii) *Documentation requirements.* (A) Customers will:


(*1*) Present an approved and authenticated DD Form 1348-1A, SF 122, or 123 “Transfer Order Surplus Personal Property,” as appropriate, for specific property. The accountable officer or authorized individual(s) listed in the previously provided authentication letter must sign the DD Form 1348-1A, SF 122, or SF 123.


(*2*) Provide designated carrier or removal agents with a copy of DD Form 1348-1A or SFs 122 or 123, as appropriate, indicating removal authority.


(*i*) DoD customers must have a hard copy of the electronically transmitted letter of authorization prior to removal, and an email response from DLA Disposition Services with verification of personnel authorized to remove property.


(*ii*) Transfer and donation customers must provide a completed letter of authorization to remove property to the DLA Disposition Services site prior to removal for verification purposes.


(B) DLA Disposition Services sites will:


(*1*) Ensure the visitor and vehicle register for each direct issue includes:


(*i*) Name of the individual receiving the property.


(*ii*) DoDAAC or AAC or physical location address.


(*iii*) Activity of the individual receiving the property.


(*2*) Ensure each customer is issued a badge when signing in.


(*3*) Ensure that DD Form 1348-1A or SF 122 or 123 is complete according to MILSTRIP and disposal requirements and is signed by the applicable accountable officer or authorized representative.


(*4*) For DoD walk-in customers, ensure a current letter is on file at the DLA Disposition Services site identifying the accountable officer and authorized individual(s) signing and approving the order.


(*5*) Fill the order.


(*6*) Provide any appropriate disclaimers or certifications of usage or disposal to the customer for signature prior to releasing the property.


(*7*) Furnish a copy of the completed shipping document to the respective accountable officer (record positions 30-35 of DD Form 1348-1A).


(*8*) If being removed by anyone other than the customer, verify that the carrier has valid documentation (a copy of DD Form 1348-1A or SFs 122 or 123, as appropriate) indicating removal authority. Arrange for completion of any disclaimers or certifications of usage or disposal with the customer, prior to releasing the property to the carrier.


(*9*) In case of doubt as to the validity of pickup representatives, DLA Disposition Services sites should contact the accountable officer who prepared the order for DoD activities, or DLA Disposition Services for activities authorized to order as DoD special programs, or the GSA regional office for other FCAs or donees.





