# ยง 721.3000   Dicarboxylic acid monoester.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The following chemical substance referred to by its premanufacture notice number and its generic chemical name is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section: dicarboxylic acid monoester, P-83-255.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) Any manufacture in the United States for commercial purposes.


(ii) Failure to require the use of gloves determined to be impervious to the substance, and/or failure to require the use of clothing to prevent dermal contact for any person involved in any processing or use operation where dermal contact may occur. (Gloves may be determined to be impervious to the substance either by testing the gloves under the conditions of use or by relying on the manufacturer's specifications.)


(iii) Distribution in commerce by any person, including importers, processors, and distributors, without affixing to each container of any formulation containing the substance a label that includes, in letters no smaller than 10 point type, the following statements:


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* In addition to the requirements of ยง 721.17, importers and processors of the chemical substance identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section must maintain the following records for five years from their creation:


(i) The names of persons required to wear protective clothing.


(ii) The name and address of each person to whom the substance is sold or transferred and the date of such sale or transfer.


(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [49 FR 43064, Oct. 26, 1984. Redesignated at 53 FR 2845, Feb. 2, 1988. Further redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




