# § 205.301   Product composition.

(a) *Products sold, labeled, or represented as “100 percent organic.”* A raw or processed agricultural product sold, labeled, or represented as “100 percent organic” must contain (by weight or fluid volume, excluding water and salt) 100 percent organically produced ingredients. If labeled as organically produced, such product must be labeled pursuant to § 205.303. 


(b) *Products sold, labeled, or represented as “organic.”* A raw or processed agricultural product sold, labeled, or represented as “organic” must contain (by weight or fluid volume, excluding water and salt) not less than 95 percent organically produced raw or processed agricultural products. Any remaining product ingredients must be organically produced, unless not commercially available in organic form, or must be nonagricultural substances or nonorganically produced agricultural products produced consistent with the National List in subpart G of this part. If labeled as organically produced, such product must be labeled pursuant to § 205.303. 


(c) *Products sold, labeled, or represented as “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s)).”* Multiingredient agricultural product sold, labeled, or represented as “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s))” must contain (by weight or fluid volume, excluding water and salt) at least 70 percent organically produced ingredients which are produced and handled pursuant to requirements in subpart C of this part. No ingredients may be produced using prohibited practices specified in paragraphs (f)(1), (2), and (3) of § 205.301. Nonorganic ingredients may be produced without regard to paragraphs (f)(4), (5), (6), and (7) of § 205.301. If labeled as containing organically produced ingredients or food groups, such product must be labeled pursuant to § 205.304. 


(d) *Products with less than 70 percent organically produced ingredients.* The organic ingredients in multiingredient agricultural product containing less than 70 percent organically produced ingredients (by weight or fluid volume, excluding water and salt) must be produced and handled pursuant to requirements in subpart C of this part. The nonorganic ingredients may be produced and handled without regard to the requirements of this part. Multiingredient agricultural product containing less than 70 percent organically produced ingredients may represent the organic nature of the product only as provided in § 205.305. 


(e) *Livestock feed.* (1) A raw or processed livestock feed product sold, labeled, or represented as “100 percent organic” must contain (by weight or fluid volume, excluding water and salt) not less than 100 percent organically produced raw or processed agricultural product. 


(2) A raw or processed livestock feed product sold, labeled, or represented as “organic” must be produced in conformance with § 205.237. 


(f) All products labeled as “100 percent organic” or “organic” and all ingredients identified as “organic” in the ingredient statement of any product must not: 


(1) Be produced using excluded methods, pursuant to § 205.105(e);


(2) Be processed using ionizing radiation, pursuant to § 205.105(f);


(3) Be produced using sewage sludge, pursuant to § 205.105(g);


(4) Be processed using processing aids not approved on the National List of Allowed and Prohibited Substances in subpart G of this part: Except, That, products labeled as “100 percent organic,” if processed, must be processed using organically produced processing aids; 


(5) Contain sulfites, nitrates, or nitrites added during the production or handling process, Except, that, wine containing added sulfites may be labeled “made with organic grapes”; 


(6) Be produced using nonorganic ingredients when organic ingredients are available; or 


(7) Include organic and nonorganic forms of the same ingredient. 



---

[N] [65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 80 FR 6429, Feb. 5, 2015; 88 FR 3621, Jan. 19, 2023]




