# ยง 1212.101   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part, the following definitions shall apply in addition to definitions contained in the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552a):


(a) The term *individual* means a living person who is either a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.


(b) The term *maintain* includes maintain, collect, use or disseminate.


(c) The term *record* means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual including, but not limited to, education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history, and that contains a name, or the identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as a finger or voice print or a photograph.


(d) The term *system of records* means a group of any records from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol or other identifying particular assigned to the individual.


(e) The term *system manager* means the NASA official who is responsible for a system of records as designated in the system notice of that system of records published in the _Federal Register._ When a system of records includes portions located at more than one NASA Center, the term *system manager* includes any subsystem manager designated in the system notice as being responsible for that portion of the system of records located at the respective Center.


(f) The term *systems notice* means, with respect to a system of records the publication of information in the _Federal Register_ upon establishment or revision of the existence and character of the system of records. The notice shall include that information as required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4).


(g) The term *routine use* means, with respect to the disclosure of a record, the use of the record for a purpose which is compatible with the purpose for which it was collected.


(h) The term *NASA employee* or *NASA official,* particularly for the purpose of ยง 1212.203(g) relates to the disclosure of a record to those who have a need for the record in the performance of their official duties, includes employees of a NASA contractor which operates or maintains a NASA system of records for or on behalf of NASA.



---

[N] [57 FR 4928, Feb. 11, 1992, as amended at 77 FR 60621, Oct. 4, 2012]




