# ยง 505.3   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply:


*Eligible project* means the project of a qualifying hospital that is designed to improve the health care infrastructure of the hospital, including construction, renovation, or other capital improvements.


*Entity* is an entity described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from tax under section 501(a) of the code. An entity must also have at least one existing memorandum of understanding or affiliation agreement with a hospital located in the State in which the entity is located and retains clinical outpatient treatment for cancer on site as well as laboratory research, education, and outreach for cancer in the same facility.


*Outreach program*s mean formal cancer programs for teaching, diagnostic screening, therapy or treatment, prevention, or interventions to enhance the health and knowledge of their designated population(s). 


*Qualifying hospital* means a hospital as defined at section 1861(e) of the Act (42 U.S,C. 1395x(e)) or an entity (as defined in this section) that is engaged in research in the causes, prevention, and treatment of cancer; and is either designated as a cancer center for the National Cancer Institute; or designated by the State legislature as the official cancer institute of the State before December 8, 2003.


*Unique research resources* means resources that are used for the purpose of discovering or testing options related to the causes, prevention, and treatment of cancer.



---

[N] [70 FR 57374, Sept. 30, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 48143, Aug. 18, 2006]




