# ยง 1132.1   Protest against collective ratemaking actions.

(a) *Content.* The protested collective ratemaking action sought to be suspended, whether or not contained in a tariff filed with the Board, should be identified by making reference to: The name of the publishing carrier or collective ratemaking organization; the identification of the tariff, if applicable, or the identification of the collective ratemaking action publication if it is not contained in a tariff filed with the Board; the specific items or particular provisions protested; and the effective date of the tariff or other collective ratemaking action publication. Reference should also be made to the tariff or collective ratemaking action, and the specific provisions proposed to be superseded. The protest should state the grounds in support thereof, and indicate in what respect the protested collective ratemaking action is considered to be unlawful. Such protests will be considered as addressed to the discretion of the Board. Should a protestant desire to proceed further against a collective ratemaking action which is not suspended, or which has been suspended and the suspension vacated, a separate later formal complaint or petition should be filed.


(b) *When filed.* Protests against, and requests for suspension of, collective ratemaking actions will not be considered unless made in writing and filed with the Board at Washington, DC. If the protestant desires action by the Board before the effective date of the collective action, protests and requests for suspension shall reach the Board at least 12 days (except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section) before such effective date. If the protested collective ratemaking action is already in effect, or if the protestant does not desire action before its effective date, protests and requests for suspension can be filed at any time.


(c) *Copies; service.* Every protest or reply filed under this section should be directed to the attention of the Chief, Section of Administration, Office of Proceedings, Surface Transportation Board. One copy of each protest or reply filed under this section simultaneously must be served upon the publishing carrier or collective ratemaking organization, and upon other persons known by protestant to be interested.


(d) *Reply to protest.* A reply to a protest filed at least 12 days before the effective date of proposed collective action provisions must reach the Board not later than the fourth working day prior to the scheduled effective date of the protested provisions unless otherwise provided. 



---

[N] [62 FR 50885, Sept. 29, 1997, as amended at 74 FR 52908, Oct. 15, 2009; 84 FR 12944, Apr. 3, 2019]




