# ยง 52.2304   Visibility protection.

(a) *Reasonably Attributable Visibility Impairment.* The requirements of section 169A of the Clean Air Act are not met because the plan does not include fully approvable measures for meeting the requirements of 40 CFR 51.305 for protection of visibility in mandatory Class I Federal areas.


(b) [Reserved]


(c) *Regional Haze.* The requirements of section 169A of the Clean Air Act are not met because the regional haze plan submitted by Texas on March 31, 2009, does not include fully approvable measures for meeting the requirements of 40 CFR 51.308(d)(3) and 51.308(e) with respect to emissions of NO_X_ and SO_2_ from electric generating units. EPA has given limited disapproval to the plan provisions addressing these requirements.


(d) Portions of SIPs addressing noninterference with measures required to protect visibility in any other state are disapproved for the 1997 PM_2.5_, 2006 PM_2.5_, 1997 ozone, 2008 ozone, 2010 NO_2_, 2010 SO_2_, 2012 PM_2.5_, and 2015 ozone NAAQS.


(e) The following portions of the Texas regional haze SIP submitted March 19, 2009 are disapproved: The reasonable progress four-factor analysis, reasonable progress goals and the calculation of the emission reductions needed to achieve the uniform rates of progress for the Guadalupe Mountains and Big Bend; calculation of natural visibility conditions; calculation of the number of deciviews by which baseline conditions exceed natural visibility conditions; long-term strategy consultations with Oklahoma; Texas securing its share of reductions necessary to achieve the reasonable progress goals at Big Bend, the Guadalupe Mountains, and the Wichita Mountains; technical basis for its long-term strategy and emission limitations and schedules for compliance to achieve the reasonable progress goals for Big Bend, the Guadalupe Mountains and Wichita Mountains.


(f) *Measures addressing disapproval associated with NO*_X_*and SO*_2_. (1) The deficiencies associated with NO_X_ identified in EPA's limited disapproval of the regional haze plan submitted by Texas on March 31, 2009, and EPA's disapprovals in paragraph (d) of this section, are satisfied by ยง 52.2283(d).


(2) The deficiencies associated with SO_2_ identified in EPA's limited disapproval of the regional haze plan submitted by Texas on March 31, 2009, and EPA's disapprovals in paragraph (d of this section), are satisfied by ยง 52.2312.



---

[N] [50 FR 28553, July 12, 1985, as amended at 52 FR 45137, Nov. 24, 1987; 54 FR 7770, Feb. 23, 1989; 77 FR 33658, June 7, 2012; 81 FR 352, Jan. 5, 2016; 82 FR 3129, Jan. 10, 2017; 82 FR 48363, Oct. 17, 2017; 86 FR 16533, Mar. 30, 2021]




