# ยง 501.102   Use of replicas, reproductions, and embossing seals within the agency.

(a) Replicas and reproductions of the seal of the Federal Maritime Commission may be used only for:


(1) Display in or adjacent to:


(i) Commission facilities, in Commission auditoriums, presentation rooms, hearing rooms, lobbies, and public document rooms.


(ii) Non-Commission facilities in connection with events and displays sponsored by the Commission, or public appearances of a Commissioner or other senior officials designated by the Secretary.


(iii) Offices of Commissioners and senior Commission officials designated by the Secretary.


(2) Official distinguishing flags of the Federal Maritime Commission adopted by the Commission that incorporate the seal.


(3) Official awards, certificates, medals, and plaques.


(4) Motion picture film and other audiovisual media prepared by, or for the Commission with the agency's approval, and attributed thereto.


(5) Official prestige publications which represent the achievements or mission of the Commission.


(6) Stationary, programs, certificates, diplomas, business and calling cards, or signs and invitations of an official nature prepared by, or on behalf of the Commission with the agency's approval.


(7) Official Commission identification cards and security credentials.


(8) Official publications or graphics issued by and attributed to the Commission, or joint statements of the Commission with one or more Federal agencies, State or local governments, Tribal governments, or foreign governments.


(9) Official Commission exhibit displays.


(10) Protocol gifts handed out by a Commissioner or other senior Commission officials designated by the Secretary.


(11) On athletic clothing or equipment with permission of the Commission for official or informational purposes.


(12) Use of the seal within the agency for any purpose other than as prescribed in this section is prohibited, except that the Secretary of Commission may authorize, on a case-by-case basis, use for purposes other than those prescribed when the Secretary, in consultation with the General Counsel, deems such use to be appropriate.


(b) Embossing seals may be used only on:


(1) Commission legal documents, including interagency or intergovernmental agreements, agreements with States, foreign patent applications, and similar documents.


(2) For other such purposes as determined by the General Counsel of the Federal Maritime Commission.






