# § 725.250   Procedural requirements for the TERA.

General requirements for all submissions under this part are contained in subparts A through C of this part. In addition, the following requirements apply to TERAs submitted under this subpart:


(a) *When to submit the TERA.* Each person who is eligible to submit a TERA under this subpart must submit the TERA at least 60 calendar days before the person intends to initiate the proposed research and development activity.


(b) *Contents of the TERA.* Each person who submits a TERA under this subpart must provide the information and test data described in §§ 725.255 and 725.260. In addition, the submitter must supply sufficient information to enable EPA to evaluate the effects of all activities for which approval is requested.


(c) A person may submit a TERA for one or more microorganisms and one or more research and development activities, including a research program.


(d) EPA will either approve the TERA, with or without conditions, or disapprove it under procedures established in this subpart.


(e) The manufacturer, importer, or processor who receives a TERA approval must comply with all terms of the approval, as well as conditions described in the TERA, and remains liable for compliance with all terms and conditions, regardless of who conducts the research and development activity. Any person conducting the research and development activity approved under the TERA must comply with all terms of the TERA approval, as well as the conditions described in the TERA. 


(f) *Recordkeeping.* Persons submitting a TERA must comply with the recordkeeping requirements of § 725.65. In addition, the following requirements apply to TERAs: 


(1) Each person submitting a TERA under this part must retain documentation of information contained in the TERA for a period of 3 years from the date that the results of the study are submitted to the Agency.


(2) Summaries of all data, conclusions, and reports resulting from the conduct of the research and development activity under the TERA must be submitted to the EPA address identified in § 725.25(c) within 1 year of the termination of the activity. 




