# § 1421.107   Warehouse receipts.

(a) Warehouse receipts for MALs tendered to CCC as specified in § 1421.3 may either be paper or electronic. All receipts, whether paper or electronic, must meet all the applicable provisions of this section and this part, and CCC program document requirements. EWRs must be issued by a provider approved by CCC.


(b) Warehouse receipts must be issued in the name of the eligible producer or CCC. If issued in the name of the eligible producer, the receipt must be properly endorsed on its reverse side certifying that the crop is free of encumbrances in order for title to vest in the holder. Receipts must be issued by an authorized warehouse and must represent a commodity that is deemed to be stored commingled. The receipts must be negotiable and must represent a commodity that is the same quantity and quality as the eligible commodity actually in storage in the warehouse of the original deposit. 


(c) If the receipt is issued for a commodity that is owned by the warehouse operator either solely, jointly, or in common with others, the fact of such ownership is to be stated on the receipt. In States where the pledge of warehouse receipts issued by a warehouse operator on the warehouse operator's commodity is invalid, the warehouse operator may offer the commodity to CCC for a MAL if such warehouse is licensed under the U.S. Warehouse Act.


(d) Each warehouse receipt or accompanying supplemental certificate representing a commodity stored in an authorized warehouse must indicate that the commodity is insured. CCC shall not be responsible for the cost of such insurance. 


(e) A separate warehouse receipt must be submitted for each grade and class of any commodity tendered to CCC and, for rice, such receipt must also state the milling yield of the rice, and for wool, such receipts must also state the yield and micron of the wool. 


(f) With respect to peanuts, a warehouse receipt must be submitted exhibiting grade, type, and segregation for peanuts tendered to CCC. 


(g)(1) Each warehouse receipt, or a supplemental certificate (in duplicate) that properly identifies the warehouse receipt, must be issued by an authorized warehouse as specified in § 1421.103(c)(1), as applicable, and must indicate: 


(i) The name and location of the storing warehouse; 


(ii) The warehouse code assigned by licensing authority; 


(iii) The warehouse receipt number; 


(iv) The date the receipt was issued; 


(v) The type of commodity; 


(vi) The date the commodity was deposited or received; 


(vii) The date to which storage has been paid or the storage start date; 


(viii) Whether the commodity was received by rail, truck or barge; 


(ix) The amount per bushel, pound, or hundredweight of prepaid in or out charges; 


(x) The signature of the warehouse operator or the authorized agent; and 


(xi) For warehouses operating under a merged warehouse code agreement (KC-385), the location and county to which the producer delivered the commodity. 


(2) In addition to the information specified in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, additional commodity specific requirements will be determined by CCC and be available at State and county offices and the Kansas City Commodity Office. 


(h) If a warehouse receipt indicates that the commodity tendered for MAL grades “infested” or “contains excess moisture,” or both, the receipt must be accompanied by a supplemental certificate in order for the commodity to be eligible for a MAL. The grade, grading factors, and quantity to be delivered must be shown on the certificate as follows:


(1) When the warehouse receipt shows “infested” and the commodity has been conditioned to correct the infested condition, the supplemental certificate must show the same grade without the “infested” designation and the same grading factors and quantity as shown on the warehouse receipt. 


(2)(i) When the warehouse receipt shows that the commodity contained excess moisture and the commodity has been dried or blended, the supplemental certificate must show the grade, grading factors, and quantity after drying or blending of the commodity. Such entries must reflect a drying or blending shrinkage as provided in paragraph (h)(2)(iv) of this section. 


(ii) When a supplemental certificate is issued under paragraphs (g)(1) and (h)(2)(i) of this section, the grade, grading factors, and the quantity shown on such certificate will supersede the entries for such items on the warehouse receipt.


(iii) If the commodity has been dried or blended to reduce the moisture content, the quantity specified on the warehouse receipt or the supplemental certificate represents the quantity after drying or blending. 


(iv) For commodities dried or blended under paragraph (h)(2)(iii) of this section, such quantity must reflect a minimum shrinkage in the receiving weight excluding dockage: 


(A) For the following commodities, 1.3 times the percentage difference between the moisture content of the commodity received and the following percentages for the specified commodity: 


(*1*) Barley: 14.5 percent; 


(*2*) Corn: 15.5 percent; 


(*3*) Grain sorghum: 14.0 percent; 


(*4*) Oats: 14.0 percent; 


(*5*) Rice: 14.0 percent; 


(*6*) Soybeans: 14.0 percent; 


(*7*) Wheat: 13.5 percent; and 


(*8*) Peanuts: 10.0 percent. 


(B) For the following commodities, 1.1 times the percentage difference between the moisture content of the commodity received and the following percentages for the specified commodity: 


(*1*) Canola: 10.0 percent; 


(*2*) Flaxseed: 9.0 percent; 


(*3*) Mustard Seed: 10.0 percent; 


(*4*) Rapeseed: 10.0 percent; 


(*5*) Safflower Seed: 10.0 percent; 


(*6*) Sunflower Seed: 10.0 percent; 


(*7*) Crambe: 10.0 percent; and 


(*8*) Sesame Seed: 10.0 percent. 


(i)(1) If, under paragraph (g) of this section, a supplemental certificate is issued in connection with a warehouse receipt, such certificate must state that no lien for processing will be asserted by the warehouse operator against CCC or any subsequent holder of such receipt. 


(2) Warehouse receipts and the commodities represented by such receipts may be subject to a lien for warehouse charges. For all commodities except peanuts, the producer who pledged such a receipt as collateral for a MAL under this part pays to CCC all costs incurred by CCC as result of the existence of the lien. In no event is a warehouse operator entitled to satisfy such a lien by sale of the commodities when CCC is the holder of such receipt.


(j) Warehouse receipts representing commodities that have been shipped by rail or by barge, must be accompanied by supplemental certificates completed under paragraph (g) of this section. 


(k) If the warehouse issues an EWR for the commodity, the producer must notify the EWR provider to make CCC the holder of the EWR and to secure an affirmation verifying that CCC has been made the holder of the EWR.



---

[N] [67 FR 63511, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 15654, Apr. 7, 2009; 75 FR 19193, Apr. 14, 2010; 80 FR 124, 130, Jan. 2, 2015]




