# § 33.2   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*ALJ* means an Administrative Law Judge in the Department appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105 or detailed to the Department pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3344.


*Benefits,* as used in the definition of “statement,” means anything of value, including but no limited to any advantage, preference, privilege, license, permit, favorable decision, ruling, status, or loan guarantee.


*Claim* means any request, demand, or submission:


(a) Made to the Department for property, services, or money (including money representing grants, cooperative agreements, loans, insurance, or benefits);


(b) Made to a recipient of property, services, or money from the Department or to a party to a contract or agreement with the Department:


(1) For property or services if the United States:


(i) Provided the property or services; 


(ii) Provided any portion of the funds for the purchase of the property or services; or


(iii) Will reimburse the recipient or party for the purchase of the property or services; or


(2) For the payment of money (including money representing grants, cooperative agreements, loans, insurance, or benefits) if the United States:


(i) Provided any portion of the money requested or demanded;


(ii) Will reimburse the recipient or party for any portion of the money paid on that request or demand; or


(iii) Will guarantee or reinsure any portion of a loan made by the party; or


(c) Made to the Department which has the effect of decreasing an obligation to pay or account for property, services, or money.


*Complaint* means the administrative complaint served by the reviewing official on the defendant under § 33.7.


*Defendant* means any person alleged in a complaint under § 33.7 to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment under § 33.3.


*Department* means the United States Department of Education.


*Department head* means the Secretary or Under Secretary of the United States Department of Education.


*Government* means the United States Government.


*Individual* means a natural person.


*Initial decision* means the written decision of the ALJ required by § 33.10 or § 33.37, and includes a revised initial decision issued following a remand or a motion for reconsideration.


*Investigating official* means the Inspector General of the Department or an officer or employee of the Office of the Inspector General designated by the Inspector General and serving in a position for which the rate of basic pay is not less than the minimum rate of basic pay for grade GS-16 under the General Schedule.


*Knows or has reason to know,* means that a person, with respect to a claim or statement:


(a) Has actual knowledge that the claim or statement is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;


(b) Acts in deliberate ignorance of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement; or


(c) Acts in reckless disregard of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement.


*Makes* includes the terms presents, submits, and causes to be made, presented, or submitted.


*Person* means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or private organization.


*Representative* means:


(a) An attorney who is a member in good standing of the bar of any State, territory, possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; or


(b) Any other person designated by a party in writing, provided that the designation includes a certification that the party understands the nature and consequences of an administrative enforcement action under this part, and that he or she has the right to representation by counsel or to self-representation.


*Reviewing official* means the General Counsel of the Department or his or her designee who is:


(a) Not subject to supervision by, or required to report to, the investigating official; and


(b) Not employed in the organizational unit of the Department in which the investigating official is employed; and


(c) Serving in a position for which the rate of basic pay is not less than the minimum rate of basic pay for grade GS-16 under the General Schedule.


*Statement* means any representation, certification, affirmation, document, record, or accounting or bookkeeping entry made:


(a) With respect to a claim or to obtain the approval or payment of a claim (including relating to eligibility to make a claim); or


(b) With respect to (including relating to eligibility for):


(1) A contract with, or a bid or proposal for a contract with; or


(2) A grant, cooperative agreement, loan, or benefit from;


