# § 2.39   Director, Office of Tribal Relations.

(a) *Delegations.* The following delegations of authority are made by the Secretary to the Director, Office of Tribal Relations.


(1) Serve as the Department's primary point of contact for tribal issues.


(2) Advise the Secretary on policies related to Indian tribes.


(3) Serve as the official with principal responsibility for the implementation of Executive Order 13175, “Consultation and Coordination with Indian Tribal Governments,” including the provision of Department-wide guidance and oversight regarding tribal consultation, coordination, and collaboration.


(4) Coordinate the Department's programs involving assistance to American Indians and Alaska Natives.


(5) Enter into cooperative agreements to improve the coordination and effectiveness of Federal programs, services, and actions affecting rural areas (7 U.S.C. 2204b(b)(4)); and to provide outreach and technical assistance to socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers and veteran farmers and ranchers (7 U.S.C. 2279(c)(4)).


(6) Consult with the Administrator, Foreign Agricultural Service on the implementation of section 3312 of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (7 U.S.C. 5608) to support greater inclusion of Tribal agricultural food products in Federal trade activities.


(7) In coordination with the Under Secretary for Rural Development, provide technical assistance to improve access by Tribal entities to rural development programs funded by the Department of Agriculture through available cooperative agreement authorities (7 U.S.C. 2671).


(8) Oversee the Tribal Advisory Committee (7 U.S.C. 6921).




(9) Administer the USDA/1994 Land Grant Institutions (Tribal Colleges) Programs.


(10) Enter into cooperative agreements with associations of institutions of higher education for the purpose of participation in internship programs for graduate and undergraduate students in support of the 1994 Tribal College Program and carry out the related authorities and responsibilities outlined in 7 U.S.C. 2279c.


(b) [Reserved]



---

[N] [87 FR 44269, July 26, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 70580, Oct. 12, 2023; 89 FR 80074, Oct. 2, 2024]




