# ยง 1115.21   Compulsory remedial actions.

As appropriate, the Commission will attempt to protect the public from hazards presented by consumer products by seeking one or more of the following:


(a) *Adjudicated Commission Order.* An adjudicated Commission Order under section 15 (c) or (d) of the CPSA may be issued after parties and interested persons have had an opportunity for a hearing in accordance with section 554 of title 5, United States Code, and with section 15(f) of the CPSA. This hearing is governed by the Commission's Rules of Practice for Adjudicative Proceedings (16 CFR part 1025).


(b) *Injunctive relief.* The Commission may apply to a U.S. district court in accordance with the provisions of section 15(g) of the CPSA for a preliminary injunction to restrain the distribution in commerce of a product it has reason to believe presents a substantial product hazard. The Commission may seek enforcement of its orders issued under sections 15 (c) and (d) of the CPSA in accordance with provisions of sections 22 and 27(b)(7) of the CPSA (15 U.S.C. 2071 and 2076(b)(7)).


(c) *Judicial determination of imminent hazard.* The Commission may file a complaint in a U.S. district court in accordance with the provisions of section 12 of the CPSA (15 U.S.C. 2061).


(d) *Orders of the Secretary of the Treasury.* The Commission staff may inform the Secretary of the Treasury that a consumer product offered for importation into the customs territory of the United States fails to comply with an applicable consumer product safety rule and/or has a product defect which constitutes a substantial product hazard. The Commission may request the Secretary of the Treasury under section 17 of the CPSA (15 U.S.C. 2066) to refuse admission to any such consumer product.




