# § 48.4102-1   Inspection of records by State or local tax officers.

(a) *Inspection of records maintained by taxpayer.* The records that a taxpayer is required to keep with respect to the taxes imposed by section 4081 or 4091 must be open to inspection by any officer of any State or political subdivision thereof, or of the District of Columbia, who is charged with the enforcement or collection of any tax on taxable fuel or aviation fuel.


(b) *Inspection of records maintained by Internal Revenue Service*—(1) *In general.* The records maintained by the Internal Revenue Service with respect to the taxes imposed by sections 4081 and 4091 shall, upon the request of an officer (described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section) of a State or political subdivision thereof, or of the District of Columbia, be open to inspection by the officer for purposes of collection or enforcement.


(2) *Requests for inspection.* Requests for inspection under this paragraph shall be made in writing, signed by any officer of a State, political subdivision, or the District of Columbia, who is charged with the enforcement or collection of any tax on taxable fuel or aviation fuel imposed by the State, political subdivision, or the District of Columbia, and shall be addressed to the director of the Internal Revenue Service Center having custody of the records which it is desired to inspect. Each such request shall state (i) the kind of records (whether pertaining to taxable fuel or aviation fuel) it is desired to inspect, (ii) the period or periods covered by the records involved, (iii) the name of the officer by whom the inspection is to be made, (iv) the name of the representative of the officer who has been designated to make the inspection, (v) by specific reference, the law of the State, political subdivision, or the District of Columbia imposing the tax which the officer is charged with collecting or enforcing, and the law under which the officer is so charged, and (vi) the purpose for which the inspection is to be made. The service center director will notify the person making the request upon approval or disapproval of the request.


(3) *Time and place for inspection.* In any case where a request for inspection under this paragraph (b) is approved, the inspection shall be made in the office of the service center director having custody of the records which it is desired to inspect, but only in the presence of an internal revenue officer or employee and during the regular hours of business of the office.



---

[N] [T.D. 7908, 48 FR 40222, Sept. 6, 1983, as amended by T.D. 8659, 61 FR 10462, Mar. 14, 1996]




