# § 646.22   How does the Secretary evaluate prior experience?

(a) In the case of an application described in § 646.20(a)(2)(i), the Secretary—


(1) Evaluates the applicant's performance under its expiring Student Support Services project;


(2) Uses the approved project objectives for the applicant's expiring Student Support Services grant and the information the applicant submitted in its annual performance reports (APRs) to determine the number of prior PE points; and


(3) May adjust a calculated PE score or decide not to award PE points if other information such as audit reports, site visit reports, and project evaluation reports indicates the APR data used to calculate PE points are incorrect.


(b) The Secretary does not award PE points for a given year to an applicant that does not serve at least 90 percent of the approved number of participants. For purposes of this section, the approved number of participants is the total number of participants the project would serve as agreed upon by the grantee and the Secretary.


(c) The Secretary does not award PE points for the criterion specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section (Number of participants) if the applicant did not serve at least the approved number of participants.


(d) The Secretary uses the approved number of participants, or the actual number of participants served in a given year if greater than the approved number of participants, as the denominator for calculating whether the applicant has met its approved objectives related to paragraph (e)(2) of this section (Postsecondary retention) and paragraph (e)(3) of this section (Good academic standing).


(e) For purposes of the PE evaluation of grants awarded after January 1, 2009, the Secretary evaluates the applicant's PE on the basis of the following outcome criteria:


(1) (3 points) *Number of participants.* Whether the applicant provided services to no less than the approved number of participants.


(2) (4 points) *Postsecondary retention.* Whether the applicant met or exceeded its objective regarding the participants served during the project year who continue to be enrolled in a program of postsecondary education from one academic year to the beginning of the next academic year or who complete a program of postsecondary education at the grantee institution during the academic year or transfer from a two-year institution to a four-year institution during the academic year.


(3) (4 points) *Good academic standing.* Whether the applicant met or exceeded its objective regarding the participants served during the project year who are in good academic standing at the grantee institution.


(4) (4 points) *Degree completion (for an applicant institution of higher education offering primarily a baccalaureate or higher degree).* Whether the applicant met or exceeded its objective regarding the current and prior participants receiving a baccalaureate degree at the grantee institution within the specified number of years.


(5) *Degree completion and transfer (for an applicant institution of higher education offering primarily an associate degree).* Whether the applicant met or exceeded its objectives regarding the current and prior participants at the grantee institution who—


(i) (2 points) Complete a degree or certificate within the number of years specified in the approved objective; and


(ii) (2 points) Transfer within the number of years specified in the approved objective to institutions of higher education that offer baccalaureate degrees.



---

[N] [75 FR 65792, Oct. 26, 2010]




