# § 1752.3   Definitions.

The terms and conditions provided in this section are applicable to this part only. All financial terms not defined in this section shall have the commonly-accepted meaning under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.


*Acceleration.* A written notice informing the Borrower that the total unpaid principal and interest is due and payable immediately.


*Administrator.* Administrator of the Rural Utilities Service.


*Agency.* The Rural Utilities Service, an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture's Rural Development mission area.


*Assumption of debt.* Agreement by one party to legally bind itself to repay the debt of the RUS borrower.


*Borrower.* Recipient of loan funding under a RUS Telecommunications Program.


*Broadband system.* The telecommunications or broadband network financed with RUS loan and/or grant funding or maintained by the Borrower and contained as part of the collateral to the loan.


*Cancellation.* Final discharge of debt with a release of liability.


*Charge-off.* Write-off of a debt and termination of servicing activity without release of liability. A charge-off is a decision by the Agency to remove debt from Agency receivables, however, future payments may be received.


*Collateral.* Means the assets, equipment and/or revenues pledged as security for the loan as defined in the loan documents.


*Disposition of facility.* Relinquishing control of a facility to another entity.


*Loan Documents.* All associated loan agreements, loan and security agreements, loan/grant agreements, mortgages, and promissory notes, as applicable.


*Liquidation.* Satisfaction of a debt through the sale of a Borrower's assets and cancellation of liabilities.


*Parity lien.* A lien having an equal lien position to another lender's lien on a Borrower's asset.


*Rural Utilities Service (RUS).* An agency of the United States Department of Agriculture's Rural Development mission area.


*Settlement.* Compromise, adjustment, cancellation, or charge-off of a debt owed to the Agency. The term “settlement” is used to refer to any of these actions, whether individually or collectively.


*Unliquidated obligations.* Obligated loan funds that have not been advanced.


*Voluntary conveyance.* A method by which title to security is voluntarily transferred to the Federal Government.






