# § 512.466   Termination.

(a) *Termination of IOTA participant from the IOTA Model by CMS.* CMS may immediately or with advance notice terminate an IOTA participant from participation in the model if CMS does any of the following:


(1) Determines that it no longer has the funds to support the IOTA Model.


(2) Modifies or terminates the IOTA Model in accordance with section 1115A(b)(3)(B) of the Act.


(3) Determines that the IOTA participant has done any of the following:


(i) Failed to comply with any model requirements or any other Medicare program requirement, rule, or regulation.


(ii) Failed to comply with a monitoring or auditing plan or both.


(iii) Failed to submit, obtain approval for, implement or fully comply with the terms of a corrective action plan.


(iv) Failed to demonstrate improved performance following any remedial action.


(v) Taken any action that threatens the health or safety of a Medicare beneficiary or other patient.


(vi) Submitted false data or made false representations, warranties, or certifications in connection with any aspect of the IOTA Model.


(vii) Undergoes a change in control.


(viii) Assigns or purports to assign any of the rights or obligations under the IOTA Model, voluntarily or involuntarily, whether by merger, consolidation, dissolution, operation of law, or any other manner, without the written consent of CMS.


(ix) Poses significant program integrity risks, including but not limited to—


(A) Is subject to sanctions or other actions of an accrediting organization or a Federal, State, or local government agency; or


(B) Is subject to investigation or action by HHS (including OIG and CMS) or the Department of Justice due to an allegation of fraud or significant misconduct, including being subject to the filing of a complaint, filing of a criminal charge, being subject to an indictment, being named as a defendant in a False Claims Act qui tam matter in which the government has intervened, or similar action.


(b) *Termination of Model participation by IOTA participant.* The IOTA participant may not terminate their participation in the IOTA Model.


(c) *Financial settlement upon termination.* If CMS terminates the IOTA participant's participation in the IOTA Model, CMS calculates the final performance score and any upside risk payment or downside risk payment, if applicable, for the entire PY in which the IOTA participant's participation in the model was terminated.


(1) If CMS terminates the IOTA participant's participation in the IOTA Model, CMS determines the IOTA participant's effective date of termination.


(2) If CMS terminates the IOTA participant for any reasons listed under § 512.466:


(i) CMS does not make any payments of upside risk payment for the PY in which the IOTA participant was terminated; and


(ii) The IOTA participant will remain liable for payment of any downside risk payment up to and including the PY in which termination becomes effective.


(d) *Termination of the IOTA Model by CMS.* (1) The general provisions for the Innovation Center model termination by CMS listed under § 512.165 apply to the IOTA Model.


(i) CMS may terminate the IOTA Model for reasons including, but not limited to, those set forth in § 512.165(a).


(ii) If CMS terminates the IOTA Model, CMS provides written notice to IOTA participants specifying the grounds for model termination and the effective date of such termination.


(2) In accordance with section 1115A(d)(2) of the Act and § 512.170(e), termination of the IOTA Model under section 1115A(b)(3)(B) of the Act is not subject to administrative or judicial review.


(3) If CMS terminates the IOTA Model, the financial settlement terms described in paragraph (c) of this section apply.






