# § 122.23   Certain aircraft arriving from areas south of the U.S.

(a) *Application.* (1) This section sets forth particular requirements for certain aircraft arriving from south of the United States. This section is applicable to all aircraft except:


(i) Public aircraft;


(ii) Those aircraft operated on a regularly published schedule, pursuant to a certificate of public convenience and necessity or foreign aircraft permit issued by the Department of Transportation, authorizing interstate, overseas air transportation; and


(iii) Those aircraft with a seating capacity of more than 30 passenges or a maximum payload capacity of more than 7,500 pounds which are engaged in air transportation for compensation or hire on demand. (See 49 U.S.C. App. 1372 and 14 CFR part 298).


(2) The term “place” as used in this section means anywhere outside of the inner boundary of the Atlantic (Coastal) Air Defense Identification Zone (ADIZ) south of 30 degrees north latitude, anywhere outside of the inner boundary of the Gulf of Mexico (Coastal) ADIZ, or anywhere outside of the inner boundary of the Pacific (Coastal) ADIZ south of 33 degrees north latitude.


(b) *Notice of arrival.* All aircraft to which this section applies arriving in the Continental United States via the U.S./Mexican border or the Pacific Coast from a foreign place in the Western Hemisphere south of 33 degrees north latitude, or from the Gulf of Mexico and Atlantic Coasts from a place in the Western Hemisphere south of 30 degrees north latitude, from any place in Mexico, from the U.S. Virgin Islands, or [notwithstanding the definition of “United States” in § 122.1(l)] from Puerto Rico, must furnish a notice of intended arrival. Private aircraft must transmit an advance notice of arrival as set forth in § 122.22 of this part. Other than private aircraft, all aircraft to which this section applies must communicate to CBP notice of arrival at least one hour before crossing the U.S. coastline. Such notice must be communicated to CBP by telephone, radio, other method or the Federal Aviation Administration in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Contents of notice.* The advance notice of arrival shall include the following:


(1) Aircraft registration number;


(2) Name of aircraft commander;


(3) Number of U.S. citizen passengers;


(4) Number of alien passengers;


(5) Place of last departure;


(6) Estimated time and location of crossing U.S. border/coastline;


(7) Estimated time of arrival;


(8) Name of intended U.S. airport of first landing, as listed in § 122.24, unless an exemption has been granted under § 122.25, or the aircraft has not landed in foreign territory or is arriving directly from Puerto Rico, or the aircraft was inspected by Customs officers in the U.S. Virgin Islands.



---

[N] [T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by CBP Dec. 08-43, 73 FR 68312, Nov. 18, 2008]




