# ยง 311.4   Procedures for announcing meetings.

(a) *Scope.* Except to the extent that such announcements are exempt from disclosure under ยง 311.3(b), announcements relating to open meetings, and meetings closed under the regular closing procedures of ยง 311.5, will be made in the manner set forth in this section. 


(b) *Time and content of announcement.* The Corporation will make public announcement at least seven days before the meeting of the time, place, and subject matter of the meeting, whether it is to be open or closed to the public, and the name and telephone number of the official designated by the Corporation to respond to requests for information about the meeting. This announcement will be made unless a majority of the Board determines by a recorded vote that Corporation business requires that a meeting be called on lesser notice. In such cases, the Corporation will make public announcement of the time, place, and subject matter of the meeting, and whether it is open or closed to the public, at the earliest practicable time, which may be later than the commencement of the meeting. 


(c) *Changing time or place of meeting.* The time or place of a meeting may be changed following the public announcement required by paragraph (b) of this section only if the Corporation publicly announces the change at the earliest practicable time, which may be later than the commencement of the meeting. 


(d) *Changing subject matter or nature of meeting.* The subject matter of a meeting, or the determination to open or close a meeting or a portion of a meeting, may be changed following the public announcement only if: 


(1) A majority of the entire Board determines by recorded vote that agency business so requires and that no earlier announcement of the change was possible; and, 


(2) The Corporation publicly announces the change and the vote of each member upon such change at the earliest practicable time, which may be later than the commencement of the meeting.


(e) *Publication of announcements in Federal Register.* Immediately following each public announcement under this section, such announcement will be submitted for publication in the _Federal Register_ by the Executive Secretary. 



---

[N] [42 FR 14675, Mar. 16, 1977, as amended at 67 FR 71071, Nov. 29, 2002]




