# § 1739.15   Completed application.

Applications should be prepared in conformance with the provisions of this part and all applicable regulations, including 2 CFR part 200, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400. Applicants must also conform to the requirements of the FOA posted on *www.Grants.gov*, the RUS Community Connect Grant program application guide, and the Community Connect Grant program website. Applicants should refer to the FOA and the application guide for submission directions. The application guide contains instructions and forms, as well as other important information needed to prepare an application and is updated on an annual basis. Paper copies of the application guide can be requested by contacting the Loan Origination and Approval Division at 202-720-0800. Completed applications must include the following documentation, studies, reports and information, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agency:


(a) *An Application for Federal Assistance.* A completed Standard Form 424;


(b) *An executive summary of the Project.* A general project overview that addresses the following categories:


(1) A description of why the Project is needed;


(2) A description of the applicant;


(3) An explanation of the total Project costs;


(4) A general overview of the broadband telecommunications system to be developed, including the types of equipment, technologies, and facilities to be used;


(5) Documentation describing the procedures used to determine the unavailability of existing Broadband Service; and


(6) A list of the Critical Community Facilities that will take service from the Applicant at the Broadband Grant Speed, and evidence that any remaining Critical Community Facility located in the PFSA has rejected the offer;


(c) *Scoring Criteria Documentation.* A narrative, with documentation where necessary, addressing the elements listed in the scoring criteria of § 1739.17;


(d) *System design.* A system design of the Project that is economical and practical, including a detailed description of the facilities to be funded, technical specifications, data rates, and costs. In addition, a network diagram detailing the proposed system must be provided. The system design must also comply with the environmental review requirements in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970 and as supplemented by 7 CFR 1738.108;


(e) *Service Area Demographics.* The following information about the PFSA:


(1) A map, submitted electronically through RUS' web-based Mapping Tool, which identifies the Rural Area boundaries of the PFSA; and


(2) The total population, number of households, and number of businesses located within the PFSA;


(f) *Scope of work.* A description of the scope of work, which at a minimum must include:


(1) The specific activities and services to be performed under the Project;


(2) Who will carry out the activities and services;


(3) A construction build-out schedule and project milestones, showing the time-frames for accomplishing the Project objectives and activities on a quarterly basis; and


(4) A budget for all capital and administrative expenditures reflecting the line item costs for Eligible Grant Purposes and other sources of funds necessary to complete the Project;


(g) *Community-oriented connectivity plan.* A community-oriented connectivity plan consisting of the following:


(1) A listing of all participating Critical Community Facilities to be connected. The applicant must also provide documentation that it has consulted with the appropriate agent of every Critical Community Facility in the PFSA, and must provide statements from each one as to its willingness to participate, or not to participate, in the proposed Project;


(2) A description of the services the applicant will make available to local residents and businesses; and


(3) A list of any other telecommunications provider (including interexchange carriers, cable television operators, enhanced service providers, wireless service providers and providers of satellite services) that is participating in the delivery of services and a description of the consultations and the anticipated role of such provider in the Project;


(h) *Financial information and sustainability.* A narrative description demonstrating the sustainability of the Project: from the commencement of construction to completion, and beyond the grant period; the sufficiency of resources; how and when the matching requirement is met; and the expertise necessary to undertake and complete the Project. The following financial information is required:


(1) If the applicant is an existing company, it must provide complete copies of audited financial statements, if available, for the two fiscal years preceding the application submission. If audited statements are unavailable, the applicant must submit unaudited financial statements for those fiscal years. Applications from start-up entities must, at minimum, provide an opening balance sheet dated within 30 days of the application submission date; and


(2) Annual financial projections in the form of balance sheets, income statements, and cash flow statements for a forecast period of five years, which prove the sustainability of the Project for that period and beyond. These projections must be inclusive of the applicant's existing operations and the Project, and must be supported by a detailed narrative that fully explains the methodology and assumptions used to develop the projections, including details on the number of subscribers projected to take the applicant's services. Applicants submitting multiple applications for funding must demonstrate that each Project is feasible and sustainable on its own, funds are available to cover each of the matching requirements and that all Projects for which funding is being requested are financially feasible as a whole;


(i) *Statement of experience.* A statement of experience which includes information on the owners' and principal employees' relevant work experience that would ensure the success of the Project. The applicant must also provide a written narrative demonstrating its capability and experience, if any, in operating a broadband telecommunications system;


(j) *Legal authority.* Evidence of the applicant's legal authority and existence, and its ability to enter into a grant agreement with the RUS, and to perform the activities proposed under the grant application;


(k) *Additional funding.* Evidence that funding agreements have been attained, if the Project requires funding commitment(s) from sources other than the grant. An applicant submitting multiple applications for funding must demonstrate its financial wherewithal to support all applications, if accepted, and that it can simultaneously complete and operate all of the Projects under consideration. Additionally, commitments for outside funding must be explicit that they will be available if all applications are not funded;


(l) *Public notice.* The Agency will publish a public notice of each application requesting assistance under this part. The application must provide a summary of the information required for such public notice. The information required can be found in 7 CFR 1738.106.


(m) *Federal compliance.* Evidence of compliance with other federal statutes and regulations including, but not limited to the following:


(1) 7 CFR part 15, subpart A—Nondiscrimination in Federally Assisted Programs of the Department of Agriculture—Effectuation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964;


(2) 2 CFR part 200, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400.


(3) 2 CFR part 417—Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension;


(4) 2 CFR part 418—New Restrictions on Lobbying;


(5) 2 CFR part 421—Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance);


(6) Certification regarding Architectural Barriers;


(7) Certification regarding Flood Hazard Precautions;


(8) Environmental review documentation prepared in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970 and as supplemented by 7 CFR 1738.108.


(9) A certification that grant funds will not be used to duplicate lines, facilities, or systems providing Broadband Service;


(10) Federal Obligation Certification on Delinquent Debt; and


(11) Assurance Regarding Felony Conviction or Tax Delinquent Status for Corporate Applicants.



---

[N] [78 FR 25791, June 3, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 76004, Dec. 19, 2014; 81 FR 11027, Mar. 2, 2016; 83 FR 45033, Sept. 5, 2018; 85 FR 14409, Mar. 12, 2020]




