# § 721.9730   Certain 1,3,5-triazine-2-amine, 4-dimethylamino-6-substituted.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 1,3,5-triazine-2-amine, 4-dimethylamino-6-substituted (PMN P-92-0343) and as 1,3,5-triazine-2,4-diamine, N2,N2-dimethyl-6-(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)- (PMN P-92-0344; CAS No. 145963-84-4) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5). 


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q). 


(iv) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85 as thus amended: It is a significant new use to dispose of the process or use stream associated with any use of the substance or with any manner or method of manufacturing associated with any use of the substance by landfill. 


(v) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4) (where N = 1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance. 


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [58 FR 32241, June 8, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 79 FR 34638, June 18, 2014]




