# ยง 164.22   Contents of document setting forth objections.

(a) *Concise statement required.* Any document containing objections to an order of the Administrator of his refusal to register, or his intent to cancel the registration, or change the classification of a pesticide, shall clearly and concisely set forth such objections and the basis for each objection, including relevant allegations of fact concerning the pesticide under consideration. The document shall indicate the registration number of the pesticide, if applicable, a copy of the currently accepted and/or proposed labeling and a list of the currently registered or proposed uses of said pesticide.


(b) *Amendments to objections byleave.* Objections may be amended at any time prior to the commencement of the public hearing by leave of the Administrative Law Judge or by written consent of all parties. The Administrative Law Judge shall freely grant such leave when justice so requires. If the Administrative Law Judge determines that additional time is necessary to permit a party to prepare for matters raised by amendments to objections, the commencement of the hearing shall be delayed for an appropriate period. This subsection shall not permit the addition, beyond the statutory deadline, of registered pesticides which are not included in the objections filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) *Amendments to objections as a matter of right.* Objections may be amended as a matter of right within 30 days, or in such time as the Administrator shall designate, after the Administrator amends his notice of intent to cancel a registration, change a classification, or his refusal to register a pesticide.




