# § 3.501   Veterans.

The effective date of discontinuance of pension or compensation to or for a veteran will be the earliest of the dates stated in this section. Where an award is reduced, the reduced rate will be payable the day following the date of discontinuance of the greater benefit.


(a) *Active service pay (38 U.S.C. 5112(b)(3); Pub. L. 87-825; § 3.700(a)).* Day preceding entrance on active duty. See § 3.654. 


(b) *Aid and attendance—(1) Section 3.552(b)(1).* Last day of calendar month following month in which veteran is hospitalized at Department of Veterans Affairs expense. 


(2) *Section 3.552(b)(2).* Last day of calendar month following month in which veteran hospitalized at United States Government expense. 


(3) *Aid and attendance for spouse.* End of month in which award action is taken if need for aid and attendance has ceased. 


(c) *Disappearance of veteran.* See § 3.656. 


(d) *Divorce or annulment (38 U.S.C. 5112(b)(2)):*

(1) Divorce or annulment prior to October 1, 1982: last day of the calendar year in which divorce or annulment occurred.


(2) Divorce or annulment on or after October 1, 1982: last day of the month in which divorce or annulment occurred, except that section 306 and old-law pension reductions or terminations will continue to be effective the last day of the calendar year in which divorce or annulment occurred.


(e) *Employability regained (38 U.S.C. 5112(b) (5), (6); Pub. L. 87-825; § 3.105)*—(1) *Pension.* Last day of month in which discontinuance is approved. 


(2) *Compensation.* Last day of month following 60 days after notice to payee. 


(f) *Employment questionnaire, failure to return.* Reduce award to the amount payable for the schedular evaluation shown in the current rating as of the day following the date of last payment. 


(g) *Evaluation reduced (38 U.S.C. 5112(b) (5), (6); Pub. L. 87-825; § 3.105)*—(1) *Pension.* Last day of month in which reduction or discontinuance is approved. 


(2) *Compensation.* Last day of month following 60 days after notice to payee. 


(h) *Examination; failure to report.* See § 3.655. 


(i) *Hospitalization*—(1) *Section 3.551(b).* Last day of the sixth calendar month following admission if veteran without dependents. 


(2) *Section 3.551(c).* (i) Last day of the second calendar month following admission to domiciliary care if veteran without spouse or child or, though married, is receiving pension at the rate provided for a veteran without dependents. (ii) Last day of the third calendar month following admission for hospital or nursing home care if veteran without spouse or child or, though married, is receiving pension at the rate provided for a veteran without dependents. (iii) Upon readmission to hospital, domiciliary, or nursing home care within 6 months of a period for which pension was reduced under § 3.551(c)(1), the last day of the month of such readmission. 


(3) *Section 3.552(b)* Upon readmission to hospital care within 6 months of a period of hospital care for which pension was affected by the provisions of § 3.552(b)(1) and (2) or § 3.552(k) and discharge or release was against medical advice or was the result of disciplinary action, the day preceding the date of such readmission. 


(4) *Section 3.551(d)* (i) Last day of the second calendar month following admission to domiciliary care if veteran without spouse or child or, though married, is receiving pension at the rate for a veteran without dependents. 


(ii) Last day of the third calendar month following admission for hospitalization or nursing home care if veteran without spouse or child or, though married, is receiving pension at the rate for a veteran without dependents. 


(iii) Upon readmission to hospital, domiciliary, or nursing home care within 6 months of a period for which pension was reduced under § 3.551(d)(1) or (2), the last day of the month of such readmission. 


(5) *Section 3.551(e)* (i) Last day of the third calendar month following admission to domiciliary or nursing home care if veteran without spouse or child or, though married, is receiving pension at the rate for a veteran without dependents. (ii) Upon readmission to domiciliary or nursing home care within 6 months of a period of domiciliary or nursing home care for which pension was reduced under § 3.551(e)(1), the last day of the month of such readmission. 


(6) *Section 3.551(h).* (i) Last day of the calendar month in which Medicaid payments begin, last day of the month following 60 days after issuance of a prereduction notice required under § 3.103(b)(2), or the earliest date on which payment may be reduced without creating an overpayment, whichever date is later; or


(ii) If the veteran willfully conceals information necessary to make the reduction, the last day of the month in which that willful concealment occurred.


(j) [Reserved]


(k) *Lump-sum readjustment pay.* See § 3.700(a)(2). 


(l) *Retirement pay (38 U.S.C. 5112(b)(3); Pub. L. 87-825; § 3.750).* Day before effective date of retirement pay. 


(m) *Temporary increase (38 U.S.C. 5112(b)(8); § 4.29 of this chapter).* Last day of month in which hospitalization or treatment terminated, whichever is earlier, where temporary increase in compensation was authorized because of hospitalization for treatment. 





---

[N] [26 FR 1596, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 27 FR 11889, Dec. 1, 1962; 29 FR 12368, Aug. 28, 1964; 29 FR 16329, Dec. 5, 1964; 35 FR 2828, Feb. 11, 1970; 37 FR 6679, Apr. 1, 1972; 38 FR 34115, Dec. 11, 1973; 41 FR 55874, Dec. 23, 1976; 44 FR 45941, Aug. 6, 1979; 48 FR 34473, July 29, 1983; 53 FR 23236, June 21, 1988; 56 FR 25045, June 3, 1991; 56 FR 65849, 65853, Dec. 19, 1991; 66 FR 48560, Sept. 21, 2001; 68 FR 34542, June 10, 2003; 83 FR 32738, July 13, 2018] 




