# § 362.2   Types and availability of service.

Upon application, in accordance with § 362.3, the following types of service may be furnished under the regulations in this part:


(a) *Inspection service.* An inspection and certification service for wholesomeness relating to the slaughter and processing of poultry and the processing of poultry products. All provisions of Part 381, Part 412, and §§ 416.1 through 416.6 of this chapter shall apply to the slaughter of poultry, and the preparation, labeling, and certification of the poultry and poultry products processed under this poultry inspection service except for the following provisions: the definitions of “Act,” “animal food manufacturer,” “Inspection Service,” “inspector,” “Inspector in Charge,” “poultry,” “poultry product,” “poultry food product,” “poultry products broker,” “renderer,” and “U.S. Refused Entry” in §§ 381.1 b), 381.3 (a), 381.6, 381.10, 381.13 through 381.17, 381.21, 381.29, 381.39 through 381.42, 381.175(a)(2) and (3), 381.179, 381.185 through 381.187, 381.192, and 381.195 through 381.225.


(b) *Export certification service.* At the request of any person intending to export any slaughtered poultry or poultry product, inspectors may make certification regarding products for human food purposes, to be exported, as meeting conditions or standards that are not imposed or are in addition to those imposed by the regulations in this chapter and the laws under which such regulations were issued.


(c) *Identification Service.* (1) Poultry or other product that is federally inspected and passed at an official establishment, or upon importation, under the Poultry Products Inspection Act, is officially marked to identify it as federally inspected and passed. In order to facilitate the division of such poultry or other product into smaller portions or its combination into larger units and still maintain its identify as product which has been federally inspected and passed and so marked, inspectors may supervise the handling and weighing of the product and mark such portions and units with the official mark of inspection when they determine that identify has been maintained.


(2) At the time service is furnished, product must be sound, wholesome, and fit for human food. The service will be available only on premises other than those of an official establishment. The sanitation of the place or area where service is furnished must comply with provisions of §§ 416.1 through 416.6 of this chapter.


(3) The mark of inspection shall be applied only under the immediate supervision of an inspector.


(4) This service does not cover further cutting and processing of products. These activities must take place at an official establishment.


(5) The registration and recordkeeping requirements enumerated in Part 381, subpart Q, of this chapter shall apply to persons requesting voluntary identification service under this paragraph (c).



---

[N] [66 FR 22905, May 7, 2001, as amended at 88 FR 2811, Jan. 18, 2023]




