# § 682.610   Administrative and fiscal requirements for schools that participated in the FFEL Program.

(a) *General.* Each school shall—


(1) Establish and maintain proper administrative and fiscal procedures and all necessary records as set forth in the regulations in this part and in 34 CFR part 668;


(2) Follow the record retention and examination provisions in this part and in 34 CFR 668.24; and


(3) Submit all reports required by this part and 34 CFR part 668 to the Secretary.


(b) *Loan record requirements.* In addition to records required by 34 CFR part 668, for each Stafford, SLS, or PLUS loan received by or on behalf of its students, a school must maintain—


(1) A copy of the loan certification or data electronically submitted to the lender, that includes the amount of the loan and the period of enrollment for which the loan was intended;


(2) The cost of attendance, estimated financial assistance, and estimated family contribution used to calculate the loan amount;


(3) For loans delivered to the school by check, the date the school endorsed each loan check, if required;


(4) The date or dates of delivery of the loan proceeds by the school to the student or to the parent borrower;


(5) For loans delivered by electronic funds transfer or master check, a copy of the borrower's required written authorization, if it was not provided in the loan application or MPN, to deliver the initial and subsequent disbursements of each FFEL Program loan; and


(6) Documentation of any MPN confirmation process or processes the school may have used.


(c) *Enrollment reporting process.* (1) Upon receipt of an enrollment report from the Secretary, a school must update all information included in the report and return the report to the Secretary—


(i) In the manner and format prescribed by the Secretary; and


(ii) Within the timeframe specified by the Secretary.


(2) Unless it expects to submit its next updated enrollment report to the Secretary within the next 60 days, a school must notify the Secretary within 30 days after the date that the school discovers that—


(i) A loan under title IV of the Act was made to or on behalf of a student who was enrolled or accepted for enrollment at the school, and the student has ceased to be enrolled on at least a half-time basis or failed to enroll on at least a half-time basis for the period for which the loan was intended; or


(ii) A student who is enrolled at the school and who received a loan under title IV of the Act has changed his or her permanent address.



---

[N] [57 FR 60323, Dec. 18, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 9119, Feb. 19, 1993; 61 FR 60493, Nov. 27, 1996; 64 FR 58965, Nov. 1, 1999; 66 FR 34764, June 29, 2001; 78 FR 65822, Nov. 1, 2013]




