# § 324.304   Temporary exclusions from total leverage exposure.

(a) *In general.* Subject to paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section, and notwithstanding any other requirement in this part, an FDIC-supervised institution, when calculating on-balance sheet assets as of each day of a reporting quarter for purposes of determining the FDIC-supervised institution's total leverage exposure under § 324.10(c), may exclude the balance sheet carrying value of the following items:


(1) U.S. Treasury securities; and


(2) Funds on deposit at a Federal Reserve Bank.


(b) *Opt-in period.* Before applying the relief provided in paragraph (a) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution must first notify the appropriate regional director of the FDIC Division of Risk Management Supervision before July 1, 2020.


(c) *Calculation of relief.* When calculating on-balance sheet assets as of each day of a reporting quarter, the relief provided in paragraph (a) of this section applies from the beginning of the reporting quarter in which the FDIC-supervised institution filed an opt-in notice through the termination date specified in paragraph (d) of this section.


(d) *Termination of exclusions.* This section shall cease to be effective after the reporting period that ends March 31, 2021.


(e) *Custody bank.* A custody bank must reduce the amount in § 324.10(c)(2)(x)(A) (to no less than zero) by any amount excluded under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(f) *Disclosure.* Notwithstanding Table 13 to § 324.173, an FDIC-supervised institution that is required to make the disclosures pursuant to § 324.173 must exclude the items excluded pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section from Table 13 to § 324.173.


(g) *FDIC approval for distributions.* During the calendar quarter beginning on July 1, 2020, and until March 31, 2021, no FDIC-supervised institution that has opted in to the relief provided under paragraph (a) of this section may make a distribution, or create an obligation to make such a distribution, without prior FDIC approval. When reviewing a request under this paragraph (g), the FDIC will consider all relevant factors, including whether the distribution would be contrary to the safety and soundness of the FDIC-supervised institution; the nature, purpose, and extent of the request; and the particular circumstances giving rise to the request.



---

[N] [85 FR 32990, June 1, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 745, Jan. 6, 2021]




