# ยง 75.43   Circumstances requiring advance notification.

(a) Each person subject to the Safeguards Agreements shall give advance written notification to the NRC regarding the international and domestic transfers specified in this section.


(b) *Exports.* Notification shall be given of any proposed shipment of nuclear material for peaceful purposes under an export license issued pursuant to part 110 of this chapter, in an amount exceeding one effective kilogram, directly or indirectly to any non-nuclear-weapon state (as referred to in Article III(2) of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, 21 U.S.T. 483). If the licensee anticipates that it will make two or more shipments for peaceful purposes, within any period of 90 days, directly or indirectly to destinations in the same non-nuclear-weapon state, notification shall be given of each shipment if the aggregate quantity of nuclear material to be transferred exceeds one effective kilogram. 
2

(c) *Imports.* (1) Notification shall be given (to the fullest extent possible on the basis of available information) with respect to nuclear material which immediately prior to export is subject to safeguards, under an agreement with the IAEA, in the country from which the material, directly or indirectly, is being exported. Such notification is only required, however, if the quantities of nuclear material are as specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(2) Notification shall be given with respect to any proposed import of nuclear material described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section in an amount exceeding one effective kilogram. If the licensee anticipates that it will receive two or more shipments of such nuclear material, within any 90-day period from points of origin in the same country, notification shall be given with respect to each shipment if the aggregate quantity of such nuclear material to be received exceeds one effective kilogram.


(d) *Domestic transfers.* Notification must be given regarding any shipments of nuclear material (other than small quantities in the form of samples containing less than 0.01 effective kilogram per sample) to a non-eligible destination. As used in this paragraph, a *non-eligible destination* means any destination in the United States other than a facility on the Eligible Facilities List.



---

[N] [45 FR 50711, July 31, 1980, as amended at 73 FR 78613, Dec. 23, 2008; 83 FR 19614, May 4, 2018]




