# § 784.23   Operation plan: Maps and plans.

Each application shall contain maps and plans as follows:


(a) The maps, plans and cross-sections shall show the underground mining activities to be conducted, the lands to be affected throughout the operation, and any change in a facility or feature to be caused by the proposed operations, if the facility or feature was shown under 30 CFR 783.24 and 783.25.


(b) The following shall be shown for the proposed permit area:


(1) Buildings, utility corridors, and facilities to be used;


(2) The area of land to be affected within the proposed permit area, according to the sequence of mining and reclamation;


(3) Each area of land for which a performance bond or other equivalent guarantee will be posted under subchapter J of this chapter;


(4) Each coal storage, cleaning and loading area;


(5) Each topsoil, spoil, coal preparation waste, underground development waste, and non-coal waste storage area;


(6) Each water diversion, collection, conveyance, treatment, storage and discharge facility to be used;


(7) Each source of waste and each waste disposal facility relating to coal processing or pollution control;


(8) Each facility to be used to protect and enhance fish and wildlife related environmental values;


(9) Each explosive storage and handling facility;


(10) Location of each sedimentation pond, permanent water impoundment, coal processing waste bank, and coal processing waste dam and embankment, in accordance with 30 CFR 784.16 and disposal areas for underground development waste and excess spoil, in accordance with 30 CFR 784.19;


(11) Each profile, at cross-sections specified by the regulatory authority, of the anticipated final surface configuration to be achieved for the affected areas;


(12) Location of each water and subsidence monitoring point;


(13) Location of each facility that will remain on the proposed permit area as a permanent feature, after the completion of underground mining activities.


(c) Except as provided in §§ 784.16(a)(2), 784.16(a)(3), 784.19, 817.71(b), 817.73(c), 817.74(c) and 817.81(c) of this chapter, cross sections, maps and plans required under paragraphs (b)(4), (5), (6), (10) and (11) of this section shall be prepared by, or under the direction of, and certified by a qualified, registered, professional engineer, a professional geologist, or in any State which authorizes land surveyors to prepare and certify such cross sections, maps and plans, a qualified, registered, professional, land surveyor, with assistance from experts in related fields such as landscape architecture.



---

[N] [44 FR 15366, Mar. 13, 1979; 44 FR 49686, Aug. 24, 1979, as amended at 45 FR 51550, Aug. 4, 1980; 48 FR 14822, Apr. 5, 1983; 50 FR 16199, Apr. 24, 1985; 56 FR 65635, Dec. 17, 1991; 73 FR 75881, Dec. 12, 2008; 79 FR 76230, Dec. 22, 2014; 81 FR 93355, Dec. 20, 2016; 82 FR 54958, Nov. 17, 2017]




