# § 34.3   General requirements.

(a) This part provides for the approval or acceptance by the Administrator or the Administrator of the EPA of testing and sampling methods, analytical techniques, and related equipment not identical to those specified in this part. Before either approves or accepts any such alternate, equivalent, or otherwise nonidentical procedures or equipment, the Administrator or the Administrator of the EPA shall consult with the other in determining whether or not the action requires rulemaking under sections 231 and 232 of the Clean Air Act, as amended, consistent with the responsibilities of the Administrator of the EPA and the Secretary of Transportation under sections 231 and 232 of the Clean Air Act.


(b) Under section 232 of the Act, the Secretary of Transportation issues regulations to ensure compliance with 40 CFR part 1031. This authority has been delegated to the Administrator of the FAA in accordance with 49 CFR 1.47.


(c) This part applies to civil airplanes that are powered by aircraft gas turbine engines of the classes specified herein and that have U.S. standard airworthiness certificates.


(d) Pursuant to the definition of “aircraft” in 40 CFR 1031.205, this regulation applies to civil airplanes that are powered by aircraft gas turbine engines of the classes specified herein and that have foreign airworthiness certificates that are equivalent to U.S. standard airworthiness certificates. This regulation applies only to those foreign civil airplanes that, if registered in the United States, would be required by applicable regulations to have a U.S. standard airworthiness certificate in order to conduct the operations intended for the airplane. Pursuant to 40 CFR 1031.5, this regulation does not apply where it would be inconsistent with an obligation assumed by the United States to a foreign country in a treaty, convention, or agreement.


(e) Reference in this regulation to 40 CFR part 1031 refers to title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations, chapter I—Environmental Protection Agency, part 1031, Control of Air Pollution from Aircraft and Aircraft Engines (40 CFR part 1031).


(f) This part contains regulations that implement compliance with certain standards contained in 40 CFR part 1031. If EPA takes any action, including the issuance of an exemption or issuance of a revised or alternate procedure, test method, or other regulation, the effect of which is to relax or delay the effective date of any provision of 40 CFR part 1031 that is made applicable to an aircraft under this part, the Administrator of FAA will grant a general administrative waiver of the more stringent requirements until this part is amended to reflect the requirements relaxed by EPA.


(g) Unless otherwise stated, all terminology and abbreviations in this part that are defined in 40 CFR part 1031 have the meaning specified in that part, and all terms in 40 CFR part 1031 that are not defined in that part but that are used in this part have the meaning given them in the Clean Air Act, Public Law 91-604, as amended.


(h) All interpretations of 40 CFR part 1031 that are promulgated by the EPA also apply to this part.


(i) If the EPA, under 40 CFR part 1031, approves or accepts any testing and sampling procedures or methods, analytical techniques, or related equipment not identical to those specified in that part, this part requires an applicant to show that such alternate, equivalent, or otherwise non-identical procedures have been complied with, and that such alternate equipment was used to show compliance, unless the applicant elects to comply with those procedures, methods, techniques, and equipment specified in 40 CFR part 1031.


(j) If the EPA, under 40 CFR 1031, prescribes special test procedures for any aircraft or aircraft engine that is not susceptible to satisfactory testing using the procedures in 40 CFR part 1031, the applicant must demonstrate to the FAA Administrator that they are in compliance with those special test procedures.


(k) Wherever 40 CFR part 1031 requires agreement, acceptance, or approval by the Administrator of the EPA, this part requires a showing that such agreement or approval has been obtained.


(l) Pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 7573, no state or political subdivision thereof may adopt or attempt to enforce any standard respecting emissions of any air pollutant from any aircraft or engine thereof unless that standard is identical to a standard made applicable to the aircraft by the terms of this part.


(m) If EPA, by regulation or exemption, relaxes a provision of 40 CFR part 1031 that is implemented in this part, no state or political subdivision thereof may adopt or attempt to enforce the terms of this part that are superseded by the relaxed requirement.


(n) If any provision of this part is rendered inapplicable to a foreign aircraft as provided in 40 CFR 1031.5 (international agreements), and paragraph (d) of this section, that provision may not be adopted or enforced against that foreign aircraft by a state or political subdivision thereof.


(o) For exhaust emissions requirements of this part that apply beginning February 1, 1974, January 1, 1976, January 1, 1978, January 1, 1984, and August 9, 1985, continued compliance with those requirements is shown for engines for which the type design has been shown to meet those requirements, if the engine is maintained in accordance with applicable maintenance requirements of 14 CFR chapter I. All methods of demonstrating compliance and all model designations previously found acceptable to the Administrator shall be deemed to continue to be an acceptable demonstration of compliance with the specific standards for which they were approved.


(p) Each applicant must allow the Administrator to make, or witness, any test necessary to determine compliance with the applicable provisions of this part.



---

[N] [Doc. No. FAA-2023-2434, Amdt. 34-7, 89 FR 31085, Apr. 24, 2024]












