# § 301-70.102   What governing policies must we establish for authorization and payment of transportation expenses?

You must establish policies and procedures governing:


(a) Who will determine what method of transportation is more advantageous to the Government;


(b) Who will approve any of the following:




(1) Use of other than coach class accommodations under § 301-10.103 of this chapter;






(2) Use of a special-reduced fare or reduced group or charter fare;




(3) Use of an extra-fare train service under § 301-10.160;






(4) Use of ship service;


(5) Use of a foreign ship;


(6) Use of a foreign air carrier;


(c) When you will:


(1) Require the use of a Government vehicle;


(2) Allow the use of a Government vehicle; and


(3) Prohibit the use of a Government vehicle;




(d) When you consider the use of a POV advantageous to the Government, such as travel to and from common carrier terminals or to the TDY location. When determining whether the use of a POV to a TDY location is the most advantageous method of transportation, you must consider the total cost of using a POV as compared to the total cost of using a rental vehicle, including rental costs, fuel, taxes, parking (at a common carrier terminal—not to exceed the cost of taxi or transportation network company fare, etc.), and any other relevant costs;






(e) Procedures for claiming POV reimbursement;


(f) Procedures for allowing the use of a special conveyance (e.g., taxis, TNCs, innovative mobility technology companies, or commercially rented vehicles), taking into account the requirements of § 301-10.450;




(g) What procedures an employee must follow when the employee travels by an indirect route or interrupts travel by a direct route; 




(h) Whether to reimburse the full amount of transportation costs and in conjunction with TDY or only the amount by which transportation costs exceed the employee's normal costs for transportation between:


(1) Office or duty point and another place of business;


(2) Places of business; or


(3) Residence and place of business other than office or duty point;






(i) Develop and issue internal guidance on what specific mission criteria justify use of other than coach class under § 301-10.103(a)(9) and the use of other than the least expensive compact car available under § 301-10.450(c). The justification criteria shall be noted on the traveler's authorization.






(j) Develop and publish internal guidance regarding what constitutes a rest period upon arrival at a temporary duty location; and




(k) Develop and publish internal guidance regarding when coach class seating upgrade fees will be authorized as advantageous to the Government and reimbursed (see § 301-10.121).









---

[N] [FTR Amdt. 70, 63 FR 15971, Apr. 1, 1998, as amended by FTR Amdt. 2005-03, 70 FR 28460, May 18, 2005; FTR Amdt. 2009-06, 74 FR 55149, Oct. 27, 2009; FTR Amdt. 2010-02, 75 FR 24436, May 5, 2010; FTR Amdt. 2010-07, 75 FR 72967, Nov. 29, 2010; FTR Amdt. 2015-03, 80 FR 27261, May 13, 2015; FTR Amdt. 2017-01, 83 FR 604, Jan. 5, 2018; FTR Case 2020-300-1, 87 FR 55706, Sept. 12, 2022; FTR Case 2022-05, 89 FR 12252, Feb. 16, 2024]






