# § 412.308   Determining and updating the Federal rate.

(a) *FY 1992 national average cost per discharge.* CMS determines the FY 1992 estimated national average cost per discharge by updating the discharge weighted national average Medicare inpatient hospital capital-related cost per discharge for FY 1989 by the estimated increase in Medicare inpatient hospital capital costs per discharge. 


(b) *Standard Federal rate.* The standard Federal rate is used to determine the Federal rate for each fiscal year in accordance with the formula specified in paragraph (c) of this section.


(1) CMS determines the standard Federal rate by adjusting the FY 1992 updated national average cost per discharge by a factor so that estimated aggregate payments based on the standard Federal rate adjusted by the payment adjustments described in § 412.312(b) equal estimated aggregate payments based solely on the national average cost per discharge.


(2) Effective FY 1994, the standard Federal rate used to determine the Federal rate each year under paragraph (c) of this section is reduced by 7.4 percent.


(3) Effective FY 1996, the standard Federal rate used to determine the Federal rate each year under paragraph (c) of this section is reduced by 0.28 percent to account for the effect of the revised policy for payment of transfers under § 412.4(d). 


(4) Effective FY 1998, the unadjusted standard Federal capital payment rate in effect on September 30, 1997, used to determine the Federal rate each year under paragraph (c) of this section is reduced by 15.68 percent. 


(5) For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 1997 through September 30, 2002, the unadjusted standard Federal capital payment rate as in effect on September 30, 1997, used to determine the Federal rate each year under paragraph (c) of this section is further reduced by 2.1 percent. 


(6) For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 2002, the 2.1 percent reduction provided for under paragraph (b)(5) of this section is eliminated from the unadjusted standard Federal rate in effect on September 30, 2002, used to determine the Federal rate each year under paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *The Federal rate.* CMS determines the Federal rate each year by adjusting the standard Federal rate by the following factors. 


(1) *Update factor.* After FY 1992, CMS updates the standard Federal rate as follows: 


(i) *FY 1993 through FY 1995.* For FY 1993 through FY 1995, the standard Federal rate is updated based on a moving two-year average of actual increases in capital-related costs per discharge for the period three and four years before the fiscal year in question, excluding the portion of the increase attributable to changes in case mix. 


(ii) *Effective FY 1996.* Effective FY 1996, the standard Federal rate is updated based on an analytical framework. The framework includes a capital input price index, which measures the annual change in the prices associated with capital-related costs during the year. CMS adjusts the capital input price index rate of change to take into account forecast errors, changes in the case mix index, the effect of changes to DRG classification and relative weights, and allowable changes in the intensity of hospital services. 


(2) *Outlier payment adjustment factor.* CMS reduces the updated standard Federal rate by an adjustment factor equal to the estimated additional payments under the Federal rate for outlier cases under subpart F of this part, determined as a proportion of total capital payments under the Federal rate.


(3) *Exceptions payment adjustment factor.* CMS reduces the updated standard Federal rate by an adjustment factor equal to the estimated additional payments for exceptions under § 412.348 determined as a proportion of total payments under the hospital-specific rate and Federal rate. 


(4) *Budget neutrality adjustment factor.* (i) For FY 1992 through FY 1995, CMS adjusts the updated standard Federal rate by a budget neutrality factor determined under § 412.352. 


(ii) CMS makes an adjustment to the Federal rate so that estimated aggregate payments for the fiscal year based on the Federal rate after any changes resulting from the annual reclassification and recalibration of the DRG weight in accordance with § 412.60(e) and in the geographic adjustment factors described in § 412.312(b)(2) equal estimated aggregate payments based on the Federal rate that would have been made without such changes. 



---

[N] [56 FR 43449, Aug. 30, 1991; 57 FR 3016, Jan. 27, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 46339, Sept. 1, 1993; 59 FR 45399, Sept. 1, 1994; 60 FR 45849, Sept. 1, 1995; 62 FR 46031, Aug. 29, 1997; 67 FR 50113, Aug. 1, 2002]




