# § 363.166   What happens when I convert a savings bond that is not registered in my name as owner, either coowner, or owner with beneficiary (including a bond registered in the name of a minor)?

We will presume that a savings bond registered in the name of someone other than the TreasuryDirect ® account owner (including a bond registered in the name of a minor) was purchased by the account owner as a gift for the registered owner. We will not permit an entity to convert a savings bond that is not registered in the name of the entity.


(a) *Unmatured savings bond*—(1) *General.* An unmatured savings bond registered in the name of someone other than the account owner will be converted to a book-entry bond, released as a gift bond to the account owner's conversion linked account, and held until delivered to the TreasuryDirect account (or minor linked account, if the registered owner is a minor) of the registered owner.


(2) *Delivery of unmatured gift bond to registered owner.* The TreasuryDirect account owner may deliver the converted gift bond to the TreasuryDirect account (or minor linked account, if the registered owner is a minor) of the registered owner, or, if the bond is registered in the coowner form of registration, to the account of either coowner. A bond registered in coowner or owner with beneficiary form of registration will retain the coowner or beneficiary form of registration upon delivery.


(b) *Savings bond that has reached final maturity*—(1) *General.* A savings bond that has reached final maturity and is registered in the name of someone other than the account owner will be converted to a book-entry bond, released as a gift bond into the account owner's conversion linked account, and automatically redeemed. We will hold the redemption proceeds in the name of the registered owner of the definitive bond until the proceeds are delivered to the TreasuryDirect account (or minor linked account, if the registered owner is a minor) of the registered owner.


(2) *Delivery of bond proceeds to registered owner.* If the gift bond has reached final maturity and has been automatically redeemed, then the Treasury Direct account owner may direct that the held redemption proceeds be delivered to the Treasury Direct account of the registered owner (or minor linked account, if the registered owner is a minor), where we will use the proceeds to purchase a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness in the name of the registered owner. If the bond is registered in the coowner form of registration, the account owner may direct that the held redemption proceeds be delivered to the account of either coowner, where we will use the proceeds to purchase a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness in the name of the coowner to whose account the bond was delivered.



---

[N] [70 FR 14943, Mar. 23, 2005, as amended at 70 FR 57347, Sept. 30, 2005; 74 FR 19420, Apr. 29, 2009]




