# ยง 60.252   Standards for thermal dryers.

(a) On and after the date on which the performance test is conducted or required to be completed under ยง 60.8, whichever date comes first, an owner or operator of a thermal dryer constructed, reconstructed, or modified on or before April 28, 2008, subject to the provisions of this subpart must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section.


(1) The owner or operator shall not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the thermal dryer any gases which contain PM in excess of 0.070 g/dscm (0.031 grains per dry standard cubic feet (gr/dscf)); and


(2) The owner or operator shall not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the thermal dryer any gases which exhibit 20 percent opacity or greater.


(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, on and after the date on which the performance test is conducted or required to be completed under ยง 60.8, whichever date comes first, an owner or operator of a thermal dryer constructed, reconstructed, or modified after April 28, 2008, subject to the provisions of this subpart must meet the applicable standards for PM and opacity, as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. In addition, and except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, on and after the date on which the performance test is conducted or required to be completed under ยง 60.8, whichever date comes first, an owner or operator of a thermal dryer constructed, reconstructed, or modified after May 29, 2009, subject to the provisions of this subpart must also meet the applicable standards for sulfur dioxide (SO_2_), and combined nitrogen oxides (NO_X_) and carbon monoxide (CO) as specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section.


(1) The owner or operator must meet the requirements for PM emissions in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section, as applicable to the affected facility.


(i) For each thermal dryer constructed or reconstructed after April 28, 2008, the owner or operator must meet the requirements of (b)(1)(i)(A) and (b)(1)(i)(B).


(A) The owner or operator must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the thermal dryer any gases that contain PM in excess of 0.023 g/dscm (0.010 grains per dry standard cubic feet (gr/dscf)); and


(B) The owner or operator must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the thermal dryer any gases that exhibit 10 percent opacity or greater.


(ii) For each thermal dryer modified after April 28, 2008, the owner or operator must meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(A) and (b)(1)(ii)(B) of this section.


(A) The owner or operator must not cause to be discharged to the atmosphere from the affected facility any gases which contain PM in excess of 0.070 g/dscm (0.031 gr/dscf); and


(B) The owner or operator must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the affected facility any gases which exhibit 20 percent opacity or greater.


(2) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, for each thermal dryer constructed, reconstructed, or modified after May 27, 2009, the owner or operator must meet the requirements for SO_2_ emissions in either paragraph (b)(2)(i) or (b)(2)(ii) of this section.


(i) The owner or operator must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the affected facility any gases that contain SO_2_ in excess of 85 ng/J (0.20 lb/MMBtu) heat input; or


(ii) The owner or operator must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the affected facility any gases that either contain SO_2_ in excess of 520 ng/J (1.20 lb/MMBtu) heat input or contain SO_2_ in excess of 10 percent of the potential combustion concentration (*i.e.,* the facility must achieve at least a 90 percent reduction of the potential combustion concentration and may not exceed a maximum emissions rate of 1.2 lb/MMBtu (520 ng/J)).


(iii) Thermal dryers that receive all of their thermal input from a source other than coal or residual oil, that receive all of their thermal input from a source subject to an SO_2_ limit under another subpart of this part, or that use waste heat or residual from the combustion of coal or residual oil as their only thermal input are not subject to the SO_2_ limits of this section.


(3) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator must meet the requirements for combined NO_X_ and CO emissions in paragraph (b)(3)(i) or (b)(3)(ii) of this section, as applicable to the affected facility.


(i) For each thermal dryer constructed after May 27, 2009, the owner or operator must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the affected facility any gases which contain a combined concentration of NO_X_ and CO in excess of 280 ng/J (0.65 lb/MMBtu) heat input.


(ii) For each thermal dryer reconstructed or modified after May 27, 2009, the owner or operator must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the affected facility any gases which contain combined concentration of NO_X_ and CO in excess of 430 ng/J (1.0 lb/MMBtu) heat input.


(iii) Thermal dryers that receive all of their thermal input from a source other than coal or residual oil, that receive all of their thermal input from a source subject to a NO_X_ limit and/or CO limit under another subpart of this part, or that use waste heat or residual from the combustion of coal or residual oil as their only thermal input, are not subject to the combined NO_X_ and CO limits of this section.


(c) Thermal dryers receiving all of their thermal input from an affected facility covered under another 40 CFR Part 60 subpart must meet the applicable requirements in that subpart but are not subject to the requirements in this subpart.




