# § 655.1312   Audits.

(a) *Discretion.* The Department will conduct audits of temporary labor certification applications for which certification has been granted. The applications selected for audit will be chosen within the sole discretion of the Department.


(b) *Audit letter.* Where an application is selected for audit, the CO will issue an audit letter to the employer/applicant. The audit letter will:


(1) State the documentation that must be submitted by the employer;


(2) Specify a date, no fewer than 14 days and no more than 30 days from the date of the audit letter, by which the required documentation must be received by the CO; and


(3) Advise that failure to comply with the audit process may result in a finding by the CO to:


(i) Revoke the labor certification as provided in § 655.117 and/or


(ii) Debar the employer from future filings of H-2A temporary labor certification applications as provided in § 655.118.


(c) *Supplemental information request.* During the course of the audit examination, the CO may request supplemental information and/or documentation from the employer in order to complete the audit.


(d) *Audit violations.* If, as a result of the audit, the CO determines the employer failed to produce required documentation, or determines that the employer violated the standards set forth in § 655.117(a) with respect to the application, the employer's labor certification may be revoked under § 655.117 and/or the employer may be referred for debarment under § 655.118. The CO may determine to provide the audit findings and underlying documentation to DHS or another appropriate enforcement agency. The CO shall refer any findings that an employer discouraged an eligible U.S. worker from applying, or failed to hire, discharged, or otherwise discriminated against an eligible U.S. worker, to the Department of Justice, Civil Rights Division, Office of Special Counsel for Unfair Immigration Related Employment Practices.




