# ยง 400.161   Definitions.

In addition to the terms defined in the Standard Reinsurance Agreement, Livestock Price Reinsurance Agreement and any other Reinsurance Agreement, the following terms as used in this rule are defined to mean:


*Annual statutory financial statement* means the annual financial statement of a Company prepared in accordance with Statutory Accounting Principles and submitted to the state insurance department if required by any state in which the Company is licensed.


*Company* means the insurance company that currently has or is applying to FCIC for a Reinsurance Agreement.


*FCIC* means the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation as authorized in section 503 of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1503).


*MPUL* means the maximum possible underwriting loss that a Company can sustain on policies it intends to reinsure after adjusting for the effect of any Reinsurance Agreement and any private reinsurance, as evaluated by FCIC.


*Plan of Operations* means the documentation and information submitted by a Company to apply for or maintain a Reinsurance Agreement as required by FCIC.


*Quarterly Statutory Financial Statement* means the quarterly financial statement of a Company prepared in accordance with Statutory Accounting Principles and submitted to the state insurance department if required by any state in which the Company is licensed.


*Reinsurance Agreement* means the Standard Reinsurance Agreement, Livestock Price Reinsurance Agreement or any other Reinsurance Agreement between the Company and FCIC.




