# § 61.04   Address.

(a) All requests, reports, applications, submittals, and other communications to the Administrator pursuant to this part shall be submitted in duplicate to the appropriate Regional Office of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to the attention of the Director of the Division indicated in the following table.


(b) Section 112(d) of the Act directs the Administrator to delegate to each State, when appropriate, the authority to implement and enforce national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants for stationary sources located in such State. If the authority to implement and enforce a standard under this part has been delegated to a State, all information required to be submitted to EPA under paragraph (a) of this section shall also be submitted to the appropriate State agency (provided, that each specific delegation may exempt sources from a certain Federal or State reporting requirement). The Administrator may permit all or some of the information to be submitted to the appropriate State agency only, instead of to EPA and the State agency. If acceptable to both the Administrator and the owner or operator of a source, notifications and reports may be submitted on electronic media. The appropriate mailing address for those States whose delegation request has been approved is as follows:


(c) The following tables list, by Region, the specific Part 61, National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants that have been delegated to state and local agencies.




(1)(i) Inactive waste disposal sites not operated after July 9, 1981 within the state of New Hampshire must comply with the New Hampshire Regulations at Env-Sw 2100 (incorporated by reference, see § 61.18).


(ii) The remainder of the sources subject to the asbestos provisions in subpart M of this part, except for those listed under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, must comply with the New Hampshire Code of Administrative Rules: Chapter Env-A 1800, Asbestos Management and Control, effective as of May 5, 2017 as incorporated by reference, see § 61.18.


(2)-(5) [Reserved]


(6) The following lists the specific Part 61 standards that have been delegated unchanged to the air pollution control agencies in Region 6.


(i) [Reserved]


(ii) *Louisiana.* The Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality (LDEQ) has been delegated the following part 61 standards promulgated by EPA, as amended in the _Federal Register_ through July 1, 2013. The (X) symbol is used to indicate each subpart that has been delegated.


(iii) *New Mexico.* The New Mexico Environment Department (NMED) has been delegated the following part 61 standards promulgated by the EPA, as amended in the _Federal Register_ through January 15, 2017. The (X) symbol is used to indicate each subpart that has been delegated. The delegations are subject to all of the conditions and limitations set forth in Federal law and regulations.


(iv) *Oklahoma.* The Oklahoma Department of Environmental Quality (ODED) has been delegated the following part 61 standards promulgated by EPA, as amended in the _Federal Register_ through June 30, 2019. The (X) symbol is used to indicate each subpart that has been delegated.


(v) [Reserved] 


(vi) *Albuquerque-Bernalillo County, New Mexico.* The Albuquerque-Bernalillo County Air Quality Control Board (ABCAQCB) has been delegated the following part 61 standards promulgated by EPA, as amended through January 23, 2017. The (X) symbol is used to indicate each subpart that has been delegated.


(7) [Reserved]


(8) The most current delegation status table for National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Region VIII can be found online at *http://www.epa.gov/region8/air-program.* The following is a table indicating the delegation status of National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants in Region VIII. The recodification and delegation for North Dakota's August 6, 2018 submittal is effective as of April 30, 2019, as detailed in EPA's delegation letter of February 26, 2019.


(9) The following tables list the specific Part 61 standards that have been delegated unchanged to the air pollution control agencies in Region IX. The (X) symbol is used to indicate each standard that has been delegated. The following provisions of this subpart are not delegated: §§ 61.04(b), 61.04(c), 61.05(c), 61.11, 61.12(d), 61.13(h)(1)(ii), 61.14(d), 61.14(g)(1)(ii), and 61.16. 


(i) *Arizona.* The following table identifies delegations for Arizona:




(ii) *California.* The following tables identify delegations for California:


(A) Delegations for Amador County Air Pollution Control District, Antelope Valley Air Quality Management District, Bay Area Air Quality Management District, and Butte County Air Quality Management District are shown in the following table:


(B) [Reserved]


(C) Delegations for Glenn County Air Pollution Control District, Great Basin Unified Air Pollution Control District, Imperial County Air Pollution Control District, and Kern County Air Pollution Control District are shown in the following table:


(D) Delegations for Lake County Air Quality Management District, Lassen County Air Pollution Control District, Mariposa County Air Pollution Control District, and Mendocino County Air Pollution Control District are shown in the following table:


(E) Delegations for Modoc Air Pollution Control District, Mojave Desert Air Quality Management District, Monterey Bay Unified Air Pollution Control District, and North Coast Unified Air Quality Management District are shown in the following table:


(F) Delegations for Northern Sierra Air Quality Management District, Northern Sonoma County Air Pollution Control District, Placer County Air Pollution Control District, and Sacramento Metropolitan Air Quality Management District are shown in the following table: 


(G) Delegations for San Diego County Air Pollution Control District, San Joaquin Valley Unified Air Pollution Control District, San Luis Obispo County Air Pollution Control District, and Santa Barbara County Air Pollution Control District are shown in the following table: 


(H) Delegations for Shasta County Air Quality Management District, Siskiyou County Air Pollution Control District, South Coast Air Quality Management District, and Tehama County Air Pollution Control District are shown in the following table: 


(I) Delegations for Tuolumne County Air Pollution Control District, Ventura County Air Pollution Control District, and Yolo-Solano Air Quality Management District are shown in the following table:


(iii) Hawaii. The following table identifies delegations as of October 21, 2004:


(iv) Nevada. The following table identifies delegations for Nevada:




(10) The following table lists the delegation status of specific Part 61 Subparts that have been delegated unchanged to state and local air pollution control agencies in Region 10. An “X” indicates the subpart has been delegated, subject to all the conditions and limitations set forth in federal law, regulations, policy, guidance, and determinations. Some authorities cannot be delegated and are retained by EPA. These include certain General Provisions authorities and specific parts of some standards. The dates noted at the end of this table indicate the effective dates of federal rules that have been delegated. Any amendments made to these rules after this effective date are not delegated. 



---

[N] [40 FR 18170, Apr. 25, 1975] 


