# ยง 171.21   Notice of final decision.

(a) *When required.* The National Futures Association shall promptly serve all parties, as well as the Proceedings Clerk and the Secretary of the Commission, with a written notice of any final decision in a disciplinary action, membership denial action or registration action subject to these rules. The notice may be contained in the written decision issued by the National Futures Association.


(b) *Content of the notice.* At a minimum, the notice shall provide the following information:


(1) The names of the parties to the proceeding;


(2) The date the notice was served and the effective date of the decision;


(3) A statement informing the parties of their right to appeal the decision to the Commission pursuant to ยง 171.28 as well as their right to seek a stay of the effective date of the decision pursuant to ยง 171.27.


(4) For a disciplinary action:


(i) A statement setting forth the relevant acts of practices engaged in or omitted by the parties to the proceeding;


(ii) A statement setting forth the specific rule or rules of the association violated by the relevant acts or practices or omissions to act of the parties to the proceeding;


(iii) A statement setting forth the penalty imposed and the basis for its imposition.


(5) For a membership action:


(i) The specific grounds for the denial, bar, expulsion, or restriction;


(ii) The findings made concerning those grounds;


(iii) An explanation of the result reached in light of the grounds for ineligibility found and the findings made.


(6) For a registration action:


(i) The statutory disqualification at issue;


(ii) The findings made concerning the statutory disqualification;


(iii) An explanation of the result reached in light of the statutory disqualification shown and the findings made.


(c) *Effect of inadequate notice.* (1) If the National Futures Association issues a notice of a final decision subject to these rules that is not substantially consistent with the requirements of this section, and the record does not establish that the errors therein are harmless, the notice may be stricken. The Commission may act on its own motion or on the motion of a party.


(2) When a notice is struck, the final decision of the National Futures Association shall not be effective until a proper notice is served.




