# ยง 158.350   Certified limits.

The applicant must propose certified limits for the ingredients in the product. Certified limits become legally binding limits upon approval of the application. Certified limits will apply to the product from the date of production to date of use. If the product label bears a statement prohibiting use after a certain date, the certified limits will apply only until that date.


(a) *Ingredients for which certified limits are required.* Certified limits are required on the following ingredients of a pesticide product:


(1) An upper and lower limit for each active ingredient.


(2) An upper and lower limit for each inert ingredient.


(3) If the product is a technical grade of active ingredient or is produced by an integrated system, an upper limit for each impurity of toxicological significance associated with the active ingredient and found to be present in any sample of the product.


(4) On a case-by-case basis, certified limits for other ingredients or impurities as specified by EPA.


(b) *EPA determination of standard certified limits for active and inert ingredients.* (1) Unless the applicant proposes different limits as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the upper and lower certified limits for active and inert ingredients will be determined by EPA. EPA will calculate the certified limits on the basis of the nominal concentration of the ingredient in the product, according to the table in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(2) Table of standard certified limits.


(c) *Applicant proposed limits.* (1) The applicant may propose a certified limit for an active or inert ingredient that differs from the standard certified limit calculated according to paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(2) If certified limits are required for impurities, the applicants must propose a certified limit. The standard certified limits may not be used for such substances.


(3) Certified limits should:


(i) Be based on a consideration of the variability of the concentration of the ingredient in the product when good manufacturing practices and normal quality control procedures are used.


(ii) Allow for all sources of variability likely to be encountered in the production process.


(iii) Take into account the stability of the ingredient in the product and the possible formation of impurities between production and sale or distribution.


(4) The applicant may include an explanation of the basis of his proposed certified limits, including how the certified limits were arrived at (e.g., sample analysis, quantitative estimate based on production process), and its accuracy and precision. This will be particularly useful if the range of the certified limit for an active or inert ingredient is greater than the standard certified limits.


(d) *Special cases.* If the Agency finds unacceptable any certified limit (either standard, or applicant proposed), the Agency will inform the registrant or applicant of its determination and will provide supporting reasons. The Agency may also recommend alternative limits to the applicant. The Agency may require, on a case-by-case basis, any or all of the following:


(1) More precise limits.


(2) More thorough explanation of how the certified limits were determined.


(3) A narrower range between the upper and lower certified limits than that proposed.


(e) *Certification statement.* The applicant must certify the accuracy of the information presented, and that the certified limits of the ingredients will be maintained. The following statement, signed by the authorized representative of the company, is acceptable:


