# ยง 2.48   Revocation: Preliminary interview.

(a) *Interviewing officer.* A parolee who is retaken on a warrant issued by a Commissioner shall be given a preliminary interview by an official designated by the Regional Commissioner to enable the Commission to determine if there is probable cause to believe that the parolee has violated his parole as charged, and if so, whether a revocation hearing should be conducted. The official designated to conduct the preliminary interview may be a U.S. Probation Officer in the district where the prisoner is confined, provided he is not the officer who recommended that the warrant be issued. 


(b) *Notice and opportunity to postpone interview.* At the beginning of the preliminary interview, the interviewing officer shall ascertain that the Warrant Application has been given to the parolee as required by ยง 2.46(b), and shall advise the parolee that he may have the preliminary interview postponed in order to obtain representation by an attorney or arrange for the attendance of witnesses. The parolee shall also be advised that if he cannot afford to retain an attorney he may apply to a U.S. District Court for appointment of counsel to represent him at the preliminary interview and the revocation hearing pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3006A. In addition, the parolee may request the Commission to obtain the presence of persons who have given information upon which revocation may be based. Such adverse witnesses shall be requested to attend the preliminary interview unless the parolee admits a violation or has been convicted of a new offense while on supervision or unless the interviewing officer finds good cause for their non-attendance. Pursuant to ยง 2.51 a subpoena may issue for the appearance of adverse witnesses or the production of documents. 


(c) *Review of the charges.* At the preliminary interview, the interviewing officer shall review the violation charges with the parolee, apprise the parolee of the evidence which has been presented to the Commission, receive the statements of witnesses and documentary evidence on behalf of the parolee, and allow cross-examination of those witnesses in attendance. Disclosure of the evidence presented to the Commission shall be made pursuant to ยง 2.50(d). 


(d) At the conclusion of the preliminary interview, the interviewing officer shall inform the parolee of his recommended decision as to whether there is probable cause to believe that the parolee has violated the conditions of his release, and shall submit to the Commission a digest of the interview together with his recommended decision.


(1) If the interviewing officer's recommended decision is that no probable cause may be found to believe that the parolee has violated the conditions of his release, the responsible Regional Commissioner shall review such recommended decision and notify the parolee of his final decision concerning probable cause as expeditiously as possible following receipt of the interviewing officer's digest. A decision to release the parolee shall be implemented without delay.


(2) If the interviewing officer's recommended decision is that probable cause may be found to believe that the parolee has violated a condition (or conditions) of his release, the responsible Regional Commissioner shall notify the parolee of his final decision concerning probable cause within 21 days of the date of the preliminary interview.


(3) Notice to the parolee of any final decision of a Regional Commissioner finding probable cause and ordering a revocation hearing shall state the charges upon which probable cause has been found and the evidence relied upon. 


(e) *Release notwithstanding probable cause.* If the Commission finds probable cause to believe that the parolee has violated the conditions of his release, reinstatement to supervision or release pending further proceeding may nonetheless be ordered if it is determined that:


(1) Continuation of revocation proceedings is not warranted despite the violations found; or


(2) Incarceration pending further revocation proceedings is not warranted by the alleged frequency or seriousness of such violation or violations, and that the parolee is not likely to fail to appear for further proceedings, and that the parolee does not constitute a danger to himself or others. 


(f) *Conviction as probable cause.* Conviction of a Federal, State, or local crime committed subsequent to release by a parolee shall constitute probable cause for the purposes of this section and no preliminary interview shall be conducted unless otherwise ordered by the Regional Commissioner. 


(g) *Local revocation hearing.* A postponed preliminary interview may be conducted as a local revocation hearing by an examiner panel or other interviewing officer designated by the Regional Commissioner provided that the parolee has been advised that the postponed preliminary interview will constitute his final revocation hearing. 



---

[N] [42 FR 39809, Aug. 5, 1977, as amended at 44 FR 3408, 3409, Jan. 16, 1979; 46 FR 42842, Aug. 25, 1981; 47 FR 25735, June 15, 1982] 




