# § 303.181   Definitions.

For the purposes of this subpart, the following additional definitions apply: 


(a) *Board of Governors* means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 


(b) *Comptroller* means the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. 


(c) *Eligible insured branch.* An insured branch will be treated as an eligible depository institution within the meaning of § 303.2(r) if the insured branch: 


(1) Received an FDIC-assigned composite ROCA supervisory rating (which rates risk management, operational controls, compliance, and asset quality) of 1 or 2 as a result of its most recent federal or state examination, and the FDIC, Comptroller, or Board of Governors have not expressed concern about the condition or operations of the foreign banking organization or the support it offers the branch; 


(2) Received a satisfactory or better Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) rating from its primary federal regulator at its most recent examination, if the depository institution is subject to examination under part 345 of this chapter; 


(3) Received a compliance rating of 1 or 2 from its primary federal regulator at its most recent examination; 


(4) Is well-capitalized as defined in subpart H of part 324 of this chapter; and


(5) Is not subject to a cease and desist order, consent order, prompt corrective action directive, written agreement, memorandum of understanding, or other administrative agreement with any U.S. bank regulatory authority. 


(d) *Federal branch* means a federal branch of a foreign bank as defined by § 347.202 of this chapter. 


(e) *Foreign bank* means a foreign bank as defined by § 347.202 of this chapter. 


(f) *Foreign branch* means a foreign branch of an insured state nonmember bank as defined by § 347.102 of this chapter. 


(g) *Foreign organization* means a foreign organization as defined by § 347.102 of this chapter. 


(h) *Insured branch* means an insured branch of a foreign bank as defined by § 347.202 of this chapter. 


(i) *Noninsured branch* means a noninsured branch of a foreign bank as defined by § 347.202 of this chapter. 


(j) *State branch* means a state branch of a foreign bank as defined by § 347.202 of this chapter. 



---

[N] [67 FR 79247, Dec. 27, 2002, as amended at 78 FR 55470, Sept. 10, 2013; 83 FR 17739, Apr. 24, 2018]




