# § 457.340   Application for and enrollment in CHIP.

(a) *Application and renewal assistance, availability of program information, and Web site.* The terms of §§ 435.905, 435.906, 435.908, and 435.1200(f) of this chapter apply equally to the State in administering a separate CHIP.


(b) *Use of Social Security number.* The terms of §§ 435.910 and 435.907(e) of this chapter regarding the provision and use of Social Security Numbers and non-applicant information apply equally to the State in administering a separate CHIP. 


(c) *Notice of rights and responsibilities.* A State must inform applicants at the time of application, in writing and orally if appropriate, about the application and eligibility requirements, the time frame for determining eligibility, and the right to review of eligibility determinations as described in § 457.1130. 


(d) *Timely determination and redetermination of eligibility.* (1) The terms in § 435.912 of this chapter apply equally to CHIP, except that—


(i) The terms of § 435.912(c)(4)(ii), (c)(5)(iii), and (c)(6)(ii) of this chapter (relating to timelines for completing renewals and redeterminations when States must consider other bases of eligibility) do not apply; and


(ii) The standards for transferring electronic accounts to other insurance affordability programs are pursuant to § 457.350 and the standards for receiving applications from other insurance affordability programs are pursuant to § 457.348.


(2) In applying timeliness standards, the State must define “date of application” and must count each calendar day from the date of application to the day the agency provides notice of its eligibility decision. 


(3) In the case of individuals subject to a period of uninsurance under this part, the state must identify and implement processes to facilitate enrollment of CHIP-eligible children who have satisfied a period of uninsurance (as described under § 457.805). To minimize burden on individuals, a state may not require a new application or information already provided by a family immediately preceding the beginning of a waiting period. States must also ensure that the proper safeguards are in place to prevent a disruption in coverage for children transitioning from coverage under another insurance affordability program after the completion of a period of uninsurance.


(e) *Notice of eligibility determinations.* The State must provide each applicant or enrollee with timely and adequate written notice of any decision affecting his or her eligibility, including an approval, denial or termination, or suspension of eligibility, consistent with §§ 457.315, 457.348, and 457.350. The notice must be written in plain language; and accessible to persons who are limited English proficient and individuals with disabilities, consistent with § 435.905(b) of this chapter and § 457.110.


(1) *Content of eligibility notice.* (i) Any notice of an approval of CHIP eligibility must include, but is not limited to, the following—


(A) The basis and effective date of eligibility;


(B) The circumstances under which the individual must report and procedures for reporting, any changes that may affect the individual's eligibility;


(C) Basic information on benefits and services and if applicable, any premiums, enrollment fees, and cost sharing required, and an explanation of how to receive additional detailed information on benefits and financial responsibilities; and


(D) Information on the enrollees' right and responsibilities, including the opportunity to request a review of matters described in § 457.1130.


(ii) Any notice of denial, termination, or suspension of CHIP eligibility must include, but is not limited to the following—


(A) The basis supporting the action and the effective date,


(B) Information on the individual's right to a review process, in accordance with § 457.1180;


(iii) In the case of a suspension or termination of eligibility, the State must provide sufficient notice to enable the child's parent or other caretaker to take any appropriate actions that may be required to allow coverage to continue without interruption.


(2) The State's responsibility to provide notice under this paragraph is satisfied by a combined eligibility notice, as defined in § 457.10, provided by an Exchange or other insurance affordability program in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, except that, if the information described in paragraph (e)(1)(i)(C) of this section is not included in such combined eligibility notice, the State must provide the individual with a supplemental notice of such information, consistent with this section.


(f) *Coordination of notices with other programs.* The State must—


(1) Include in the agreement into which the State has entered under § 457.348(a) that, a combined eligibility notice, as defined in § 457.10, will be provided:


(i) To an individual, by the State agency administering a separate CHIP or the Medicaid agency, when a determination of CHIP eligibility is completed for such individual by the State agency administering Medicaid in accordance with § 457.348(e), or a determination of Medicaid eligibility is completed by the State in accordance with § 457.350(b)(1);


(ii) To the maximum extent feasible, to an individual who is not described in paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section but who is transferred between the State and another insurance affordability program in accordance with § 457.348 or § 457.350; and


(iii) To the maximum extent feasible, to multiple members of the same household included on the same application or renewal form.


(2) For individuals and other household members who will not receive a combined eligibility notice, include appropriate coordinated content, as defined in § 457.10, in any notice provided by the State in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section.


(g) *Effective date of eligibility.* A State must specify a method for determining the effective date of eligibility for CHIP, which can be determined based on the date of application or through any other reasonable method that ensures coordinated transition of children between CHIP and other insurance affordability programs as family circumstances change and avoids gaps or overlaps in coverage. 



---

[N] [66 FR 2675, Jan. 11, 2001, as amended at 66 FR 33823, June 25, 2001; 77 FR 17215, Mar. 23, 2012; 78 FR 42312, July 15, 2013; 81 FR 86464, Nov. 30, 2016; 89 FR 22873, Apr. 2, 2024]




