# § 334.305   Little Creek Harbor, Fisherman's Cove, Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Fort Story, Little Creek, Virginia, Restricted Areas.

(a) *The Little Creek Restricted Areas.* The Little Creek Restricted Areas consist of two distinct areas: The Outer Harbor Restricted Area and the Inner Harbor Restricted Area. The datum for the coordinates in this section is NAD-83.


(1) *The Outer Harbor Restricted Area.* The waters within an area beginning at latitude 36°55′57.7″ N, longitude 76°10′35″ W; thence southwesterly to a point at latitude 36°55′53″ N, longitude 76°10′44″ W, thence southerly to latitude 36°55′21.2″ N, longitude 76°10′42″ W; thence southwesterly to latitude 36°55′18.3″ N, longitude 76°10′49″ W; thence northwesterly to a point in Fisherman's Cove at latitude 36°55′22″ N, longitude 76°11′15.5″ W; thence southerly to latitude 36°55′19.2″ N, longitude 76°11′16″ W, thence easterly near the southern shoreline of Fisherman's Cove, to latitude 36°55′15.8″ N, longitude 76°10′58.8″ W; and ending at latitude 36°55′18″ N, longitude 76°10′30″ W; thence to the point of origin.


(2) *The Inner Harbor Restricted Area.* The waters within Little Creek Harbor south of a line beginning at latitude 36°55′15.8″ N, longitude 76°10′58.8″ W; and ending at latitude 36°55′18″ N, longitude 76°10′30″ W.


(b) *The regulations*—(1) *The Outer Harbor Restricted Area.* (i) All privately owned vessels, properly registered and bearing identification in accordance with Federal and/or State laws and regulations, and all Government owned vessels (public vessels) may enter or exit the waters described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section at any time and transit inbound/outbound of the marked dredged channel leading to Little Creek Harbor between jetties 8 miles westward of Cape Henry Light. All vessels transiting inbound/outbound of the channel except for those vessels listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall proceed at speeds commensurate with minimum wake. Any vessel equipped with a marine radio can monitor VHF-FM channel 12 for message traffic from Little Creek Port Control.


(ii) When Commanding Officer, Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Fort Story is ordered to implement Force Protection Conditions (FPCONs) Charlie/Delta, or when specific authority is granted by the District Engineer, all vessel traffic movement can be restricted except for those vessels that meet the criteria in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. FPCONs are a system of protective measures used by the Department of Defense (DOD) installations to guard against and deter terrorist attack. Senior commanders assign the FPCONs for their region, and installation commanders may raise FPCONS and tighten security measures based on local conditions. In the event FPCONs Charlie/Delta is implemented by the Commanding Officer, Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek, which requires the restriction of vessel traffic movement in the Outer Harbor Restricted Area, the installation will coordinate with the U.S. Coast Guard, Fifth District; Army Corps of Engineers, Norfolk District; and state and local law enforcement and governmental authorities. The installation will also disseminate information to the public and local news media outlets. Information on whether vessel traffic movement has been restricted in the Outer Harbor Restricted Area due to the implementation of FPCONs Charlie/Delta will also be published and disseminated by the U.S. Coast Guard.


(2) *The Inner Harbor Restricted Area.* All vessels or persons intending to transit inbound/outbound of the Inner Harbor Restricted Area shall request permission from Little Creek Harbor Port Control using VHF-FM channel 12 prior to transiting and will provide their destination/intentions with the exception of those vessels that meet the criteria in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. The Inner Harbor Restricted Area is limited to those privately owned vessels or persons calling upon the commercial/private piers located within the Inner Harbor and government owned vessels (public vessels) transiting to and from U.S. Navy or U.S. Coast Guard facilities and authorized DOD patrons of the U.S. Navy recreational marina. No other vessels or persons may enter or exit this area unless specific authorization is granted by Commanding Officer, Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Fort Story, and/or other persons or agencies as he/she may designate.


(3) All vessels or persons transiting inbound/outbound of the Inner Harbor Restricted Area are subject to all applicable federal and state laws including laws or regulations designed to protect the naval facility and persons or vessels assigned therein. Federal and state law enforcement officials may at any time take action to ensure compliance with their respective laws. In addition, this regulation authorizes Navy security personnel, designated by Commander, Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Fort Story or persons authorized to act in his/her behalf, the authority to ascertain the identity and intent of any vessels and/or persons transiting the restricted area that indicate by way of appearance or action they are a possible threat to government assets. If a determination is made that the vessel and/or persons are a threat to government assets located within the restricted area, Navy security units may take actions as provided by law or regulation that are deemed necessary to protect government personnel and assets located within the restricted area.


(c) *Enforcement.* (1) The regulation in this section shall be enforced by the Commanding Officer, Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Fort Story, U.S. Coast Guard, local/state law enforcement, and/or persons or agencies as he/she may designate during emergency situations.


(2) Federal and state law enforcement vessels and personnel may enter anywhere in the restricted area at any time in the operation of their statutory missions or to enforce their respective laws.


(3) Nothing in this regulation is deemed to preempt 33 CFR 165.501.


(4) Vessels or persons calling upon the commercial/private piers located within the Inner Harbor with proper identification and clearance will be allowed entry subject to the same provisions described in paragraph (b) of this section. Commanding Officer, Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Fort Story reserves the right to temporarily deny entry in emergency situations, elevated DOD Force Protection conditions in the Harbor, or other safety of navigation constraints.



---

[N] [84 FR 38875, Aug. 8, 2019]






