# ยง 296.21   Allowable damages.

(a) *Allowable damages.* The Act provides for the payment of actual compensatory damages for injury or loss of property, business loss, and financial loss. The laws of the State of New Mexico will apply to the calculation of damages. Damages must be reasonable in amount.


(b) *Exclusions.* Punitive damages, statutory damages under section 30-32-4 of the New Mexico Statutes Annotated (2019), interest on claims, attorney's fees and agents' fees incurred in prosecuting a claim under the Act or an insurance policy, and adjusting costs incurred by an insurer or other third party with the rights of a subrogee that may be owed by a claimant as a consequence of receiving an award are not recoverable from FEMA. The cost to a claimant of prosecuting a claim under the Act does not constitute compensatory damages and is not recoverable from FEMA, except as provided in ยง 296.31(b).


(c) *Loss of property.* Compensatory damages may be awarded for an uninsured or underinsured property loss, a decrease in the value of real property, damage to physical infrastructure, cost resulting from lost subsistence, cost of reforestation or revegetation not covered by any other Federal program, and any other loss that the Administrator determines to be appropriate for inclusion as a loss of property.


(1) *Real property and contents.* Compensatory damages for the damage or destruction of real property and its contents may include the reasonable cost of reconstruction of a structure comparable in design, construction materials, size, and improvements, taking into account post-fire construction costs in the community in which the structure existed before the fire and current building codes and standards. Compensatory damages may also include the cost of removing debris and burned trees, including hazardous materials or soils, stabilizing the land, replacing contents, and compensation for any decrease in the value of land on which the structure sat pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(2) *Reforestation and revegetation.* Compensatory damages may be awarded for the cost of replacement of destroyed trees and landscaping.


(3) *Decrease in the value of real property.* Compensatory damages may be awarded for a decrease in the value of real property that a claimant owned before the Hermit's Peak/Calf Canyon Fire if:


(i) The claimant sells the real property in a good faith, arm's length transaction that is closed no later than November 14, 2024 and realizes a loss in the pre-fire value; or


(ii) The claimant can establish that the value of the real property was significantly diminished long-term as a result of the Hermit's Peak/Calf Canyon Fire.


(4) *Subsistence.* Compensatory damages will be awarded for lost Subsistence Resources.


(i) FEMA may reimburse an injured party for the reasonable cost of replacing Subsistence Resources customarily and traditionally used by the claimant on or before April 6, 2022, but no longer available to the claimant as a result of the Hermit's Peak/Calf Canyon Fire. For each category of Subsistence Resources, the claimant must elect to receive compensatory damages either for the increased cost of obtaining Subsistence Resources from lands not damaged by the Hermit's Peak/Calf Canyon Fire or for the cost of procuring substitute resources in the cash economy.


(ii) FEMA may consider evidence submitted by claimants, Indian Tribes, and other knowledgeable sources in determining the nature and extent of a claimant's subsistence uses.


(iii) Compensatory damages for subsistence losses will be paid for the period between April 6, 2022 and the date when Subsistence Resources can reasonably be expected to return to the level of availability that existed before the Hermit's Peak/Calf Canyon Fire. FEMA may rely upon the advice of experts in making this determination.


(iv) Long-term damage awards for subsistence resources will be made to claimants in the form of lump sum cash payments.


(5) *Physical infrastructure.* Compensatory damages may be awarded for the damage to physical infrastructure, including damages to irrigation infrastructure such as acequia systems.


(d) *Business loss.* Compensatory damages may be awarded for damage to tangible assets or inventory, including timber, crops, and other natural resources; business interruption losses; overhead costs; employee wages for work not performed; loss of business net income; and any other loss that the Administrator determines to be appropriate for inclusion as a business loss.


(e) *Financial loss.* Compensatory damages may be awarded for increased mortgage interest costs, insurance deductibles, temporary living or relocation expenses, lost wages or personal income, emergency staffing expenses, debris removal and other cleanup costs, costs of reasonable heightened risk reduction, premiums for flood insurance, and any other loss that the Administrator determines to be appropriate for inclusion as financial loss.


(1) *Recovery loans.* FEMA will reimburse claimants awarded compensation under the Act for interest paid on loans, including Small Business Administration disaster loans obtained after April 6, 2022 for damages resulting from the Fire. Interest will be reimbursed for the period beginning on the date that the loan was taken out and ending on the date when the claimant receives a compensation award (other than a partial payment). Claimants are required to use the proceeds of their compensation award to repay Small Business Administration disaster loans. FEMA will cooperate with the Small Business Administration to formulate procedures for assuring that claimants repay Small Business Administration disaster loans contemporaneously with the receipt of their compensation award.


(2) *Flood insurance.* FEMA will reimburse claimants for flood insurance premiums to be paid on or before May 31, 2024 if, as a result of the Hermit's Peak/Calf Canyon Fire, a claimant who was not required to purchase flood insurance before the Hermit's Peak/Calf Canyon Fire is required to purchase flood insurance or the claimant did not maintain flood insurance before the Fire but purchased flood insurance after the Fire due to fear of heightened flood risk. Alternatively, FEMA may provide flood insurance to such claimants directly through a group or blanket policy.


(3) *Out of pocket expenses for treatment of mental health conditions.* FEMA may reimburse an individual claimant for reasonable out of pocket expenses incurred for treatment of a mental health condition rendered by a licensed mental health professional, which condition resulted from or was worsened by the Hermit's Peak/Calf Canyon Fire. FEMA will not reimburse for treatment identified after November 14, 2024.


(4) *Donations.* FEMA will compensate claimants for the cost of merchandise, use of equipment or other non-personal services, directly or indirectly donated to survivors of the Hermit's Peak/Calf Canyon Fire not later than November 14, 2022. Donations will be valued at cost.


(5) *Heightened risk reduction.* FEMA will reimburse claimants for the costs incurred to implement reasonable measures necessary to reduce risks from natural hazards heightened by the Hermit's Peak/Calf Canyon Fire to the level of risk prevailing before the Hermit's Peak/Calf Canyon Fire. Such measures may include, for example, risk reduction projects that reduce an increased risk from flooding, mudslides, and landslides in and around burn scars. Claimants seeking compensation for heightened risk reduction must include the claim in their Notice of Loss by November 14, 2024 or an amended Notice of Loss filed no later than November 14, 2025. Claimants should take into account current building codes and standards and must complete the risk reduction project for which they receive compensation.


(f) *Insurance and other benefits.* The Act allows FEMA to compensate Injured Persons only for damages not paid, and that will not be paid, by insurance or other third-party payments or settlements.


(1) *Insurance.* Claimants who carry insurance will be required to disclose the name of the insurer(s) and the nature of the insurance and provide the Claims Office with such insurance documentation as the Claims Office reasonably requests.


(2) *Coordination with FEMA's Public Assistance Program.* Injured Persons eligible for disaster assistance under FEMA's Public Assistance Program are expected to apply for all available assistance. Pursuant to the Act, the Federal share of the costs for Public Assistance projects is 100 percent. Compensation will not be awarded under the Act for injuries or costs that are eligible under the Public Assistance Program.


(3) *Benefits provided by FEMA's Individual Assistance program.* Compensation under the Act will not be awarded for injuries or costs that have been reimbursed under the Federal Assistance to Individual and Households Program or any other FEMA Individual Assistance Program.


(4) *Worker's compensation claims.* Individuals who have suffered injuries that are compensable under State or Federal worker's compensation laws must apply for all benefits available under such laws.


(5) *Benefits provided by non-governmental organizations and individuals.* Gifts or donations made to a claimant by a non-governmental organization or an individual, other than wages paid by the claimant's employer or insurance payments, will be disregarded in evaluating claims and need not be disclosed to the Claims Office by claimants.






