# § 1.163-3   Deduction for discount on bond issued on or before May 27, 1969.

(a) *Discount upon issuance.* (1) If bonds are issued by a corporation at a discount, the net amount of such discount is deductible and should be prorated or amortized over the life of the bonds. For purposes of this section, the amortizable bond discount equals the excess of the amount payable at maturity (or, in the case of a callable bond, at the earlier call date) over the issue price of the bond (as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of § 1.1232-3).


(2) In the case of a bond issued by a corporation after December 31, 1954, as part of an investment unit consisting of an obligation and an option, the issue price of the bond is determined by allocating the amount received for the investment unit to the individual elements of the unit in the manner set forth in subdivision (ii)(*a*) of § 1.1232-3(b)(2). Discount with respect to bonds issued by a corporation as part of investment units consisting of obligations and options after December 31, 1954, and before Dec. 24, 1968—


(i) Increased by any amount treated as bond premium which has been included in gross income with respect to such bonds prior to Dec. 24, 1968, or


(ii) Decreased by any amount which has been deducted by the issuer as discount attributable to such bonds prior to Dec. 24, 1968, and


(iii) Decreased by any amount which has been deducted by the issuer prior to Dec. 24, 1968 upon the exercise or sale by investors of options issued in investment units with such bonds,


(b) *Examples.* The rules in paragraph (a) of this section are illustrated by the following examples:


(c) *Deduction upon repurchase.* (1) Except as provided in subparagraphs (2) and (3) of this paragraph, if bonds are issued by a corporation and are subsequently repurchased by the corporation at a price in excess of the issue price plus any amount of discount deducted prior to repurchase, or (in the case of bonds issued subsequent to Feb. 28, 1913) minus any amount of premium returned as income prior to repurchase, the excess of the purchase price over the issue price adjusted for amortized premium or discount is a deductible expense for the taxable year.


(2) In the case of a convertible bond (except a bond which the corporation, before Sept. 5, 1968, has obligated itself to repurchase at a specified price), the deduction allowable under subparagraph (1) of this paragraph may not exceed an amount equal to 1 year's interest at the rate specified in the bond, except to the extent that the corporation can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Commissioner or his delegate that an amount in excess of 1 year's interest does not include any amount attributable to the conversion feature.


(3) No deduction shall be allowed under subparagraph (1) of this paragraph to the extent a deduction is disallowed under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph or to the extent a deduction is disallowed by section 249 (relating to limitation on deduction of bond premium on repurchase of convertible obligation) and the regulations thereunder. See paragraph (f) of § 1.249-1 for effective date limitation on section 249.


(d) *Definition.* For purposes of this section, a debenture, note, certificate other evidence of indebtedness, issued by a corporation and bearing interest shall be given the same treatment as a bond.


(e) *Effective date.* The provisions of this section shall not apply in respect of a bond issued after May 27, 1969, unless issued pursuant to a written commitment which was binding on that date and at all times thereafter.



---

[N] [T.D. 6984, 33 FR 19175, Dec. 24, 1968, as amended by T.D. 7154, 36 FR 24996, Dec. 28, 1971; T.D. 7259, 38 FR 4253, Feb. 12, 1973]




