# § 416.2090   State funds transferred for supplementary payments.

(a) *Payment transfer and adjustment.* (1) Any State which has entered into an agreement with SSA which provides for Federal administration of such State's supplementary payments shall transfer to SSA:


(i) An amount of funds equal to SSA's estimate of State supplementary payments for any month which shall be made by SSA on behalf of such State; and


(ii) An amount of funds equal to SSA's estimate of administration fees for any such month determined in the manner described in § 416.2010(b)(1); and


(iii) If applicable, an amount of funds equal to SSA's determination of the costs incurred by the Federal government in furnishing additional services for the State as described in § 416.2010(b)(2).


(2) In order for SSA to make State supplementary payments on behalf of a State for any month as provided by the agreement, the estimated amount of State funds referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, necessary to make those payments for the month, together with the estimated amount of administration fees referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, for that month, must be on deposit with SSA on the State supplementary payment transfer date, which is the fifth Federal business day following the day in the month that the regularly recurring monthly supplemental security income payments are issued. The additional services fee referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section shall be on deposit with SSA on the date specified by SSA. The amount of State funds paid to SSA for State supplementary payments and the amount paid for administration fees will be adjusted as necessary to maintain the balance with State supplementary payments paid out by SSA on behalf of the State, and administration fees owed to SSA, respectively.


(b) *Accounting of State funds.* (1) As soon as feasible, after the end of each calendar month, SSA will provide the State with a statement showing, cumulatively, the total amounts paid by SSA on behalf of the State during the current Federal fiscal year; the fees charged by SSA to administer such supplementary payments; any additional services fees charged the State; the State's total liability therefore; and the end-of-month balance of the State's cash on deposit with SSA.


(2) SSA shall provide an accounting of State funds received as State supplementary payments, administration fees, and additional services fees, within three calendar months following the termination of an agreement under § 416.2005.


(3) Adjustments will be made because of State funds due and payable or amounts of State funds recovered for calendar months for which the agreement was in effect. Interest will be incurred by SSA and the States with respect to the adjustment and accounting of State supplementary payments funds in accordance with applicable laws and regulations of the United States Department of the Treasury.


(c) *State audit.* Any State entering into an agreement with SSA which provides for Federal administration of the State's supplementary payments has the right to an audit (at State expense) of the payments made by SSA on behalf of such State. The Secretary and the State shall mutually agree upon a satisfactory audit arrangement to verify that supplementary payments paid by SSA on behalf of the State were made in accordance with the terms of the administration agreement under § 416.2005. Resolution of audit findings shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the State's agreement with SSA.


(d) *Advance payment and adjustment not applicable.* The provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall not apply with respect to any State supplementary payment for which reimbursement is available from the Social and Rehabilitation Service pursuant to the Indochina Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1975 (Pub. L. 94-23; 89 Stat. 87), as amended, since such amounts are not considered to be State supplementary payments.



---

[N] [40 FR 7640, Feb. 21, 1975, as amended at 41 FR 36018, Aug. 26, 1976; 62 FR 313, Jan. 3, 1997]




