# ยง 891.590   Notice upon HAP contract expiration.

(a) *Notice required.* The HAP contract will provide that the Borrower will, at least one year before the end of the HAP contract term, notify each family leasing an assisted unit of any increase in the amount the family will be required to pay as rent as a result of the expiration. 


(b) *Service requirements.* The notice under paragraph (a) of this section shall be accomplished by sending a letter by first class mail, properly stamped and addressed, to the family at its address at the project, with a proper return address; and serving a copy of the notice on any adult person answering the door at the leased dwelling unit, or if no adult responds, by placing the notice under or through the door, if possible, or else by affixing the notice to the door. Service shall not be considered to be effective until both required notices have been accomplished. The date on which the notice shall be considered to be received by the family shall be the date on which the Borrower mails the first class letter provided for in paragraph (b) of this section, or the date on which the notice provided for in paragraph (b) of this section is properly given, whichever is later. 


(c) *Contents of notice.* The notice shall advise each affected family that, after the expiration date of the HAP contract, the family will be required to bear the entire cost of the rent and that the Borrower may, subject to requirements and restrictions contained in the regulatory agreement, the lease, and State or local law, change the rent. The notice also shall state: 


(1) The actual (if known) or the estimated rent that will be charged following the expiration of the HAP contract; 


(2) The difference between the new rent and the total tenant payment toward rent under the HAP contract; and 


(3) The date the HAP contract will expire. 


(d) *Certification to HUD.* The Borrower shall give HUD a certification that families have been notified in accordance with this section and shall attach to the certification an example of the text of the notice. 


(e) *Applicability.* This section applies to all HAP contracts entered into under an agreement to enter into a housing assistance payments contract executed on or after October 1, 1981, or entered into under such an agreement executed before October 1, 1981 but renewed or amended after February 9, 1995. 


