# § 192.711   Transmission lines: General requirements for repair procedures.

(a) *Temporary repairs.* Each operator must take immediate temporary measures to protect the public whenever:


(1) A leak, imperfection, or damage that impairs its serviceability is found in a segment of steel transmission line operating at or above 40 percent of the SMYS; and


(2) It is not feasible to make a permanent repair at the time of discovery.


(b) *Permanent repairs.* An operator must make permanent repairs on its pipeline system according to the following:


(1)(i) Non-integrity management repairs for gathering lines and offshore transmission lines: For gathering lines subject to this section in accordance with § 192.9 and for offshore transmission lines, an operator must make permanent repairs as soon as feasible.


(ii) Non-integrity management repairs for onshore transmission lines: Except for gathering lines exempted from this section in accordance with § 192.9 and offshore transmission lines, after May 24, 2023, whenever an operator discovers any condition that could adversely affect the safe operation of a pipeline segment not covered by an integrity management program under subpart O of this part, it must correct the condition as prescribed in § 192.714.


(2) Integrity management repairs: When an operator discovers a condition on a pipeline covered under Subpart O-Gas Transmission Pipeline Integrity Management, the operator must remediate the condition as prescribed by § 192.933(d).


(c) *Welded patch.* Except as provided in § 192.717(b)(3), no operator may use a welded patch as a means of repair.



---

[N] [Amdt. 192-114, 75 FR 48604, Aug. 11, 2010, as amended by Amdt. 192-132, 87 FR 52270, Aug. 24, 2022]




