# Appendix A to Subpart V of Part 922—Chumash Heritage National Marine Sanctuary Formal Boundary Description and Coordinates


The northern boundary of the sanctuary begins at Point 1 approximately 36 nautical miles (41 statute miles) WSW of Point Buchon. From Point 1 the sanctuary boundary continues east to Point 2 and then north towards Point 3 until it intersects the shoreline as defined by the mean high water (MHW) tidal datum approximately 2 nautical miles (2.3 statute miles) southeast of the entrance to the harbor at the Diablo Canyon Power Plant. From this intersection the sanctuary boundary follows the shoreline southeast past Point San Luis until it intersects the line segment formed between Point 4 and Point 5 on the southern end of the southwest breakwater of Port San Luis in San Luis Obispo Bay. From this intersection the sanctuary boundary continues northeast towards Point 5 until it intersects the shoreline at Fossil Point on the northeast side of Port San Luis. From this intersection the sanctuary boundary follows the shoreline southeast past Pismo Beach and then south past Point Sal and around Point Arguello until it intersects the line segment formed between Point 6 and Point 7 on the eastern end of the breakwater just southeast of the Point Arguello Coast Guard Rescue Station. From this intersection the sanctuary boundary continues east to Point 7 and then north towards Point 8 until it intersects the shoreline. From this intersection the sanctuary boundary continues to follow the shoreline southeast past Point Conception and then east along the Gaviota Coast until it intersects the line segment formed between Point 9 and Point 10 approximately 1.7 nautical miles (2.0 statute miles) east of Dos Pueblos Canyon near the township of Naples in Santa Barbara County. From this intersection the sanctuary boundary continues offshore south to Point 10 and turns west and continues, approximating the 3 nautical mile State Seaward Boundary, passing through each successive point in numerical order to Point 119. From Point 119 the sanctuary boundary continues southwest passing through each successive point in numerical order to Point 129. From Point 129 the sanctuary boundary continues west along its southern extent to Point 130 and then Point 131 passing to the south of Arguello Canyon and Rodriguez Seamount. From Point 131 the sanctuary boundary continues roughly north for approximately 76 nautical miles (87.5 statute miles) along its western extent passing through each successive point in numerical order while passing Santa Lucia Bank to the west until it ends at Point 154.


Coordinates listed in this appendix are unprojected (Geographic) and based on the North American Datum of 1983.


*Note 1 to appendix A:* The coordinates in the table marked with an asterisk (*) are not a part of the sanctuary boundary. These coordinates are landward reference points used to draw a line segment that intersects with the shoreline.




