# ยง 52.882   Interstate pollutant transport provisions; What are the FIP requirements for decreases in emissions of nitrogen oxides?

(a)(1) The owner and operator of each source and each unit located in the State of Kansas and Indian country within the borders of the State and for which requirements are set forth under the CSAPR NO_X_ Annual Trading Program in subpart AAAAA of part 97 of this chapter must comply with such requirements. The obligation to comply with such requirements with regard to sources and units in the State will be eliminated by the promulgation of an approval by the Administrator of a revision to Kansas' State Implementation Plan (SIP) as correcting the SIP's deficiency that is the basis for the CSAPR Federal Implementation Plan under ยง 52.38(a) for those sources and units, except to the extent the Administrator's approval is partial or conditional. The obligation to comply with such requirements with regard to sources and units located in Indian country within the borders of the State will not be eliminated by the promulgation of an approval by the Administrator of a revision to Kansas' SIP.


(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, if, at the time of the approval of Kansas' SIP revision described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Administrator has already started recording any allocations of CSAPR NO_X_ Annual allowances under subpart AAAAA of part 97 of this chapter to units in the State for a control period in any year, the provisions of subpart AAAAA of part 97 of this chapter authorizing the Administrator to complete the allocation and recordation of CSAPR NO_X_ Annual allowances to units in the State for each such control period shall continue to apply, unless provided otherwise by such approval of the State's SIP revision.


(b)(1) The owner and operator of each source and each unit located in the State of Kansas and Indian country within the borders of the State and for which requirements are set forth under the CSAPR NO_X_ Ozone Season Group 2 Trading Program in subpart EEEEE of part 97 of this chapter must comply with such requirements with regard to emissions occurring in 2017 and each subsequent year. The obligation to comply with such requirements with regard to sources and units in the State will be eliminated by the promulgation of an approval by the Administrator of a revision to Kansas' State Implementation Plan (SIP) as correcting the SIP's deficiency that is the basis for the CSAPR Federal Implementation Plan (FIP) under ยง 52.38(b) for those sources and units, except to the extent the Administrator's approval is partial or conditional. The obligation to comply with such requirements with regard to sources and units located in Indian country within the borders of the State will not be eliminated by the promulgation of an approval by the Administrator of a revision to Kansas' SIP.


(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, if, at the time of the approval of Kansas' SIP revision described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Administrator has already started recording any allocations of CSAPR NO_X_ Ozone Season Group 2 allowances under subpart EEEEE of part 97 of this chapter to units in the State for a control period in any year, the provisions of subpart EEEEE of part 97 of this chapter authorizing the Administrator to complete the allocation and recordation of CSAPR NO_X_ Ozone Season Group 2 allowances to units in the State for each such control period shall continue to apply, unless provided otherwise by such approval of the State's SIP revision.



---

[N] [76 FR 48365, Aug. 8, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 50793, Aug. 21, 2015; 81 FR 74586 and 74595, Oct. 26, 2016; 83 FR 65924, Dec. 21, 2018]




