# ยง 203.42   Inspection of non-Federal flood control works.

(a) *Required inspections.* The Corps will conduct inspections of non-Federal flood control works. These inspections are IEI's and CEI's. Conduct of IEI's and CEI's will be as provided for in ยง 203.48. 


(1) Corps involvement with any non-Federal flood control work normally begins when the sponsor requests an IEI. The Corps will conduct an IEI to determine if the flood control work meets minimum engineering and maintenance standards and is capable of providing the intended degree of flood protection. An Acceptable or Minimally Acceptable rating (see ยง 203.48) on the IEI is required to allow the project to gain an Active status in the RIP. 


(2) CEI's are conducted periodically to ensure that projects Active in the RIP continue to meet Corps standards, and to determine if the sponsor's maintenance program is adequate. A rating of Acceptable or Minimally Acceptable (see ยง 203.48) on a CEI is required in order to retain an Active status in the RIP. 


(b) *Advice and reporting.* Information on the results of IEI and CEI inspections will be furnished in writing to non-Federal sponsors, and will be maintained in Corps district offices. 


(1) Non-Federal sponsors will be informed that an IEI rating of Unacceptable will cause the flood control work to remain in an Inactive status, and ineligible for Rehabilitation Assistance. 


(2) Non-Federal sponsors will be informed that a CEI rating of Unacceptable will cause the flood control work to be placed in an Inactive status, and ineligible for Rehabilitation Assistance. 


(3) Non-Federal sponsors will be informed that maintenance deficiencies found during CEI's may negatively impact on eligibility of future Rehabilitation Assistance, and the degree of local cost-sharing participation in any proposed work. Follow-up inspections can be made by the Corps to monitor progress in correcting deficiencies when warranted. 




