# § 35.3120   Authorized types of assistance.

The SRF may provide seven general types of financial assistance.


(a) *Loans.* The SRF may award loans at or below market interest rates, or for zero interest.


(1) Loans may be awarded only if:


(i) All principal and interest payments on loans are credited directly to the SRF;


(ii) The annual repayment of principal and payment of interest begins not later than one year after project completion;


(iii) The loan is fully amortized not later than twenty years after project completion; and


(iv) Each loan recipient establishes one or more dedicated sources of revenue for repayment of the loan.


(2) Where construction of a treatment works has been phased or segmented, loan repayment requirements apply to the completion of individual phases or segments.


(b) *Refinancing existing debt obligations.* The SRF may buy or refinance local debt obligations at or below market rates, where the initial debt was incurred after March 7, 1985, and building began after that date.


(1) Projects otherwise eligible for refinancing under this section on which building began:


(i) Before January 28, 1988 (the effective date of the Initial Guidance for State Revolving Funds) must meet the requirements of title VI to be fully eligible.


(ii) After January 28, 1988, but before the effective date of this rule, must meet the requirements of title VI and of the Initial Guidance for State Revolving Funds to be fully eligible.


(iii) After March 19, 1990 must meet the requirements of this rule to be fully eligible.


(2) Where the original debt for a project was in the form of a multi-purpose bond incurred for purposes in addition to wastewater treatment facility construction, an SRF may provide refinancing only for eligible purposes, and not for the entire debt.


(c) *Guarantee or purchase insurance for local debt obligations.* The SRF may guarantee local debt obligations where such action would improve credit market access or reduce interest rates. The SRF may also purchase or provide bond insurance to guarantee debt service payment.


(d) *Guarantee SRF debt obligations.* The SRF may be used as security or as a source of revenue for the payment of principal and interest on revenue or general obligation bonds issued by the State provided that the net proceeds of the sale of such bonds are deposited in the SRF.


(e) *Loan guarantees for “sub-State revolving funds.”* The SRF may provide loan guarantees for similar revolving funds established by municipal or intermunicipal agencies, to finance activities eligible under title VI.


(f) *Earn interest on fund accounts.* The SRF may earn interest on Fund accounts.


(g) *SRF administrative expenses.* (1) Money in the SRF may be used for the reasonable costs of administering the SRF, provided that the amount does not exceed 4 percent of all grant awards received by the SRF. Expenses of the SRF in excess of the amount permitted under this section must be paid for from sources outside the SRF.


(2) Allowable administrative costs include all reasonable costs incurred for management of the SRF program and for management of projects receiving financial assistance from the SRF. Reasonable costs unique to the SRF, such as costs of servicing loans and issuing debt, SRF program start-up costs, financial management, and legal consulting fees, and reimbursement costs for support services from other State agencies are also allowable.


(3) Unallowable administrative costs include the costs of administering the construction grant program under section 205(g), permit programs under sections 402 and 404 and Statewide wastewater management planning programs under section 208(b)(4).


(4) Expenses incurred issuing bonds guaranteed by the SRF, including the costs of insuring the issue, may be absorbed by the proceeds of the bonds, and need not be charged against the 4 percent administrative costs ceiling. The net proceeds of those issues must be deposited in the Fund.




