# § 1024.100   Definitions.

Refer to § 1010.100 of this chapter for general definitions not noted herein. To the extent there is a differing definition in § 1010.100 of this chapter, the definition in this section is what applies to part 1024. Unless otherwise indicated, for purposes of this part:


(a) *Account.* For purposes of § 1024.220:


(1) *Account* means any contractual or other business relationship between a person and a mutual fund established to effect transactions in securities issued by the mutual fund, including the purchase or sale of securities.


(2) *Account* does not include:


(i) An account that a mutual fund acquires through any acquisition, merger, purchase of assets, or assumption of liabilities; or


(ii) An account opened for the purpose of participating in an employee benefit plan established under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.


(b) *Commission* means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.


(c) *Customer.* For purposes of § 1024.220:


(1) *Customer* means:


(i) A person that opens a new account; and


(ii) An individual who opens a new account for:


(A) An individual who lacks legal capacity, such as a minor; or


(B) An entity that is not a legal person, such as a civic club.


(2) *Customer* does not include:


(i) A financial institution regulated by a Federal functional regulator or a bank regulated by a State bank regulator;


(ii) A person described in § 1020.315(b)(2) through (4) of this Chapter; or


(iii) A person that has an existing account with the mutual fund, provided that the mutual fund has a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of the person.


(d) *Financial institution* is defined at 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) and (c)(1).




