# § 165.26   Written arguments.

All written arguments submitted to CBP pursuant to a proceeding under this part must comply with the requirements specified in §§ 165.4 and 165.5 and this section. The submissions will be placed on the administrative record.


(a) *Written arguments.* Parties to the investigation:


(1) May submit to CBP written arguments that contain all arguments that are relevant to the determination as to evasion and based solely upon facts already on the administrative record in that proceeding. All written arguments must be:


(i) Submitted to the designated email address specified by CBP or through any other method approved or designated by CBP;


(ii) Submitted no later than 230 calendar days after the investigation was initiated pursuant to § 165.15, unless extended by CBP solely at CBP's discretion but no later than 300 calendar days after the investigation was initiated, or 360 calendar days after the investigation was initiated if the deadline for a determination as to evasion has been extended by CBP pursuant to § 165.22(c); and


(2) Must serve a public version of the written arguments prepared in accordance with § 165.4 on the other parties to the investigation by an email message or through any other method approved or designated by CBP the same day it is filed with CBP.


(b) *Responses to the written arguments.* Parties to the investigation:


(1) May submit to CBP a response to a written argument filed by another party to the investigation, fulfilling the following requirements:


(i) The response must be in writing and submitted to the designated email address specified by CBP, or through any other method approved or designated by CBP, no later than 15 calendar days after the written argument was filed with CBP, unless extended by CBP solely at CBP's discretion; and


(ii) The response must be limited to the issues raised in the written argument; any portion of a response that is outside the scope of the issues raised in the written argument will not be considered; and


(2) Must serve a public version of the response prepared in accordance with § 165.4 on the other parties to the investigation by an email message or through any other method approved or designated by CBP the same day it is filed with CBP.


(c) *Written arguments submitted upon request.* Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, CBP may request written arguments on any issue from the parties to the investigation at any time during an investigation.


(d) *Form of written argument and response to the written arguments.* The written argument and response to the written argument must be double-spaced, with headings and footnotes single-spaced, margins one inch on all four sides, and font Times New Roman, 12-point font size. The written argument must be no more than 50 pages in length, including exhibits, and the response to the written argument must be no more than 50 pages in length, including exhibits, excluding any pages containing the table of contents and the table of cited authorities. Each written argument and response to the written argument must contain:


(1) The name, address, and email address of the party and of his or her duly authorized agent or attorney at law (if represented by a duly authorized agent or attorney at law);


(2) A concise summary of the argument or response to the argument;


(3) The argument or response to the argument that clearly and accurately presents points of fact and law with applicable citations;


(4) A table of contents and a table of cited authorities; and


(5) A conclusion that states a proposal for CBP's determination as to evasion.



---

[N] [81 FR 56482, Aug. 22, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 19261, Mar. 18, 2024]












