# § 49.31   Delegation of authority to the Directors of the Division of Market Oversight and Division of Data relating to certain part 49 matters.

(a) The Commission hereby delegates, until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, the following functions to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight and to such members of the Commission staff acting under their direction as they may designate:


(1) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.5.


(2) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.12.


(3) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.13.


(4) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.16.


(5) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.17.


(6) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.18.


(7) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.22.


(8) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.23.


(9) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.24


(10) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.25.


(11) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.29.


(12) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.30.


(b) The Commission hereby delegates, until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, the following functions to the Director of the Division of Data and to such members of the Commission staff acting under their direction as they may designate:


(1) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.9.


(2) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.10.


(c) The Director of the Division of Market Oversight, and, separately, the Director of the Division of Data may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter that has been delegated under this section.


(d) Nothing in this section may prohibit the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this section.





---

[N] [89 FR 71813, Sept. 4, 2024]




