# § 165.1405   Regulated Navigation Areas and Security Zones: Designated Escorted Vessels-Philippine Sea and Apra Harbor Guam, and Tanapag Harbor, Saipan, Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI).

(a) *Regulated navigation area.* The following areas, designated by coordinates referencing World Geodetic Datum (1984), are regulated navigation areas (RNAs). 


(1) *Philippine Sea, Guam*—All waters from the surface to the bottom of the Philippine Sea, Guam, encompassed by lines connecting the following points, beginning at 13°27′10″ N, 144°35′05″ E, thence easterly to 13°27′17″ N, 144°37′27″ E, thence south westerly to 13°26′52″ N, 144°37′05″ E, thence westerly to 13°26′37″ N, 144°35′05″ E, thence due north back to point of origin. 


(2) *Apra Outer Harbor, Guam*—All waters from surface to bottom of Apra Outer Harbor, Guam, shoreward of the COLREGS Demarcation line as described in 33 CFR part 80.


(3) *Tanapag Harbor, Saipan*—The waters from surface to bottom of Tanapag Harbor, Saipan (CNMI), encompassed by lines connecting the following points, beginning at 15°12′10″ N, 145°40′28″ E, thence north easterly to 15°14′08″ N, 145°42′00″ E, thence due east to 15°14′08″ N, 145°44′02″ E, thence south easterly to 15°13′54″ N, 144°44′20″ E, thence south westerly along the shoreline to 15°13′11″ N, 145°43′01″ E, thence south westerly to 15°12′10″ N, 145°40′28″ E. 


(b) *Security zones.* A 100-yard radius security zone is established around, and is centered on, each escorted vessel within the regulated navigation areas in paragraph (a) of this section. A security zone is activated when an escorted vessel enters an RNA and remains active until the escorted vessel leaves the RNA. This is a moving security zone when the escorted vessel is in transit and becomes a fixed zone when the escorted vessel is anchored or moored. A security zone will not extend beyond the boundary of the RNA in this section. 


(c) *Definitions.* As used in this section: 


(1) *Designated representative* means any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer that has been authorized to act on behalf of the COTP. 


(2) *Escorted Vessel* means any vessel operating in the RNA deemed by the COTP to be in need of escort protection for security reasons or under other circumstances. A designated representative aboard a Coast Guard cutter or patrol boat will accompany vessels deemed in need of escort protection into the RNA. 


(3) *Navigation rules* mean international and inland navigation rules in 33 CFR chapter I, subchapters D and E. 


(4) *Vessel* means every description of watercraft or other artificial contrivance used, or capable of being used, as a means of transportation on water, except U.S. Coast Guard or U.S. naval vessels. 


(d) *Regulations.* (1) No person or vessel may enter into the security zones under this section unless authorized by the COTP U.S. Coast Guard Forces Micronesia/Sector Guam or a designated representative. 


(2) A vessel in the RNA established under paragraph (a) of this section operating within 500 yards of an escorted vessel must proceed at a minimum speed necessary to maintain a safe course, unless required to maintain speed by the navigation rules. 


(3) When an escorted vessel in the RNA approaches within 100 yards of a vessel that is moored, or anchored in a designated anchorage area, the stationary vessel must stay moored or anchored while it remains within the escorted vessel's security zone unless it is either ordered by, or given permission from the COTP U.S. Coast Guard Forces Micronesia/Sector Guam or a designated representative to do otherwise. 


(4) The COTP will inform the public of the existence or status of the security zones around escorted vessels in the RNA periodically by Broadcast Notice to Mariners. 


(5) Persons or vessels that must enter a security zone or exceed speed limits established in this section may contact the COTP at command center telephone number (671) 339-6100 or on VHF channel 16 (156.8 Mhz) to request permission. 


(6) All persons and vessels within 500 yards of an escorted vessel in the RNA must comply with the orders of the COTP U.S. Coast Guard Forces Micronesia/Sector Guam or his designated representatives. 


(e) *Authority.* In addition to 46 U.S.C. 70034 and 46 U.S.C. 70051, the authority for this section includes 46 U.S.C. 70116.



---

[N] [CGD14-02-002, 68 FR 4384, Jan. 29, 2003, as amended by USCG-2013-0935, 80 FR 1338, Jan. 9, 2015;  USCG-2022-0429, 87 FR 48446, Aug. 9, 2022]




