# § 614.8   The applicable State for an individual.

(a) *The applicable State.* The applicable State for an individual shall be the State to which the individual's Federal military service and Federal military wages are assigned or transferred under this section. The applicable State law for the individual shall be the State law of such State.


(b) *Assignment of service and wages.* (1) When an individual files a first claim, all of the individual's Federal military service and Federal military wages shall be deemed to be assigned to the State in which such claim is filed, which shall be the “Paying State” in the case of a combined-wage claim. (§ 616.6(e) of this chapter.)


(2) Federal military service and Federal military wages assigned to a State in error shall be reassigned for use by the proper State agency. An appropriate record of the reassignment shall be made by the State agency which makes the reassignment.


(c) *Assignment deemed complete.* All of an individual's Federal military service and Federal military wages shall be deemed to have been assigned to a State upon the filing of a first claim. Federal military service and Federal military wages shall be assigned to a State only in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.


(d) *Use of assigned service and wages.* All assigned Federal military service and Federal military wages shall be used only by the State to which assigned in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, except that any Federal military service and Federal military wages which are not within the base period of the State to which they were assigned shall be subject to transfer in accordance with part 616 of this chapter for the purposes of any subsequent Combined-Wage Claim filed by the individual. 




