# § 589.413   Significant transaction(s); significant financial transaction(s).

In determining, for the purposes of §§ 589.201(a)(6)(vii) and 589.209, whether a transaction or a financial transaction is significant, the Secretary of the Treasury or the Secretary's designee will consider the totality of the facts and circumstances. As a general matter, some or all of the following factors may be considered:


(a) *Size, number, and frequency.* The size, number, and frequency of transaction(s) over a period of time, including whether the transaction(s) is increasing or decreasing over time and the rate of increase or decrease.


(b) *Nature.* The nature of the transaction(s), including the type, complexity, and commercial purpose of the transaction(s).


(c) *Level of awareness; pattern of conduct.* (1) Whether the transaction(s) is performed with the involvement or approval of management or only by clerical personnel; and


(2) Whether the transaction(s) is part of a pattern of conduct or the result of a business development strategy.


(d) *Nexus.* (1) For the purposes of § 589.201(a)(6)(vii), the proximity between the foreign person engaging in the transaction(s) and the person(s) subject to sanctions pursuant to the Support for the Sovereignty, Integrity, Democracy, and Economic Stability of Ukraine Act of 2014, as amended (22 U.S.C. 8901-8910) (SSIDES), the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014, as amended (22 U.S.C. 8921-8930) (UFSA), title II of the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (Pub. L. 115-44, 131 Stat. 886 (codified in scattered sections of 22 U.S.C.)) (CAATSA), and any covered Executive order, or any child, spouse, parent, or sibling of such an individual.


(2) For the purposes of § 589.209(b), the proximity between the foreign financial institution engaging in the transaction(s) and the person with respect to which sanctions are imposed under section 4 of UFSA.


(3) For the purposes of § 589.209(c), the proximity between the foreign financial institution engaging in the financial transaction(s) and the Russian person included on OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) as blocked pursuant to UFSA, E.O. 13660, E.O. 13661, E.O. 13662, or any other Executive order addressing the crisis in Ukraine.


(e) *Impact.* The impact of the transaction(s) on the objectives of UFSA, SSIDES, CAATSA, E.O. 13660, E.O. 13661, E.O. 13662, E.O. 13685, or any other Executive order issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13660.


(f) *Deceptive practices.* Whether the transaction(s) involves an attempt to obscure or conceal the actual parties or true nature of the transaction(s), or to evade sanctions.


(g) *Other relevant factors.* Such other factors that the Secretary of the Treasury or the Secretary's designee deems relevant on a case-by-case basis in determining the significance of a transaction(s).


(h) *Persons solely identified on the Sectoral Sanctions Identifications List (SSI List) or Non-SDN Menu-Based Sanctions List (NS-MBS List).* For the purposes of § 589.201(a)(6)(vii) and § 589.209(b), a transaction in which the person(s) subject to sanctions is only identified on the SSI List or the NS-MBS List must also involve deceptive practices, for example attempts to obscure or conceal the actual parties or true nature of the transaction(s), or to evade sanctions, to potentially be considered significant.


(i) *Applicability.* For the purposes of this part, a transaction is not significant if U.S. persons would not require a specific license from OFAC to participate in it.




