# ยง 292.10   Coordinated Services Plan.

(a) Each State Summer EBT agency must establish, and update annually as needed, a plan to coordinate the statewide availability of services offered through the Summer EBT Program described in this part and the Summer Food Service Program established in 7 CFR part 225. Each ITO Summer EBT agency is encouraged to develop a plan coordinating summer services available to the children and households they serve.


(b) Only one plan must be established for each State in which both the Summer Food Service Program and the Summer EBT Program is administered. If more than one agency administers the Summer Food Service Program and Summer EBT within a respective State, they must work together to develop and implement the plan. States should also ensure that plans include the National School Lunch Program's Seamless Summer Program if appropriate.


(c) The plan must include, at minimum, the following information:


(1) A description of the roles and responsibilities of each Summer Food Service Program and Summer EBT agency, and, as applicable, any other agencies, ITOs, or public or private organizations which will be involved in administering the Programs;


(2) A description of how the Summer EBT agency and any other organizations included in the plan will coordinate outreach and programmatic activities to maximize the reach of the Summer Food Service Program and Summer EBT Program; metrics to assess program reach and coverage; and


(3) The Summer EBT agency's plans to partner with other Federal, State, Tribal, or local programs to aid participants in accessing all Federal, State, Tribal, or local programs for which they are eligible.


(d) States must notify the public about their plan and make it available to the public through a website, and should, to the maximum extent practicable, solicit and consider input on plan development and implementation from other State agencies, ITOs, and local agencies; organizations involved in the administration of nutrition and human services programs; participants; and other stakeholders.


(e) States must consult with FNS on the development of and any significant subsequent updates to their plan. Initial plans must be submitted to FNS no later than January 1, 2025. States must submit updates annually when significant changes are made to the plan, and otherwise no less than every 3 years.






