# ยง 1.709-2   Definitions.

(a) *Organizational expenses.* Section 709(b)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code defines organizational expenses as expenses which:


(1) Are incident to the creation of the partnership;


(2) Are chargeable to capital account; and


(3) Are of a character which, if expended incident to the creation of a partnership having an ascertainable life, would (but for section 709(a)) be amortized over such life.


(b) *Syndication expenses.* Syndication expenses are expenses connected with the issuing and marketing of interests in the partnership. Examples of syndication expenses are brokerage fees; registration fees; legal fees of the underwriter or placement agent and the issuer (the general partner or the partnership) for securities advice and for advice pertaining to the adequacy of tax disclosures in the prospectus or placement memorandum for securities law purposes; accounting fees for preparation of representations to be included in the offering materials; and printing costs of the prospectus, placement memorandum, and other selling and promotional material. These expenses are not subject to the election under section 709(b) and must be capitalized.


(c) *Beginning business.* The determination of the date a partnership begins business for purposes of section 709 presents a question of fact that must be determined in each case in light of all the circumstances of the particular case. Ordinarily, a partnership begins business when it starts the business operations for which it was organized. The mere signing of a partnership agreement is not alone sufficient to show the beginning of business.



---

[N] [T.D. 7891, 48 FR 20049, May 4, 1983]




