# § 123.64   Baggage in transit through the United States between ports in Canada or in Mexico.

(a) *Procedure.* Baggage in transit from point to point in Canada or Mexico through the United States may be transported in-bond through the United States in accordance with the procedures set forth in §§ 18.1, 18.13, 18.14, and 18.20 through 18.24 of this chapter except where those procedures are modified by this section.


(b) *In-transit manifest.* Three copies of the manifest on Customs Form 7512 shall be required. One copy of the Form 7512 shall be delivered to the person in charge of the carrier to accompany the baggage and shall be delivered by the carrier to the Customs officer at the port of departure from the United States.


(c) *Consolidated train manifest.* When the route is such that a train carrying baggage in bond will remain intact while proceeding through the United States, a consolidated train manifest containing the same information as is required on individual manifests may be used in lieu of individual manifest on Customs Form 7512.


(d) *Baggage cards*—(1) *Baggage arriving from Mexico.* For baggage arriving at a port on the Mexican border for in-transit movement through the United States in bond and return to Mexico, the in-transit baggage card described in § 18.14 of this chapter shall be used.


(2) *Baggage arriving from Canada.* For baggage arriving at a port on the Canadian border for in-transit movement through the United States in bond and return to Canada, the joint United States-Canada in-transit baggage card, Customs Form 7512-B (Canada 8
1/2) or Customs Form 7533-C (Canada A4-
1/2), shall be used. The baggage card will be filled out and securely attached to the baggage and the attachment verified by a Canadian Customs officer before the baggage leaves Canada. If the joint in-transit baggage card is found to be improperly prepared or attached upon arrival of the baggage in the United States for movement in bond, the carrier may be required to furnish the baggage card described in § 18.14 of this chapter for attachment to the baggage before being allowed to proceed. At the port of exit from the United States the joint in-transit baggage card shall be allowed to remain on the baggage.



---

[N] [T.D. 70-121, 35 FR 8215, May 26, 1970, as amended by T.D. 71-70, 36 FR 4491, Mar. 6, 1971; T.D. 84-212, 49 FR 39047, Oct. 3, 1984; T.D. 87-75, 52 FR 20068, May 29, 1987; T.D. 00-22, 65 FR 16518, Mar. 29, 2000; CBP Dec. 17-13, 82 FR 45405, Sept. 28, 2017]




