# ยง 721.650   11-Aminoundecanoic acid.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance 11-aminoundecanoic acid, CAS Number 2432-99-7, is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new use is any use other than as. 


(i) An intermediate in the manufacture of polymers in an enclosed process when it is expected that the 11-aminoundecanoic acid will be fully polymerized during the manufacturing process, or 


(ii) A component in photoprocessing solutions.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Definitions.* In addition to the definitions in ยง 721.3, the following definitions apply to this section:


(i) *Enclosed process* means a process that is designed and operated so that there is no intentional release of any substance present in the process. A process with fugitive, inadvertent, or emergency pressure relief releases remains an enclosed process so long as measures are taken to prevent worker exposure to and environmental contamination from the releases.


(ii) *Internal subunit* means a subunit that is covalently linked to at least two other subunits. *Internal subunits* of polymer molecules are chemically derived from monomer molecules that have formed covalent links between two or more other molecules.


(iii) *Monomer* means a chemical substance that has the capacity to form links between two or more other molecules.


(iv) *Polymer* means a chemical substance that consists of at least a simple weight majority of polymer molecules but consists of less than a simple weight majority of molecules with the same molecular weight. Collectively, such polymer molecules must be distributed over a range of molecular weights wherein differences in molecular weight are primarly attributable to differences in the number of internal subunits.


(v) *Polymer molecule* means a molecule which includes at least four covalently linked subunits, at least two of which are internal subunits.


(vi) *Subunit* means an atom or group of associated atoms chemically derived from corresponding reactants. 


(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [52 FR 19865, May 28, 1987. Redesignated at 53 FR 2845, Feb. 2, 1988. Further redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993]




