# ยง 127.303   What must a concern submit for certification?

(a)(1) *SBA certification.* (i) To be certified by SBA as a WOSB or EDWOSB, a concern must provide documents and information demonstrating that it meets the requirements set forth in part 127, subpart B. SBA maintains a list of the minimum required documents that can be found at *https://certify.sba.gov* or any successor system. A concern may submit additional documents and information to support its eligibility. The required documents must be provided to SBA during the application process electronically. This may include, but is not limited to, corporate records, business and personal financial records, including copies of signed Federal personal and business tax returns, and individual and business bank statements.


(ii) A concern that is certified by the 8(a) BD Program and is owned and controlled by one or more women may use documentation of its most recent annual review, or documentation of its 8(a) acceptance if it has not yet had an annual review, in support of its application for certification.


(iii) A concern that is certified by SBA as a veteran-owned or service-disabled veteran-owned small business for the Veteran Small Business Certification Program and is owned and controlled by one or more women may use documentation of its VOSB or SDVOSB certification or most recent recertification in support of its application for WOSB certification. If the concern is also seeking EDWOSB certification, the concern must also submit documentation demonstrating that it is owned and controlled by one or more women who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with ยง 127.203(b)(3).


(iv) A concern that is certified through a program examination or status protest may use the positive determination from SBA as evidence for certification.




(2) *Third-Party Certifier certification.* A concern that is certified by a Third-Party Certifier must provide a current, valid certification from an entity designated as an SBA-approved certifier.


(b) In addition to the minimum required documents, SBA may request additional information from applicants in order to verify eligibility.


(c) After submitting the required documentation, an applicant must notify SBA of any changes that could affect its eligibility.


(d) If a concern was decertified or previously denied certification, it must include with its application for certification a full explanation of why it was decertified or denied certification, and what, if any, changes have been made. If SBA is not satisfied with the explanation provided, SBA will decline to certify the concern.


(e) If the concern was decertified for failure to notify SBA of a material change affecting its eligibility pursuant to ยง 127.401, it must include with its application for certification a full explanation of why it failed to notify SBA of the material change. If SBA is not satisfied with the explanation provided, SBA will decline to certify the concern.



---

[N] [85 FR 27661, May 11, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 96093, Dec. 4, 2024]




