# § 121.301   What size standards and affiliation principles are applicable to financial assistance programs?

The Small Business Act defines a small business concern as one which is independently owned and operated, and which is not dominant in its field of operation. SBA interprets this statutory definition to require, in certain circumstances, the inclusion of other entities (“Affiliates”) owned by the applicant or an owner of the applicant in determining the size of the applicant.


(a) For Business Loans (other than for 7(a) Business Loans) and for Disaster Loans (other than physical disaster loans), an applicant business concern must satisfy two criteria:


(1) The size of the applicant alone (without affiliates) must not exceed the size standard designated for the industry in which the applicant is primarily engaged; and


(2) The size of the applicant combined with its affiliates must not exceed the size standard designated for either the primary industry of the applicant alone or the primary industry of the applicant and its affiliates, which ever is higher. These size standards are set forth in § 121.201.


(b) For 7(a) Business Loans and Development Company programs, an applicant business concern must meet one of the following standards:


(1) The same standards applicable under paragraph (a) of this section; or


(2) Including its affiliates, tangible net worth not in excess of $20 million, and average net income after Federal income taxes (excluding any carry over losses) for the preceding two completed fiscal years not in excess of $6.5 million.


(i) If the applicant is not required by law to pay State (and local, if any) income taxes at the enterprise level, multiply its net income by the marginal State income tax rate (or by the combined State and local income tax rates, as applicable) that would have applied if it were a taxable corporation.


(ii) Multiply the applicant's net income, less any deduction for State and local income taxes calculated under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, by the marginal Federal income tax rate that would have applied if the applicant were a taxable corporation.


(iii) Sum the results obtained in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section.


(c) For the Small Business Investment Company (SBIC) program, an applicant must meet one of the following standards: 


(1) The same standards applicable under paragraph (a) of this section; or 


(2) Including its affiliates, tangible net worth not in excess of $24 million, and average net income after Federal income taxes (excluding any carry-over losses) for the preceding two completed fiscal years not in excess of $8 million. If the applicant is not required by law to pay Federal income taxes at the enterprise level, but is required to pass income through to its shareholders, partners, beneficiaries, or other equitable owners, the applicant's “net income after Federal income taxes” will be its net income reduced by an amount computed as follows:


(i) If the applicant is not required by law to pay State (and local, if any) income taxes at the enterprise level, multiply its net income by the marginal State income tax rate (or by the combined State and local income tax rates, as applicable) that would have applied if it were a taxable corporation. 


(ii) Multiply the applicant's net income, less any deduction for State and local income taxes calculated under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, by the marginal Federal income tax rate that would have applied if the applicant were a taxable corporation. 


(iii) Add the results obtained in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (c)(2)(ii) of this section.


(d) For Surety Bond Guarantee assistance—a business concern, combined with its affiliates, must meet the size standard for the primary industry in which such business concern, combined with its affiliates, is engaged.


(e) The applicable size standards for purposes of SBA's financial assistance programs, excluding the Surety Bond Guarantee assistance program, are increased by 25 percent whenever the applicant agrees to use all of the financial assistance within a labor surplus area. The U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) issues the Labor Surplus Area (LSA) list on a fiscal year basis on its website at *www.dol.gov/agencies/eta/lsa.*

(f) *Affiliation.* Any of the circumstances described below establishes affiliation for applicants of SBA's Business Loan, Disaster Loan, and Surety Bond Programs. For this rule, the Business Loan Programs consist of the 7(a) Loan Program (Direct and Guaranteed Loans), the Microloan Program, the Intermediary Lending Pilot Program, and the Development Company Loan Program (“504 Loan Program”). The Disaster Loan Programs consist of Physical Disaster Business Loans, Economic Injury Disaster Loans, Military Reservist Economic Injury Disaster Loans, and Immediate Disaster Assistance Program loans. The following principles apply for the Business Loan, Disaster Loan, and Surety Bond Guarantee Programs:


(1) *Ownership.* (i) When the Applicant owns more than 50 percent of another business, the Applicant and the other business are affiliated.


(ii) When a business owns more than 50 percent of an Applicant, the business that owns the Applicant is affiliated with the Applicant. Additionally, if the business entity owner that owns more than 50 percent of the Applicant also owns more than 50 percent of another business that operates in the same 3-digit NAICS subsector as the Applicant, then the business entity owner, the other business and the Applicant are all affiliated.


(iii) When an individual owns more than 50 percent of the Applicant and the individual also owns more than 50 percent of another business entity that operates in the same 3-digit NAICS subsector as the Applicant, the Applicant and the individual owner's other business entity are affiliated.


(iv) When the Applicant does not have an owner that owns more than 50 percent of the Applicant, if an owner of 20 percent or more of the Applicant is a business that operates in the same 3-digit NAICS subsector as the Applicant, the Applicant and the owner are affiliated.


(v) When the Applicant does not have an owner that owns more than 50 percent of the Applicant, if an owner of 20 percent or more of the Applicant also owns more than 50 percent of another business entity that operates in the same 3-digit NAICS subsector as the Applicant, the Applicant and the owner's other business entity are affiliated.


(vi) Ownership interests of spouses and minor children must be combined when determining amount of ownership interest.


(vii) When determining the percentage of ownership that an individual owns in a business, SBA considers the pro rata ownership of entities. For example, John Smith, Jane Doe, and Jane Doe, Inc., each own an interest in the Applicant. Jane Doe owns 15 percent of the Applicant, and she also owns 100 percent of Jane Doe, Inc. Jane Doe, Inc. owns 50 percent of the Applicant. SBA considers Jane Doe to own 65 percent of the Applicant.


(2) *Stock options, convertible securities, and agreements to merge.* (i) For purposes of this subparagraph, SBA considers stock options, convertible securities, and agreements to merge (including agreements in principle) to have a present effect on the ownership of the entity. SBA treats such options, convertible securities, and agreements as though the rights granted have been exercised.


(ii) Agreements to open or continue negotiations towards the possibility of a merger or a sale of stock at a later date are not considered “agreements in principle” and are thus not given present effect.


(iii) Options, convertible securities, and agreements that are subject to conditions precedent which are incapable of fulfillment, speculative, conjectural, or unenforceable under state or Federal law, or where the probability of the transaction (or exercise of the rights) occurring is shown to be extremely remote, are not given present effect.


(iv) SBA will not give present effect to individuals', concerns', or other entities' ability to divest all or part of their ownership interest to avoid a finding of affiliation.


(3) *Determining the concern's size.* In determining the concern's size, SBA counts the receipts, employees (see § 121.201), or the alternate size standard (if applicable) of the concern whose size is at issue and all of its domestic and foreign affiliates, regardless of whether the affiliates are organized for profit.


(4) *Exceptions to affiliation.* For exceptions to affiliation, see § 121.103(b).


(g) For COVID-19 Economic Injury Disaster (COVID EIDL) loans, an “affiliated business” or “affiliate” is a business in which an eligible entity has an equity interest or right to profit distributions of not less than 50 percent, or in which an eligible entity has the contractual authority to control the direction of the business, provided that such affiliation shall be determined as of any arrangements or agreements in existence as of January 31, 2020. For exceptions to affiliation, see § 121.103(b).



---

[N] [61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 66 FR 30648, June 7, 2001; 67 FR 3056, Jan. 23, 2002; 69 FR 29204, May 21, 2004; 70 FR 69047, 69052, Nov. 14, 2005; 70 FR 72594, Dec. 6, 2005; 71 FR 62208, Oct. 24, 2006; 73 FR 41254, July 18, 2008; 74 FR 20580, May 5, 2009; 74 FR 36110, July 22, 2009; 75 FR 48550, Aug. 11, 2010; 79 FR 33669, June 12, 2014; 79 FR 71296, Dec. 2, 2014; 81 FR 41428, June 27, 2016; 85 FR 7651, Feb. 10, 2020; 85 FR 80588, Dec. 14, 2020; 86 FR 50218, Sept. 8, 2021; 87 FR 69154, Nov. 17, 2022; 88 FR 21086, Apr. 10, 2023; 89 FR 11712, Feb. 15, 2024]




