# § 690.80   Recalculation of a Federal Pell Grant award.

(a) *Change in expected family contribution.* (1) The institution shall recalculate a Federal Pell Grant award for the entire award year if the student's expected family contribution changes at any time during the award year. The change may result from—


(i) The correction of a clerical or arithmetic error under § 690.14; or


(ii) A correction based on information required as a result of verification under 34 CFR part 668, subpart E.


(2) Except as described in 34 CFR 668.60(c), the institution shall adjust the student's award when an overaward or underaward is caused by the change in the expected family contribution. That adjustment must be made—


(i) Within the same award year—if possible—to correct any overpayment or underpayment; or


(ii) During the next award year to correct any overpayment that could not be adjusted during the year in which the student was overpaid.


(b) *Change in enrollment status.* (1) If the student's enrollment status changes from one academic term to another term within the same award year, the institution shall recalculate the Federal Pell Grant award for the new payment period taking into account any changes in the cost of attendance.


(2)(i) If the student's projected enrollment status changes during a payment period after the student has begun attendance in all of his or her classes for that payment period, the institution may (but is not required to) establish a policy under which the student's award for the payment period is recalculated. Any such recalculations must take into account any changes in the cost of attendance. If such a policy is established, it must apply to all students.


(ii) If a student's projected enrollment status changes during a payment period before the student begins attendance in all of his or her classes for that payment period, the institution shall recalculate the student's enrollment status to reflect only those classes for which the student actually began attendance.


(c) *Change in cost of attendance.* If the student's cost of attendance changes at any time during the award year and his or her enrollment status remains the same, the institution may (but is not required to) establish a policy under which the student's award for the payment period is recalculated. If such a policy is established, it must apply to all students.



---

[N] [50 FR 10724, Mar. 15, 1985, as amended at 59 FR 54735, Nov. 1, 1994]




