# ยง 315.604   Employment of disabled veterans who have completed a training course under Chapter 31 of title 38, United States Code.

(a) When a disabled veteran satisfactorily completes an approved course of training prescribed by the Veterans Administration under chapter 31, title 38, United States Code, any agency may appoint the veteran noncompetitively to the position of class of positions for which trained. 


(b) *Conversion.* An agency may convert to career or career-conditional employment a person appointed under paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) *Disqualifications.* Any law, Executive order, or civil service rule or regulation which would disqualify an applicant for appointment also disqualifies him or her for conversion of his or her employment to career or career-conditional employment under this section.


(d) *Tenure on approval of recommendation.* When an agency converts the employee under paragraph (b) of this section, the employee becomes:


(1) A career-conditional employee, except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section; and


(2) A career employee when he or she has completed the service requirement for career tenure or is excepted from it by ยง 315.201(c).


(e) *Acquisition of competitive status.* A person whose employment is converted to career or career-conditional employment under this section acquires a competitive status automatically on conversion. 



---

[N] [44 FR 54692, Sept. 21, 1979, as amended at 44 FR 55132, Sept. 25, 1979] 




