# § 63.1434   Equipment leak provisions.

(a) The owner or operator of each affected source shall comply with the HON equipment leak requirements in 40 CFR part 63, subpart H for all equipment in organic HAP service, except § 63.165 and as specified in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section.


(b) The compliance date for the equipment leak provisions in this section is provided in § 63.1422(d).


(c) *Requirements for pressure relief devices.* Except as specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, the owner or operator must comply with the operating and pressure release requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section for pressure relief devices in organic HAP gas or vapor service. Except as specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, the owner or operator must also comply with the pressure release management requirements specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section for all pressure relief devices in organic HAP service.


(1) *Operating requirements.* Except during a pressure release event, operate each pressure relief device in organic HAP gas or vapor service with an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background as detected by Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.


(2) *Pressure release requirements.* For pressure relief devices in organic HAP gas or vapor service, comply with paragraphs (c)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) If the pressure relief device does not consist of or include a rupture disk, conduct instrument monitoring, as detected by Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, no later than 5 calendar days after the pressure release to verify that the pressure relief device is operating with an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, except as provided in § 63.171.


(ii) If the pressure relief device consists of or includes a rupture disk, install a replacement disk as soon as practicable after a pressure release, but no later than 5 calendar days after the pressure release, except as provided in § 63.171.


(3) *Pressure release management.* Except as specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, pressure releases to the atmosphere from pressure relief devices in organic HAP service are prohibited, and the owner or operator must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section for all pressure relief devices in organic HAP service.


(i) For each pressure relief device in organic HAP service, the owner or operator must equip each pressure relief device with a device(s) or use a monitoring system that is capable of:


(A) Identifying the pressure release;


(B) Recording the time and duration of each pressure release; and


(C) Notifying operators immediately that a pressure release is occurring. The device or monitoring system may be either specific to the pressure relief device itself or may be associated with the process system or piping, sufficient to indicate a pressure release to the atmosphere. Examples of these types of devices and systems include, but are not limited to, a rupture disk indicator, magnetic sensor, motion detector on the pressure relief valve stem, flow monitor, or pressure monitor.


(ii) If any pressure relief device in organic HAP service releases to atmosphere as a result of a pressure release event, the owner or operator must calculate the quantity of organic HAP released during each pressure release event and report this quantity as required in § 63.1439(e)(6)(ix). Calculations may be based on data from the pressure relief device monitoring alone or in combination with process parameter monitoring data and process knowledge.


(4) *Pressure relief devices routed to a control device, process, or drain system.* If a pressure relief device in organic HAP service is designed and operated to route all pressure releases through a closed vent system to a control device, process, or drain system, the owner or operator is not required to comply with paragraphs (c)(1), (2), or (3) (if applicable) of this section. Both the closed vent system and control device (if applicable) must meet the requirements of § 63.172. The drain system (if applicable) must meet the requirements of § 63.136.


(d) When the HON equipment leak Initial Notification requirements contained in §§ 63.182(a)(1) and 63.182(b) are referred to in 40 CFR part 63, subpart H, the owner or operator shall comply with the Initial Notification requirements contained in § 63.1439(e)(3), for the purposes of this subpart. The Initial Notification shall be submitted no later than June 1, 2000, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later, for existing sources.


(e) The HON equipment leak Notification of Compliance Status required by §§ 63.182(a)(2) and 63.182(c) shall be submitted within 150 days (rather than 90 days) of the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.1422 for the equipment leak provisions. The Initial Notification shall be submitted no later than June 1, 2000, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later, for existing sources.


(f) The Periodic Reports required by §§ 63.182(a)(3) and 63.182(d) may be submitted as part of the Periodic Reports required by § 63.1439(e)(6).


(g) If specific items of equipment, comprising part of a process unit subject to this subpart, are managed by different administrative organizations (e.g., different companies, affiliates, departments, divisions, etc.), those items of equipment may be aggregated with any PMPU within the affected source for all purposes under subpart H, providing there is no delay in achieving the applicable compliance date.


(h) The phrase “the provisions of subparts F, I, or PPP of this part” shall apply instead of the phrase “the provisions of subparts F or I of this part,” and instead of the phrase “the provisions of subpart F or I of this part” throughout §§ 63.163 and 63.168, for the purposes of this subpart. In addition, the phrase “subparts F, I, and PPP” shall apply instead of the phrase “subparts F and I” in § 63.174(c)(2)(iii), for the purposes of this subpart.



---

[N] [64 FR 29439, June 1, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 26501, May 8, 2000; 79 FR 17378, Mar. 27, 2014; 85 FR 73900, Nov. 19, 2020]




