# § 98.506   Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by § 98.3(c), each annual report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section, as applicable:


(a) Annual facility calcium carbide production capacity (tons).


(b) The annual facility production of calcium carbide (tons).


(c) Total number of calcium carbide process units at facility used for production of calcium carbide.


(d) Annual facility consumption of petroleum coke (tons).


(e) Each end use of any calcium carbide produced and sent off site.


(f) If the facility produces acetylene on site, provide the information in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) The annual production of acetylene at the facility (tons).


(2) The annual quantity of calcium carbide used for the production of acetylene at the facility (tons).


(3) Each end use of any acetylene produced on-site.


(g) If a CEMS is used to measure CO_2_ emissions, then you must report under this subpart the relevant information required by § 98.36 for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology and the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) Annual CO_2_ emissions (in metric tons) from each CEMS monitoring location measuring process emissions from the calcium carbide process unit.


(2) Identification number of each process unit.


(h) If a CEMS is not used to measure CO_2_ process emissions, and the carbon mass balance procedure is used to determine CO_2_ emissions according to the requirements in § 98.503(b), then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) Annual process CO_2_ emissions (in metric tons) from each calcium carbide process unit.


(2) List the method used for the determination of carbon content for each input and output material included in the calculation of annual process CO_2_ emissions for each calcium carbide process unit (*i.e.,* supplier provided information, analyses of representative samples you collected).


(3) If you use the missing data procedures in § 98.505(b), you must report for each calcium carbide production process unit how monthly mass of carbon-containing inputs and outputs with missing data were determined and the number of months the missing data procedures were used.






