# § 431.420   Monitoring and compliance.

(a) *General.* (1) Any provision of the Social Security Act that is not expressly waived by CMS in its approval of the demonstration project are not waived, and States may not stop compliance with any of these provisions not expressly waived. Waivers may be limited in scope to the extent necessary to achieve a particular purpose or to the extent of a particular regulatory requirement implementing the statutory provision.


(2) States must comply with the terms and conditions of the agreement between the Secretary and the State to implement a State demonstration project.


(b) *Implementation reviews.* (1) The terms and conditions will provide that the State will perform periodic reviews of the implementation of the demonstration.


(2) CMS will review documented complaints that a State is failing to comply with requirements specified in the special terms and conditions and implementing waivers of any approved demonstration.


(3) CMS will promptly share with the State complaints that CMS has received and will also provide notification of any applicable monitoring and compliance issues.


(c) *Post award.* Within 6 months after the implementation date of the demonstration and annually thereafter, the State must hold a public forum—


(1) To solicit comments on the progress of a demonstration project.


(2) At which members of the public have an opportunity to provide comments and in such time as to include a summary of the forum in the quarterly report associated with the quarter in which the forum was held, as well as in its annual report to CMS.


(3) The public forum to solicit feedback on the progress of a demonstration project must occur using one of the following:


(i) A Medical Care Advisory Committee that operates in accordance with § 431.412 of this subpart.


(ii) A commission or other similar process, where meetings are open to members of the public, and would afford an interested party the opportunity to learn about the demonstration's progress.


(iii) The State must publish the date, time, and location of the public forum in a prominent location on the State's public Web site, at least 30 days prior to the date of the planned public forum.


(4) [Reserved]


(d) *Terminations and suspensions.* (1) The Secretary may suspend or terminate a demonstration in whole or in part, any time before the date of expiration, whenever it determines that the State has materially failed to comply with the terms of the demonstration project.


(2) The Secretary may also withdraw waivers or expenditure authorities based on a finding that the demonstration project is not likely to achieve the statutory purposes.


(3) The terms and conditions for the demonstration will detail any notice and appeal rights for the State for a termination, suspension or withdrawal of waivers or expenditure authorities.


(e) *Closeout costs.* When a demonstration is terminated, suspended, or if waivers or expenditure authority are withdrawn, Federal funding is limited to normal closeout costs associated with an orderly termination of the demonstration or expenditure authority, including service costs during any approved transition period, and administrative costs of disenrolling participants.


(f) *Federal evaluators.* (1) The State must fully cooperate with CMS or an independent evaluator selected by CMS to undertake an independent evaluation of any component of the demonstration.


(2) The State must submit all requested data and information to CMS or the independent evaluator.




