# ยง 180.34   Tests on the amount of residue remaining.

(a) Data in a petition on the amount of residue remaining in or on a raw agricultural commodity should establish the residue that may remain when the pesticide chemical is applied according to directions registered under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, or according to directions contained in an application for registration. These data should establish the residues that may remain under conditions most likely to result in high residues on the commodity.


(b) The petition should establish the reliability of the residue data reported in it. Sufficient information should be submitted about the analytical method to permit competent analysts to apply it successfully.


(c) If the pesticide chemical is absorbed into a living plant or animal when applied (is systemic), residue data may be needed on each plant or animal on which a tolerance or exemption is requested.


(d) If the pesticide chemical is not absorbed into the living plant or animal when applied (is not systemic), it may be possible to make a reliable estimate of the residues to be expected on each commodity in a group of related commodities on the basis of less data than would be required for each commodity in the group, considered separately. 


(e) Each of the following groups of crops lists raw agricultural commodities that are considered to be related for the purpose of paragraph (d) of this section. Commodities not listed in this paragraph are not considered to be related for the purpose of paragraph (d) of this section.


(1) Apples, crabapples, pears, quinces.


(2) Avocados, papayas.


(3) Blackberries, boysenberries, dewberries, loganberries, raspberries.


(4) Blueberries, currants, gooseberries, huckleberries.


(5) Cherries, plums, prunes.


(6) Oranges, citrus citron, grapefruit, kumquats, lemons, limes, tangelos, tangerines.


(7) Mangoes, persimmons.


(8) Peaches, apricots, nectarines.


(9) Beans, peas, soybeans (each in dry form).


(10) Beans, peas, soybeans (each in succulent form).


(11) Broccoli, brussels sprouts, cauliflower, kohlrabi.


(12) Cantaloups, honeydew melons, muskmelons, pumpkins, watermelons, winter squash.


(13) Carrots, garden beets, sugar beets, horseradish, parsnips, radishes, rutabagas, salsify roots, turnips.


(14) Celery, fennel.


(15) Cucumbers, summer squash.


(16) Lettuce, endive (escarole), Chinese cabbage, salsify tops.


(17) Onions, garlic, leeks, shallots (green, or in dry bulb form).


(18) Potatoes, Jerusalem-artichokes, sweetpotatoes, yams.


(19) Spinach, beet tops, collards, dandelion, kale, mustard greens, parsley, Swiss chard, turnip tops, watercress.


(20) Tomatoes, eggplants, peppers, pimentos.


(21) Pecans, almonds, brazil nuts, bush nuts, butternuts, chestnuts, filberts, hazelnuts, hickory nuts, walnuts.


(22) Field corn, popcorn, sweet corn (each in grain form).


(23) Milo, sorghum (each in grain form).


(24) Wheat, barley, oats, rice, rye (each in grain form).


(25) Alfalfa, Bermuda grass, bluegrass, brome grass, clovers, cowpea hay, fescue, lespedeza, lupines, orchard grass, peanut hay, peavine hay, rye grass, soybean hay, sudan grass, timothy, and vetch.


(26) Corn forage, sorghum forage.


(27) Sugarcane, cane sorghum.



---

[N] [36 FR 22540, Nov. 25, 1971, as amended at 39 FR 28286, Aug. 6, 1974; 39 FR 28977, Aug. 13, 1974; 40 FR 6972, Feb. 18, 1975; 45 FR 82928, Dec. 17, 1980; 48 FR 29860, June 29, 1983; 60 FR 26635, May 17, 1995; 73 FR 75600, Dec. 12, 2008]




