# § 63.994   Halogen scrubbers and other halogen reduction devices.

(a) *Halogen scrubber and other halogen reduction device equipment and operating requirements.* (1) An owner or operator of a halogen scrubber or other halogen reduction device subject to this subpart shall reduce the overall emissions of hydrogen halides and halogens by the control device performance level specified in a referencing subpart.


(2) Halogen scrubbers and other halogen reduction devices used to comply with the provisions of a referencing subpart and this subpart shall be operated at all times when emissions are vented to them.


(b) *Halogen scrubber and other halogen reduction device performance test requirements.* (1) An owner or operator of a combustion device followed by a halogen scrubber or other halogen reduction device to control halogenated vent streams in accordance with a referencing subpart and this subpart shall conduct an initial performance test to determine compliance with the control efficiency or emission limits for hydrogen halides and halogens according to the procedures in § 63.997. Performance test records shall be kept as specified in § 63.998(a)(2) and a performance test report shall be submitted as specified in § 63.999(a)(2).


(2) An owner or operator of a halogen scrubber or other halogen reduction technique used to reduce the vent stream halogen atom mass emission rate prior to a combustion device to comply with a performance level specified in a referencing subpart shall determine the halogen atom mass emission rate prior to the combustion device according to the procedures specified in the referencing subpart. Records of the halogen concentration in the vent stream shall be generated as specified in § 63.998(a)(4).


(c) *Halogen scrubber and other halogen reduction device monitoring requirements.* (1) Where a halogen scrubber is used, the monitoring equipment specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section is required for the scrubber. Monitoring results shall be recorded as specified in § 63.998(b) and (c), as applicable. General requirements for monitoring and continuous parameter monitoring systems are contained in a referencing subpart and § 63.996.


(i) A pH monitoring device capable of providing a continuous record shall be installed to monitor the pH of the scrubber effluent.


(ii) A flow meter capable of providing a continuous record shall be located at the scrubber influent for liquid flow. Gas stream flow shall be determined using one of the procedures specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section.


(A) The owner or operator may determine gas stream flow using the design blower capacity, with appropriate adjustments for pressure drop.


(B) The owner or operator may measure the gas stream flow at the scrubber inlet.


(C) If the scrubber is subject to regulations in 40 CFR parts 264 through 266 that have required a determination of the liquid to gas (L/G) ratio prior to the applicable compliance date for the process unit of which it is part as specified in a referencing subpart, the owner or operator may determine gas stream flow by the method that had been utilized to comply with those regulations. A determination that was conducted prior to that compliance date may be utilized to comply with this subpart if it is still representative.


(D) The owner or operator may prepare and implement a gas stream flow determination plan that documents an appropriate method that will be used to determine the gas stream flow. The plan shall require determination of gas stream flow by a method that will at least provide a value for either a representative or the highest gas stream flow anticipated in the scrubber during representative operating conditions other than start-ups, shutdowns, or malfunctions. The plan shall include a description of the methodology to be followed and an explanation of how the selected methodology will reliably determine the gas stream flow, and a description of the records that will be maintained to document the determination of gas stream flow. The owner or operator shall maintain the plan as specified in a referencing subpart.


(2) Where a halogen reduction device other than a scrubber is used, the owner or operator shall follow the procedures specified in a referencing subpart in order to establish monitoring parameters.




