# § 23.55   How do recipients count ACDBE participation toward goals for items other than car rentals?

(a) You count only ACDBE participation that results from a commercially useful function. For purposes of this part, the term commercially useful function has the same meaning as in part 26, § 26.55(c), except that the requirements of § 26.55(c)(3) do not apply to concessions.


(b) Count the total dollar value of gross receipts an ACDBE earns under a concession agreement and the total dollar value of a management contract or subcontract with an ACDBE toward the goal. However, if the ACDBE enters into a subconcession agreement or subcontract with a non-ACDBE, do not count any of the gross receipts earned by the non-ACDBE.


(c) When an ACDBE performs as a subconcessionaire or subcontractor for a non-ACDBE, count only the portion of the gross receipts earned by the ACDBE under its subagreement.


(d) When an ACDBE performs as a participant in a joint venture, count a portion of the gross receipts equal to the distinct, clearly defined portion of the work of the concession that the ACDBE performs with its own forces toward ACDBE goals.


(e) Count 100 percent of fees or commissions charged by an ACDBE firm for a bona fide service, provided that, as the recipient, you determine this amount to be reasonable and not excessive as compared with fees customarily allowed for similar services. Such services may include, but are not limited to, professional, technical, consultant, legal, security systems, advertising, building cleaning and maintenance, computer programming, or managerial.


(f) Count 100 percent of the cost of goods obtained from an ACDBE manufacturer. For purposes of this part, the term manufacturer has the same meaning as in part 26, § 26.55(e)(1)(ii).


(g) Count 100 percent of the cost of goods purchased or leased from an ACDBE regular dealer. For purposes of this part, the term “regular dealer” has the same meaning as in part 26, § 26.55(e)(2)(ii).


(h) Count credit toward ACDBE goals for goods purchased from an ACDBE which is neither a manufacturer nor a regular dealer as follows:


(1) Count 100 percent of fees or commissions charged for assistance in the procurement of the goods, provided that this amount is reasonable and not excessive as compared with fees customarily allowed for similar services. Do not count any portion of the cost of the goods themselves.


(2) Count 100 percent of fees or transportation charges for the delivery of goods required for a concession, provided that this amount is reasonable and not excessive as compared with fees customarily allowed for similar services. Do not count any portion of the cost of goods themselves.


(i) If a firm has not been certified as an ACDBE in accordance with the standards in this part, do not count the firm's participation toward ACDBE goals.


(j) When an ACDBE is decertified because one or more of its disadvantaged owners exceed the PNW cap or the firm exceeds the business size standards of this part during the performance of a contract or other agreement, the firm's participation may continue to be counted toward ACDBE goals for the remainder of the term of the contract or other agreement. However, you must verify that the firm in all other respects remains an eligible ACDBE and you must not count the concessionaire's participation toward ACDBE goals beyond the termination date for the concession agreement in effect at the time of the decertification (*e.g.,* in a case where the agreement is renewed or extended, or an option for continued participation beyond the current term of the agreement is exercised).


(1) The firm must inform the recipient in writing of any change in circumstances affecting its ability to meet ownership or control requirements of subpart C of this part or any material change. Reporting must be made as provided in § 26.83(i) of this chapter.


(2) The firm must provide to the recipient, annually on December 1, a Declaration of Eligibility, affirming that there have been no changes in the firm's circumstances affecting its ability to meet ownership or control requirements of subpart C of this part or any other material changes, other than changes regarding the firm's business size or the owner's personal net worth.


(k) Do not count costs incurred in connection with the renovation, repair, or construction of a concession facility (sometimes referred to as the “build-out”).


(l) Do not count the ACDBE participation of car rental companies toward your ACDBE achievements toward this goal.



---

[N] [70 FR 14508, Mar. 22, 2005, as amended at 89 FR 24962, Apr. 9, 2024]






