# § 307.9   Revolving Loan Fund Plan.

All RLF Recipients shall manage RLFs in accordance with an RLF plan (the “*RLF Plan*” or “*Plan*”) as described in this section. The Plan shall be submitted in electronic format to EDA for approval, unless EDA approves a paper submission.


(a) *Format and content.* (1) Part I of the Plan titled “Revolving Loan Fund Strategy” shall summarize the Region's CEDS or EDA-approved economic development plan, if applicable, and business development objectives, and shall describe the RLF's financing strategy, policy and portfolio standards.


(2) Part II of the Plan titled “Operational Procedures” must serve as the RLF Recipient's internal operating manual and set out administrative procedures for operating the RLF consistent with “Prudent Lending Practices,” as defined in § 307.8, the RLF Recipient's environmental review and compliance procedures as set out in § 307.10, and EDA's conflicts of interest rules set out in § 302.17 of this chapter.


(b) *Evaluation of RLF Plans.* EDA will use the following criteria in evaluating Plans:


(1) The Plan must be consistent with the CEDS or EDA-approved economic development plan, if applicable, for the Region.


(2) The Plan must identify the strategic purpose of the RLF and must describe the selection of the financing strategy and lending criteria, including:


(i) An analysis of the local capital market and the financing needs of the targeted businesses; and


(ii) Financing policies and portfolio standards that are consistent with EDA's policies and requirements; and


(3) The Plan must demonstrate an adequate understanding of commercial loan portfolio management procedures, including loan processing, underwriting, closing, disbursements, collections, monitoring, and foreclosures. It also shall provide sufficient administrative procedures to prevent conflicts of interest and to ensure accountability, safeguarding of assets and compliance with Federal and local laws.


(c) *Revision and Modification of RLF Plans.* (1) An RLF Recipient must update its Plan as necessary in accordance with changing economic conditions in the Region; however, at a minimum, an RLF Recipient must submit an updated Plan to EDA every five years.


(2) An RLF Recipient must notify EDA of any change(s) to its Plan. Any material modification, such as a merger, consolidation, or change in the EDA-approved lending area under § 307.18, a change in critical management staff, or a change to the strategic purpose of the RLF, must be submitted to EDA for approval prior to any revision of the Plan. If EDA approves the modification, the RLF Recipient must submit an updated Plan to EDA in electronic format, unless EDA approves a paper submission.



---

[N] [71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 62867, Oct. 22, 2008; 75 FR 4264, Jan. 27, 2010; 79 FR 76133, Dec. 19, 2014]




