# ยง 1226.3   Definitions.

(a) The *Act* means the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, as amended, Pub. L. 93-113 (42 U.S.C. 4951 *et seq.*).


(b) *Assistance* means funds, volunteers or volunteer training, which is paid for from funds appropriated for the purpose of supporting activities under the Act, and includes locally provided funds required by law, regulation or policy as a local contribution to activities authorized by the Act.


(c) *Full time* when used in the context of volunteer service, means service of not less than 35 hours per week.


(d) *Part time* when used in the context of volunteer service, means service that is less than full time.


(e) *Recipient* or *sponsor organization* means any organization that receives assistance under the Act.


(f) *Volunteer* means an individual enrolled for service in a program or project that is authorized by or which receives assistance under the Act.


(g) *Legislative body* includes the United States Congress, State and Territorial Legislatures and locally elected or appointed bodies with the authority to enact laws.


(h) *Public office* includes any Federal, State, local elective, or party office. 


(i) *Party office* means an elective position in a national, state or local organization or committees or convention of such organization, which has, as a principal purpose, support or opposition to candidates for public office.


(j) *Legislation* means bills, resolutions, amendments, nominations and other matters pending or proposed in a legislative body and includes any other matter which may be the subject of action by the legislative body.




