# § 622.439   Area and seasonal closures.

(a) *Closures applicable to specific areas*—(1) *Abrir La Sierra Bank red hind spawning aggregation area.* Abrir La Sierra Bank is bounded by rhumb lines connecting, in order, the points listed in Table 1 to this paragraph (a)(1).


(i) From December 1 through the last day of February, each year, fishing is prohibited in Abrir La Sierra Bank.


(ii) Fishing with pots, traps, bottom longlines, gillnets or trammel nets is prohibited year-round in Abrir La Sierra Bank.


(2) *Tourmaline Bank red hind spawning aggregation area.* Tourmaline Bank is bounded by rhumb lines connecting, in order, the points listed in Table 2 to this paragraph (a)(2).


(i) From December 1 through the last day of February, each year, fishing is prohibited in those parts of Tourmaline Bank that are in the EEZ around Puerto Rico.


(ii) Fishing with pots, traps, bottom longlines, gillnets or trammel nets is prohibited year-round in those parts of Tourmaline Bank that are in the EEZ around Puerto Rico.


(3) *Bajo de Sico.* Bajo de Sico is bounded by rhumb lines connecting, in order, the points listed in Table 3 to this paragraph (a)(3).


(i) From October 1 through March 31, each year, no person may fish for or possess any reef fish in or from those parts of Bajo de Sico that are in the EEZ around Puerto Rico. The prohibition on possession does not apply to such reef fish harvested and landed ashore prior to the closure.


(ii) Fishing with pots, traps, bottom longlines, gillnets or trammel nets is prohibited year-round in those parts of Bajo de Sico that are in the EEZ around Puerto Rico.


(iii) Anchoring by fishing vessels is prohibited year-round in those parts of Bajo de Sico that are in the EEZ around Puerto Rico.


(b) *Seasonal closures applicable to specific species*—(1) *Black, red, tiger, yellowedge, and yellowfin grouper closure.* From February 1 through April 30, each year, no person may fish for or possess black, red, tiger, yellowedge, or yellowfin grouper in or from the EEZ around Puerto Rico. The prohibition on possession does not apply to such grouper harvested and landed ashore prior to the closure.


(2) *Red hind closure.* From December 1 through the last day of February, each year, no person may fish for or possess red hind in or from the EEZ around Puerto Rico west of 67°10′ W. longitude. The prohibition on possession does not apply to red hind harvested and landed ashore prior to the closure.


(3) *Black, blackfin, silk, and vermilion snapper closure.* From October 1 through December 31, each year, no person may fish for or possess black, blackfin, silk, or vermilion snapper in or from the EEZ around Puerto Rico. The prohibition on possession does not apply to such snapper harvested and landed ashore prior to the closure.


(4) *Lane and mutton snapper closure.* From April 1 through June 30, each year, no person may fish for or possess lane or mutton snapper in or from the EEZ around Puerto Rico. The prohibition on possession does not apply to such snapper harvested and landed ashore prior to the closure.








