# § 63.311   Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(a) *General requirements.* After the effective date of an approved permit in a state under part 70 of this chapter, the owner or operator shall submit all notifications and reports required by this subpart to the state permitting authority except a source that reclassifies to an area source must follow the notification procedures of § 63.9(j) and (k). Use of information provided by the certified observer shall be a sufficient basis for notifications required under § 70.5(c)(9) of this chapter and the reasonable inquiry requirement of § 70.5(d) of this chapter.


(b) *Initial compliance certification.* The owner or operator of an existing or new coke oven battery shall provide a written statement(s) to certify compliance to the Administrator within 45 days of the applicable compliance date for the emission limitations or requirements in this subpart. The owner or operator shall include the following information in the initial compliance certification:


(1) Statement signed by the owner or operator, certifying that a bypass/bleeder stack flare system or an approved alternative control device or system has been installed as required in § 63.307.


(2) Statement, signed by the owner or operator, certifying that all work practice standards for charging operations have been met as required in § 63.303(b)(3).


(3) Statement, signed by the owner or operator, certifying that all work practice standards for door leaks have been met as required in § 63.303(c).


(4) Statement, signed by the owner or operator, that all applicable emission limitations in § 63.303(d)(1) and (2) for a new nonrecovery coke oven battery have been met. The owner or operator shall also include the results of the PM performance test required in § 63.309(k).


(5) Statement, signed by the owner or operator, certifying that all work practice standards in § 63.303(d)(3) and (4) for a new nonrecovery coke oven battery have been met.


(c) *Notifications.* The owner or operator shall provide written notification(s) to the Administrator of:


(1) Intention to construct a new coke oven battery (including reconstruction of an existing coke oven battery and construction of a greenfield coke oven battery), a brownfield coke oven battery, or a padup rebuild coke oven battery, including the anticipated date of startup.


(2) Election to meet emission limitation(s) in this subpart as follows:


(i) Notification of election to meet the emission limitations in § 63.304(b)(1) or § 63.304(c) either in lieu of or in addition to the applicable emission limitations in § 63.302(a) or § 63.303(a) must be received by the Administrator on or before November 15, 1993; or


(ii) Notification of election to meet the emission limitations in § 63.302(a)(1) or § 63.303(a), as applicable, must be received by the Administrator on or before December 31, 1995; and


(iii) Notification of election to meet the emission limitations in § 63.304(b) (2) through (4) and § 63.304(c) or election to meet residual risk standards to be developed according to section 112(f) of the Act in lieu of the emission standards in § 63.304 must be received on or before January 1, 1998.


(3) Intention to conduct a PM performance test for a new nonrecovery coke oven battery subject to the requirements in § 63.303(d)(2). The owner or operator shall provide written notification according to the requirements in § 63.7(b).


(d) *Semiannual compliance certification.* The owner or operator of a coke oven battery shall include the following information in the semiannual compliance certification:


(1) Certification, signed by the owner or operator, that no coke oven gas was vented, except through the bypass/bleeder stack flare system of a by-product coke oven battery during the reporting period or that a venting report has been submitted according to the requirements in paragraph (e) of this section.


(2) Certification, signed by the owner or operator, that work practices were implemented if applicable under § 63.306.


(3) Certification, signed by the owner or operator, that all work practices for nonrecovery coke oven batteries were implemented as required in § 63.303(b)(3).


(4) Certification, signed by the owner or operator, that all coke oven door leaks on a nonrecovery battery were stopped according to the requirements in § 63.303(c)(2) and (3). If a coke oven door leak was not stopped according to the requirements in § 63.303(c)(2) and (3), or if the door leak occurred again during the coking cycle, the owner or operator must report the information in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) The oven number of each coke oven door for which a leak was not stopped according to the requirements in § 63.303(c)(2) and (3) or for a door leak that occurred again during the coking cycle.


(ii) The total duration of the leak from the time the leak was first observed.


(iii) The cause of the leak (including unknown cause, if applicable), any actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with and § 63.300(e), the corrective action taken to stop the leak.


(iv) Whether the failure occurred during a period of startup, shutdown or malfunction.


(5) Certification, signed by the owner or operator, that the opacity of emissions from charging operations for a new nonrecovery coke oven battery did not exceed 20 percent. If the opacity limit in § 63.303(d)(1) was exceeded, the owner or operator must report the number, duration, and cause of the deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable), and the corrective action taken


(6) Before September 3, 2024, report the results of any PM performance test for a charging emissions control device for a new nonrecovery coke oven battery conducted during the reporting period as required in § 63.309(l). Beginning on September 3, 2024, report PM performance test results according to paragraph (i) of this section.


(7) Certification, signed by the owner or operator, that all work practices for a charging emissions control device for a new nonrecovery coke oven battery were implemented as required in § 63.303(d)(3). If a Method 9 in appendix A-4 to 40 CFR part 60 or ASTM D7520-16 (as applicable; incorporation by reference, see § 63.14) visible emissions observation exceeds 10 percent, the owner or operator must report the duration and cause of the deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable), and the corrective action taken.


(8) Certification, signed by the owner or operator, that all work practices for oven dampers on a new nonrecovery coke oven battery were implemented as required in § 63.303(d)(4).


(9) Facility name and address (including the county) and the beginning and ending date of the reporting period.


(e) *Report for the venting of coke oven gas other than through a flare system.* The owner or operator shall report any venting of coke oven gas through a bypass/bleeder stack that was not vented through the bypass/bleeder stack flare system to the Administrator as soon as practicable but no later than 24 hours after the beginning of the event. A written or electronic report shall be submitted within 30 days of the event and shall include a description of the event and, if applicable, a copy of the notification for a hazardous substance release required pursuant to 40 CFR 302.6.


(f) *Recordkeeping.* The owner or operator shall maintain files of all required information in a permanent form suitable for inspection at an onsite location for at least 1 year and must thereafter be accessible within 3 working days to the Administrator for the time period specified in 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(ii)(B). Copies of the work practice plan developed under § 63.306 shall be kept onsite at all times. The owner or operator shall record the occurrence and duration of each startup, shutdown, or malfunction of process, air pollution control, and monitoring equipment, and maintain the following information:




(1) For nonrecovery coke oven batteries,


(i) Records of daily pressure monitoring, if applicable according to § 63.303(a)(1)(ii) or § 63.303(b)(1)(ii).


(ii) Records demonstrating the performance of work practice requirements according to § 63.306(b)(7). This requirement applies to nonrecovery coke oven batteries subject to the work practice requirements in § 63.303(a)(2) or § 63.303(b)(3).


(iii) Design characteristics of each emission control system for the capture and collection of charging emissions, as required by § 63.303(b)(2).


(iv) Records to demonstrate compliance with the work practice requirement for door leaks in § 63.303(c). These records must include the oven number of each leaking door, total duration of the leak from the time the leak was first observed, the cause of the leak (including unknown cause, if applicable), the corrective action taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner operation, and the amount of time taken to stop the leak from the time the leak was first observed. Beginning on January 2, 2025, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, a description of the method used to estimate the emissions, and whether the failure occurred during a period of startup, shutdown or malfunction. If you failed to meet an applicable standard, the compliance report must include the start date, start time, cause, and duration (in hours) of each failure. For each failure, beginning on January 2, 2025, the compliance report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, actions taken to minimize emissions, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.












(v) Records to demonstrate compliance with the work practice requirements for oven uptake damper monitoring and adjustments in § 63.303(c)(1)(iv).


(vi) Records of weekly performance tests to demonstrate compliance with the opacity limit for charging operations in § 63.303(d)(1). These records must include calculations of the highest 3-minute averages for each charge, the average opacity of five charges, and, if applicable, records demonstrating why five consecutive charges were not observed (e.g., the battery was charged only at night).


(vii) Records of all PM performance tests for a charging emissions control device to demonstrate compliance with the limit in § 63.303(d)(2).


(viii) Records of all daily visible emission observations for a charging emission control device to demonstrate compliance with the requirements limit in § 63.303(d)(3).


(ix) Records to demonstrate compliance with the work practice requirements for oven uptake damper monitoring and adjustments in § 63.303(d)(4).


(2) For an approved alternative emission limitation according to § 63.305;


(i) Monitoring records for parameter(s) that indicate the exhaust flow rate is maintained;


(ii) If applicable under § 63.305(f)(4)(i);


(A) Records of opacity readings from the continuous opacity monitor for the control device for the shed. Beginning on January 2, 2025, if you failed to meet an applicable standard, the compliance report must include whether the failure occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction of process, air pollution control, and monitoring equipment; the start date, start time, and duration (in hours) of each failure; and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation. For each failure, beginning on January 2, 2025, the compliance report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions; and










(B) Records that demonstrate the continuous opacity monitoring system meets the requirements of Performance Specification 1 in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter and the operation and maintenance requirements in part 52 of this chapter; and


(iii) Records of quarterly visual inspections as specified in § 63.305(f)(5), including the time and date a defect is detected and repaired.


(3) A copy of the work practice plan required by § 63.306 and any revision to the plan;


(4) If the owner or operator is required under § 63.306(c) to implement the provisions of a work practice plan for a particular emission point, the following records regarding the implementation of plan requirements for that emission point during the implementation period;


(i) Copies of all written and audiovisual materials used in the training, the dates of each class, the names of the participants in each class, and documentation that all appropriate personnel have successfully completed the training required under § 63.306(b)(1);


(ii) The records required to be maintained by the plan provisions implementing § 63.306(b)(7);


(iii) Records resulting from audits of the effectiveness of the work practice program for the particular emission point, as required under § 63.306(b)(2)(i), 63.306(b)(3)(i), 63.306(b)(4)(i), or 63.306(b)(5)(i); and


(iv) If the plan provisions for coke oven doors must be implemented, records of the inventory of doors and jambs as required under § 63.306(b)(2)(vi); and


(5) The design drawings and engineering specifications for the bypass/bleeder stack flare system or approved alternative control device or system as required under § 63.307.


(g) *Record availability.* Records required to be maintained and reports required to be filed with the Administrator under this subpart shall be made available in accordance with the requirements of this paragraph by the owner or operator to the authorized collective bargaining representative of the employees at a coke oven battery, for inspection and copying.


(1) Requests under paragraph (g) of this section shall be submitted in writing or electronically, and shall identify the records or reports that are subject to the request with reasonable specificity;










(2) The owner or operator shall produce the reports for inspection and copying within a reasonable period of time, not to exceed 30 days. A reasonable fee may be charged for copying (except for the first copy of any document), which shall not exceed the copying fee charged by the Administrator under part 2 of this chapter;


(3) Nothing in paragraph (g) of this section shall require the production for inspection or copying of any portion of a document that contains trade secrets or confidential business information that the Administrator would be prohibited from disclosing to the public under part 2 of this chapter; and 


(4) The inspection or copying of a document under paragraph (g) of this section shall not in any way affect any property right of the owner or operator in such document under laws for the protection of intellectual property, including the copyright laws.


(h) *Electronic reporting of compliance certification reports.* Beginning on July 7, 2025, or once the report template for this subpart has been available on the EPA's Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) website for one year, whichever date is later, submit all subsequent reports to the EPA via the CEDRI according to § 63.9(k) except that confidential business information (CBI) should be submitted according to paragraph (k) of this section.


(i) *Electronic Reporting of Performance Tests.* Beginning on September 3, 2024, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k) except that CBI should submitted be according to paragraph (k) of this section. Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert*) at the time of the test must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or alternate electronic file. If a performance test consists only of opacity or EPA Method 303 measurements, reporting using the ERT and CEDRI is not required.


(j) *Fenceline monitoring reporting.* For fenceline monitoring systems subject to § 63.314 of this subpart, each owner or operator must submit fenceline monitoring reports on a quarterly basis using the appropriate electronic template on the CEDRI website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri*) for this subpart and following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k), except any medium submitted through mail must be sent to the attention of the Coke Ovens Sector Lead. The first quarterly report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified in § 63.314(a) of this subpart and ending on March 31, June 30, September 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date that occurs after the owner or operator has completed at least one sampling period. Each subsequent quarterly report must cover one of the following reporting periods: Quarter 1 from January 1 through March 31; Quarter 2 from April 1 through June 30; Quarter 3 from July 1 through September 30; and Quarter 4 from October 1 through December 31. Each quarterly report must be electronically submitted no later than 45 calendar days following the end of the reporting period.


(1) Facility name and address (including the county).


(2) Year and reporting quarter (*i.e.,* Quarter 1, Quarter 2, Quarter 3, or Quarter 4).


(3) For each passive tube monitor: The latitude and longitude location coordinates; the sampler name; and identification of the type of sampler (*i.e.,* regular monitor, extra monitor, duplicate, field blank, inactive). Coordinates must be in decimal degrees with at least five decimal places.


(4) The beginning and ending dates for each sampling period.


(5) Individual sample results for benzene reported in units of micrograms per cubic meter (_m_g/m
3) for each monitor for each sampling period that ends during the reporting period. Results below the method detection limit shall be flagged as below the detection limit and reported at the method detection limit. Where individual sample results are corrected according to a site specific monitoring plan according to § 63.314(f), both the original and the corrected results are reported.


(6) Data flags that indicate each monitor that was skipped for the sampling period, if the owner or operator uses an alternative sampling frequency under § 63.314(a)(2)(iii).


(7) Data flags for each outlier determined in accordance with section 9.2 of Method 325A in appendix A to this part. For each outlier, the owner or operator must submit the individual sample result of the outlier, as well as the evidence used to conclude that the result is an outlier.


(8) The biweekly concentration difference (Δc) for benzene for each sampling period and, beginning the first quarterly report with sufficient data to calculate an annual average, the annual average Δc for benzene for each sampling period.


(9) Indication of whether the owner or operator was required to develop a corrective action plan under § 63.314(e) of this subpart.


(k) *Confidential business information (CBI).* For notifications and reports required to be submitted to CEDRI:


(1) The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim for some of the information submitted under paragraphs (h) or (i) of this section, you must submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA.


(2) For performance test reports according to paragraph (j) of this section, the file must be generated using the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.


(3) Clearly mark the part or all of the information that you claim to be CBI. Information not marked as CBI may be authorized for public release without prior notice. Information marked as CBI will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2.


(4) The preferred method to receive CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol, or other online file sharing services. Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address *oaqpscbi@epa.gov,* and as described above, should include clear CBI markings. For performance test reports, the CBI should be flagged to the attention of the Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group; for all other reports and notifications, to the attention of the Coke Ovens Sector Lead. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if you do not have your own file sharing service, please email *oaqpscbi@epa.gov* to request a file transfer link.


(5) If you cannot transmit the file electronically, you may send CBI information through the postal service to the following address: OAQPS Document Control Officer (C404-02), OAQPS, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711, Attention Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group or Coke Oven Sector Lead as indicated in paragraph (k)(4) of this section. The mailed CBI material should be double wrapped and clearly marked. Any CBI markings should not show through the outer envelope.


(6) All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available.


(7) You must submit the same file submitted to the CBI office with the CBI omitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described in paragraphs (h), (i), or (j) of this section.


(l) *Fenceline monitoring recordkeeping.* For fenceline monitoring systems subject to § 63.314, each owner or operator shall keep the records specified in paragraphs (l)(1) through (10) of this section on an ongoing basis.


(1) Coordinates of all fenceline monitors, including co-located samplers and field blanks, and if applicable, the meteorological station. The owner or operator shall determine the coordinates using an instrument with an accuracy of at least 3 meters. The coordinates shall be in decimal degrees with at least five decimal places.


(2) The start and stop times and dates for each sample, as well as the tube identifying information.


(3) Sampling period average temperature and barometric pressure measurements.


(4) For each outlier determined in accordance with Section 9.2 of Method 325A in appendix A to this part, the sampler location of and the concentration of the outlier and the evidence used to conclude that the result is an outlier.


(5) For samples that will be adjusted for a background, the location of and the concentration measured simultaneously by the background sampler(s), and the perimeter samplers to which it applies.


(6) Individual sample results, the calculated Δc for benzene for each sampling period and the two samples used to determine it, whether background correction was used, and the annual average Δc calculated after each sampling period.


(7) Method detection limit for each sample, including co-located samples and blanks.


(8) Documentation of the root cause analysis and any corrective action taken each time the action level was exceeded, including the dates the root cause analysis was initiated and the resulting correction action(s) were taken.


(9) Any corrective action plan developed under § 63.314(e).


(10) Other records as required by Methods 325A and 325B in appendix A to this part.


(11) If a near-field source correction is used as provided in § 63.314(f), or if an alternative test method is used that provides time-resolved measurements, records of hourly meteorological data, including temperature, barometric pressure, wind speed and wind direction, calculated daily unit vector wind direction and daily sigma theta, and other records specified in the site-specific monitoring plan.



---

[N] [58 FR 57911, Oct. 27, 1993, as amended at 70 FR 20014, Apr. 15, 2005; 85 FR 73888, Nov. 19, 2020; 89 FR 55735, July 5, 2024]










