# § 504.2   Definitions.

(a) *Shipping Act of 1984* means the Shipping Act of 1984 (46 U.S.C. 40101-41309).


(b) *Common carrier* means any common carrier by water as defined in section 3 of the Shipping Act of 1984 (46 U.S.C. 40102), including a conference of such carriers.


(c) *Environmental impact* means any alteration of existing environmental conditions or creation of a new set of environmental conditions, adverse or beneficial, caused or induced by the action under consideration.


(d) *Potential action* means the range of possible Commission actions that may result from a Commission proceeding in which the Commission has not yet formulated a proposal.


(e) *Proposed action* means that stage of activity where the Commission has determined to take a particular course of action and the effects of that course of action can be meaningfully evaluated.


(f) *Environmental assessment* means a concise document that serves to “provide sufficient evidence and analysis for determining whether to prepare an environmental impact statement or a finding of no significant impact” (40 CFR 1508.9).


(g) *Recyclable* means any secondary material that can be used as a raw material in an industrial process in which it is transformed into a new product replacing the use of a depletable natural resource.


(h) *Marine Terminal Operator* means a person engaged in the United States in the business of furnishing wharfage, dock, warehouse or other terminal facilities in connection with a common carrier, or in connection with a common carrier and a water carrier subject to subchapter II of chapter 135 of Title 49, United States Code.


(i) *Commission* means the Federal Maritime Commission, including any office or bureau to which the Commission may delegate its environmental policy analysis responsibilities.



---

[N] [49 FR 44415, Nov. 6, 1984, as amended at 64 FR 23549, May 3, 1999; 74 FR 50718, Oct. 1, 2009]




