# § 721.8250   1-Propanol, 3,3′-oxybis[2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-propanol, 3,3′-oxybis[2,2-bis(bromomethyl)]- (PMN P-87-1273) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(2)(iv), (a)(3)(applies to gloves only), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), (a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements asspecified in § 721.72(a), (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). In addition, the human health hazard statement shall include a statement that this substance may cause acute and chronic toxicity.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (f) and (p). In addition, use other than as a flame retardant additive is a significant new use.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping requirements.* Requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (i), and (j) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [57 FR 44072, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




