# ยง 73.169   Grape color extract.

(a) *Identity.* (1) The color additive grape color extract is an aqueous solution of anthocyanin grape pigments made from Concord grapes or a dehydrated water soluble powder prepared from the aqueous solution. The aqueous solution is prepared by extracting the pigments from precipitated lees produced during the storage of Concord grape juice. It contains the common components of grape juice, namely anthocyanins, tartrates, malates, sugars, and minerals, etc., but not in the same proportion as found in grape juice. The dehydrated water soluble powder is prepared by spray drying the aqueous solution containing added malto-dextrin.


(2) Color additive mixtures for food use made with grape color extract may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.


(b) *Specifications.* Grape color extract shall conform to the following specifications: Pesticide residues, not more than permitted in or on grapes by regulations promulgated under section 408 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Lead (as Pb), not more than 10 parts per million. Arsenic (as As), not more than 1 part per million.


(c) *Uses and restrictions.* Grape color extract may be safely used for the coloring of nonbeverage food, except that it may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been promulgated under section 401 of the act, unless the use of added color is authorized by such standards.


(d) *Labeling.* The color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the act, labeling in accordance with the provisions of ยง 70.25 of this chapter.


(e) *Exemption from certification.* Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the Act.



---

[N] [46 FR 47532, Sept. 29, 1981]




