# § 141.156   Summary of report contents.

(a) Each report must include a summary displayed prominently at the beginning of the report, including a brief description of the nature of the report.


(b) Systems must include, at a minimum, the following information in the summary:


(1) Summary of violations and compliance information included in the report required by § 141.153(d)(6) and (8), (f), and (h)(6) and (7).


(2) Contact information for owner, operator, or designee of the community water system as a source of additional information concerning the report, per § 141.153(h)(2).


(c) If applicable, systems must include the following in the summary:


(1) For systems using delivery methods in § 141.155(a)(1)(ii), (iii), or (iv), the summary must include directions for consumers to request a paper copy of the report, as described in § 141.155(a)(2).


(2) For systems subject to § 141.153(h)(3) because they serve a large proportion of consumers with limited English proficiency, the summary must include information where consumers may obtain a translated copy of the report, or get assistance in the appropriate language(s).


(3) For systems using the report to also meet the public notification requirements of subpart Q of this part, the summary must specify that it is also serving to provide public notification of one or more violations or situations, provide a brief statement about the nature of the notice(s), and a brief description of how to locate the notice(s) in the report.


(d) The summary should be written in plain language and may use infographics.


(e) For those systems required to include a 6-month update with the second report under § 141.155(j)(2), the summary should include a brief description of the nature of the report and update, noting the availability of new information for the current year (between January and June).


(f) The report summary must include the following standard language to encourage the distribution of the report to all persons served: 



---

[N] [89 FR 46013, May 24, 2024]















