# ยง 5001.408   Participation or assignment of guaranteed loan.

(a) *General.* The lender may obtain participation in the loan or assign all or part of the guaranteed portion of the guaranteed loan on the secondary market subject to the conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section or retain the entire guaranteed loan.


(1) *Participation.* The lender may obtain participation in the loan under its normal operating procedures; however, the lender must retain title to and possession of the promissory note(s) and retain the lender's interest in the collateral.


(2) *Assignment.* Any assignment by the lender of the guaranteed portion of the loan must be accomplished in accordance with the conditions in the lender's agreement and the provisions of this section. The holders and the borrower have no rights or obligations to one another. The holders and the borrower have no rights or obligations to one another.


(3) *Minimum retention by the lender.* Minimum retention at all times must be from the unguaranteed portion of the loan and cannot be participated to another person.


(i) The lender must hold a minimum of 7.5 percent of the total loan amount.


(ii) The lender must retain its security interest in the collateral and retain the servicing responsibilities for the guaranteed loan.


(iii) The Agency can approve a reduction of the minimum retention requirement below the applicable percentage on a case-by-case basis when the lender establishes to the Agency's satisfaction that reduction of the minimum retention percentage is necessary to meet compliance with the lender's regulatory authority.


(4) *Prohibition.* The lender must not assign or participate any amount of the guaranteed or non-guaranteed portion of the loan to the borrower, borrower's officers, directors, stockholders, other owners, or to members of their immediate families, or to a parent company, an affiliate, or a subsidiary of the borrower.


(5) *Secondary market.* The lender must properly close their loan and fully disburse loan funds of a promissory note for the purposes intended prior to assignment of the guaranteed portion of the promissory note(s) on the secondary market. The lender can assign all or part of the guaranteed portion of the loan only if the loan is not in default. Default includes a borrower default in payments or a lender default by unpaid periodic guarantee retention fees. A lender using the multi-note system may sell the guarantee on the secondary market for a specific note once that note is fully disbursed, even if other guaranteed notes for the project have not been fully disbursed.




(b) *Lender's servicing fee to holder.* The assignment guarantee agreement must clearly state the guarantee portion of loan as a percentage and corresponding dollar amount of the guaranteed portion of the guaranteed loan it represents and the lender's servicing fee. The lender cannot charge the Agency a servicing fee and servicing fees are not eligible expenses for loss claim.




(c) *Distribution of proceeds.* The lender must apply all loan payments and collateral proceeds received, after payment of liquidation expenses, to the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of the loan on a pro rata basis.


(d) *Promissory note(s).* A loan note guarantee is issued to the lender for a specific promissory note(s) executed between the lender and the borrower. The lender must retain title to and possession of the guaranteed promissory note(s), retain the lender's interest in the collateral, and retain the servicing responsibilities for the guaranteed loan. The lender is prohibited from issuing any additional promissory notes at a later date for the same guaranteed loan.


(1) The lender may assign all or part of the guaranteed portion of the loan, including interest strips, to one or more holders by using an assignment guarantee agreement for each holder. The lender must complete and execute the assignment guarantee agreement and return it to the Agency for execution prior to holder execution.


(2) The lender or holder may request a certificate of incumbency and signature from the Agency.


(3) A holder, upon written notice to the lender and the Agency, may reassign the unpaid guaranteed portion of the loan, in full, assigned under the assignment guarantee agreement. Holders can only reassign the complete block they have received and cannot subdivide or further split their interest in the guaranteed portion of a loan or retain an interest strip.


(4) Upon notification and completion of the assignment through the use of the assignment guarantee agreement, the assignee succeeds to all rights and obligations of the holder thereunder. Subsequent assignments require notice to the lender and Agency using any format, including that used by the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (formerly known as the Bond Market Association), together with the transfer of the original assignment guarantee agreement.


(5) The Agency will not execute a new assignment guarantee agreement to affect a subsequent reassignment.


(6) The Agency will not reissue a duplicate assignment guarantee agreement unless:


(i) The original was lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated, or defaced; and


(ii) The reissue is made in accordance with ยง 5001.459.


(e) *Rights and liabilities.* When a guaranteed portion of a loan is assigned to a holder using an assignment guarantee agreement, the holder succeeds to all rights of the lender under the loan note guarantee to the extent of the portion purchased. The full, legal interest in the promissory note must remain with the lender, and the lender remains bound to all obligations under the loan note guarantee, lender's agreement, and Agency regulations applicable to the guarantee.


(1) A guarantee and right to require purchase in accordance with ยง 5001.511 will be directly enforceable by a holder notwithstanding any fraud or misrepresentation by the lender or any unenforceability of the loan guarantee by the lender, except for fraud or misrepresentation of which the holder had actual knowledge at the time it became the holder or in which the holder participates or condones.






(2) The lender must not represent a conditional commitment of guarantee as a loan guarantee.


(3) The lender must reimburse the Agency for any payments the Agency makes to a holder on the lender's behalf under the loan note guarantee, given the lender would not be entitled to the payments had they retained the entire interest in the loan.



---

[N] [85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 62197, Oct. 2, 2020; 86 FR 70358, Dec. 10, 2021; 89 FR 79726, Sept. 30, 2024]




