# ยง 4204.2   Definitions.

The following terms are defined in ยง 4001.2 of this chapter: Code, employer, ERISA, IRS, multiemployer plan, PBGC, person, plan, plan administrator, plan sponsor, and plan year. 


In addition, for purposes of this part: 


*Date of determination* means the date on which a seller ceases covered operations or ceases to have an obligation to contribute for such operations as a result of a sale of assets within the meaning of section 4204(a) of ERISA. 


*Net income after taxes* means revenue minus expenses after taxes (excluding extraordinary and non-recurring income or expenses), as presented in an audited financial statement or, in the absence of such statement, in an unaudited financial statement, each prepared in conformance with generally accepted accounting principles. 


*Net tangible assets* means tangible assets (assets other than licenses, patents copyrights, trade names, trademarks, goodwill, experimental or organizational expenses, unamortized debt discounts and expenses and all other assets which, under generally accepted accounting principles, are deemed intangible) less liabilities (other than pension liabilities). Encumbered assets shall be excluded from net tangible assets only to the extent of the amount of the encumbrance. 


*Purchaser* means a purchaser described in section 4204(a)(1) of ERISA. 


*Seller* means a seller described in section 4204(a)(1) of ERISA. 


*Unfunded vested benefits* means, as described in section 4213(c) of ERISA, the amount by which the value of nonforfeitable benefits under the plan exceeds the value of the assets of the plan.



---

[N] [61 FR 34084, July 1, 1996, as amended at 86 FR 1270, Jan. 8, 2021]




