# § 721.11005   12-Hydroxystearic acid, reaction products with alkylene diamine and alkanoic acid (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 12-Hydroxystearic acid, reaction products with alkylene diamine and alkanoic acid (PMNs P-16-309 and P-16-310) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(f), (q), and (t). It is a significant new use to use the PMN substance other than as a rheological or thixotropic agent used in the production of solvent based industrial coatings, high solid aromatic paints, adhesives, sealants, and other types of paints and topcoats.


(ii) *Releases to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=2).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.



---

[N] [82 FR 48650, Oct. 19, 2017]




