# § 522.2615   Tripelennamine.

(a) *Specifications.* Each milliliter of solution contains 20 milligrams (mg) of tripelennamine hydrochloride.


(b) *Sponsors.* See Nos. 016592 and 051031 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(c) *Related tolerances.* See § 556.741 of this chapter.


(d) *Conditions of use*—(1) *Dogs and cats*—(i) *Amount.* Administer 0.5 mg per pound of body weight by intramuscular injection.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For use in treating conditions in which antihistaminic therapy may be expected to lead to alleviation of some signs of disease.


(iii) *Limitations.* Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(2) *Horses*—(i) *Amount.* Administer 0.5 mg per pound of body weight by intramuscular injection.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For use in treating conditions in which antihistaminic therapy may be expected to lead to alleviation of some signs of disease.


(iii) *Limitations.* Do not use in horses intended for human consumption. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(3) *Cattle*—(i) *Amount.* Administer 0.5 mg per pound of body weight by intravenous or intramuscular injection.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For use in treating conditions in which antihistaminic therapy may be expected to lead to alleviation of some signs of disease.


(iii) *Limitations.* Milk taken during treatment and for 24 hours after the last treatment must not be used for human consumption. Cattle must not be slaughtered for human consumption within 4 days following the last treatment with this drug product. Not for use in beef calves less than 2 months of age, dairy calves, and veal calves. A withdrawal period has not been established for this product in pre-ruminating calves. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.



---

[N] [51 FR 44450, Dec. 10, 1986, as amended at 61 FR 29480, June 11, 1996; 62 FR 4164, Jan. 29, 1997; 78 FR 17597, Mar. 22, 2013; 79 FR 16198, Mar. 25, 2014; 81 FR 22524, Apr. 18, 2016; 82 FR 11508, Feb. 24, 2017; 87 FR 58962, Sept. 29, 2022]




