# ยง 874.4420   Ear, nose, and throat manual surgical instrument.

(a) *Identification.* An ear, nose, and throat manual surgical instrument is one of a variety of devices intended for use in surgical procedures to examine or treat the bronchus, esophagus, trachea, larynx, pharynx, nasal and paranasal sinus, or ear. This generic type of device includes the esophageal dilator; tracheal bistour (a long, narrow surgical knife); tracheal dilator; tracheal hook; laryngeal injection set; laryngeal knife; laryngeal saw; laryngeal trocar; laryngectomy tube; adenoid curette; adenotome; metal tongue depressor; mouth gag; oral screw; salpingeal curette; tonsillectome; tonsil guillotine; tonsil screw; tonsil snare; tonsil suction tube; tonsil suturing hook; antom reforator; ethmoid curette; frontal sinus-rasp; nasal curette; nasal rasp; nasal rongeur; nasal saw; nasal scissors; nasal snare; sinus irrigator; sinus trephine; ear curette; ear excavator; ear rasp; ear scissor, ear snare; ear spoon; ear suction tube; malleous ripper; mastoid gauge; microsurgical ear chisel; myringotomy tube inserter; ossici holding clamp; sacculotomy tack inserter; vein press; wire ear loop; microrule; mirror; mobilizer; ear, nose, and throat punch; ear, nose and throat knife; and ear, nose, and throat trocar.


(b) *Classification* Class I (general controls). The device is exempt from the premarket notification procedures in subpart E of part 807 of this chapter subject to ยง 874.9.



---

[N] [51 FR 40389, Nov. 9, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 32111, Aug. 25, 1987; 65 FR 2316, Jan. 14, 2000; 72 FR 17400, Apr. 9, 2007]




