# § 736.11   General procedural requirements.

(a) *Promulgation.* (1) The Director shall promulgate and, subject to the provisions of this part, implement a Federal program for a State if the Director reasonably expects coal exploration or surface coal mining and reclamation operations to exist on non-Federal and non-Indian lands within the State at any time before June 1985, and the State fails to—


(i) Submit a State program for regulation of coal exploration and surface coal mining and reclamation operations on non-Federal and non-Indian lands within that State to the Director as provided in 30 CFR 731.12; or


(ii) Resubmit an acceptable State program within 60 days of a notice of disapproval of a State program pursuant to § 732.13(f). The Director shall not promulgate a Federal program before the expiration of the initial period allowed for submission of a State program, as provided in § 731.12. 


(2) The Director shall promulgate a complete Federal program for a State upon the withdrawal of approval of an entire State program under 30 CFR 733.13. 


(3) The Director shall promulgate a partial Federal program for a State upon the withdrawal of approval of part of a State program under 30 CFR part 733. 


(b) *Revision.* The Director may revise a Federal program for a State, if necessary to further the purposes of the Act and the regulations adopted under the Act. 


(c) *Termination.* The Director shall terminate appropriate portions of a Federal program for a State, upon approval of a State program under 30 CFR parts 731 and 732 that replaces a complete or partial Federal program for that State.



---

[N] [44 FR 15329, Mar. 13, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 26367, June 17, 1982; 85 FR 75190, Nov. 24, 2020]




