# ยง 2638.307   Annual ethics training for confidential filers and certain other employees.

Each calendar year, employees covered by this section must complete ethics training that meets the following requirements.


(a) *Coverage.* In any calendar year, this section applies to the following employees, unless they are public filers:


(1) Each employee who is required to file an annual confidential financial disclosure report pursuant to ยง 2634.904 of this chapter during that calendar year, except an employee who ceases to be a confidential filer before the end of the calendar year;


(2) Employees appointed by the President and employees of the Executive Office of the President;


(3) Contracting officers described in 41 U.S.C. 2101; and


(4) Other employees designated by the head of the agency.


(b) *Deadline.* The employee must complete required annual ethics training before the end of the calendar year.


(c) *Duration.* Agencies must provide employees with 1 hour of duty time to complete interactive training and review any written materials.


(d) *Format.* The following formatting requirements apply.


(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, employees covered by this section are required to complete interactive training.


(2) If the DAEO determines that it is impracticable to provide interactive training to a special Government employee covered by this section who is expected to work no more than 60 days in a calendar year, or to an employee who is an officer in the uniformed services serving on active duty for no more 30 consecutive days, only the requirement to provide the written materials required by this section will apply to that employee each year. The DAEO may make the determination as to individual employees or a group of employees.


(e) *Content.* The following content requirements apply to annual ethics training for employees covered by this section.


(1) *Training presentation.* The training presentation must focus on government ethics laws and regulations that the DAEO deems appropriate for the employees participating in the training. The presentation must address concepts related to the following subjects:


(i) Financial conflicts of interest;


(ii) Impartiality;


(iii) Misuse of position; and


(iv) Gifts.


(2) *Written materials.* In addition to the training presentation, the agency must provide the employee with either the following written materials or written instructions for accessing them:


(i) The summary of the Standards of Conduct distributed by the Office of Government Ethics or an equivalent summary prepared by the agency;


(ii) Provisions of any supplemental agency regulations that the DAEO determines to be relevant or a summary of those provisions;


(iii) Such other written materials as the DAEO determines should be included; and


(iv) Instructions for contacting the agency's ethics office.


(f) *Tracking.* The following tracking requirements apply to training conducted pursuant to this section. An employee covered by this section must confirm in writing the completion of annual ethics training and must comply with any procedures established by the DAEO for such confirmation. If the DAEO or other presenter has knowledge that an employee completed required training, that individual may record the employee's completion of the training, in lieu of requiring the employee to provide written confirmation. In the case of an automated system that delivers interactive training, the DAEO may deem the employee to have confirmed the completion of the training if the system tracks completion automatically.




