# § 1146.1   Prescription of alternative rail service or directed action by an incumbent carrier.

(a) *General.* Alternative rail service, or directed action by an incumbent carrier, will be prescribed under 49 U.S.C. 11123(a) if the Board determines that, over an identified period of time, there has been a substantial, measurable deterioration or other demonstrated inadequacy in rail service provided by the incumbent carrier. In prescribing the relief described herein, the Board may act on its own initiative or pursuant to a petition.


(b) *Procedure for petition for relief*—(1) *Petition for relief.* Affected shippers or railroads may seek the relief described in paragraph (a) of this section by filing an appropriate petition containing:


(i) A full explanation, together with all supporting evidence, to demonstrate that the standard for relief contained in paragraph (a) of this section is met;


(ii) A summary of both the petitioner's discussions with the incumbent carrier of the service problems (including a description of the efforts taken to resolve the matter prior to filing of the petition, verified by a person or persons with knowledge of the efforts taken to resolve the matter), and the reasons why the incumbent carrier is unlikely to restore adequate rail service consistent with the petitioner's current transportation needs within a reasonable period of time;


(iii) In a petition that seeks alternative rail service, identification of at least one possible rail carrier to provide alternative service, based on the petitioner's understanding of other rail carriers' nearby operations, that would meet the current transportation needs of the petitioner; and


(iv) A detailed explanation of the specific remedy that is being sought.


(2) *Reply.* The incumbent carrier and any proposed alternative carriers must file a reply to a petition under this paragraph within three (3) business days of service of the petition. If applicable, any reply must address whether the specific remedy proposed by the petitioner would be unsafe or infeasible, or would substantially impair the carrier's ability to serve its other customers adequately or fulfill its common carrier obligations.


(3) *Rebuttal.* The party requesting relief may file rebuttal no more than two (2) business days after the reply is filed.


(4) *Board Decision.* The Board will endeavor to issue a decision five (5) business days after receiving the rebuttal or time has expired for the party requesting relief to file a rebuttal, whichever is earlier.


(c) *Presumption of continuing need.* Unless otherwise indicated in the Board's order, a Board order issued under paragraph (a) of this section shall establish a rebuttable presumption that the transportation *emergency* will continue for more than 30 days from the date of that order.


(d) *Procedure for petition to terminate relief*—(1) *Petition to terminate relief.* Should the Board prescribe alternative rail service under paragraph (a) of this section the incumbent carrier may subsequently file a petition to terminate that relief. Such a petition shall contain a full explanation, together with all supporting evidence, to demonstrate that the carrier is providing, or is prepared to provide, adequate service. Carriers are admonished not to file such a petition prematurely.


(2) *Reply.* Parties must file replies to petitions to terminate filed under this paragraph (d) within five (5) business days.


(3) *Rebuttal.* The incumbent carrier may file any rebuttal no more than three (3) business days later.


(e) *Service.* Every document filed with the Board under this section must include a certificate showing simultaneous service upon all parties to the proceeding, including any proposed alternative carriers and the Federal Railroad Administration. Service on the parties must be by the same method and class of service used in serving the Board, with charges, if any, prepaid. One copy must be served on each party. If service is made on the Board in person, and personal service on other parties is not feasible, service must be made by overnight delivery. If a document is filed with the Board through the e-filing process, a copy of the e-filed document must be emailed to other parties if that means of service is acceptable to those other parties. If email is not acceptable to the receiving party, a paper copy of the document must be personally served on the other parties. If neither email nor personal service is feasible, service of a paper copy must be by overnight delivery. When a party is represented by a practitioner or attorney, service upon the practitioner is deemed to be service upon the party. All pleadings under this section must also be emailed to *ServiceEmergency@stb.gov.*


---

[N] [89 FR 4578, Jan. 24, 2024]




