# § 1944.656   Definitions.

References in this subpart to District, State, National and Finance Offices, and to District Director, State Director, and Administrator refer to Rural Development offices and officials and should be read as prefaced by Rural Development. Terms used in this subpart have the following meanings:


*Adjusted income.* As defined in 7 CFR 3550.54(c).


*Applicant or grantee.* Any eligible organization which applies for or receives HPG funds under a grant agreement.


*Cooperative (co-op).* For the purposes of the HPG program, a cooperative (co-op) is one which:


(1) Is a corporation organized as a consumer cooperative;


(2) Will operate the housing on a nonprofit basis solely for the benefit of the occupants; and


(3) Is legally precluded from distributing, for a minimum period of 5 years from the date of HPG assistance from the grantee, any gains or profits from operation of the co-op. For this purpose, any patronage refunds to occupants of the co-op would not be considered gains or profits. A co-op may accept non-members as well as members for occupancy in the project.


*Grant agreement.* The contract between Agency and the grantee which sets forth the terms and conditions under which HPG funds will be made available. (See exhibit A of this subpart which is available in any Agency office.)


*Homeowner.* For the purposes of the HPG program, a homeowner is one who can meet the conditions of income and ownership under § 1944.661 of this subpart.


*Household.* For the purposes of the HPG program, a household is defined as all persons living all or part of the next 12 months in a unit or dwelling assisted with HPG funds.


*Housing preservation.* The repair and rehabilitation activities that contribute to the health, safety, and well-being of the occupant, and contribute to the structural integrity or long-term preservation of the unit. As a result of these activities, the overall condition of the unit or dwelling must be raised to meet Thermal Standards for existing structures adopted by the locality/jurisdiction and applicable development standards for existing housing recognized by RHS in subpart A of part 1924 or standards contained in any of the voluntary national model codes acceptable upon review by RHS. Properties included on or eligible for inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places are subject to the standards and conditions of § 1944.673. The term “housing preservation” does not apply to replacement housing.


*HPG.* Housing Preservation Grant.


*Low income.* An adjusted annual income that does not exceed the “lower” income limit according to size of household as established by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for the county or Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) where the property is located. Maximum low-income limits are set forth in Appendix 9 of HB-1-3550 (available in any Rural Development office).


*Organization.* An organization is defined as one of the following:


(1) A State, commonwealth, trust territory, other political subdivision, or public nonprofit corporation authorized to receive and administer HPG funds;


(2) An American Indian tribe, band, group, nation, including Alaskan Indians, Aleuts, Eskimos and any Alaskan Native Village, of the United States which is considered an eligible recipient under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (Pub. L. 93-638) or under the State and Local Fiscal Assistance Act of 1972 (Pub. L. 92-512);


(3) A private nonprofit organization, including faith-based and community organizations, that is owned and controlled by private persons or interests for purposes other than making gains or profits for the corporation, is legally precluded from distributing any gains or profits to its members, and is authorized to undertake housing development activities; or


(4) A consortium of units of government and/or private nonprofit organizations, including faith-based and community organizations, which is otherwise eligible to receive and administer HPG funds and which meets the following conditions:


(i) Be comprised of units of government and/or private nonprofit corporations that are close together, located in the same state, and serve areas eligible for USDA Rural Development assistance; and


(ii) Have executed an agreement among its members designating one participating unit of government or private nonprofit corporation as the applicant or designating a legal entity (such as a Council of Governments) to be the applicant.


*Overcrowding.* Guidance is provided at 7 CFR 3560.155(e). These guidelines should result in an ideal range of persons per housing unit.


*Rental properties.* Rental properties are defined as single-unit or multi-unit dwellings used for occupancy by tenants, owners, or members of an owner's immediate family.


*Replacement housing.* The replacement of existing, individual owner occupied housing where repair and rehabilitation assistance is not economically feasible or practical. The term replacement housing does not apply to housing preservation. The overall condition of the unit or dwelling must meet Thermal Standards adopted by the locality/jurisdiction for new or existing structures and applicable development standards for new or existing housing recognized by RHS in subpart A of part 1924 or standards contained in any of the voluntary national model codes acceptable upon review by RHS. Properties included on or eligible for inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places are subject to the standards and conditions of § 1944.673 prior to replacement.


*RHS.* RHS means the Rural Housing Service, or a successor agency.


*Rural area.* The definition in 7 CFR part 3550 applies.


*Tenant.* Any person who resides in a single- or multi-unit rental property.


*Very low-income.* An adjusted annual income that does not exceed the very low-income limit according to size of household as established by HUD for the county of MSA where the property is located. Maximum very low-income limits are set forth in 7 CFR part 3550.



---

[N] [58 FR 21894, Apr. 26, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 39851, July 31, 1996; 62 FR 26209, May 13, 1997; 67 FR 78329, Dec. 24, 2002; 69 FR 69105, Nov. 26, 2004; 72 FR 70221, Dec. 11, 2007; 73 FR 36268, June 26, 2008]




