# § 184.1875   Thiamine hydrochloride.

(a) Thiamine hydrochloride (C_12_H_17_C1N_4_OS·HCl, CAS Reg. No. 67-03-8) is the chloride-hydrochloride salt of thiamine. It occurs as hygroscopic white crystals or a white crystalline powder. The usual method of preparing this substance is by linking the preformed thiazole and pyrimidine ring systems.


(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), p. 324, which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) In accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) as a direct human food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:


(1) The ingredient is used as a flavoring agent and adjuvant as defined in § 170.3(o)(12) of this chapter or as a nutrient supplement as defined in § 170.3(o)(20) of this chapter.


(2) The ingredient is used in food at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice. Thiamine hydrochloride may be used in infant formula in accordance with section 412(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) or with regulations promulgated under section 412(a)(2) of the Act.


(d) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.



---

[N] [48 FR 55124, Dec. 9, 1983]




