# ยง 725.984   Modification or revocation of certain notification requirements.

(a) *Criteria for modification or revocation.* EPA may at any time modify or revoke significant new use notification requirements for a microorganism which has been added to subpart M of this part using the procedures of ยง 725.980. Such action may be taken under this section if EPA makes one of the following determinations, unless other information shows that the requirements should be retained:


(1) Test data or other information obtained by EPA provide a reasonable basis for concluding that activities designated as significant new uses of the microorganism will not present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment.


(2) EPA has promulgated a rule under section 4 or 6 of the Act, or EPA or another agency has taken action under another law, for the microorganism that eliminates the need for significant new use notification under section 5(a)(2) of the Act.


(3) EPA has received MCANs for some or all of the activities designated as significant new uses of the microorganism and, after reviewing such MCANs, concluded that there is no need to require additional notice from persons who propose to engage in identical or similar activities.


(4) EPA has examined new information, or has reexamined the test data or other information supporting its finding under section 5(e)(1)(A)(ii)(I) of the Act and has concluded that a rational basis no longer exists for the findings that activities involving the microorganism may present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment required under section 5(e)(1)(A) of the Act.


(5) Certain activities involving the microorganism have been designated as significant new uses pending the completion of testing, and adequate test data developed in accordance with applicable procedures and criteria have been submitted to EPA.


(b) *Procedures for limitation or revocation.* Modification or revocation of significant new use notification requirements for a microorganism that has been added to subpart M of this part using the procedures described in ยง 725.980 may occur either at EPA's initiative or in response to a written request.


(1) Any affected person may request modification or revocation of significant new use notification requirements for a microorganism that has been added to subpart M of this part using the procedures described in ยง 725.980. The request must be accompanied by information sufficient to support the request. Persons submitting a request to EPA under this part must submit the request to EPA (via CDX) using e-PMN software. See 40 CFR 720.40(a)(2)(ii) for information on how to obtain e-PMN software. Support documents related to these requests must also be submitted to EPA via CDX using e-PMN software.


(2) The Director, or a designee, will consider the request, make a determination whether to initiate rulemaking to modify the requirements, and notify the requester of that determination by certified letter. If the request is denied, the letter will explain why EPA has concluded that the significant new use notification requirements for that microorganism should remain in effect.


(3) If EPA concludes that significant new use notification requirements for a microorganism should be limited or revoked, EPA will propose the changes in a notice in the _Federal Register,_ briefly describe the grounds for the action, and provide interested parties an opportunity to comment. 



---

[N] [62 FR 17932, Apr. 11, 1997, as amended at 75 FR 790, Jan. 6, 2010; 78 FR 72828, Dec. 4, 2013]




