# ยง 28.18   Filing a petition with the Board.

(a) *Who may file.* Any person who is claiming to be affected adversely by GAO action or inaction that is within the Board's jurisdiction under subchapter IV of chapter 7 of title 31, United States Code, or who is alleging that GAO or a labor organization engaged or is engaging in an unfair labor practice, may file a petition if one of the following is met:


(1) The person has received a Right to Petition Letter from the Board's Office of General Counsel; or


(2) At least 180 days have elapsed from the filing of the charge with the Board's Office of General Counsel and that Office has not issued a Right to Petition Letter; or


(3) The person was separated due to a Reduction in Force and chooses to file a petition directly with the Board, without first filing with the Board's Office of General Counsel, as provided in ยง 28.13.


(b) *When to file.* (1) Petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be filed within 30 days after receipt by the charging party of the Right to Petition Letter from the Board's Office of General Counsel.


(2) Petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section may be filed at any time after 180 days have elapsed from the filing of the charge with the Board's Office of General Counsel, provided that that Office has not issued a Right to Petition Letter concerning the charge.


(3) Petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section must be filed within 30 days after the effective date of the separation due to a Reduction in Force.


(c) *How to file.* (1) A petition may be filed by hand delivery to the office of the Personnel Appeals Board, Room 1566, 441 G Street NW., Washington, DC 20548. It must be received by 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, on the date that it is filed.


(2) A petition may be filed by mail addressed to the Personnel Appeals Board, Room 1566, 441 G Street NW., Washington, DC 20548. When filed by mail, the postmark shall be the date of filing for all submissions to the Board.


(d) *What to file.* The petition shall include the following information:


(1) Name of the petitioner or a clear description of the group or class of persons on whose behalf the petition is being filed;


(2) The names and titles of persons, if any, responsible for actions the petitioner wishes to have the Board review;


(3) The actions being complained about, including dates, reasons given and internal appeals taken;


(4) Petitioner's reasons for believing the actions to be improper;


(5) Remedies sought by the petitioner;


(6) Name and address of the representative, if any, who will act for the petitioner in any further stages of the matter; and


(7) Signature of the petitioner or petitioner's representative.


(e) *Failure to raise a claim or defense.* Failure to raise a claim or defense in the petition shall not bar its submission later unless to do so would prejudice the rights of the other parties or unduly delay the proceedings.


(f) *Non-EEO class actions.* One or more persons may file a petition as representatives of a class in any matter within the Board's jurisdiction. For the purpose of determining whether it is appropriate to treat a petition as a class action, the administrative judge will be guided, but not controlled, by the applicable provisions of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. See ยง 28.97 for EEO class actions.



---

[N] [58 FR 61992, Nov. 23, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 59106, Nov. 16, 1994; 61 FR 9090, Mar. 7, 1996; 61 FR 36810, July 15, 1996; 65 FR 80280, Dec. 21, 2000; 68 FR 69300, Dec. 12, 2003; 77 FR 15233, Mar. 15, 2012]




