# ยง 541.31   Conditions of confinement in the SHU.

Your living conditions in the SHU will meet or exceed standards for healthy and humane treatment, including, but not limited to, the following specific conditions:


(a) *Environment.* Your living quarters will be well-ventilated, adequately lighted, appropriately heated, and maintained in a sanitary condition.


(b) *Cell Occupancy.* Your living quarters will ordinarily house only the amount of occupants for which it is designed. The Warden, however, may authorize more occupants so long as adequate standards can be maintained.


(c) *Clothing.* You will receive adequate institution clothing, including footwear, while housed in the SHU. You will be provided necessary opportunities to exchange clothing and/or have it washed.


(d) *Bedding.* You will receive a mattress, blankets, a pillow, and linens for sleeping. You will receive necessary opportunities to exchange linens.


(e) *Food.* You will receive nutritionally adequate meals.


(f) *Personal hygiene.* You will have access to a wash basin and toilet. You will receive personal items necessary to maintain an acceptable level of personal hygiene, for example, toilet tissue, soap, toothbrush and cleanser, shaving utensils, *etc.* You will ordinarily have an opportunity to shower and shave at least three times per week. You will have access to hair care services as necessary.


(g) *Exercise.* You will receive the opportunity to exercise outside your individual quarters at least five hours per week, ordinarily on different days in one-hour periods. You can be denied these exercise periods for a week at a time by order of the Warden if it is determined that your use of exercise privileges threatens safety, security, and orderly operation of a correctional facility, or public safety.


(h) *Personal property.* In either status, your amount of personal property may be limited for reasons of fire safety or sanitation.


(1) In administrative detention status you are ordinarily allowed a reasonable amount of personal property and reasonable access to the commissary.


(2) In disciplinary segregation status your personal property will be impounded, with the exception of limited reading/writing materials, and religious articles. Also, your commissary privileges may be limited.


(i) *Correspondence.* You will receive correspondence privileges according to part 540, subpart B.


(j) *Telephone.* You will receive telephone privileges according to part 540, subpart I.


(k) *Visiting.* You will receive visiting privileges according to part 540, subpart D.


(l) *Legal Activities.* You will receive an opportunity to perform personal legal activities according to part 543, subpart B.


(m) *Staff monitoring.* You will be monitored by staff assigned to the SHU, including program and unit team staff.


(n) *Programming Activities.* In administrative detention status, you will have access to programming activities to the extent safety, security, orderly operation of a correctional facility, or public safety are not jeopardized. In disciplinary segregation status, your participation in programming activities, *e.g.,* educational programs, may be suspended.


(o) *Administrative remedy program.* You can submit a formal grievance challenging any aspect of your confinement in the SHU through the Administrative Remedy Program, 28 CFR part 542, subpart B.




