# ยง 1102.34   Briefs, memoranda and statements.

(a) *By the parties.* Until the end of the information-gathering phase of the proceeding, any party may file with the Secretary a written brief, memorandum or other statement providing factual data and policy and legal arguments regarding the matters set out in the Notice of Intention. The filing party shall simultaneously serve other parties to the proceeding with a copy of the document. No later than ten days after such service, any party may file with the Secretary a written response to the document and must simultaneously serve a copy thereof on the other parties to the proceeding. The Secretary will receive documents and responses and will place them in the public file.


(b) *By interested persons, in non-recognition proceedings.* Until the end of the information-gathering phase of a proceeding under section 1118 of FIRREA (12 U.S.C. 3347), any person with a demonstrable, direct interest in the outcome of the proceeding may file with the Secretary a written brief, memorandum or other statement providing factual data and policy and legal arguments regarding the matters set out in the Notice of Intention. The ASC's Chairperson or his or her designee may not accept any such written brief, memorandum or other statement if the submitting person cannot demonstrate a direct interest in the outcome of the proceeding. Upon acceptance of the written brief, memorandum or other statement, the Secretary shall make copies of the document and forward one copy thereof to each party to the proceeding. No later than ten days after such service, any party may file with the Secretary a written response to the document and must simultaneously serve one copy thereof on the other parties to the proceeding. The Secretary will place a copy of such briefs, memoranda, statements and responses in the public file.




