# ยง 69.803   Competitive market test.

(a) The competitive market test is used to determine which counties served by a price cap local exchange carrier, as defined in ยง 61.3(bb) of this chapter, are deemed competitive and therefore warrant relief from price cap regulation and detariffing of DS1 and DS3 end user channel terminations, and certain other business data services, sold by such carriers.


(b) *Initial test.* A county is deemed competitive in the initial competitive market test if:


(1) Either 50 percent of the locations with business data services demand within the county are within one half mile of a location served by a competitive provider based on data from the special access data collection, or 75 percent of the census blocks within the county are reported to have broadband connection availability by a cable operator based on Form 477 data as of December 2016. Lists of counties deemed competitive, non-competitive or grandfathered by the initial competitive market test are published on the Commission's Web site.


(2) The DS1 and DS3 end user channel terminations sold by price cap local exchange carriers in counties deemed competitive are no longer subject to price cap regulation and are detariffed according to ยง 61.201.


(c) *Subsequent tests.* The results of the initial competitive market test will be updated every three years following the effective date of the initial test.


(1) A county will be deemed competitive in a subsequent competitive market test if 75 percent of the census blocks within the county are reported to have broadband connection availability by a cable operator based on Form 477 data as of the date of the most recent collection.


(2) No later than three years following the effective date of the previous test, the Wireline Competition Bureau will conclude a subsequent test and will publish a revised list of counties deemed competitive at the conclusion of the test.


(3) A county deemed competitive in the competitive market test will retain its status in subsequent tests.




