# ยง 12.40   Time for inspections and reports.

(a) *Projects previously inspected by independent consultant.* For any project that was inspected under this subpart D prior to April 11, 2022, under the Commission's rules in effect on January 1, 2022:


(1) A periodic inspection or comprehensive assessment must be completed, and the report on it filed, within five years of the due date of the Previous Part 12D Report.


(2) For any report due to be filed under this subpart D after October 11, 2023, the Regional Engineer may require that it be a report on a comprehensive assessment or a report on a periodic inspection.


(3) The first comprehensive assessment under this subpart must be completed, and the report on it filed, by December 31, 2038.


(b) *Projects not previously inspected by independent consultant.* For any project that was not inspected under this subpart D prior to April 11, 2022, under the Commission's rules in effect on January 1, 2022:


(1) For any development that meets the criteria specified in ยง 12.30(a)(1) or ยง 12.30(a)(2), and was constructed before the date of issuance of the order licensing that development, or amending a license to include that development, the first comprehensive assessment under this subpart D must be completed, and the report on it filed, not later than two years after the date of issuance of the order licensing that development or amending the license to include that development.


(2) For any development that was constructed after the date of issuance of the order licensing that development, or amending a license to include that development, the first comprehensive assessment under this subpart D must be completed, and the report on it filed, not later than five years after the date of issuance of the order licensing that development or amending the license to include that development.


(3) For any development not set forth in either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, the first comprehensive assessment under this subpart D must be completed, and the report on it filed, by a date specified by the Regional Engineer. The filing date must not be more than two years after the date of notification that a comprehensive assessment and report under this subpart D are required.


(c) *Subsequent inspections and reports.* For subsequent reports filed under this subpart D:


(1) A comprehensive assessment must be completed, and the report on it filed, within 10 years of the date the previous comprehensive assessment report was due to be filed.


(2) A periodic inspection must be completed, and the report on it filed, within five years of the date the previous comprehensive assessment report was due to be filed.


(d) *Extension of time.* For good cause shown, the Regional Engineer may extend the time for filing the report on a comprehensive assessment or periodic inspection under this subpart D.


(e) *Type of Report.* For good cause, the Regional Engineer may require that any report due to be filed under this subpart D be a report on a comprehensive assessment or a report on a periodic inspection, notwithstanding the type of review (periodic inspection or comprehensive assessment) scheduled to be performed under paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section.






