# § 721.329   Halogenated benzyl ester acrylate (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as halogenated benzyl ester acrylate (PMN P-90-1527) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(6)(i), (b), and (c) (concentration set at 1.0 percent). The reporting requirement for § 721.63(a)(5)(i) applies only during manufacture. The reporting requirement for § 721.63 (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iv), and (a)(5)(v) applies only during processing.


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(5). The following statement shall appear on each label as specified in § 721.72(b) and the Safety Data Sheet (SDS) as specified in § 721.72 (c): The substance may cause internal organ effects (kidney and blood). The requirements of this section do not apply when the PMN substance is bound or embedded into a plastic, resin matrix, or pellet.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), and (i).


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [65 FR 366, Jan. 5, 2000]




