# ยง 191.22   National Registry of Operators.

(a) *OPID request.* Effective January 1, 2012, each operator of a gas pipeline, gas pipeline facility, UNGSF, LNG plant, or LNG facility must obtain from PHMSA an Operator Identification Number (OPID). An OPID is assigned to an operator for the pipeline, pipeline facility, or pipeline system for which the operator has primary responsibility. To obtain an OPID, an operator must submit an OPID Assignment Request DOT Form PHMSA F 1000.1 through the National Registry of Operators in accordance with ยง 191.7.


(b) *OPID validation.* An operator who has already been assigned one or more OPIDs by January 1, 2011, must validate the information associated with each OPID through the National Registry of Operators at *https://portal.phmsa .dot.gov,* and correct that information as necessary, no later than June 30, 2012.


(c) *Changes.* Each operator of a gas pipeline, gas pipeline facility, UNGSF, LNG plant, or LNG facility must notify PHMSA electronically through the National Registry of Operators at *https://portal.phmsa.dot.gov* of certain events.


(1) An operator must notify PHMSA of any of the following events not later than 60 days before the event occurs:


(i) Construction of any planned rehabilitation, replacement, modification, upgrade, uprate, or update of a facility, other than a section of line pipe, that costs $10 million or more. If 60-day notice is not feasible because of an emergency, an operator must notify PHMSA as soon as practicable;


(ii) Construction of 10 or more miles of a new pipeline;


(iii) Construction of a new LNG plant, LNG facility, or UNGSF;


(iv) Maintenance of a UNGSF that involves the plugging or abandonment of a well, or that requires a workover rig and costs $200,000 or more for an individual well, including its wellhead. If 60-days' notice is not feasible due to an emergency, an operator must promptly respond to the emergency and notify PHMSA as soon as practicable;


(v) Reversal of product flow direction when the reversal is expected to last more than 30 days. This notification is not required for pipeline systems already designed for bi-directional flow; or


(vi) A pipeline converted for service under ยง 192.14 of this chapter, or a change in commodity as reported on the annual report as required by ยง 191.17.


(2) An operator must notify PHMSA of any of the following events not later than 60 days after the event occurs:


(i) A change in the primary entity responsible (*i.e.,* with an assigned OPID) for managing or administering a safety program required by this part covering pipeline facilities operated under multiple OPIDs;


(ii) A change in the name of the operator;


(iii) A change in the entity (*e.g.,* company, municipality) responsible for an existing pipeline, pipeline segment, pipeline facility, UNGSF, or LNG facility;


(iv) The acquisition or divestiture of 50 or more miles of a pipeline or pipeline system subject to part 192 of this subchapter; or


(v) The acquisition or divestiture of an existing UNGSF, or an LNG plant or LNG facility subject to part 193 of this subchapter.


(d) *Reporting.* An operator must use the OPID issued by PHMSA for all reporting requirements covered under this subchapter and for submissions to the National Pipeline Mapping System.



---

[N] [Amdt. 191-27, 85 FR 8125, Feb. 12, 2020, as amended by Amdt. 191-28, 85 FR 44478, July 23, 2020]




