# § 217.63   Disclosures by Board-regulated institutions described in § 217.61.

(a) Except as provided in § 217.62, a Board-regulated institution described in § 217.61 must make the disclosures described in Tables 1 through 10 of this section. The Board-regulated institution must make these disclosures publicly available for each of the last three years (that is, twelve quarters) or such shorter period beginning on January 1, 2015.


(b) A Board-regulated institution must publicly disclose each quarter the following:


(1) Common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1 capital, tier 2 capital, tier 1 and total capital ratios, including the regulatory capital elements and all the regulatory adjustments and deductions needed to calculate the numerator of such ratios;


(2) Total risk-weighted assets, including the different regulatory adjustments and deductions needed to calculate total risk-weighted assets;


(3) Regulatory capital ratios during any transition periods, including a description of all the regulatory capital elements and all regulatory adjustments and deductions needed to calculate the numerator and denominator of each capital ratio during any transition period; and


(4) A reconciliation of regulatory capital elements as they relate to its balance sheet in any audited consolidated financial statements.


(c) *General qualitative disclosure requirement.* For each separate risk area described in Tables 5 through 10, the Board-regulated institution must describe its risk management objectives and policies, including: Strategies and processes; the structure and organization of the relevant risk management function; the scope and nature of risk reporting and/or measurement systems; policies for hedging and/or mitigating risk and strategies and processes for monitoring the continuing effectiveness of hedges/mitigants.


(d) A Category III Board-regulated institution that is required to publicly disclose its supplementary leverage ratio pursuant to § 217.172(d) is subject to the supplementary leverage ratio disclosure requirement at § 217.173(a)(2).


(e) A Category III Board-regulated institution that is required to calculate a countercyclical capital buffer pursuant to § 217.11 is subject to the disclosure requirement at Table 4 to § 217.173, “Capital Conservation and Countercyclical Capital Buffers,” and not to the disclosure requirement at Table 4 to this section, “Capital Conservation Buffer.”



---

[N] [Reg. Q, 78 FR 62157, 62285, Oct. 11, 2013, as amended at 84 FR 4242, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 35267, July 22, 2019; 84 FR 59271, Nov. 1, 2019]




