# § 411.115   Definitions of terms used in this part.

As used in this part:


(a) *The Act* means the Social Security Act, as amended.


(b) *Commissioner* means the Commissioner of Social Security.


(c) *Cost reimbursement payment system* means the provisions for payment for vocational rehabilitation services under subpart V of part 404 and subpart V of part 416 of this chapter.


(d) *Disabled beneficiary* means a title II disability beneficiary or a title XVI disability beneficiary.


(e) *Employment network* or *EN* means a qualified public or private entity that has entered into an agreement with us to serve under the Ticket to Work program and that assumes responsibility for the coordination and delivery of employment services, vocational rehabilitation services, or other support services to beneficiaries assigning tickets to it. The rules on employment networks are described in subpart E of this part (§§ 411.300-411.330). A State vocational rehabilitation agency may choose, on a case-by-case basis, to function as an employment network with respect to a beneficiary under the Ticket to Work program. The rules on State vocational rehabilitation agencies' participation in the Ticket to Work program are described in subpart F of this part (§§ 411.350-411.435).


(f) *Employment plan* means an individual work plan described in paragraph (i) of this section, or an individualized plan for employment described in paragraph (j) of this section.


(g) *Federal SSI cash benefits* means a “Supplemental Security Income benefit under title XVI” based on blindness or disability as described in paragraphs (n) and (r) of this section.


(h) *I, my, you,* or *your* means the disabled beneficiary.


(i) *Individual work plan* or *IWP* means an employment plan under which an employment network (other than a State vocational rehabilitation agency) provides services to a disabled beneficiary under the Ticket to Work program. An individual work plan must be developed under, and meet the requirements of, the rules in subpart G of this part (§§ 411.450-411.470).


(j) *Individualized plan for employment* or *IPE* means an employment plan under which a State vocational rehabilitation agency provides services to individuals with disabilities (including beneficiaries assigning tickets to it under the Ticket to Work program) under a State plan approved under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 720 *et seq.*). An individualized plan for employment must be developed under, and meet the requirements of, 34 CFR 361.45 and 361.46.


(k) *Program manager* or *PM* means an organization in the private or public sector that has entered into a contract with us to assist us in administering the Ticket to Work program. The rules on the use of one or more program managers to assist us in administering the program are described in subpart D of this part (§§ 411.230-411.250).


(l) *Social Security disability benefits* means the benefits described in paragraph (q) of this section.


(m) *State vocational rehabilitation agency* or *State VR agency* means a State agency administering or supervising the administration of the State plan approved under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 720 *et seq.*). In those States that have one agency that provides VR services to non-blind individuals and another agency that provides services to blind individuals, this term refers to either State agency.


(n) *Supplemental Security Income benefit under title XVI* means a cash benefit under section 1611 or 1619(a) of the Act, and does not include a State supplementary payment, administered Federally or otherwise.


(o) *Ticket* means a document described in § 411.120 which the Commissioner may issue to disabled beneficiaries for participation in the Ticket to Work program.


(p) *Ticket to Work program* or *program* means the Ticket to Work and Self-Sufficiency Program under section 1148 of the Act.


(q) *Title II disability beneficiary* means an individual entitled to disability insurance benefits under section 223 or to monthly insurance benefits under section 202 of the Act based on such individual's disability as defined in section 223(d) of the Act. (See § 404.1505 of this chapter.) An individual is a title II disability beneficiary for each month for which such individual is entitled to such benefits.


(r) *Title XVI disability beneficiary* means an individual eligible for Supplemental Security Income benefits under title XVI on the basis of blindness (within the meaning of section 1614(a)(2) of the Act) (see §§ 416.981 and 416.982 of this chapter) or disability (within the meaning of section 1614(a)(3) of the Act) (see § 416.905 of this chapter). An individual is a title XVI disability beneficiary for each month for which such individual is eligible for such benefits.


(s) *VR cost reimbursement option* means an arrangement under which your ticket is not assigned to the State VR agency but you do receive services pursuant to an individualized plan for employment where the State VR agency has chosen to receive payment under the cost reimbursement payment system. 


(t) *We* or *us* means the Social Security Administration.



---

[N] [66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 29338, May 20, 2008; 83 FR 62459, Dec. 4, 2018]




