# § 38.5   Information relating to contract market compliance.

(a) *Requests for information.* Upon request by the Commission, a designated contract market must file with the Commission information related to its business as a designated contract market, including information relating to data entry and trade details, in the form and manner and within the time specified by the Commission in its request.


(b) *Demonstration of compliance.* Upon request by the Commission, a designated contract market must file with the Commission a written demonstration, containing supporting data, information and documents, in the form and manner and within the time specified by the Commission, that the designated contract market is in compliance with one or more core principles as specified in the request, or that is requested by the Commission to show that the designated contract market satisfies its obligations under the Act.


(c) *Equity interest transfers*—(1) *Equity interest transfer notification.* A designated contract market shall file with the Commission a notification of each transaction that the designated contract market enters into involving the transfer of ten percent or more of the equity interest in the designated contract market.


(2) *Timing of Notification.* The equity transfer notice described in paragraph (1) shall be filed electronically with the Secretary of the Commission at its Washington, DC headquarters at *submissions@cftc.gov* and the Division of Market Oversight at *DMOSubmissions@cftc.gov,* at the earliest possible time but in no event later than the open of business ten business days following the date upon which the designated contract market enters into a firm obligation to transfer the equity interest.


(3) *Rule filing.* Notwithstanding the foregoing, any aspect of an equity interest transfer described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section that necessitates the filing of a rule as defined in part 40 of this chapter shall comply with the requirements of 5c(c) of the Act and part 40 of this chapter, and all other applicable Commission regulations.


(d) *Delegation of authority.* The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, the authority set forth in paragraph (b) of this section to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight or such other employee or employees as the Director may designate from time to time. The Director may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter that has been delegated in this paragraph. Nothing in this paragraph prohibits the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this paragraph.



---

[N] [77 FR 36698, June 19, 2012]




