# § 195.132   Design and construction of aboveground breakout tanks.

(a) Each aboveground breakout tank must be designed and constructed to withstand the internal pressure produced by the hazardous liquid to be stored therein and any anticipated external loads.


(b) For aboveground breakout tanks first placed in service after October 2, 2000, compliance with paragraph (a) of this section requires one of the following:


(1) Shop-fabricated, vertical, cylindrical, closed top, welded steel tanks with nominal capacities of 90 to 750 barrels (14.3 to 119.2 m 
3) and with internal vapor space pressures that are approximately atmospheric must be designed and constructed in accordance with API Spec 12F (incorporated by reference, *see* § 195.3) .


(2) Welded, low-pressure (*i.e.*, internal vapor space pressure not greater than 15 psig (103.4 kPa)), carbon steel tanks that have wall shapes that can be generated by a single vertical axis of revolution must be designed and constructed in accordance with API Std 620 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 195.3).


(3) Vertical, cylindrical, welded steel tanks with internal pressures at the tank top approximating atmospheric pressures (*i.e.*, internal vapor space pressures not greater than 2.5 psig (17.2 kPa), or not greater than the pressure developed by the weight of the tank roof) must be designed and constructed in accordance with API Std 650 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 195.3).


(4) High pressure steel tanks (*i.e.*, internal gas or vapor space pressures greater than 15 psig (103.4 kPa)) with a nominal capacity of 2000 gallons (7571 liters) or more of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) must be designed and constructed in accordance with API Std 2510 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 195.3).



---

[N] [Amdt. 195-66, 64 FR 15935, Apr. 2, 1999, as amended by Amdt. 195-99, 80 FR 186, Jan. 5, 2015; 80 FR 46848, Aug. 6, 2015]




