# § 493.1463   Standard: General supervisor responsibilities.

The general supervisor is responsible for day-to-day supervision or oversight of the laboratory operation and personnel performing testing and reporting test results.


(a) The general supervisor—(1) Must be accessible to testing personnel at all times testing is performed to provide on-site, telephone or electronic consultation to resolve technical problems in accordance with policies and procedures established either by the laboratory director or technical supervisor; 


(2) Is responsible for providing day-to-day supervision of high complexity test performance by a testing personnel qualified under § 493.1489; 


(3) Except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, must be onsite to provide direct supervision when high complexity testing is performed by any individuals qualified under § 493.1489(b)(5); and 


(4) Is responsible for monitoring test analyses and specimen examinations to ensure that acceptable levels of analytic performance are maintained. 


(b) The director or technical supervisor may delegate to the general supervisor the responsibility for—


(1) Assuring that all remedial actions are taken whenever test systems deviate from the laboratory's established performance specifications;


(2) Ensuring that patient test results are not reported until all corrective actions have been taken and the test system is properly functioning;


(3) Providing orientation to all testing personnel; and


(4) Evaluating and documenting the competency of all testing personnel.


(c) *Exception.* For individuals qualified under § 493.1489(b)(5), who were performing high complexity testing on or before January 19, 1993, the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) of this section are not effective, provided that all high complexity testing performed by the individual in the absence of a general supervisor is reviewed within 24 hours by a general supervisor qualified under § 493.1461. 



---

[N] [57 FR 7172, Feb. 28, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 5235, Jan. 19, 1993; 60 FR 20050, Apr. 24, 1995; 88 FR 90044, Dec. 28, 2023]




