# § 64.6304   Extension of implementation deadline.

(a) *Small voice service providers.* (1) Small voice service providers are exempt from the requirements of § 64.6301 through June 30, 2023, except that:


(i) A non-facilities-based small voice service provider is exempt from the requirements of § 64.6301 only until June 30, 2022; 


(ii) A small voice service provider notified by the Enforcement Bureau pursuant to § 0.111(a)(27) of this chapter that fails to respond in a timely manner, fails to respond with the information requested by the Enforcement Bureau, including credible evidence that the robocall traffic identified in the notification is not illegal, fails to demonstrate that it taken steps to effectively mitigate the traffic, or if the Enforcement Bureau determines the provider violates § 64.1200(n)(2), will no longer be exempt from the requirements of § 64.6301 beginning 90 days following the date of the Enforcement Bureau's determination, unless the extension would otherwise terminate earlier pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) introductory text or (a)(1)(i), in which case the earlier deadline applies; and




(iii) Small voice service providers that originate calls via satellite using North American Numbering Plan numbers are deemed subject to a continuing extension of § 64.6301.




(2) For purposes of this paragraph (a), “small voice service provider” means a provider that has 100,000 or fewer voice service subscriber lines (counting the total of all business and residential fixed subscriber lines and mobile phones and aggregated over all of the provider's affiliates).




(b) *Voice service providers, gateway providers, and non-gateway intermediate providers that cannot obtain an SPC token.* Voice service providers that are incapable of obtaining an SPC token due to Governance Authority policy are exempt from the requirements of § 64.6301 until they are capable of obtaining an SPC token. Gateway providers that are incapable of obtaining an SPC token due to Governance Authority policy are exempt from the requirements of § 64.6302(c) regarding call authentication. Non-gateway intermediate providers that are incapable of obtaining an SPC token due to Governance Authority policy are exempt from the requirements of § 64.6302(d) regarding call authentication.






(c) *Services scheduled for section 214 discontinuance.* Services which are subject to a pending application for permanent discontinuance of service filed as of June 30, 2021, pursuant to the processes established in 47 CFR 63.60 through 63.100, as applicable, are exempt from the requirements of § 64.6301 through June 30, 2022.




(d) *Non-IP networks.* Those portions of a voice service provider, gateway provider, or non-gateway intermediate provider's network that rely on technology that cannot initiate, maintain, carry, process, and terminate SIP calls are deemed subject to a continuing extension. A voice service provider subject to the foregoing extension shall comply with the requirements of § 64.6303(a) as to the portion of its network subject to the extension, a gateway provider subject to the foregoing extension shall comply with the requirements of § 64.6303(b) as to the portion of its network subject to the extension, and a non-gateway intermediate provider receiving calls directly from an originating provider subject to the foregoing extension shall comply with the requirements of § 64.6303(c) as to the portion of its network subject to the extension.






(e) *Provider-specific extensions.* The Wireline Competition Bureau may extend the deadline for compliance with § 64.6301 for voice service providers that file individual petitions for extensions by November 20, 2020. The Bureau shall seek comment on any such petitions and issue an order determining whether to grant the voice service provider an extension no later than March 30, 2021.


(f) *Annual reevaluation of granted extensions.* The Wireline Competition Bureau shall, in conjunction with an assessment of burdens and barriers to implementation of caller identification authentication technology, annually review the scope of all previously granted extensions and, after issuing a Public Notice seeking comment, may extend or decline to extend each such extension, and may decrease the scope of entities subject to a further extension.



---

[N] [85 FR 73395, Nov. 17, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 3693, Jan. 25, 2022; 87 FR 42946, July 18, 2022; 88 FR 40118, June 21, 2023]






