# § 721.3465   Stilbene diglycidyl ether.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as stilbene diglycidyl ether (PMN P-96-1427) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). As an alternative to the respiratory protection requirements of this section, manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance may follow the terms of the new chemical exposure limits section in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance.


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). The label and SDS as required by this paragraph shall also include the following statement: When using this substance use respiratory protection or maintain workplace airborne concentrations at or below an 8-hour time-weighted average of 0.5 milligram (mg)/meter (m
3).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [63 FR 3426, Jan. 22, 1998]




