# § 747.3003   Review of order reclassifying a corporate credit union on safety and soundness criteria.

(a) *Notice of proposed reclassification based on unsafe or unsound condition or practice.* When the Board proposes to reclassify a corporate credit union or subject it to the supervisory actions applicable to the next lower capitalization category pursuant to § 704.4(d)(3) of this chapter (such action hereinafter referred to as “reclassification”), the Board will issue and serve on the corporate credit union reasonable prior notice of the proposed reclassification.


(b) *Contents of notice.* A notice of intention to reclassify a corporate credit union based on unsafe or unsound condition or practice will state:


(1) The corporate credit union's current capital ratios and the capital category to which the corporate credit union would be reclassified;


(2) The unsafe or unsound practice(s) and/or condition(s) justifying reasons for reclassification of the corporate credit union;


(3) The date by which the corporate credit union must file a written response to the notice (including a request for a hearing), which date will be no less than 14 calendar days from the date of service of the notice unless the Board determines that a shorter period is appropriate in light of the financial condition of the corporate credit union or other relevant circumstances; and


(4) That a corporate credit union which fails to —


(i) File a written response to the notice of reclassification, within the specified time period, will be deemed to have waived the opportunity to respond, and to have consented to reclassification;


(ii) Request a hearing will be deemed to have waived any right to a hearing; and


(iii) Request the opportunity to present witness testimony will be deemed to have waived any right to present such testimony.


(c) *Contents of response to notice.* A corporate credit union's response to a notice under paragraph (b) of this section must:


(1) Explain why it contends that the corporate credit union should not be reclassified;


(2) Include any relevant information, mitigating circumstances, documentation, or other evidence in support of the corporate credit union's position;


(3) If desired, request an informal hearing before the Board under this section; and


(4) If a hearing is requested, identify any witness whose testimony the corporate credit union wishes to present and the general nature of each witness's expected testimony.


(d) *Order to hold informal hearing.* Upon timely receipt of a written response that includes a request for a hearing, the Board will issue an order commencing an informal hearing no later than 30 days after receipt of the request, unless the corporate credit union requests a later date. The hearing will be held in Alexandria, Virginia, or at such other place as may be designated by the Board, before a presiding officer designated by the Board to conduct the hearing and to recommend a decision.


(e) *Procedures for informal hearing.* (1) The corporate credit union may appear at the hearing through a representative or through counsel. The corporate credit union will have the right to introduce relevant documents and to present oral argument at the hearing. The corporate credit union may introduce witness testimony only if expressly authorized by the Board or the presiding officer. Neither the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 554-557) governing adjudications required by statute to be determined on the record nor the Uniform Rules of Practice and Procedure (12 CFR part 747) will apply to an informal hearing under this section unless the Board orders otherwise.


(2) The informal hearing will be recorded, and a transcript will be furnished to the corporate credit union upon request and payment of the cost thereof. Witnesses need not be sworn, unless specifically requested by a party or by the presiding officer. The presiding officer may ask questions of any witness.


(3) The presiding officer may order that the hearing be continued for a reasonable period following completion of witness testimony or oral argument to allow additional written submissions to the hearing record.


(4) Within 20 calendar days following the closing of the hearing and the record, the presiding officer will make a recommendation to the Board on the proposed reclassification.


(f) *Time for final decision.* Not later than 60 calendar days after the date the record is closed, or the date of receipt of the corporate credit union's response in a case where no hearing was requested, the Board will decide whether to reclassify the corporate credit union, and will notify the corporate credit union of its decision. The decision of the Board will be final.


(g) *Request to rescind reclassification.* Any corporate credit union that has been reclassified under this section may file a written request to the Board to reconsider or rescind the reclassification, or to modify, rescind or remove any directives issued as a result of the reclassification. Unless otherwise ordered by the Board, the corporate credit union will remain reclassified, and subject to any directives issued as a result, while such request is pending.




