# § 1.996-1   Rules for actual distributions and certain deemed distributions.

(a) *General rule.* Under section 996(a)(1), any actual distribution (other than a distribution described in paragraph (b) of this section or to which § 1.995-4 applies) to a shareholder by a DISC, or former DISC, which is made out of earnings and profits shall be treated as made—


(1) First, out of “previously taxed income” (as defined in § 1.996-3(c)) to the extent thereof,


(2) Second, out of “accumulated DISC income” (as defined in § 1.996-3(b)) to the extent thereof, and


(3) Third, out of “other earnings and profits” (as defined in § 1.996-3(d)) to the extent thereof.


(b) *Rules for qualifying distributions and deemed distributions under section 995(b)(1)(G)*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in subparagraph (2), any actual distribution to meet qualification requirements made pursuant to § 1.992-3 and any deemed distribution pursuant to § 1.995-2(a)(5) (relating to foreign investment attributable to producer's loans) which is made out of earnings and profits shall be treated as made—


(i) First, out of “accumulated DISC income” (as defined in § 1.996-3(b)) to the extent thereof.


(ii) Second, out of “other earnings and profits” (as defined in § 1.996-3(d)) to the extent thereof, and


(iii) Third, out of “previously taxed income” (as defined in § 1.996-3(c)) to the extent thereof.


(2) *Special rule.* For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1975, paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall apply to one-half of the amount of an actual distribution made pursuant to § 1.992-3 to satisfy the condition of § 1.992-1(b) (the gross receipts test) and paragraph (a) of this section shall apply to the remaining one-half of such amount.


(c) *Exclusion from gross income.* Under section 996(a)(3), amounts distributed out of previously taxed income shall be excluded by the distributee from gross income. However, see § 1.996-5(b) for treatment as gain from the sale or exchange of property of the portion of an actual distribution out of previously taxed income to the extent it exceeds the adjusted basis of the stock with respect to which the distribution is made.


(d) *Priority of distributions.* Under section 996(c), for purposes of determining their treatment under paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, distributions made during a taxable year shall be treated as being made in the following order—


(1) Deemed distributions under §§ 1.995-2 and 1.995-3.


(2) Actual distributions to meet qualification requirements made pursuant to § 1.992-3 in the order in which they are made, and


(3) Other actual distributions in the order in which they are made.


(e) *Examples.* The provisions of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:



---

[N] [T.D. 7324, 39 FR 35120, Sept. 30, 1974, as amended by T.D. 7854, 47 FR 51742, Nov. 17, 1982]




