# ยง 460.6   Definitions.

As used in this part, unless the context indicates otherwise, the following definitions apply:


*Contract year* means the term of a PACE program agreement, which is a calendar year, except that a PACE organization's initial contract year may be from 19 to 30 months, as determined by CMS, but in any event will end on December 31.


*Medicare beneficiary* means an individual who is entitled to Medicare Part A benefits or enrolled under Medicare Part B, or both.


*Medicaid participant* means an individual determined eligible for Medicaid who is enrolled in a PACE program.


*Medicare participant* means a Medicare beneficiary who is enrolled in a PACE program.


*PACE* stands for programs of all-inclusive care for the elderly.


*PACE center* is a facility which includes a primary care clinic, and areas for therapeutic recreation, restorative therapies, socialization, personal care, and dining, and which serves as the focal point for coordination and provision of most PACE services.


*PACE organization* means an entity that has in effect a PACE program agreement to operate a PACE program under this part.


*PACE program* means a program of all-inclusive care for the elderly that is operated by an approved PACE organization and that provides comprehensive healthcare services to PACE enrollees in accordance with a PACE program agreement.


*PACE program agreement* means an agreement between a PACE organization, CMS, and the State administering agency for the operation of a PACE program.


*Participant* means an individual who is enrolled in a PACE program.


*Service,* as used in this part, means all services that could be required under ยง 460.92, including items and drugs.


*State administering agency* means the State agency responsible for administering the PACE program agreement.


*Trial period* means the first 3 contract years in which a PACE organization operates under a PACE program agreement, including any contract year during which the entity operated under a PACE demonstration waiver program.



---

[N] [64 FR 66279, Nov. 24, 1999, as amended at 71 FR 71334, Dec. 8, 2006; 86 FR 6131, Jan. 19, 2021; 88 FR 22344, Apr. 12, 2023]




