# § 162.060-24   Test Plan requirements.

(a) The Coast Guard requires Test Plans for land-based, shipboard, and component testing conducted to meet the requirements of §§ 162.060-26, 162.060-28 and 162.060-30 of this subpart, respectively. Test Plans must include an examination of all the manufacturer's stated requirements and procedures for installation, calibration, maintenance, and operations that will be used by the ballast water management system (BWMS) during each test, as appropriate for the specific test.


(b) Test Plans must also include potential environmental, health, and safety issues; unusual operating requirements; and any issues related to the disposal of treated ballast water, by-products, or waste streams.


(c) For land-based testing, a Test Plan prepared under the ETV Protocol may be submitted (ETV Protocol incorporated by reference, *see* § 162.060-5). Otherwise, each Test Plan must be in the following format:


(1) Title page, including all project participants.


(2) Table of contents.


(3) Project description and treatment performance objectives.


(4) Project organization and personnel responsibilities.


(5) Description of the independent laboratory and all test facilities and subcontractors.


(6) BWMS description.


(7) Experimental design (including installation/start-up plan for tested equipment).


(8) Challenge conditions and preparation (including the test facility's standard operating procedures for achieving such conditions).


(9) Sampling, data acquisition, and analysis plan, including all necessary procedures.


(10) Data management, analysis, and reporting.


(11) Quality Assurance Project Plan, in accordance with the requirements of § 162.060-36 of this subpart.


(12) Environmental, health, and safety plans.


(13) Applicable references.




