# § 620.4   Deferral of service obligation.

(a) A scholarship recipient whose CyberCorps SFS Scholarship Phase has ended may request, from the Director, a deferral of the five-year Commitment Phase for completion of the service obligation based on—


(1) Enrollment in a program of study or engagement in approved professional activity that would contribute to further professional development and/or cybersecurity workforce readiness for the scholarship recipient;


(2) A condition that is a qualifying reason for leave under the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA);


(3) A call to order to Federal or state active duty or active service as a member of a Reserve Component of the Armed Forces named in 10 U.S.C. 10101, or service as a member of the National Guard on full-time National Guard duty, as defined in 10 U.S.C. 101(d)(5); or


(4) Other exceptional circumstances significantly affecting the scholarship recipient's ability to serve as determined by the Director.


(b) A scholarship recipient must apply for a deferral, by submitting a written request via the SFS program office, before the scholarship recipient's Commitment Phase has expired.


(c) A scholarship recipient who applies for deferral must provide documentation supporting the request as well as current contact information including home address, email address, and telephone number.


(d) The Director, or other official designated by the Director, will notify the scholarship recipient on the outcome of the application for deferral. If the deferral is denied, the scholarship recipient may submit a written request for reconsideration to the SFS program office. The request must be received no later than 30 calendar days after NSF sent notice of the denial to the recipient. The request must explain why the recipient believes the denial is based on an error or mistake of fact or law, or if there are any new facts or law that should be considered. The Director's determination on the request shall be final, with no further reconsideration.






