# ยง 516.10   Service of civil process within the United States.

(a) *Policy.* DA officials will not prevent or evade the service or process in legal actions brought against the United States or against themselves in their official capacities. If acceptance of service of process would interfere with the performance of military duties, Army officials may designate a representative to accept service. DA personnel sued in their individual capacity should seek legal counsel concerning voluntary acceptance of process.


(b) *Request for witnesses or evidence in civil proceedings.* See subpart G to this part.


(c) *Process of Federal courts.* Subject to reasonable restrictions imposed by the commander, civil officials will be permitted to serve Federal process. (See Fed. R. Civ. P. 4, 45).


(d) *Process of state courts.* (1) In areas of exclusive Federal jurisdiction that are not subject to the right to serve state process, the commander or supervisor will determine whether the individual to be served wishes to accept service voluntarily. A JA or other DA attorney will inform the individual of the legal effect of voluntary acceptance. If the individual does not desire to accept service, the party requesting service will be notified that the nature of the exclusive Federal jurisdiction precludes service by state authorities on the military installation.


(2) On Federal property where the right to serve process is reserved by or granted to the state, in areas of concurrent jurisdiction, or where the United States has only a proprietary interest, Army officials asked to facilitate service of process will initially proceed as provided in the preceding subparagraph. If the individual declines to accept service, the requesting party will be allowed to serve the process in accordance with applicable state law, subject to reasonable restrictions imposed by the commander.


(e) *Process of foreign courts.* A U.S. District Court may order service upon a person who resides in the judicial district of any document issued in connection with a proceeding in a foreign or international tribunal. (28 U.S.C. 1696). In addition, the U.S. State Department has the power to receive a letter rogatory issued by a foreign or international tribunal, to transmit it to a tribunal, officer or agency in the United States, and to return it after execution. (28 U.S.C. 1781). Absent a treaty or agreement to the contrary, these provisions will govern.


(f) *Seizure of personal property.* State and Federal courts issue orders (for example, writ of attachment) authorizing a levy (seizure) of property to secure satisfaction of a judgment. DA personnel will comply with valid state or Federal court orders commanding or authorizing the seizure of private property to the same extent that state or Federal process is served.



---

[N] [59 FR 38236, July 27, 1994; 59 FR 45975, Sept. 6, 1994]




