# ยง 700.509   Duties of the designated agency ethics official.

The Designated Agency Ethics Official shall coordinate and manage the agency's ethics program. The Deputy Ethics Official shall serve as alternate Agency Ethics Official in the absence of the Designated Agency Ethics Official, or upon his or her express delegation. Specific duties of the Officer include:


(a) *Liaison with Office of Government Ethics (OGE).* The Designated Agency Ethics Official shall establish and maintain close working relations with the OGE, and shall coordinate communications between the Commission and OGE through the Agency Liaison Division and Office of Ethics of the General Services Administration. If the Designated Agency Ethics Official receives a request which he or she believes should be answered by the Office of Government Ethics, a referral procedure is available. Requests for advisory opinions shall be submitted as specified in 5 CFR 738.304. The Designated Agency Ethics Official shall provide the OGE with records, reports and any other information which may be required under the Ethics in Government Act (Pub. L. 95-521, as amended) or requested by the OGE.


(b) *Review of statements.* The Designated Agency Ethics Official shall review the statements of employment and financial interest submitted by agency personnel assessing the application of conflict of interest laws and regulations to the information reported. When the review discloses a conflict, or the appearance of a conflict, between the private interests of an employee and the performance of his or her duties as a Commission employee, the Designated Agency Ethics Official shall bring the conflict to the attention of the employee, grant the individual an opportunity to explain the conflict, and attempt to resolve it. If the conflict is not resolved at this point, the Designated Agency Ethics Official shall forward a written report on the conflict to the Chairman of the Commission recommending appropriate action. In developing the recommendation the Designated Agency Ethics Official may consult, as appropriate, with the agency General Counsel and the GSA Ethics Office.


(c) *Education and counseling program.* The Designated Agency Ethics Official shall design and conduct an education and counseling program for supervisors and employees on all ethics and standards of conduct matters, including post-employment matters. Records shall be kept as appropriate on the advice rendered.


(d) *Administrative systems review.* The Designated Agency Ethics Official shall ensure that these regulations and implementing administrative systems are evaluated annually to determine their adequacy and effectiveness in relation to current agency responsibilities. Amendments shall be developed and approved pursuant to the results of systems review.




