# ยง 701.2   Definitions.

(a) The terms defined in part 718 of this chapter shall be applicable to this part and all documents issued in accordance with this part, except as otherwise provided in this section. 


(b) The following definitions shall apply to this part: 


*Agricultural producer* means an owner, operator, or tenant of a farm or ranch used to produce for food or fiber, crops (including but not limited to, grain or row crops; seed crops; vegetables or fruits; hay forage or pasture; orchards or vineyards; flowers or bulbs; or field grown ornamentals) or livestock (including but not limited to, dairy or beef cattle; poultry; swine; sheep or goats; fish or other animals raised by aquaculture; other livestock or fowl) for commercial production. Producers of animals raised for recreational uses only are not considered agricultural producers. 


*Annual agricultural production* means production of crops for food or fiber in a commercial operation that occurs on an annual basis under normal conditions. 


*Applicant* means a person or legal entity who has submitted to FSA a request to participate in the ECP or EFRP. 


*Cost-share payment* means the payment made by FSA to assist a program participant under this part to establish practices required to address qualifying damage suffered in connection with a qualifying disaster. 


*Deputy Administrator* means the Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, FSA, the ECP Program Manager, or designee. 


*Farmland* means land devoted to agricultural production, including land used for aquaculture, or other land as may be determined by the Deputy Administrator. 


*Forestland* means land that is at least 120 feet wide and 1 acre in size and at least 10 percent covered by live trees of any size.


*Natural disaster* means wildfires, hurricanes or excessive winds, drought, ice storms or blizzards, floods, or other naturally-occurring resource impacting events as determined by FSA. For EFRP, a natural disaster also includes insect or disease infestations as determined by FSA in consultation with other Federal and State agencies as appropriate.


*Nonindustrial private forest land* means rural lands with existing tree cover, or which are suitable for growing trees, that are owned by a private non-industrial forest landowner as defined in this section.


*Owners of nonindustrial private forest* means, for purposes of the EFRP, an individual, group, association, corporation, Indian Tribe, or other legal private entity owning nonindustrial private forest land or who receives concurrence from the landowner for making the claim in lieu of the owner; and, for practice implementation, the one who holds a lease on the land for a minimum of 10 years. Owners or lessees principally engaged in the primary processing of raw wood products are excluded from this definition. Owners of land leased to lessees who would be excluded under the previous sentence are also excluded.


*Socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher* means a farmer or rancher who is a member of a socially disadvantaged group. A socially disadvantaged group is a group whose members have been subjected to racial or ethnic prejudice because of their identity as members of a group without regard to their individual qualities.



---

[N] [69 FR 10302, Mar. 4, 2004, as amended at 75 FR 70087, Nov. 17, 2010; 84 FR 32841, July 10, 2019; 88 FR 1882, Jan. 11, 2023]




