# § 291.601   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply:


*Aggregate Loan Database (ALD)* means the electronic data file containing Single Family Loan information available for Qualified Participants to review before a Single Family Sale.


*Bidder Information Package (BIP)* means the documents prepared for participants in a Single Family Sale, which may include, but are not limited to, the following: an executive summary of the Programs; the Single Family Sale post-sale servicing and reporting requirements published by HUD; due diligence information and reports; Single Family Loan information; the Conveyance, Assignment and Assumption Agreement (CAA); bidding and settlement information; and necessary information and requirements as determined by the Secretary.


*Bidder Qualification Statement* means HUD Forms 9611 and 9612, or any form approved for similar purpose in the future as prescribed by the Secretary. (OMB number 2502-0576)


*Claim Date* means, with respect to each Single Family Loan, the date on which the Single Family Sale assignment claim is paid by HUD to the P-Servicer.


*Competitive Sale of Single Family Loans* means a sale of an individual or group of Single Family Loans to Qualified Participants through a bid process prescribed by the Secretary in competition with other Qualified Participants in accordance with § 291.609.


*Confidentiality Agreement* means a nondisclosure agreement under which the individual or entity seeking to participate in Single Family Sales agrees that Single Family Loan data and documentation shared with the individual or entity as due diligence will remain confidential in accordance with the terms of the agreement as determined by the Secretary.


*Conveyance, Assignment and Assumption Agreement (CAA)* means the contract between HUD and a Purchaser, along with all applicable exhibits and riders, that governs the terms of the Single Family Sale as prescribed by the Secretary. The CAA will include any sale-specific post-sale servicing and outcome requirements, representations, repurchase requirements, schedule of dates, and reporting requirements published by the Secretary for the Single Family Sale through a Sale Notice.


*Cut-off date* or *claim submission cut-off date* means the last date specified by the Secretary on which the P-Servicer is permitted to submit to HUD a Single Family Sale insurance claim for payment under 24 CFR 203.413 and 206.130.


*Desk Guide* means the technical manual included in the PSA detailing the P-Servicer's steps for submitting Single Family Loans related to a Single Family Sale, including but not limited to the process for identifying eligible Single Family Loans, uploading due diligence files, and submitting insurance claims.


*Direct Sale of Single Family Loans* means a sale of an individual or group of Single Family Loans to a Qualified Participant through the process described in § 291.619.


*Home Equity Conversion Mortgage (HECM)* means reverse mortgages insured in accordance with 24 CFR part 206 under the FHA Home Equity Conversion Mortgage insurance program.


*Interim Servicing Agreement (ISA)* means the agreement between a Purchaser and P-Servicer that governs the servicing and administration of the purchased loans, including but not limited to transfer of mortgage information and loss mitigation evaluations, during the Interim Servicing Period in accordance with the terms prescribed by the Secretary.


*Interim Servicing Period* means the period commencing with Claim Date and ending with the Servicing Transfer Date.


*Low-value* means, in reference to a Mortgage, the value minimum stated in the Participating Servicer Agreement (PSA).


*Nonprofit organization* means an entity that is tax-exempt under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (26 U.S.C.A. 501(c)(3)) and meets the qualification requirements prescribed by the Secretary for participation in a Single Family Sale.


*Participating Servicer (P-Servicer)* means a mortgagee that complies with § 291.605 and submits Single Family Loans for a Single Family Sale.


*Participating Servicer Agreement (PSA)* means the agreement between HUD and a P-Servicer that governs the P-Servicers submission of Single Family Loans to be sold in a Single Family Sale on terms as prescribed by the Secretary.


*Purchaser* means a Qualified Participant to which HUD has awarded one or more Single Family Loans through a Single Family Sale, as of the date of notification of the award.


*Qualified Participant* means an individual or entity that satisfies the requirements in § 291.607 for participation in Single Family Sales.


*Sale Notice* means an announcement published by HUD for an upcoming Single Family Sale and includes any stated mission objectives and additional sale, participant qualification, and loan eligibility requirements; representations; post-sale servicing, outcomes, and reporting requirements; and repurchase requirements for inclusion in the Qualification Statement, PSA, ISA, and CAA as applicable.


*Servicing Transfer Date* means, with respect to any Single Family Loan, the date on which the actual servicing duties for such Single Family Loan has been or will be transferred from the P-Servicer to the Purchaser's servicer. The latest Servicing Transfer Date will be set forth in a schedule of dates prescribed by the Secretary and included in the PSA, ISA, and CAA.


*Single Family Loan* means any HUD-selected eligible forward mortgage loan insured under Section 203 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1709) that has or will be assigned to HUD and any HUD-selected eligible HECM insured under section 255 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-20) that has or will be assigned to HUD, or any other eligible single family mortgage loans owned by the Secretary that will be sold in a Single Family Sale.


*Single Family Sale* means a Competitive Sale of Single Family Loans or Direct Sale of Single Family Loans conducted by HUD in accordance with this subpart.


*Vacant* means a mortgaged property is determined to be vacant or abandoned in accordance with the requirements of 24 CFR part 203 and FHA policy.






