# § 146.130   Standards relating to benefits for mothers and newborns.

(a) *Hospital length of stay*—(1) *General rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, a group health plan, or a health insurance issuer offering group health insurance coverage, that provides benefits for a hospital length of stay in connection with childbirth for a mother or her newborn may not restrict benefits for the stay to less than—


(i) 48 hours following a vaginal delivery; or


(ii) 96 hours following a delivery by cesarean section.


(2) *When stay begins*—(i) *Delivery in a hospital.* If delivery occurs in a hospital, the hospital length of stay for the mother or newborn child begins at the time of delivery (or in the case of multiple births, at the time of the last delivery).


(ii) *Delivery outside a hospital.* If delivery occurs outside a hospital, the hospital length of stay begins at the time the mother or newborn is admitted as a hospital inpatient in connection with childbirth. The determination of whether an admission is in connection with childbirth is a medical decision to be made by the attending provider.


(3) *Examples.* The rules of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section are illustrated by the following examples. In each example, the group health plan provides benefits for hospital lengths of stay in connection with childbirth and is subject to the requirements of this section, as follows:


(4) *Authorization not required*—(i) *In general.* A plan or issuer is prohibited from requiring that a physician or other health care provider obtain authorization from the plan or issuer for prescribing the hospital length of stay specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. (See also paragraphs (b)(2) and (c)(3) of this section for rules and examples regarding other authorization and certain notice requirements.)


(ii) *Example.* The rule of this paragraph (a)(4) is illustrated by the following example:


(5) *Exceptions*—(i) *Discharge of mother.* If a decision to discharge a mother earlier than the period specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is made by an attending provider, in consultation with the mother, the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section do not apply for any period after the discharge.


(ii) *Discharge of newborn.* If a decision to discharge a newborn child earlier than the period specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is made by an attending provider, in consultation with the mother (or the newborn's authorized representative), the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section do not apply for any period after the discharge.


(iii) *Attending provider defined.* For purposes of this section, attending provider means an individual who is licensed under applicable state law to provide maternity or pediatric care and who is directly responsible for providing maternity or pediatric care to a mother or newborn child. Therefore, a plan, hospital, managed care organization, or other issuer is not an attending provider.


(iv) *Example.* The rules of this paragraph (a)(5) are illustrated by the following example:


(b) *Prohibitions*—(1) *With respect to mothers*—(i) *In general.* A group health plan, and a health insurance issuer offering group health insurance coverage, may not—


(A) Deny a mother or her newborn child eligibility or continued eligibility to enroll or renew coverage under the terms of the plan solely to avoid the requirements of this section; or


(B) Provide payments (including payments-in-kind) or rebates to a mother to encourage her to accept less than the minimum protections available under this section.


(ii) *Examples.* The rules of this paragraph (b)(1) are illustrated by the following examples. In each example, the group health plan is subject to the requirements of this section, as follows:


(2) *With respect to benefit restrictions*—(i) *In general.* Subject to paragraph (c)(3) of this section, a group health plan, and a health insurance issuer offering group health insurance coverage, may not restrict the benefits for any portion of a hospital length of stay specified in paragraph (a) of this section in a manner that is less favorable than the benefits provided for any preceding portion of the stay.


(ii) *Example.* The rules of this paragraph (b)(2) are illustrated by the following example:


(3) *With respect to attending providers.* A group health plan, and a health insurance issuer offering group health insurance coverage, may not directly or indirectly—


(i) Penalize (for example, take disciplinary action against or retaliate against), or otherwise reduce or limit the compensation of, an attending provider because the provider furnished care to a participant or beneficiary in accordance with this section; or


(ii) Provide monetary or other incentives to an attending provider to induce the provider to furnish care to a participant or beneficiary in a manner inconsistent with this section, including providing any incentive that could induce an attending provider to discharge a mother or newborn earlier than 48 hours (or 96 hours) after delivery.


(c) *Construction.* With respect to this section, the following rules of construction apply:


(1) *Hospital stays not mandatory.* This section does not require a mother to—


(i) Give birth in a hospital; or


(ii) Stay in the hospital for a fixed period of time following the birth of her child.


(2) *Hospital stay benefits not mandated.* This section does not apply to any group health plan, or any group health insurance coverage, that does not provide benefits for hospital lengths of stay in connection with childbirth for a mother or her newborn child.


(3) *Cost-sharing rules*—(i) *In general.* This section does not prevent a group health plan or a health insurance issuer offering group health insurance coverage from imposing deductibles, coinsurance, or other cost-sharing in relation to benefits for hospital lengths of stay in connection with childbirth for a mother or a newborn under the plan or coverage, except that the coinsurance or other cost-sharing for any portion of the hospital length of stay specified in paragraph (a) of this section may not be greater than that for any preceding portion of the stay.


(ii) *Examples.* The rules of this paragraph (c)(3) are illustrated by the following examples. In each example, the group health plan is subject to the requirements of this section, as follows:


(4) *Compensation of attending provider.* This section does not prevent a group health plan or a health insurance issuer offering group health insurance coverage from negotiating with an attending provider the level and type of compensation for care furnished in accordance with this section (including paragraph (b) of this section).


(d) *Notice requirement.* Except as provided in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, a group health plan that provides benefits for hospital lengths of stay in connection with childbirth must meet the following requirements:


(1) *Required statement.* The plan document that provides a description of plan benefits to participants and beneficiaries, or that notifies participants and beneficiaries of plan benefit changes, must disclose information that notifies participants and beneficiaries of their rights under this section.


(2) *Disclosure notice.* To meet the disclosure requirement set forth in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the following disclosure notice must be used:


(3) *Timing of disclosure.* The disclosure notice in paragraph (d)(2) of this section shall be furnished to each participant covered under a group health plan, and each beneficiary receiving benefits under a group health plan, not later than 60 days after the first day of the first plan year beginning on or after January 1, 2009. Each time a plan distributes one or both of the documents described in paragraph (d)(1) to participants and beneficiaries after providing this initial notice, the disclosure notice in paragraph (d)(2) must appear in at least one of those documents.


(4) *Exceptions.* The requirements of this paragraph (d) do not apply in the following situations.


(i) *Self-insured plans that have already provided notice.* If benefits for hospital lengths of stay in connection with childbirth are not provided through health insurance coverage, and the group health plan has already provided an initial notice that complies with paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section, the group health plan is not automatically required to provide another such notice to participants and beneficiaries who have been provided with the initial notice. However, following the effective date of these regulations, whenever such a plan provides one or both of the documents described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section to participants and beneficiaries, the disclosure notice in paragraph (d)(2) of this section must appear in at least one of those documents.


(ii) *Self-insured plans that have elected exemption from this section.* If benefits for hospital lengths of stay in connection with childbirth are not provided through health insurance coverage, and the group health plan has made the election described in Sec. 146.180 to be exempted from the requirements of this section, the group health plan is not subject to this paragraph (d).


(iii) *Insured plans.* If benefits for hospital lengths of stay in connection with childbirth are provided through health insurance coverage, and the coverage is regulated under a State law described in paragraph (e) of this section, the group health plan is not subject to this paragraph (d).


(e) *Applicability in certain states*—(1) *Health insurance coverage.* The requirements of section 2725 of the PHS Act and this section do not apply with respect to health insurance coverage offered in connection with a group health plan if there is a state law regulating the coverage that meets any of the following criteria:


(i) The state law requires the coverage to provide for at least a 48-hour hospital length of stay following a vaginal delivery and at least a 96-hour hospital length of stay following a delivery by cesarean section.


(ii) The state law requires the coverage to provide for maternity and pediatric care in accordance with guidelines that relate to care following childbirth established by the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, the American Academy of Pediatrics, or any other established professional medical association.


(iii) The state law requires, in connection with the coverage for maternity care, that the hospital length of stay for such care is left to the decision of (or is required to be made by) the attending provider in consultation with the mother. State laws that require the decision to be made by the attending provider with the consent of the mother satisfy the criterion of this paragraph (e)(1)(iii).


(2) *Group health plans*—(i) *Fully-insured plans.* For a group health plan that provides benefits solely through health insurance coverage, if the state law regulating the health insurance coverage meets any of the criteria in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, then the requirements of section 2725 of the PHS Act and this section do not apply.


(ii) *Self-insured plans.* For a group health plan that provides all benefits for hospital lengths of stay in connection with childbirth other than through health insurance coverage, the requirements of section 2725 of the PHS Act and this section apply.


(iii) *Partially-insured plans.* For a group health plan that provides some benefits through health insurance coverage, if the state law regulating the health insurance coverage meets any of the criteria in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, then the requirements of section 2725 of the PHS Act and this section apply only to the extent the plan provides benefits for hospital lengths of stay in connection with childbirth other than through health insurance coverage.


(3) *Relation to section 2724 (a) of the PHS Act.* The preemption provisions contained in section 2724 (a)(1) of the PHS Act and Sec. 146.143(a) do not supersede a state law described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.


(4) *Examples.* The rules of this paragraph (e) are illustrated by the following examples:


(f) *Applicability date.* Section 2725 of the PHS Act applies to group health plans, and health insurance issuers offering group health insurance coverage, for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 1998. This section applies to group health plans, and health insurance issuers offering group health insurance coverage, for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2009.



---

[N] [73 FR 62424, Oct. 20, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 27138, May 13, 2010]




