# ยง 72.16   Preliminary Action Program requirements.

The following information must be submitted: 


(a) *Evidence of physical deficiencies.* A general description of the problems confronted by the local government in bringing its facilities up to an adequate level of quality, the basis for the determination that certain facilities are deficient, and the general level of deficient facilities found within the jurisdictions. Maps and other graphics should be used to indicate where the deficiencies are located, particularly in reference to the populations to be served. 


(b) *Level of resource support.* A summary of the public funds, including State and Federal, being spent by the jurisdiction on parks and recreation. A generalized description of the level of non-governmental support (neighborhood, voluntary and business) shall also be given. 


(c) *Adoption of goals.* The existing park and recreation goals adopted by the governing body of the jurisdiction are to be included. Emphasis should be placed on what the local government is seeking to achieve in its parks and recreation systems, including the population it is attempting to serve, the facilities and services offered, and the providers (public agency or private sector). 


(d) *Statement of priorities and implementation strategies.* Description of the priorities set by the local government as related to the deficiencies outlined above, and the strategies used to allocate available resources over time. Included should be a brief discussion of the relationship of the Preliminary Action Program to other related community development, historic preservation and urban revitalization efforts underway in the jurisdiction. 


(e) *Evidence of public participation.* A description of the means by which citizens and public officials will be included early in the decision process for project selection, the setting of priorities and schedules, and the development of implementation strategies. Existing public participation efforts within the jurisdiction should be used. 




