# ยง 412.104   Special treatment: Hospitals with high percentage of ESRD discharges.

(a) *Criteria for classification.* CMS provides an additional payment to a hospital for inpatient services provided to ESRD beneficiaries who receive a dialysis treatment during a hospital stay, if the hospital has established that ESRD beneficiary discharges, excluding discharges classified into any of the following MS-DRGs, where the beneficiary received dialysis services during the inpatient stay, constitute 10 percent or more of its total Medicare discharges:


(1) MS-DRG 019 (Simultaneous Pancreas/Kidney Transplant with Hemodialysis).


(2) MS-DRGs 650 and 651 (Kidney Transplant with Hemodialysis with MCC, without MCC, respectively).


(3) MS-DRGs 682, 683, and 684 (Renal Failure with MCC, with CC, without CC/MCC, respectively).


(b) *Additional payment.* A hospital that meets the criteria of paragraph (a) of this section is paid an additional payment for each ESRD beneficiary discharge except those excluded under paragraph (a) of this section. 


(1) The payment is based on the estimated weekly cost of dialysis and the average length of stay of ESRD beneficiaries for the hospital.


(2)(i) Effective for cost reporting periods beginning before October 1, 2024, the estimated weekly cost of dialysis is the average number of dialysis sessions furnished per week during the 12-month period that ended June 30, 1983, multiplied by the average cost of dialysis for the same period.


(ii) Effective for cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2024, the estimated weekly cost of dialysis is calculated as 3 dialysis sessions per week multiplied by the applicable ESRD prospective payment system (PPS) base rate (as defined in 42 CFR 413.171) that corresponds with the fiscal year in which the cost reporting period begins.


(3) The average cost of dialysis used for purposes of determining the estimated weekly cost of dialysis for cost reporting periods beginning before October 1, 2024, includes only those costs determined to be directly related to the renal dialysis services. (These costs include salary, employee health and welfare, drugs, supplies, and laboratory services.)


(4) Effective for cost reporting periods beginning before October 1, 2024, the average cost of dialysis is reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at the time the composite rate reimbursement for outpatient dialysis is reviewed.


(5) The payment to a hospital equals the average length of stay of ESRD beneficiaries in the hospital, expressed as a ratio to one week, times the estimated weekly cost of dialysis multiplied by the number of ESRD beneficiary discharges except for those excluded under paragraph (a) of this section. This payment is made only on the Federal portion of the payment rate.



---

[N] [50 FR 12741, Mar. 29, 1985, as amended at 57 FR 39824, Sept. 1, 1992; 69 FR 49244, Aug. 11, 2004; 73 FR 48755, Aug. 19, 2008; 85 FR 59021, Sept. 18, 2020; 89 FR 69911, Aug. 28, 2024]






