# § 146.185   Pineapple juice.

(a) *Identity.* (1) Pineapple juice is the juice, intended for direct consumption, obtained by mechanical process from the flesh or parts thereof, with or without core material, of sound, ripe pineapple (*Ananas comosus* L. Merrill). The juice may have been concentrated and later reconstituted with water suitable for the purpose of maintaining essential composition and quality factors of the juice. Pineapple juice may contain finely divided insoluble solids, but it does not contain pieces of shell, seeds, or other coarse or hard substances or excess pulp. It may be sweetened with any safe and suitable dry nutritive carbohydrate sweetener. However, if the pineapple juice is prepared from concentrate, such sweeteners, in liquid form, also may be used. It may contain added vitamin C in a quantity such that the total vitamin C in each 4 fluid ounces of the finished food amounts to not less than 30 milligrams and not more than 60 milligrams. In the processing of pineapple juice, dimethylpolysiloxane complying with the requirements of § 173.340 of this chapter may be employed as a defoaming agent in an amount not greater than 10 parts per million by weight of the finished food. Such food is prepared by heat sterilization, refrigeration, or freezing. When sealed in a container to be held at ambient temperatures, it is so processed by heat, before or after sealing, as to prevent spoilage.


(2) The name of the food is “Pineapple juice” if the juice from which it is prepared has not been concentrated and/or diluted with water. The name of the food is “Pineapple juice from concentrate” if the finished juice has been made from pineapple juice concentrate as specified in paragraph (a) of this section. If a nutritive sweetener is added, the label shall bear the statement “Sweetener added.” If no sweetener is added, the word “Unsweetened” may immediately precede or follow the words “Pineapple juice” or “Pineapple juice from concentrate.”


(3) *Label declaration.* Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter.


(b) *Quality.* (1) The standard of quality for pineapple juice is as follows:


(i) The soluble solids content of pineapple juice (exclusive of added sugars) without added water shall not be less than 10.5° Brix as determined by refractometer at 20 °C uncorrected for acidity and read as degrees Brix on International Sucrose Scales. Where the juice has been obtained using concentrated juice with addition of water, the soluble pineapple juice solids content (exclusive of added sugars) shall be not less than 12.8° Brix, uncorrected for acidity and read as degrees Brix on the International Sucrose Scales.


(ii) The acidity, as determined by the method prescribed in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, is not more than 1.35 grams of anhydrous citric acid per 100 milliliters of the juice.


(iii) The ratio of the degrees Brix to total acidity, as determined by the method prescribed in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, is not less than 12.


(iv) The quantity of finely divided “insoluble solids”, as determined by the method prescribed in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section, is not less than 5 percent nor more than 30 percent.


(2) The methods referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section are as follows:


(i) Determine the degrees Brix of the pineapple juice by the method prescribed in “Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists,” 13th Ed. (1980), section 31.009, “Solids by Means of Spindle—Official Final Action,” which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(ii) Determine the total acidity of the pineapple juice by titration by the method prescribed in § 145.180(b)(2)(ix) of this chapter.


(iii) Divide the degrees Brix determined as prescribed in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section by the grams of anhydrous citric acid per 100 milliliters of juice, determined as prescribed in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, and report the results as ratio of degrees Brix to total acidity.


(iv) Determine the quantity of “insoluble solids” in pineapple juice as follows: Measure 50 milliliters of thoroughly stirred pineapple juice into a cone-shaped graduated tube of the long-cone type, measuring approximately 4
3/16 inches from tip to top calibration and having a capacity of 50 milliliters. Place the tube in a suitable centrifuge the approximate speed of which is related to diameter of swing in accordance with the table immediately below. The word “diameter” means the over-all distance between the tips of opposing centrifuge tubes in operating position.


(3) If the quality of pineapple juice falls below the standard prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the label shall bear the general statement of substandard quality specified in § 130.14 (a) of this chapter, in the manner and form therein specified.


(c) *Fill of container.* (1) The standard of fill of container for pineapple juice, except when the food is frozen, is not less than 90 percent of the total capacity of the container, as determined by the general method for fill of container prescribed in § 130.12(b) of this chapter.


(2) If pineapple juice falls below the standard of fill of container prescribed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the label shall bear the statement of substandard fill specified in § 130.14(b) of this chapter, in the manner and form therein specified.



---

[N] [42 FR 14433, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 47 FR 11831, Mar. 19, 1982; 47 FR 52694, Nov. 23, 1982; 49 FR 10101, Mar. 19, 1984; 50 FR 19524, May 9, 1985; 54 FR 24895, June 12, 1989; 58 FR 2882, Jan. 6, 1993; 63 FR 14035, Mar. 24, 1998]




