# ยง 902.35   Financial condition scoring and thresholds.

(a) *Scoring.* (1) Under the financial condition indicator, a score will be calculated for each project based on the values of financial condition subindicators and an overall financial condition score, as well as audit and internal control flags. Each financial condition subindicator has several levels of performance, with different point values for each level.


(2) The financial condition score for projects will be based on the annual financial condition information submitted to HUD for each project under 24 CFR 990.280 and 990.285. The financial condition score for PHAs will be based on a unit-weighted average of project scores.


(b) *Subindicators of the financial condition indicator.* The subindicators of financial condition indicator are:


(1) *Quick Ratio (QR).* The QR compares quick assets to current liabilities. Quick assets are cash and assets that are easily convertible to cash and do not include inventory. Current liabilities are those liabilities that are due within the next 12 months. A QR of less than one indicates that the project's ability to make payments on a timely basis may be at risk.


(2) *Months Expendable Net Assets Ratio (MENAR).* The MENAR measures a project's ability to operate using its net available, unrestricted resources without relying on additional funding. This ratio compares the adjusted net available unrestricted resources to the average monthly operating expenses. The result of this calculation shows how many months of operating expenses can be covered with currently available, unrestricted resources.


(3) *Debt Service Coverage Ratio (DSCR).* The DSCR is the ratio of net operating income available to make debt payments, to the amount of the debt payments. This subindicator is used if the PHA has taken on long-term obligations. A DSCR of less than one would indicate that the project would have difficulty generating sufficient cash flow to cover both its expenses and its debt obligations.


(c) *Overall PHA financial condition indicator score.* The overall financial condition indicator score is a unit-weighted average of project scores. The sum of the weighted values is then divided by the total number of units in the PHA's portfolio to derive the overall financial condition indicator score.


(d) *Thresholds.* (1) The PHA's financial condition score is based on a maximum of 25 points.


(2) In order for a PHA to receive a passing score under the financial condition indicator, the PHA must achieve a score of at least 15 points, or 60 percent of the available points under this indicator.


(3) A PHA that receives fewer than 15 points available under this indicator will be categorized as a substandard financial condition agency.




