# § 55.6   Coverage under section 203(c).

(a) *Coverage formula.* There are four ways in which a political subdivision can become subject to section 203(c). 
2

(1) *Political subdivision approach.* A political subdivision is covered if—


(i) More than 5 percent of its voting age citizens are members of a single language minority group and are limited-English proficient; and


(ii) The illiteracy rate of such language minority citizens in the political subdivision is higher than the national illiteracy rate.


(2) *State approach.* A political subdivision is covered if—


(i) It is located in a state in which more than 5 percent of the voting age citizens are members of a single language minority and are limited-English proficient;


(ii) The illiteracy rate of such language minority citizens in the state is higher than the national illiteracy rate; and


(iii) Five percent or more of the voting age citizens of the political subdivision are members of such language minority group and are limited-English proficient.


(3) *Numerical approach.* A political subdivision is covered if—


(i) More than 10,000 of its voting age citizens are members of a single language minority group and are limited-English proficient; and


(ii) The illiteracy rate of such language minority citizens in the political subdivision is higher than the national illiteracy rate.


(4) *Indian reservation approach.* A political subdivision is covered if there is located within its borders all or any part of an Indian reservation—


(i) In which more than 5 percent of the voting age American Indian or Alaska Native citizens are members of a single language minority group and are limited-English proficient; and


(ii) The illiteracy rate of such language minority citizens is higher than the national illiteracy rate.


(b) *Definitions.* For the purpose of determinations of coverage under section 203(c), *limited-English proficient* means unable to speak or understand English adequately enough to participate in the electoral process; *Indian reservation* means any area that is an American Indian or Alaska Native area, as defined by the Census Bureau for the purposes of the 1990 decennial census; and *illiteracy* means the failure to complete the fifth primary grade.


(c) *Determinations.* Determinations of coverage under section 203(c) are made with regard to specific language groups of the language minorities listed in section 203(e).



---

[N] [Order No. 1752-93, 58 FR 35372, July 1, 1993]




