# § 453.1   Scope and significance of this part.

(a) *Functions of the Department of Labor.* This part discusses the meaning and scope of section 502 of the Labor-Management Reporting and Disclosure Act of 1959 
1 (hereinafter referred to as the Act), which requires the bonding of certain officials, representatives, and employees of labor organizations and of trusts in which labor organizations are interested. The provisions of section 502 are subject to the general investigatory authority of the Secretary of Labor, embodied in section 601 of the Act (and delegated by him to the Director), which empowers him to investigate whenever he believes it necessary in order to determine whether any person has violated or is about to violate any provisions of the Act (except title I or amendments to other statutes made by section 505 or title VII). The Department of Labor is also authorized, under the general provisions of section 607, to forward to the Attorney General, for appropriate action, any evidence of violations of section 502 developed in such investigations, as may be found to warrant criminal prosecution under the Act or other Federal law.


(b) *Purpose and effect of interpretations.* Interpretations of the Director with respect to the bonding provisions are set forth in this part to provide those affected by these provisions of the Act with “a practical guide * * * as to how the office representing the public interest in its enforcement will seek to apply it.” 
2 The correctness of an interpretation can be determined finally and authoritatively only by the courts. It is necessary, however, for the Director to reach informed conclusions as to the meaning of the law to enable him to carry out his statutory duties of administration and enforcement. The interpretations of the Director contained in this part, which are issued upon the advice of the Solicitor of Labor, indicate the construction of the law which will guide him in performing his duties unless and until he is directed otherwise by authoritative rulings of the courts or unless and until he subsequently decides that a prior interpretation is incorrect. However, the omission to discuss a particular problem in this part, or in interpretations supplementing it, should not be taken to indicate the adoption of any position by the Director with respect to such problem or to constitute an administrative interpretation or practice.


(c) *Earlier interpretations superseded.* To the extent that prior opinions and interpretations under the Act, relating to the bonding of certain officials, representatives, and employees of labor organizations and of trusts in which labor organizations are interested, are inconsistent or in conflict with the principles stated in this part, they are hereby rescinded and withdrawn.



---

[N] [28 FR 14394, Dec. 27, 1963, as amended at 50 FR 31309, Aug. 1, 1985; 78 FR 8026, Feb. 5, 2013]




