# ยง 637.203   Definitions.

*Acceptance program.* All factors that comprise the State transportation department's (STD) determination of the quality of the product as specified in the contract requirements. These factors include verification sampling, testing, and inspection and may include results of quality control sampling and testing.


*Independent assurance program.* Activities that are an unbiased and independent evaluation of all the sampling and testing procedures used in the acceptance program. Test procedures used in the acceptance program which are performed in the STD's central laboratory would not be covered by an independent assurance program.


*Proficiency samples.* Homogeneous samples that are distributed and tested by two or more laboratories. The test results are compared to assure that the laboratories are obtaining the same results.


*Qualified laboratories.* Laboratories that are capable as defined by appropriate programs established by each STD. As a minimum, the qualification program shall include provisions for checking test equipment and the laboratory shall keep records of calibration checks.


*Qualified sampling and testing personnel.* Personnel who are capable as defined by appropriate programs established by each STD.


*Quality assurance.* All those planned and systematic actions necessary to provide confidence that a product or service will satisfy given requirements for quality.


*Quality control.* All contractor/vendor operational techniques and activities that are performed or conducted to fulfill the contract requirements.


*Random sample.* A sample drawn from a lot in which each increment in the lot has an equal probability of being chosen.


*Vendor.* A supplier of project-produced material that is not the contractor.


*Verification sampling and testing.* Sampling and testing performed to validate the quality of the product.




