# ยง 250.1911   What hazards analysis criteria must my SEMS program meet?

You must ensure that a hazards analysis (facility level) and a JSA (operations/task level) are developed and implemented for all of your facilities and activities identified or discussed in your SEMS. You must document and maintain a current analysis for each operation covered by this section for the life of the operation at the facility. You must update the analysis when an internal audit is conducted to ensure that it is consistent with your facility's current operations.


(a) *Hazards analysis (facility level).* The hazards analysis must be appropriate for the complexity of the operation and must identify, evaluate, and manage the hazards involved in the operation.


(1) The hazards analysis must address the following:


(i) Hazards of the operation;


(ii) Previous incidents related to the operation you are evaluating, including any incident in which you were issued an Incident of Noncompliance or a civil or criminal penalty;


(iii) Control technology applicable to the operation your hazards analysis is evaluating; and


(iv) A qualitative evaluation of the possible safety and health effects on employees, and potential impacts to the human and marine environments, which may result if the control technology fails.


(2) The hazards analysis must be performed by a person(s) with experience in the operations being evaluated. These individuals also need to be experienced in the hazards analysis methodologies being employed.


(3) You should assure that the recommendations in the hazards analysis are resolved and that the resolution is documented.


(4) A single hazards analysis can be performed to fulfill the requirements for simple and nearly identical facilities, such as well jackets and single well caissons. You can apply this single hazards analysis to simple and nearly identical facilities after you verify that any site-specific deviations are addressed in each of your SEMS program elements.


(b) *JSA.* You must ensure a JSA is prepared, conducted, and approved for OCS activities that are identified or discussed in your SEMS program. The JSA is a technique used to identify risks to personnel associated with their job activities. The JSAs are also used to determine the appropriate mitigation measures needed to reduce job risks to personnel. The JSA must include all personnel involved with the job activity.


(1) You must ensure that your JSA identifies, analyzes, and records:


(i) The steps involved in performing a specific job;


(ii) The existing or potential safety, health, and environmental hazards associated with each step; and


(iii) The recommended action(s) and/or procedure(s) that will eliminate or reduce these hazards, the risk of a workplace injury or illness, or environmental impacts.


(2) The immediate supervisor of the crew performing the job onsite must conduct the JSA, sign the JSA, and ensure that all personnel participating in the job understand and sign the JSA.


(3) The individual you designate as being in charge of the facility must approve and sign all JSAs before personnel start the job.


(4) If a particular job is conducted on a recurring basis, and if the parameters of these recurring jobs do not change, then the person in charge of the job may decide that a JSA for each individual job is not required. The parameters you must consider in making this determination include, but are not limited to, changes in personnel, procedures, equipment, and environmental conditions associated with the job.


(c) All personnel, which includes contractors, must be trained in accordance with the requirements of ยง 250.1915. You must also verify that contractors are trained in accordance with ยง 250.1915 prior to performing a job.



---

[N] [76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 20441, Apr. 5, 2013]




