# § 707.5   Subsequent disclosures.

(a) *Change in terms*—(1) *Advance notice required.* A credit union shall give advance notice to affected members of any change in a term required to be disclosed under § 707.4(b), if the change may reduce the annual percentage yield or adversely affect the member. The notice shall include the effective date of the change. The notice shall be mailed or delivered at least 30 calendar days before the effective date of the change.


(2) *No notice required.* No notice under this section is required for:


(i) *Variable-rate changes.* Changes in the dividend rate and corresponding changes in the annual percentage yield in variable-rate accounts.


(ii) *Share draft and check printing fees.* Changes in fees for check printing.


(iii) *Short-term term share accounts.* Changes in any term for term share accounts with maturities of one month or less.


(b) *Notice before maturity for term share accounts longer than one month that renew automatically.* For term share accounts with a maturity longer than one month that renew automatically at maturity, credit unions shall provide the disclosures described below before maturity. The disclosures shall be mailed or delivered at least 30 calendar days before maturity of the existing account. Alternatively, the disclosures may be mailed or delivered at least 20 calendar days before the end of the grace period on the existing account, provided a grace period of at least five calendar days is allowed.


(1) *Maturities of longer than one year.* If the maturity is longer than one year, the credit union shall provide account disclosures set forth in § 707.4(b) for the new account, along with the date the existing account matures. If the dividend rate and annual percentage yield that will be paid for the new account are unknown when disclosures are provided, the credit union shall state that those rates have not yet been determined, the date when they will be determined, and a telephone number members may call to obtain the dividend rate and the annual percentage yield that will be paid for the new account.


(2) *Maturities of one year or less but longer than one month.* If the maturity is one year or less but longer than one month, the credit union shall either:


(i) Provide disclosures as set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section; or


(ii) Disclose to the member:


(A) The date the existing account matures and the new maturity date if the account is renewed;


(B) The dividend rate and the annual percentage yield for the new account if they are known (or that those rates have not yet been determined, the date when they will be determined, and a telephone number the member may call to obtain the dividend rate and the annual percentage yield that will be paid for the new account); and


(C) Any difference in the terms of the new account as compared to the terms required to be disclosed under § 707.4(b) for the existing account.


(c) *Notice before maturity for term share accounts longer than one year that do not renew automatically.* For term share accounts with a maturity longer than one year that do not renew automatically at maturity, credit unions shall disclose to members the maturity date and whether dividends will be paid after maturity. The disclosures shall be mailed or delivered at least 10 calendar days before maturity of the existing account.



---

[N] [58 FR 50445, Sept. 27, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 114, Jan. 3, 1996; 63 FR 71574, Dec. 29, 1998]




