# § 155.1320   Monitoring and compliance.

(a) *General.* (1) Following the issuance of a final decision to approve a section 1332 waiver by the Secretary and the Secretary of the Treasury, as applicable, a State must comply with all applicable Federal laws and regulations, unless expressly waived. A State must, within the timeframes specified in law and regulation come into compliance with any changes in Federal law and regulation affecting section 1332 waivers, unless the provision being changed is expressly waived.


(2) The Secretary and the Secretary of the Treasury will examine compliance with Federal and regulatory requirements consistent with § 155.1308(f)(3)(iv) when conducting implementation reviews under paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Implementation reviews.* (1) The terms and conditions of an approved section 1332 waiver will provide that the State will perform periodic reviews of the implementation of the section 1332 waiver.


(2) The Secretary and the Secretary of the Treasury, as applicable, will review documented complaints that a State is failing to comply with requirements specified in the terms and conditions of any approved section 1332 waiver.


(3) The Secretary and the Secretary of the Treasury, as applicable, will promptly share with a State any complaint that the Secretary and the Secretary of the Treasury has received and will also provide notification of any applicable monitoring and compliance issues.


(c) *Post award.* Within at least 6 months after the implementation date of a section 1332 waiver and annually thereafter, a State must hold a public forum to solicit comments on the progress of a section 1332 waiver. The State must hold the public forum at which members of the public have an opportunity to provide comments and must provide a summary of the forum to the Secretary as part of the quarterly report specified in § 155.1324(a) that is associated with the quarter in which the forum was held, as well as in the annual report specified in § 155.1324(b) that is associated with the year in which the forum was held. The public forum shall be conducted in an in-person, virtual (that is, one that uses telephonic, digital, and/or web-based platforms), or hybrid (that is, one that provides for both in-person and virtual attendance) format.




(1) *Notification requirements for public forum.* The State must publish the date, time, and location of the public forum in a prominent location on the State's public web site, at least 30 days prior to the date of the planned public forum.


(2) *Modification from the normal post award requirements during an emergent situation.* (i) The Secretary and the Secretary of the Treasury may modify, in part, State post award requirements under this paragraph (c)(2) for an approved section 1332 waiver request during an emergent situation when the application of the post award public notice requirements would be contrary to the interests of consumers. These flexibilities are limited to emergent situations, including natural disasters; public health emergencies; or other emergent situations that threaten consumers' access to comprehensive coverage, consumers' access to health care, or human life.


(ii) A State must meet all of the following criteria to request a modification under paragraph (c) of this section:


(A) The State must request a modification under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, in the form and manner specified by the Secretaries.


(B) The State must have acted in good faith, and in a diligent, timely, and prudent manner to comply with the monitoring and compliance requirement under the waiver and the terms and conditions of the agreement between the Secretary and the Secretary of the Treasury, as applicable, and the State to implement a section 1332 waiver and to submit and prepare the request for a modification under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(C) The State must detail in its request for a modification under paragraph (c)(2) of this section the alternative post award public notice procedures it proposes to implement at the State level, including public hearings, that are designed to provide the greatest opportunity and level of meaningful public input from impacted stakeholders that is practicable given the emergency circumstances underlying the State's request for a modification.


(D) The Secretary and the Secretary of the Treasury will evaluate a State's request for a modification under paragraph (c)(2) of this section and issue their modification determination within approximately 15 calendar days after the request is received.


(E) The State must publish on its website any modification requests and determinations within 15 calendar days of receipt of the determination, as well as information on the approved revised timeline for the State's post award public notice procedures, as applicable.


(F) The State must explain in its request for a modification under paragraph (c)(2) of this section how the emergent circumstances underlying its request results from a natural disaster; public health emergency; or other emergent situations that threaten consumers' access to comprehensive coverage, consumers' access to health care, or human life and could not reasonably have been foreseen and how the application of the post award public notice requirements would be contrary to the interests of consumers.


(iii) The Secretary and the Secretary of the Treasury will consider circumstances to be emergent when they could not have been reasonably foreseen. The Secretary and the Secretary of the Treasury will assess “reasonable foreseeability” based on the specific issues that a section 1332 waiver proposes to address and other relevant factors, and will not make this assessment based solely on the number of days a State may have been aware of such issues.


(d) *Terminations and suspensions.* The Secretary and the Secretary of the Treasury, as applicable, reserve the right to suspend or terminate a section 1332 waiver in whole or in part, at any time before the date of expiration, whenever the Secretary or the Secretary of the Treasury, as applicable, determines that a State has materially failed to comply with the terms of a section 1332 waiver.


(e) *Closeout costs.* If all or part of a section 1332 waiver is terminated or suspended, or if a portion of a section 1332 waiver is withdrawn, Federal funding is limited to normal closeout costs associated with an orderly termination, suspension, or withdrawal, including service costs during any approved transition period, and administrative costs of disenrolling participants.


(f) *Federal evaluators.* (1) A State must fully cooperate with the Secretary, the Secretary of the Treasury, as applicable, or an independent evaluator selected by the Secretary or the Secretary of the Treasury, as applicable, to undertake an independent evaluation of any component of a section 1332 waiver.


(2) As part of this required cooperation, a State must submit all requested data and information to the Secretary, the Secretary of the Treasury, as applicable, or the independent evaluator.



---

[N] [77 FR 11718, Feb. 27, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 71203, Nov. 6, 2020; 86 FR 6178, Jan. 19, 2021; 86 FR 53505, Sept. 27, 2021; 89 FR 26424, Apr. 15, 2024]




