# ยง 404.1   Definitions.

As used in this part the term:


(a) Benefit with monetary value means anything of value, tangible or intangible, including any interest in personal or real property, gift, insurance, retirement, pension, license, copyright, forbearance, bequest or other form of inheritance, office, options, agreement for employment or property, or property of any kind. For reporting purposes, the following are excepted: pension, health, or other benefit payments from a trust that are provided pursuant to a written specific agreement covering such payments.


(b) Dealing means to engage in a transaction (bargain, sell, purchase, agree, contract) or to in any way traffic or trade, including solicitation of business.


(c) *Employer* means any employer or any group or association of employers engaged in an industry affecting commerce (1) which is, with respect to employees engaged in an industry affecting commerce, an employer within the meaning of any law of the United States relating to the employment of any employees or (2) which may deal with any labor organization concerning grievances, labor disputes, wages, rates of pay, hours of employment, or conditions of work, and includes any person acting directly or indirectly as an employer or as an agent of an employer in relation to an employee but does not include the United States or any corporation wholly owned by the Government of the United States or any State or political subdivision thereof.


(d)(1) *Fiscal year* means the calendar year or other period of 12 consecutive calendar months, on the basis of which financial accounts of the labor organization officer or employee are kept. Where a labor organization officer or employee designates a new fiscal year period prior to the expiration of a previously established fiscal year period, the resultant period of less than 12 consecutive calendar months, and thereafter the newly established fiscal year, shall in that order constitute the fiscal year for purposes of the reports required to be filed by section 202(a) of the Act and the regulations in this part.


(2) A labor organization officer or employee who is subject to section 202(a) of the Act for only a portion of his fiscal year because the labor organization officer or employee first becomes subject to the Act during such fiscal year, may consider such portion as the entire fiscal year in making this report under this part.


(e) Income means all income from whatever source derived, including, but not limited to, compensation for services, fees, commissions, wages, salaries, interest, rents, royalties, copyrights, licenses, dividends, annuities, honorarium, income and interest from insurance and endowment contracts, capital gains, discharge of indebtedness, share of partnership income, bequests or other forms of inheritance, and gifts, prizes or awards.


(f) *Labor organization employee* means any individual (other than an individual performing exclusively custodial or clerical services) employed by a labor organization within the meaning of any law of the United States relating to the employment of employees.


(g) *Labor organization officer* means any constitutional officer, any person authorized to perform the functions of president, vice president, secretary, treasurer, or other executive functions of a labor organization, and any member of its executive board or similar governing body. An officer is:


(1) A person identified as an officer by the constitution and bylaws of the labor organization;


(2) Any person authorized to perform the functions of president, vice president, secretary, or treasurer;


(3) Any person who in fact has executive or policy-making authority or responsibility; and


(4) A member of a group identified as an executive board or a body which is vested with functions normally performed by an executive board.


(h) Minor child means a son, daughter, stepson, or stepdaughter under 21 years of age.


(i) Trust in which a labor organization is interested means a trust or other fund or organization:


(1) Which was created or established by a labor organization, or one or more of the trustees or one or more members of the governing body of which is selected or appointed by a labor organization, and


(2) A primary purpose of which is to provide benefits for the members of such labor organization or their beneficiaries.



---

[N] [28 FR 14384, Dec. 27, 1963, as amended at 50 FR 31310, Aug. 1, 1985; 72 FR 36158, July 2, 2007; 76 FR 66489, Oct. 26, 2011]




