# § 1010.110   What definitions apply to this part?

The following definitions apply to this part:


*Covered person* as defined in section 2(a) of the JVA (38 U.S.C. 4215(a)) means a veteran or eligible spouse.


*Department or DOL* means the United States Department of Labor, including its agencies and organizational units and their representatives.


*Eligible spouse* as defined in section 2(a) of the JVA (38 U.S.C. 4215(a)) means the spouse of any of the following:


(1) Any veteran who died of a service-connected disability;


(2) Any member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty who, at the time of application for the priority, is listed in one or more of the following categories and has been so listed for a total of more than 90 days:


(i) Missing in action;


(ii) Captured in line of duty by a hostile force; or


(iii) Forcibly detained or interned in line of duty by a foreign government or power;


(3) Any veteran who has a total disability resulting from a service-connected disability, as evaluated by the Department of Veterans Affairs;


(4) Any veteran who died while a disability, as indicated in paragraph (3) of this section, was in existence.


*Grant* means an award of Federal financial assistance by the Department of Labor to an eligible recipient.


*Jobs for Veterans Act (JVA)* means Public Law 107-288 (2002). Section 2(a) of the JVA, codified at 38 U.S.C. 4215(a), provides priority of service for covered persons.


*Non-covered person* means any individual who meets neither the definition of “veteran,” as defined in this section, nor the definition of “eligible spouse” as defined in this section.


*Qualified job training program* means any program or service for workforce preparation, development, or delivery that is directly funded, in whole or in part, by the Department of Labor.


*Recipient* means an entity to which federal financial assistance, in whole or in part, is awarded directly from the Department or through a sub-award for any qualified job training program.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Department of Labor.


*Veteran* means a person who served in the active military, naval, or air service, and who was discharged or released therefrom under conditions other than dishonorable, as specified in 38 U.S.C. 101(2). Active service includes full-time duty in the National Guard or a Reserve component, other than full-time duty for training purposes.




