# § 63.2480   What requirements must I meet for equipment leaks?

(a) You must meet each requirement in table 6 to this subpart that applies to your equipment leaks, except as specified in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section. For each light liquid pump, pressure relief device, and connector in ethylene oxide service as defined in § 63.2550(i), you must also meet the applicable requirements specified in §§ 63.2492 and 63.2493(d) and (e).


(b) Except as specified in paragraphs (b)(6) and (7) of this section, if you comply with either subpart H or UU of this part, you may elect to comply with the provisions in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section as an alternative to the referenced provisions in subpart H or UU of this part.


(1) The requirements for pressure testing in § 63.178(b) or § 63.1036(b) may be applied to all processes, not just batch processes.


(2) For the purposes of this subpart, pressure testing for leaks in accordance with § 63.178(b) or § 63.1036(b) is not required after reconfiguration of an equipment train if flexible hose connections are the only disturbed equipment.


(3) For an existing source, you are not required to develop an initial list of identification numbers for connectors as would otherwise be required under § 63.1022(b)(1) or § 63.181(b)(1)(i).


(4) For connectors in gas/vapor and light liquid service at an existing source, you may elect to comply with the requirements in § 63.169 or § 63.1029 for connectors in heavy liquid service, including all associated recordkeeping and reporting requirements, rather than the requirements of § 63.174 or § 63.1027.


(5) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section, for pumps in light liquid service in an MCPU that has no continuous process vents and is part of an existing source, you may elect to consider the leak definition that defines a leak to be 10,000 parts per million (ppm) or greater as an alternative to the values specified in § 63.1026(b)(2)(i) through (iii) or § 63.163(b)(2).


(6) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(h), paragraph (b)(5) of this section no longer applies.


(7) For each piece of equipment that is subject to Table 6 to this subpart and is also subject to periodic monitoring with EPA Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, and is added to an affected source after December 17, 2019, or replaces equipment at an affected source after December 17, 2019, you must initially monitor for leaks within 30 days after August 12, 2020, or initial startup of the equipment, whichever is later. Equipment that is designated as unsafe- or difficult-to-monitor is not subject to this paragraph (b)(7).


(c) Except as specified in paragraphs (c)(10) and (11) of this section, if you comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart F, you may elect to comply with the provisions in paragraphs (c)(1) through (9) of this section as an alternative to the referenced provisions in 40 CFR part 65, subpart F.


(1) The requirements for pressure testing in § 65.117(b) may be applied to all processes, not just batch processes.


(2) For the purposes of this subpart, pressure testing for leaks in accordance with § 65.117(b) is not required after reconfiguration of an equipment train if flexible hose connections are the only disturbed equipment.


(3) For an existing source, you are not required to develop an initial list of identification numbers for connectors as would otherwise be required under § 65.103(b)(1).


(4) You may elect to comply with the monitoring and repair requirements specified in § 65.108(e)(3) as an alternative to the requirements specified in § 65.108(a) through (d) for any connectors at your affected source.


(5) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(10) of this section, for pumps in light liquid service in an MCPU that has no continuous process vents and is part of an existing source, you may elect to consider the leak definition that defines a leak to be 10,000 ppm or greater as an alternative to the values specified in § 65.107(b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this chapter.


(6) When 40 CFR part 65, subpart F refers to the implementation date specified in § 65.1(f), it means the compliance date specified in § 63.2445.


(7) When §§ 65.105(f) and 65.117(d)(3) refer to § 65.4, it means § 63.2525.


(8) When § 65.120(a) refers to § 65.5(d), it means § 63.2515.


(9) When § 65.120(b) refers to § 65.5(e), it means § 63.2520.


(10) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(h), paragraph (c)(5) of this section no longer applies.


(11) For each piece of equipment that is subject to Table 6 to this subpart and is also subject to periodic monitoring with EPA Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, and is added to an affected source after December 17, 2019, or replaces equipment at an affected source after December 17, 2019, you must initially monitor for leaks within 30 days after August 12, 2020, or initial startup of the equipment, whichever is later. Equipment that is designated as unsafe- or difficult-to-monitor is not subject to this paragraph (c)(11).


(d) The provisions of this section do not apply to bench-scale processes, regardless of whether the processes are located at the same plant site as a process subject to the provisions of this subpart.




(e) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), except as specified in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, you must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section for pressure relief devices, such as relief valves or rupture disks, in organic HAP gas or vapor service instead of the pressure relief device requirements of § 63.1030 of subpart UU, § 63.165 of subpart H, or § 65.111 of this chapter. Except as specified in paragraphs (e)(4) and (5) of this section, you must also comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(3), (6), (7), and (8) of this section for all pressure relief devices in organic HAP service.


(1) *Operating requirements.* Except during a pressure release, operate each pressure relief device in organic HAP gas or vapor service with an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background as measured by the method in § 63.1023(b) of subpart UU, § 63.180(c) of subpart H, or § 65.104(b) of this chapter.


(2) *Pressure release requirements.* For pressure relief devices in organic HAP gas or vapor service, you must comply with the applicable requirements paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section following a pressure release.


(i) If the pressure relief device does not consist of or include a rupture disk, conduct instrument monitoring, as specified in § 63.1023(b) of subpart UU, § 63.180(c) of subpart H, or § 65.104(b) of this chapter, no later than 5 calendar days after the pressure relief device returns to organic HAP gas or vapor service following a pressure release to verify that the pressure relief device is operating with an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm.


(ii) If the pressure relief device includes a rupture disk, either comply with the requirements in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section (and do not replace the rupture disk) or install a replacement disk as soon as practicable after a pressure release, but no later than 5 calendar days after the pressure release.


(iii) If the pressure relief device consists only of a rupture disk, install a replacement disk as soon as practicable after a pressure release, but no later than 5 calendar days after the pressure release. You must not initiate startup of the equipment served by the rupture disk until the rupture disc is replaced.


(3) *Pressure release management.* Except as specified in paragraphs (e)(4) and (5) of this section, you must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (v) of this section for all pressure relief devices in organic HAP service.


(i) You must equip each affected pressure relief device with a device(s) or use a monitoring system that is capable of:


(A) Identifying the pressure release;


(B) Recording the time and duration of each pressure release; and


(C) Notifying operators immediately that a pressure release is occurring. The device or monitoring system must be either specific to the pressure relief device itself or must be associated with the process system or piping, sufficient to indicate a pressure release to the atmosphere. Examples of these types of devices and systems include, but are not limited to, a rupture disk indicator, magnetic sensor, motion detector on the pressure relief valve stem, flow monitor, or pressure monitor.


(ii) You must apply at least three redundant prevention measures to each affected pressure relief device and document these measures. Examples of prevention measures include:


(A) Flow, temperature, liquid level and pressure indicators with deadman switches, monitors, or automatic actuators. Independent, non-duplicative systems within this category count as separate redundant prevention measures.


(B) Documented routine inspection and maintenance programs and/or operator training (maintenance programs and operator training may count as only one redundant prevention measure).


(C) Inherently safer designs or safety instrumentation systems.


(D) Deluge systems.


(E) Staged relief system where the initial pressure relief device (with lower set release pressure) discharges to a flare or other closed vent system and control device.


(iii) If any affected pressure relief device releases to atmosphere as a result of a pressure release event, you must perform root cause analysis and corrective action analysis according to the requirement in paragraph (e)(6) of this section and implement corrective actions according to the requirements in paragraph (e)(7) of this section. You must also calculate the quantity of organic HAP released during each pressure release event and report this quantity as required in § 63.2520(e)(15). Calculations may be based on data from the pressure relief device monitoring alone or in combination with process parameter monitoring data and process knowledge.


(iv) You must determine the total number of release events that occurred during the calendar year for each affected pressure relief device separately. Prior to June 3, 2024, you must also determine the total number of release events for each pressure relief device for which the root cause analysis concluded that the root cause was a *force majeure* event, as defined in § 63.2550.


(v) Except for pressure relief devices described in paragraphs (e)(4) and (5) of this section, the following release events from an affected pressure relief device are a deviation of the pressure release management work practice standards.


(A) Any release event for which the root cause of the event was determined to be operator error or poor maintenance.


(B) Prior to June 3, 2024, a second release event not including force majeure events from a single pressure relief device in a 3 calendar year period for the same root cause for the same equipment. On and after June 3, 2024, a second release event from a single pressure relief device in a 3 calendar year period for the same root cause for the same equipment.


(C) Prior to June 3, 2024, a third release event not including force majeure events from a single pressure relief device in a 3 calendar year period for any reason. On and after June 3, 2024, a third release event from a single pressure relief device in a 3 calendar year period for any reason.


(4) *Pressure relief devices routed to a control device, process, fuel gas system, or drain system.* (i) If all releases and potential leaks from a pressure relief device are routed through a closed vent system to a control device, back into the process, to the fuel gas system, or to a drain system, then you are not required to comply with paragraph (e)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.


(ii) Before the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), both the closed vent system and control device (if applicable) referenced in paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section must meet the applicable requirements specified in § 63.982(b) and (c)(2) of subpart SS. Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), both the closed vent system and control device (if applicable) referenced in paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section must meet the applicable requirements specified in §§ 63.982(c)(2), 63.983, and 63.2450(e)(4) through (6).


(iii) The drain system (if applicable) referenced in paragraph (e)(4)(i) must meet the applicable requirements specified in § 63.2485(e).


(5) *Pressure relief devices exempted from pressure release management requirements.* The following types of pressure relief devices are not subject to the pressure release management requirements in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.


(i) Pressure relief devices in heavy liquid service, as defined in § 63.1020 of subpart UU or § 65.103(f) of this chapter.


(ii) Thermal expansion relief valves.


(iii) Pressure relief devices on mobile equipment.


(iv) Pilot-operated pressure relief devices where the primary release valve is routed through a closed vent system to a control device or back into the process, to the fuel gas system, or to a drain system.


(v) Balanced bellows pressure relief devices where the primary release valve is routed through a closed vent system to a control device or back into the process, to the fuel gas system, or to a drain system.


(6) *Root cause analysis and corrective action analysis.* A root cause analysis and corrective action analysis must be completed as soon as possible, but no later than 45 days after a release event. Special circumstances affecting the number of root cause analyses and/or corrective action analyses are provided in paragraphs (e)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) You may conduct a single root cause analysis and corrective action analysis for a single emergency event that causes two or more pressure relief devices installed on the same equipment to release.


(ii) Prior to June 3, 2024, you may conduct a single root cause analysis and corrective action analysis for a single emergency event that causes two or more pressure relief devices to release, regardless of the equipment served, if the root cause is reasonably expected to be a *force majeure* event, as defined in § 63.2550.


(iii) Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section, if more than one pressure relief device has a release during the same time period, an initial root cause analysis must be conducted separately for each pressure relief device that had a release. If the initial root cause analysis indicates that the release events have the same root cause(s), the initially separate root cause analyses may be recorded as a single root cause analysis and a single corrective action analysis may be conducted.


(7) *Corrective action implementation.* You must conduct a root cause analysis and corrective action analysis as specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(iii) and (e)(6) of this section, and you must implement the corrective action(s) identified in the corrective action analysis in accordance with the applicable requirements in paragraphs (e)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) All corrective action(s) must be implemented within 45 days of the event for which the root cause and corrective action analyses were required or as soon thereafter as practicable. If you conclude that no corrective action should be implemented, you must record and explain the basis for that conclusion no later than 45 days following the event.


(ii) For corrective actions that cannot be fully implemented within 45 days following the event for which the root cause and corrective action analyses were required, you must develop an implementation schedule to complete the corrective action(s) as soon as practicable.


(iii) No later than 45 days following the event for which a root cause and corrective action analyses were required, you must record the corrective action(s) completed to date, and, for action(s) not already completed, a schedule for implementation, including proposed commencement and completion dates.


(8) *Flowing pilot-operated pressure relief devices.* For affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before December 17, 2019, you are prohibited from installing a flowing pilot-operated pressure relief device or replacing any pressure relief device with a flowing pilot-operated pressure relief device after August 12, 2023. For affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after December 17, 2019, you are prohibited from installing and operating flowing pilot-operated pressure relief devices. For purpose of compliance with this paragraph (e)(8), a flowing pilot-operated pressure relief device means the type of pilot-operated pressure relief device where the pilot discharge vent continuously releases emissions to the atmosphere when the pressure relief device is actuated.


(f) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), the referenced provisions specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (18) of this section do not apply when demonstrating compliance with this section.


(1) Section 63.163(c)(3) of subpart H.


(2) Section 63.172(j)(3) of subpart H.


(3) The second sentence of § 63.181(d)(5)(i) of subpart H.


(4) The phrase “may be included as part of the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, as required by the referencing subpart for the source, or” from § 63.1024(f)(4)(i) of subpart UU.


(5) Section 63.1026(b)(3) of subpart UU.


(6) The phrase “(except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)” from § 63.1026(e)(1)(ii)(A) of subpart UU.


(7) The phrase “(except during periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)” from § 63.1028(e)(1)(i)(A) of subpart UU.


(8) The phrase “(except during periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)” from § 63.1031(b)(1) of subpart UU.


(9) The second sentence of § 65.105(f)(4)(i) of this chapter.


(10) Section 65.107(b)(3) of this chapter.


(11) The phrase “(except periods of start-up, shutdown, or malfunction)” from § 65.107(e)(1)(ii)(A) of this chapter.


(12) The phrase “(except during periods of start-up, shutdown, or malfunction)” from § 65.109(e)(1)(i)(A) of this chapter.


(13) The phrase “(except during periods of start-up, shutdown, or malfunction)” from § 65.112(b)(1) of this chapter.


(14) The last sentence of § 65.115(b)(1) of this chapter.


(15) The last sentence of § 65.115(b)(2) of this chapter.


(16) The phrase “Except for pressure relief devices needed for safety purposes, low leg drains, high point bleeds, analyzer vents, and open-ended valves or lines” in § 65.143(a)(3) of this chapter.


(17) For flares complying with § 63.2450(e)(5), the following provisions do not apply:


(i) Section 63.172(d) of subpart H;


(ii) Section 63.180(e) of subpart H;


(iii) Section 63.181(g)(1)(iii) of subpart H;


(iv) The phrase “including periods when a flare pilot light system does not have a flame” from § 63.181(g)(2)(i) of subpart H;


(v) Section 63.1034(b)(2)(iii) of subpart UU; and


(vi) Section 65.115(b)(2) of this chapter.




(18) For pressure relief devices complying with § 63.2480(e), the following provisions are modified as follows:


(i) In the introductory text of § 63.180(c), replace the reference to § 63.165(a) with § 63.2480(e)(1).


(ii) In § 63.181(b)(2)(i), replace the reference to § 63.165(c) with § 63.2480(e)(4).


(iii) In § 63.181(b)(3)(i), replace the reference to § 63.165(a) with § 63.2480(e)(1).


(iv) In § 63.181(b)(3)(ii), replace the reference to § 63.165(d) with § 63.2480(e)(2)(ii) and (iii).


(v) In § 63.181(f), replace the reference to § 63.165(a) and (b) with § 63.2480(e)(1) and (2).


(vi) The information in § 63.165(a) required to be reported under § 63.182(d)(2)(xiv) is now required to be reported under § 63.2520(e)(15)(i) through (iii).


(vii) The reference to § 63.1030(b) in § 63.1021(a) no longer applies.


(viii) In § 63.1022(b)(2), replace the reference to § 63.1030(d) with § 63.2480(e)(4).


(ix) In § 63.1022(b)(3), replace the reference to § 63.1030(e) with § 63.2480(e)(2)(ii).


(x) The reference to § 63.1030(c) in § 63.1023(a)(1)(v) no longer applies. Instead comply with the § 63.2480(e)(1) and (2).


(xi) In § 63.1023(c) introductory text and (c)(4), replace the reference to § 63.1030(b) with § 63.2480(e)(1).


(xii) In § 63.1038(c) replace the reference to § 63.1030(c)(3) with § 63.2480(e)(2).


(xiii) The information in § 63.1030(b) required to be reported under § 63.1039(b)(4) is now required to be reported under § 63.2520(e)(15)(i) and (ii).


(xiv) The reference to § 65.111(b) of this chapter in § 65.102(a) of this chapter no longer applies.


(xv) In § 65.103(b)(3) of this chapter, replace the reference to § 65.111(d) with § 63.2480(e)(4).


(xvi) In § 65.103(b)(4) of this chapter, replace the reference to § 63.111(e) with § 63.2480(e)(2)(ii).


(xvii) The reference to § 65.111(b) and (c) of this chapter in § 65.104(a)(1)(iv) of this chapter no longer applies. Instead comply with § 63.2480(e)(1) and (2).


(xviii) In § 65.104(c) introductory text and (c)(4) of this chapter, replace the reference to § 63.111(b) with § 63.2480(e)(1).


(xix) In § 65.119(c)(5) of this chapter, replace the reference to § 65.111(c)(3) with § 63.2480(e)(2) and replace the reference to § 65.111(e) with § 63.2480(e)(2)(ii) and (iii).


(xx) The information required to be reported under § 65.120(b)(4) of this chapter is now required to be reported under § 63.2520(e)(15)(i) and (ii).



---

[N] [71 FR 40335, July 14, 2006, as amended at 85 FR 49141, Aug. 12, 2020; 89 FR 23869, Apr. 4, 2024]




