# ยง 129.2   Definitions.

All terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act or in 40 CFR part 124 or 125. As used in this part, the term: 


(a) *Act* means the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (Pub. L. 92-500, 86 Stat. 816 *et seq.,* 33 U.S.C. 1251 *et seq.*). Specific references to sections within the Act will be according to Pub. L. 92-500 notation. 


(b) *Administrator* means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency or any employee of the Agency to whom the Administrator may by order delegate the authority to carry out his functions under section 307(a) of the Act, or any person who shall by operation of law be authorized to carry out such functions. 


(c) *Effluent standard* means, for purposes of section 307, the equivalent of *effluent limitation* as that term is defined in section 502(11) of the Act with the exception that it does not include a schedule of compliance. 


(d) *Prohibited* means that the constituent shall be absent in any discharge subject to these standards, as determined by any analytical method. 


(e) *Permit* means a permit for the discharge of pollutants into navigable waters under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System established by section 402 of the Act and implemented in regulations in 40 CFR parts 124 and 125. 


(f) *Working day* means the hours during a calendar day in which a facility discharges effluents subject to this part. 


(g) *Ambient water criterion* means that concentration of a toxic pollutant in a navigable water that, based upon available data, will not result in adverse impact on important aquatic life, or on consumers of such aquatic life, after exposure of that aquatic life for periods of time exceeding 96 hours and continuing at least through one reproductive cycle; and will not result in a significant risk of adverse health effects in a large human population based on available information such as mammalian laboratory toxicity data, epidemiological studies of human occupational exposures, or human exposure data, or any other relevant data. 


(h) *New source* means any source discharging a toxic pollutant, the construction of which is commenced after proposal of an effluent standard or prohibition applicable to such source if such effluent standard or prohibition is thereafter promulgated in accordance with section 307. 


(i) *Existing source* means any source which is not a new source as defined above. 


(j) *Source* means any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there is or may be the discharge of toxic pollutants designated as such by the Administration under section 307(a)(1) of the Act. 


(k) *Owner or operator* means any person who owns, leases, operates, controls, or supervises a source as defined above. 


(l) *Construction* means any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or equipment (including contractual obligations to purchase such facilities or equipment) at the premises where such equipment will be used, including preparation work at such premises. 


(m) *Manufacturer* means any establishment engaged in the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials or substances into new products including but not limited to the blending of materials such as pesticidal products, resins, or liquors. 


(n) *Process wastes* means any designated toxic pollutant, whether in wastewater or otherwise present, which is inherent to or unavoidably resulting from any manufacturing process, including that which comes into direct contact with or results from the production or use of any raw material, intermediate product, finished product, by-product or waste product and is discharged into the navigable waters. 


(o) *Air emissions* means the release or discharge of a toxic pollutant by an owner or operator into the ambient air either (1) by means of a stack or (2) as a fugitive dust, mist or vapor as a result inherent to the manufacturing or formulating process. 


(p) *Fugitive dust, mist or vapor* means dust, mist or vapor containing a toxic pollutant regulated under this part which is emitted from any source other than through a stack. 


(q) *Stack* means any chimney, flue, conduit, or duct arranged to conduct emissions to the ambient air. 


(r) *Ten year 24-hour rainfall event* means the maximum precipitation event with a probable recurrence interval of once in 10 years as defined by the National Weather Service in Technical Paper No. 40, *Rainfall Frequency Atlas of the United States,* May 1961, and subsequent amendments or equivalent regional or State rainfall probability information developed therefrom. 


(s) *State Director* means the chief administrative officer of a State or interstate water pollution control agency operating an approved HPDES permit program. In the event responsibility for water pollution control and enforcement is divided among two or more State or interstate agencies, the term *State Director* means the administrative officer authorized to perform the particular procedure to which reference is made. 




