# ยง 120.461   What are SBA's additional requirements for SBA Supervised Lenders concerning records?

(a) *Report filing.* All SBA Supervised Lender-specific reports (including all SBLC-only reports) must be filed with the appropriate Office of Capital Access official in accordance with Delegations of Authority.


(b) *Maintenance of records.* An SBA Supervised Lender must maintain at its principal business office accurate and current financial records, including books of accounts, minutes of stockholder, directors, and executive committee meetings, and all documents and supporting materials relating to the SBA Supervised Lender's transactions. However, securities held by a custodian pursuant to a written agreement are exempt from this requirement.


(c) *Permanent preservation of records.* An SBA Supervised Lender must permanently preserve in a manner permitting immediate (one business day) retrieval the following documentation for the financial statements and other reports required by ยง 120.464 (and the accompanying certified public accountant's opinion):


(1) All general and subsidiary ledgers (or other records) reflecting asset, liability, capital stock and additional paid-in capital, income, and expense accounts;


(2) All general and special journals (or other records forming the basis for entries in such ledgers); and


(3) The corporate charter, bylaws, application for determination of eligibility to participate with SBA, and all minutes books, capital stock certificates or stubs, stock ledgers, and stock transfer registers.


(d) *Other preservation of records.* An SBA Supervised Lender must preserve for at least 6 years following final disposition of each individual SBA loan:


(1) All applications for financing;


(2) Lending, participation, and escrow agreements;


(3) Financing instruments; and


(4) All other documents and supporting material relating to such loans, including correspondence.


(e) *Electronic preservation.* Records and other documents referred to in this section may be preserved electronically if the original is available for retrieval within 15 working days.



---

[N] [73 FR 75512, Dec. 11, 2008]




