# § 1025.45   

(a) *Definition. In camera* materials are documents, testimony, or other data which by order of the Presiding Officer or the Commission are kept confidential and excluded from the public record.


(b) *In camera treatment of documents and testimony.* The Presiding Officer or the Commission shall have authority, when good cause is found on the record, to order documents or testimony offered in evidence, whether admitted or rejected, to be received and preserve *in camera.* The order shall specify the length of time for *in camera* treatment and shall include:


(1) A description of the documents or testimony;


(2) The reasons for granting *in camera* treatment for the specified length of time; and


(3) The terms and conditions imposed by the Presiding Official, if any, limiting access to or use of the *in camera* material.


(c) *Access and disclosure to parties.* (1) Commissioners and their staffs, Presiding Officers and their staffs, and Commission staff members concerned with judicial review shall have complete access to *in camera* materials. Any party to the proceedings may seek access only in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(2) Any party desiring access to, or disclosure of, *in camera* materials for the preparation and presentation of that party's case shall make a motion which sets forth its justification. The Presiding Officer or the Commission may grant such motion for good cause shown and shall enter a protective order prohibiting unnecessary disclosure and requiring any other necessary safeguards. The Presiding Officer or the Commission may examine the *in camera* materials and excise any portions prior to disclosure of the materials to the moving party.


(d) *Segregation of in camera materials. In camera* materials shall be segregated from the public record and protected from public view.


(e) *Public release of in camera materials. In camera* materials constitute a part of the confidential records of the Commission and shall not be released to the public until the expiration of *in camera* treatment.


(f) *Reference to in camera materials.* In the submission of proposed findings, conclusions, briefs, or other documents, all parties shall refrain from disclosing specific details of *in camera* materials. However, such refraining shall not preclude general references to such materials. To the extent that parties consider necessary the inclusion of specific details of *in camera* materials, those references shall be incorporated into separate proposed findings, conclusions, briefs, or other documents marked “Confidential, Contains *In Camera* Material,” which shall be placed *in camera* and become part of the *in camera* record. Those documents shall be served only on parties accorded access to the *in camera* materials by these rules, the Presiding Officer, or the Commission.




