# ยง 73.72   Requirement for advance notice of shipment of formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material, special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance, or irradiated reactor fuel.

(a) A licensee, other than one specified in paragraph (b) of this section, who, in a single shipment, plans to deliver to a carrier for transport, to take delivery at the point where a shipment is delivered to a carrier for transport, to import, to export, or to transport a formula quantity of strategic special nuclear material, special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance, or irradiated reactor fuel 
1 required to be protected in accordance with ยง 73.37, shall:


(1) Notify in writing by mail addressed to ATTN: Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, or by using any appropriate method listed in ยง 73.4 of this part. Classified notifications shall be sent to the NRC headquarters classified mailing address listed in appendix A to this part.


(2) Assure that the notification will be received at least 10 days before transport of the shipment commences at the shipping facility; 


(3) Include the following information in the notification: 


(i) The name(s), address(es), and telephone number(s) of the shipper, receiver, and carrier(s); 


(ii) A physical description of the shipment: 


(A) For a shipment other than irradiated fuel, the elements, isotopes, enrichment, and quantity; 


(B) For a shipment of irradiated fuel, the physical form, quantity, type of reactor, and original enrichment; 


(iii) A listing of the mode(s) of shipment, transfer point(s), and route(s) to be used; 


(iv) The estimated time and date that shipment will commence and that each country along the route is scheduled to be entered; and 


(v) The estimated time and date of arrival of the shipment at the destination; 


(4) The NRC Headquarters Operations Center shall be notified about the shipment status by telephone at the phone numbers listed in appendix A to this part. Classified and safeguards notifications shall be made by secure telephone. The notifications shall take place at the following intervals:


(i) At least 2 days before commencement of the shipment;


(ii) Two hours before commencement of the shipment; and


(iii) Once the shipment is received at its destination.


(5) The NRC Headquarters Operations Center shall be notified by telephone of schedule changes of more than 6 hours at the phone numbers listed in appendix A to this part. Classified and safeguards notifications shall be made by secure telephone.


(b) A licensee who conducts an on-site transfer of spent nuclear fuel that does not travel upon or cross a public highway is exempt from the requirements of this section for that transfer.



---

[N] [52 FR 9653, Mar. 26, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 4111, Feb. 12, 1988; 60 FR 24552, May 9, 1995; 67 FR 3586, Jan. 25, 2002; 68 FR 58820, Oct. 10, 2003; 74 FR 62684, Dec. 1, 2009; 78 FR 29557, May 20, 2013; 83 FR 58723, Nov. 21, 2018; 84 FR 63568, Nov. 18, 2019; 84 FR 67659, Dec. 11, 2019; 85 FR 65664, Oct. 16, 2020]




