# ยง 158.110   Reporting requirements related to premiums and expenditures.

(a) *General requirements.* For each MLR reporting year, an issuer must submit to the Secretary a report which complies with the requirements of this part, concerning premium revenue and expenses related to the group and individual health insurance coverage that it issued. Reporting requirements of this part that apply to expenses incurred directly by the issuer also apply to expenses for functions outsourced to or services provided by other entities retained by the issuer.


(b) *Timing and form of report.* The report for each of the 2011, 2012, and 2013 MLR reporting years must be submitted to the Secretary by June 1 of the year following the end of an MLR reporting year, on a form and in the manner prescribed by the Secretary. Beginning with the 2014 MLR reporting year, the report for each MLR reporting year must be submitted to the Secretary by July 31 of the year following the end of an MLR reporting year, on a form and in the manner prescribed by the Secretary.


(c) *Transfer of business.* Issuers that purchase a line or block of business from another issuer during an MLR reporting year are responsible for submitting the information and reports required by this part for the assumed business, including for that part of the MLR reporting year that was prior to the purchase.



---

[N] [75 FR 74921, Dec. 1, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 76592, Dec. 7, 2011; 78 FR 15539, Mar. 11, 2013; 85 FR 29262, May 14, 2020]




