# ยง 811.6   Duration of the obligation to register.

(a) *Lifetime registration.* The registration period for a sex offender who is required to register for life shall end upon the sex offender's death. 


(b) *Term of years registration.* (1) The registration period for any other sex offender shall end upon the expiration of the sex offender's probation, parole, supervised release, conditional release, or convalescent leave, or ten years after the sex offender is placed on probation, parole, supervised release, conditional release, or convalescent leave, or is unconditionally released from a correctional facility, prison, hospital or other place of confinement, whichever is latest.


(2) In computing ten years, CSOSA will not count: 


(i) Any time in which the sex offender has failed to register or otherwise failed to comply with requirements of the Act or any procedures, requirements, rules, or regulations promulgated under the Act, including these regulations and the District of Columbia regulations; 


(ii) Any time in which a sex offender is detained, incarcerated, confined, civilly committed, or hospitalized in a mental health facility; and 


(iii) Any time in which a sex offender was registered prior to a revocation of probation, parole, supervised release, conditional release, or convalescent leave. 


(3) In computing ten years, CSOSA will count any time in which a sex offender was registered in another jurisdiction unless that time is not counted because of a circumstance set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. 


(c) *Reversal, vacation, or pardon.* A person's obligation to register terminates if the person's conviction, finding of not guilty by reason of insanity, or finding that the person is a sexual psychopath is reversed or vacated, or if the person has been pardoned for the offense on the ground of innocence, and the person has committed no other offenses for which registration is required. 


(d) *Termination of obligation to register in the District of Columbia under other circumstances.* A sex offender's obligation to register in the District of Columbia terminates if the sex offender no longer lives, resides, works or attends school in the District of Columbia. However, the obligation to register in the District of Columbia resumes if the sex offender re-enters the District of Columbia within the registration period to live, reside, work or attend school. 




