# § 319.41   Notice of quarantine.

(a) The fact has been determined by the Secretary of Agriculture, and notice given, that dangerous plant pests, including the so-called European corn borer (Ostrinia nubilalis Hubn.), and also other dangerous insects, as well as plant diseases not heretofore widely prevalent or distributed within and throughout the United States, exist, as to one or more of such pests, in Europe, Asia, Africa, Dominion of Canada, Mexico, Central and South America, and other foreign countries and localities, and may be introduced into this country through importations of the stalks or other parts of Indian corn or maize, broomcorn, and related plants. 


(b) To prevent the introduction of these plant pests, the following articles may not be imported into the United States except in accordance with this subpart: The raw or unmanufactured stalk and all other parts of Indian corn or maize (*Zea mays* L.), broomcorn (*Andropogon sorghum* var. *technicus*), sweet sorghums (*Andropogon sorghum*), grain sorghums (*Andropogon sorghum*), Sudan grass (*Andropogon sorghum* sudanensis), Johnson grass (*Andropogon halepensis*), sugarcane (*Saccharum officinarum*), including Japanese varieties, pearl millet (*Pennisetum glaucum*), napier grass (*Pennisetum purpureum*), teosinte (*Euchlaena luxurians*), and jobs-tears (*Coix lachryma-Jobi*). 


(c) The Administrator may authorize the importation of articles otherwise prohibited under paragraph (b) of this section under conditions specified in a controlled import permit issued in accordance with § 319.6.


(d) The importation of plants (including any plant parts) of any of the taxa listed in paragraph (b) of this section that are for planting or capable of being planted is restricted under

 Subpart H—Plants for Planting of this part.


(e) As used in this subpart, unless the context otherwise requires, the term “United States” means the States, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands of the United States. 



---

[N] [24 FR 10788, Dec. 29, 1959, as amended at 66 FR 21056, Apr. 27, 2001; 78 FR 25571, May 2, 2013; 83 FR 11865, Mar. 19, 2018; 84 FR 2429, Feb. 7, 2019]




