# § 83.26   How will OFA review a documented petition?

(a) *Phase I.* When reviewing a documented petition, OFA will first determine if the petitioner meets the Governing Document Criterion (§ 83.11(d)), Descent Criterion (§ 83.11(e)), Unique Membership Criterion (§ 83.11(f)), and Termination Criterion (§ 83.11(g)), in accordance with the following steps.


(1)(i) OFA will conduct a Phase I technical assistance review and notify the petitioner by letter of any deficiencies that would prevent the petitioner from meeting the Governing Document, Descent, Unique Membership, or Termination Criteria. Upon receipt of the letter, the petitioner must submit a written response that:


(A) Withdraws the documented petition to further prepare the petition;


(B) Submits additional information and/or clarification; or


(C) Asks OFA to proceed with the review.


(ii) If the documented petition claims previous Federal acknowledgment and/or includes evidence of previous Federal acknowledgment, the Phase I technical assistance review will include a review to determine whether that evidence meets the requirements of previous Federal acknowledgment (§ 83.12).


(2) Following the receipt of the petitioner's written response to the Phase I technical assistance review, OFA will provide the petitioner with:


(i) Any comments and evidence OFA may consider that the petitioner does not already have, to the extent allowable by Federal law; and


(ii) The opportunity to respond in writing to the comments and evidence provided.


(3) OFA will publish a negative proposed finding if it issues a deficiency letter under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, and the petitioner:


(i) Does not withdraw the documented petition or does not respond with information or clarification sufficient to address the deficiencies; or


(ii) Asks OFA in writing to proceed with the review.


(4) OFA will publish a positive proposed finding and proceed to Phase II if it determines that the petitioner meets the Governing Document, Descent, Unique Membership, and Termination criteria.


(b) *Phase II.* If the petitioner meets the Governing Document, Descent, Unique Membership, and Termination criteria, OFA will next review whether the petitioner meets the Indian Entity Identification Criterion (§ 83.11(a)), the Community Criterion (§ 83.11(b)), and the Political Influence/Authority Criterion (§ 83.11(c)). If the petitioner claims previous Federal acknowledgment, the Department will also review whether petitioner proves previous Federal acknowledgment and, if so, will review whether the petitioner meets the criteria under § 83.12(b).


(1) OFA will conduct a Phase II technical assistance review and notify the petitioner by letter of any deficiencies that would prevent the petitioner from meeting these criteria. Upon receipt of the letter, the petitioner must submit a written response that:


(i) Withdraws the documented petition to further prepare the petition;


(ii) Provides additional information and/or clarification; or


(iii) Asks OFA to proceed with the review.


(2) Following receipt of the petitioner's written response to the Phase II technical assistance review, OFA will provide the petitioner with:


(i) Any comments and evidence OFA may consider in preparing the proposed finding that the petitioner does not already have, to the extent allowable by Federal law; and


(ii) The opportunity to respond in writing to the comments and evidence provided.


(3) OFA will then review the record to determine:


(i) For petitioners with previous Federal acknowledgment, whether the criteria at § 83.12(b) are met; or


(ii) For petitioners without previous Federal acknowledgment, whether the Indian Entity Identification (§ 83.11(a)), Community (§ 83.11(b)) and Political Authority (§ 83.11(c)) Criteria are met.


(4) OFA will publish a negative proposed finding if it issues a deficiency letter under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and the petitioner:


(i) Does not withdraw the documented petition or does not respond with information or clarification sufficient to address the deficiencies; or


(ii) Asks OFA in writing to proceed with the review.


(5) OFA will publish a positive proposed finding if it determines that the petitioner meets the Indian Entity Identification (§ 83.11(a)), Community (§ 83.11(b)) and Political Authority (§ 83.11(c)) Criteria or, for petitioners with previous Federal acknowledgment, that the petitioner meets the criteria at § 83.12(b).




