# § 301.6227(c)-1   Administrative adjustment request by the tax matters partner on behalf of the partnership.

(a) *In general.* A request for an administrative adjustment filed by the tax matters partner on behalf of the partnership shall be filed on the form prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service for that purpose in accordance with that form's instructions. Except as otherwise provided in that form's instructions, the request shall be— 


(1) Filed with the service center where the original partnership return was filed (but, if the notice described in section 6223(a)(1) (beginning of an administrative proceeding) has already been mailed to the tax matters partner, the statement should be filed with the Internal Revenue Service office that mailed such notice); 


(2) Signed by the tax matters partner; and 


(3) Accompanied by revised schedules showing the effects of the proposed changes on each partner and an explanation of the changes. 


(b) *Denied request for treatment as a substituted return remains administrative adjustment request.* An administrative adjustment request filed by the tax matters partner on behalf of the partnership for which substituted return treatment is requested but not granted remains an administrative adjustment request. Thus, for example, the tax matters partner may file suit under section 6228(a) if the Internal Revenue Service fails to take timely action on the request. 


(c) *Effective date.* This section is applicable to partnership taxable years beginning on or after October 4, 2001. For years beginning prior to October 4, 2001, see § 301.6227(b)-1T contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised April 1, 2001.



---

[N] [T.D. 8965, 66 FR 50554, Oct. 4, 2001]




