# ยง 4288.10   Applicant eligibility.

(a) *Eligible projects.* To be eligible for this program, the applicant must be an eligible biorefinery utilizing only renewable biomass for replacement fuel, and must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section.


(1) *Timely complete application submission.* To be eligible for this program, the applicant must submit a complete application within the application period. Projects will be selected based on ranking which is derived from the application of the selection criteria stated in ยง 4288.21.


(2) *Multiple biorefineries.* Corporations and entities with more than one biorefinery can submit an application for only one of their biorefineries. However, if a corporation or entity has multiple biorefineries located at the same location, the entity may submit an application that covers such biorefineries provided the heat and power used in the multiple biorefineries are centrally produced.


(3) *Cost-effectiveness.* The application must be awarded at least minimum points for cost-effectiveness under ยง 4288.21(b)(1).


(4) *Percentage of reduction of fossil fuel use.* The application must be awarded at least minimum points for percentage of reduction of fossil fuel use under ยง 4288.21(b)(2).


(5) *Full project financing.* The applicant must demonstrate that it has sufficient funds or has obtained commitments for sufficient funds to complete the repowering project taking into account the amount of the payment request in the application.


(b) *Ineligible projects.* A project is not eligible under this subpart if it is using feedstocks for repowering that are feed grain commodities that received benefits under Title I of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008.




