# ยง 292.21   Standards for financial management systems.

(a) *General.* This section prescribes standards for financial management systems in administering program funds by the Summer EBT agency and its subagencies or contractors.


(b) *Responsibilities.* Financial management systems for program funds in Summer EBT must provide for the following. The standards in this paragraph (b) also apply to subagencies or contractors involved with program funding.


(1) Accurate, current, and complete disclosure of the financial results of program activities in accordance with Federal reporting requirements in ยง 292.23.


(2) Records which identify the source and application of funds for FNS or Summer EBT agency activities supporting the administration of the Program. These records must show authorizations, obligations, unobligated balances, assets, liabilities, outlays and income of the Summer EBT agency, its sub-agencies and agents.


(3) Records which identify unallowable costs and offsets resulting from FNS or other determinations and the disposition of these amounts. Accounting procedures must be in effect to prevent a Summer EBT agency from claiming these costs under ongoing program administrative cost reports.


(4) Effective control and accountability by the Summer EBT agency for all program funds, property, and other assets acquired with program funds. Summer EBT agencies must adequately safeguard all such assets and must assure that they are used solely for program-authorized purposes unless disposition has been made in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(5) If necessary, Summer EBT agencies will be expected to complete an Automated Standard Application for Payment (ASAP) setup form so that FNS may set up a Letter of Credit by which Summer EBT funds will be made available.


(6) Controls which minimize the time between the receipt of Federal funds from the United States Treasury and their disbursement for program costs. In the Letter of Credit system, the Summer EBT agency must make drawdowns from the U.S. Treasury through a U.S. Treasury Regional Disbursing Office as nearly as possible to the time of making the disbursements.


(7) Procedures to determine the reasonableness, allowability, and allocability of costs in accordance with the applicable provisions prescribed in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, and USDA implementing regulations in 2 CFR parts 400 and 415.


(8) Support and source documents for costs.


(9) An audit trail including identification of time periods, initial and summary accounts, cost determination and allocation procedures, cost centers or other accounting procedures to support any costs claimed for program administration.


(10) Periodic audits by qualified individuals who are independent of those who maintain Federal program funds as prescribed in ยง 292.24(a).


(11) Methods to resolve audit findings and recommendations and to follow up on corrective or preventive actions.


(12) The standards in this paragraph (b) also apply to subagencies, or contractors involved with program funding.


(13) Identification in Summer EBT agency accounts of all Federal awards received and expended and the Federal programs under which they were received. Federal program and Federal award identification must include, as applicable, the Assistance Listings title and number, Federal award identification number and year, name of the Federal agency, and name of the pass-through entity, if any.






