# § 63.181   Recordkeeping requirements.

(a) An owner or operator of more than one process unit subject to the provisions of this subpart may comply with the recordkeeping requirements for these process units in one recordkeeping system if the system identifies each record by process unit and the program being implemented (e.g., quarterly monitoring, quality improvement) for each type of equipment. All records and information required by this section shall be maintained in a manner that can be readily accessed at the plant site. This could include physically locating the records at the plant site or accessing the records from a central location by computer at the plant site.


(b) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, the following information pertaining to all equipment in each process unit subject to the requirements in §§ 63.162 through 63.174 of this subpart shall be recorded:


(1)(i) A list of identification numbers for equipment (except connectors exempt from monitoring and recordkeeping identified in § 63.174 of this subpart and instrumentation systems) subject to the requirements of this subpart. Connectors need not be individually identified if all connectors in a designated area or length of pipe subject to the provisions of this subpart are identified as a group, and the number of connectors subject is indicated. With respect to connectors, the list shall be complete no later than the completion of the initial survey required by § 63.174 (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this subpart.


(ii) A schedule by process unit for monitoring connectors subject to the provisions of § 63.174(a) of this subpart and valves subject to the provisions of § 63.168(d) of this subpart.


(iii) Physical tagging of the equipment to indicate that it is in organic HAP service is not required. Equipment subject to the provisions of this subpart may be identified on a plant site plan, in log entries, or by other appropriate methods.


(2)(i) A list of identification numbers for equipment that the owner or operator elects to equip with a closed-vent system and control device, under the provisions of § 63.163(g), § 63.164(h), § 63.165(c) or (e)(4), or § 63.173(f), as applicable.




(ii) A list of identification numbers for compressors that the owner or operator elects to designate as operating with an instrument reading of less than 500 parts per million above background, under the provisions of § 63.164(i) of this subpart.


(iii) Identification of surge control vessels or bottoms receivers subject to the provisions of this subpart that the owner or operator elects to equip with a closed-vent system and control device, under the provisions of § 63.170 of this subpart.




(3)(i) A list of identification numbers for pressure relief devices subject to the provisions in § 63.165(a) or (e)(1), as applicable.


(ii) A list of identification numbers for pressure relief devices equipped with rupture disks, under the provisions of § 63.165(d), (e)(2)(ii), or (e)(2)(iii), as applicable.


(4) Identification of instrumentation systems subject to the provisions of this subpart. Individual components in an instrumentation system need not be identified.


(5) Identification of screwed connectors subject to the requirements of § 63.174(c)(2) of this subpart. Identification can be by area or grouping as long as the total number within each group or area is recorded.


(6) The following information shall be recorded for each dual mechanical seal system:


(i) Design criteria required in §§ 63.163(e)(6)(i), 63.164(e)(2), and 63.173(d)(6)(i) of this subpart and an explanation of the design criteria; and


(ii) Any changes to these criteria and the reasons for the changes.


(7) The following information pertaining to all pumps subject to the provisions of § 63.163(j), valves subject to the provisions of § 63.168(h) and (i) of this subpart, agitators subject to the provisions of § 63.173(h) through (j), and connectors subject to the provisions of § 63.174(f) and (g) of this subpart shall be recorded:


(i) Identification of equipment designated as unsafe to monitor, difficult to monitor, or unsafe to inspect and the plan for monitoring or inspecting this equipment.


(ii) A list of identification numbers for the equipment that is designated as difficult to monitor, an explanation of why the equipment is difficult to monitor, and the planned schedule for monitoring this equipment.


(iii) A list of identification numbers for connectors that are designated as unsafe to repair and an explanation why the connector is unsafe to repair.


(8)(i) A list of valves removed from and added to the process unit, as described in § 63.168(e)(1) of this subpart, if the net credits for removed valves is expected to be used.


(ii) A list of connectors removed from and added to the process unit, as described in § 63.174(i)(1) of this subpart, and documentation of the integrity of the weld for any removed connectors, as required in § 63.174(j) of this subpart. This is not required unless the net credits for removed connectors is expected to be used.


(9)(i) For batch process units that the owner or operator elects to monitor as provided under § 63.178(c) of this subpart, a list of equipment added to batch product process units since the last monitoring period required in § 63.178(c)(3)(ii) and (3)(iii) of this subpart.


(ii) Records demonstrating the proportion of the time during the calendar year the equipment is in use in a batch process that is subject to the provisions of this subpart. Examples of suitable documentation are records of time in use for individual pieces of equipment or average time in use for the process unit. These records are not required if the owner or operator does not adjust monitoring frequency by the time in use, as provided in § 63.178(c)(3)(iii) of this subpart.


(10) For any leaks detected as specified in §§ 63.163 and 63.164; §§ 63.168 and 63.169; and §§ 63.172 through 63.174 of this subpart, a weatherproof and readily visible identification, marked with the equipment identification number, shall be attached to the leaking equipment.


(11) For each pressure relief device subject to the pressure release management work practice standards in § 63.165(e), owners and operators must keep the records specified in paragraphs (b)(11)(i) through (iii) of this section in addition to the records specified in paragraph (f) of this section.


(i) Records of the prevention measures implemented as required in § 63.165(e)(3)(ii).


(ii) Records of the number of releases during each calendar year. Keep these records for the current calendar year and the past 5 calendar years.


(iii) For each release to the atmosphere, owners and operators must keep the records specified in paragraphs (b)(11)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section.


(A) The start and end time and date of each pressure release to the atmosphere.


(B) Records of any data, assumptions, and calculations used to estimate of the mass quantity of each organic HAP released during the event.


(C) Records of the root cause analysis and corrective action analysis conducted as required in § 63.165(e)(3)(iii), including an identification of the affected facility, a statement noting whether the event resulted from the same root cause(s) identified in a previous analysis and either a description of the recommended corrective action(s) or an explanation of why corrective action is not necessary under § 63.165(e)(7)(i).


(D) For any corrective action analysis for which implementation of corrective actions are required in § 63.165(e)(7), a description of the corrective action(s) completed within the first 45 days following the discharge and, for action(s) not already completed, a schedule for implementation, including proposed commencement and completion dates.




(12) For equipment in ethylene oxide service, as defined in § 63.101, records of the percent ethylene oxide content of the process fluid and the method used to determine it.



 


(c) For visual inspections of equipment subject to the provisions of this subpart (e.g., § 63.163(b)(3), § 63.163(e)(4)(i)), the owner or operator shall document that the inspection was conducted and the date of the inspection. The owner or operator shall maintain records as specified in paragraph (d) of this section for leaking equipment identified in this inspection, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section. These records shall be retained for 2 years.


(d) When each leak is detected as specified in §§ 63.163 and 63.164; §§ 63.168 and 63.169; and §§ 63.172 through 63.174 of this subpart, the following information shall be recorded and kept for 2 years:


(1) The instrument and the equipment identification number and the operator name, initials, or identification number.


(2) The date the leak was detected and the date of first attempt to repair the leak.


(3) The date of successful repair of the leak.


(4) Maximum instrument reading measured by Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A after it is successfully repaired or determined to be nonrepairable.


(5) “Repair delayed” and the reason for the delay if a leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak.


(i) The owner or operator may develop a written procedure that identifies the conditions that justify a delay of repair. The written procedures may be included as part of the startup/shutdown/malfunction plan, required by § 63.6(e)(3), for the source or may be part of a separate document that is maintained at the plant site. In such cases, reasons for delay of repair may be documented by citing the relevant sections of the written procedure. For each source as defined in § 63.101, and for each source as defined in § 63.191, on and after July 15, 2027, the sentence “The written procedures may be included as part of the startup/shutdown/malfunction plan, required by § 63.6(e)(3), for the source or may be part of a separate document that is maintained at the plant site.” in this paragraph no longer applies.




(ii) If delay of repair was caused by depletion of stocked parts, there must be documentation that the spare parts were sufficiently stocked on-site before depletion and the reason for depletion.


(6) Dates of process unit shutdowns that occur while the equipment is unrepaired.


(7)(i) Identification, either by list, location (area or grouping), or tagging of connectors that have been opened or otherwise had the seal broken since the last monitoring period required in § 63.174(b) of this subpart, as described in § 63.174(c)(1) of this subpart, unless the owner or operator elects to comply with the provisions of § 63.174(c)(1)(ii) of this subpart.


(ii) The date and results of monitoring as required in § 63.174(c) of this subpart. If identification of connectors that have been opened or otherwise had the seal broken is made by location under paragraph (d)(7)(i) of this section, then all connectors within the designated location shall be monitored.


(8) The date and results of the monitoring required in § 63.178(c)(3)(i) of this subpart for equipment added to a batch process unit since the last monitoring period required in § 63.178 (c)(3)(ii) and (c)(3)(iii) of this subpart. If no leaking equipment is found in this monitoring, the owner or operator shall record that the inspection was performed. Records of the actual monitoring results are not required.


(9) Copies of the periodic reports as specified in § 63.182(d) of this subpart, if records are not maintained on a computerized database capable of generating summary reports from the records.


(e) The owner or operator of a batch product process who elects to pressure test the batch product process equipment train to demonstrate compliance with this subpart is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (f) of this section. Instead, the owner or operator shall maintain records of the following information:


(1) The identification of each product, or product code, produced during the calendar year. It is not necessary to identify individual items of equipment in a batch product process equipment train.


(2) [Reserved]


(3) Physical tagging of the equipment to identify that it is in organic HAP service and subject to the provisions of this subpart is not required. Equipment in a batch product process subject to the provisions of this subpart may be identified on a plant site plan, in log entries, or by other appropriate methods.


(4) The dates of each pressure test required in § 63.178(b) of this subpart, the test pressure, and the pressure drop observed during the test.


(5) Records of any visible, audible, or olfactory evidence of fluid loss.


(6) When a batch product process equipment train does not pass two consecutive pressure tests, the following information shall be recorded in a log and kept for 2 years:


(i) The date of each pressure test and the date of each leak repair attempt.


(ii) Repair methods applied in each attempt to repair the leak.


(iii) The reason for the delay of repair.


(iv) The expected date for delivery of the replacement equipment and the actual date of delivery of the replacement equipment.


(v) The date of successful repair.


(f) The dates and results of each compliance test required for compressors subject to the provisions in § 63.164(i) and the dates and results of the monitoring following a pressure release for each pressure relief device subject to the provisions in §§ 63.165 (a) and (b) of this subpart. The results shall include:


(1) The background level measured during each compliance test.


(2) The maximum instrument reading measured at each piece of equipment during each compliance test.


(g) The owner or operator shall maintain records of the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(3) of this section for closed-vent systems and control devices subject to the provisions of § 63.172 of this subpart. The records specified in paragraph (g)(1) of this section shall be retained for the life of the equipment. The records specified in paragraphs (g)(2) and (g)(3) of this section shall be retained for 2 years.


(1) The design specifications and performance demonstrations specified in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (g)(1)(iv) of this section.


(i) Detailed schematics, design specifications of the control device, and piping and instrumentation diagrams.


(ii) The dates and descriptions of any changes in the design specifications.


(iii) Except as specified in paragraph (a) of § 63.108, the flare design (*i.e.,* steam-assisted, air-assisted, or non-assisted) and the results of the compliance demonstration required by § 63.11(b).




(iv) A description of the parameter or parameters monitored, as required in § 63.172(e) of this subpart, to ensure that control devices are operated and maintained in conformance with their design and an explanation of why that parameter (or parameters) was selected for the monitoring.


(2) Records of operation of closed-vent systems and control devices, as specified in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (g)(2)(iii) of this section.


(i) Except as specified in paragraph (a) of § 63.108, dates and durations when the closed-vent systems and control devices required in §§ 63.163 through 63.166, and § 63.170 are not operated as designed as indicated by the monitored parameters, including periods when a flare pilot light system does not have a flame.




(ii) Dates and durations during which the monitoring system or monitoring device is inoperative.


(iii) Dates and durations of start-ups and shutdowns of control devices required in §§ 63.163 through 63.166, and § 63.170 of this subpart.


(3) Records of inspections of closed-vent systems subject to the provisions of § 63.172, as specified in paragraphs (g)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.




(i) For each inspection conducted in accordance with the provisions of § 63.172(f)(1) or (f)(2) of this subpart during which no leaks were detected, a record that the inspection was performed, the date of the inspection, and a statement that no leaks were detected.


(ii) For each inspection conducted in accordance with the provisions of § 63.172(f)(1) or (f)(2) of this subpart during which leaks were detected, the information specified in paragraph (d) of this section shall be recorded.


(iii) For each source as defined in § 63.101, and for each source as defined in § 63.191, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), the owner or operator must comply with this paragraph in addition to the requirements in paragraphs (g)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section. For each flow event from a bypass line subject to the requirements in § 63.172(j), the owner or operator must maintain records sufficient to determine whether or not the detected flow included flow requiring control. For each flow event from a bypass line requiring control that is released either directly to the atmosphere or to a control device not meeting the requirements in this subpart, the owner or operator must include an estimate of the volume of gas, the concentration of organic HAP in the gas and the resulting emissions of organic HAP that bypassed the control device using process knowledge and engineering estimates.






(h) Each owner or operator of a process unit subject to the requirements of §§ 63.175 and 63.176 of this subpart shall maintain the records specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(9) of this section for the period of the quality improvement program for the process unit.


(1) For owners or operators who elect to use a reasonable further progress quality improvement program, as specified in § 63.175(d) of this subpart:


(i) All data required in § 63.175(d)(2) of this subpart.


(ii) The percent leaking valves observed each quarter and the rolling average percent reduction observed in each quarter.


(iii) The beginning and ending dates while meeting the requirements of § 63.175(d) of this subpart.


(2) For owners or operators who elect to use a quality improvement program of technology review and improvement, as specified in § 63.175(e) of this subpart:


(i) All data required in § 63.175(e)(2) of this subpart.


(ii) The percent leaking valves observed each quarter.


(iii) Documentation of all inspections conducted under the requirements of § 63.175(e)(4) of this subpart, and any recommendations for design or specification changes to reduce leak frequency.


(iv) The beginning and ending dates while meeting the requirements of § 63.175(e) of this subpart.


(3) For owners or operators subject to the requirements of the pump quality improvement program as specified in § 63.176 of this subpart:


(i) All data required in § 63.176(d)(2) of this subpart.


(ii) The rolling average percent leaking pumps.


(iii) Documentation of all inspections conducted under the requirements of § 63.176(d)(4) of this subpart, and any recommendations for design or specification changes to reduce leak frequency.


(iv) The beginning and ending dates while meeting the requirements of § 63.176(d) of this subpart.


(4) If a leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak, the reason for the delay and the expected date of successful repair.


(5) Records of all analyses required in §§ 63.175(e) and 63.176(d) of this subpart. The records will include the following:


(i) A list identifying areas associated with poorer than average performance and the associated service characteristics of the stream, the operating conditions and maintenance practices.


(ii) The reasons for rejecting specific candidate superior emission performing valve or pump technology from performance trials.


(iii) The list of candidate superior emission performing valve or pump technologies, and documentation of the performance trial program items required under §§ 63.175(e)(6)(iii) and 63.176(d)(6)(iii) of this subpart.


(iv) The beginning date and duration of performance trials of each candidate superior emission performing technology.


(6) All records documenting the quality assurance program for valves or pumps as specified in §§ 63.175(e)(7) and 63.176(d)(7) of this subpart.


(7) Records indicating that all valves or pumps replaced or modified during the period of the quality improvement program are in compliance with the quality assurance requirements in § 63.175(e)(7) and § 63.176(d)(7) of this subpart.


(8) Records documenting compliance with the 20 percent or greater annual replacement rate for pumps as specified in § 63.176(d)(8) of this subpart.


(9) Information and data to show the corporation has fewer than 100 employees, including employees providing professional and technical contracted services.


(i) The owner or operator of equipment in heavy liquid service shall comply with the requirements of either paragraph (i)(1) or (i)(2) of this section, as provided in paragraph (i)(3) of this section.


(1) Retain information, data, and analyses used to determine that a piece of equipment is in heavy liquid service.


(2) When requested by the Administrator, demonstrate that the piece of equipment or process is in heavy liquid service.


(3) A determination or demonstration that a piece of equipment or process is in heavy liquid service shall include an analysis or demonstration that the process fluids do not meet the definition of “in light liquid service.” Examples of information that could document this include, but are not limited to, records of chemicals purchased for the process, analyses of process stream composition, engineering calculations, or process knowledge.


(j) Identification, either by list, location (area or group) of equipment in organic HAP service less than 300 hours per year within a process unit subject to the provisions of this subpart under § 63.160 of this subpart.


(k) Owners and operators choosing to comply with the requirements of § 63.179 of this subpart shall maintain the following records:


(1) Identification of the process unit(s) and the organic HAP's they handle.


(2) A schematic of the process unit, enclosure, and closed-vent system.


(3) A description of the system used to create a negative pressure in the enclosure to ensure that all emissions are routed to the control device.


(1) For fenceline monitoring systems subject to § 63.184, each owner or operator must keep the records specified in paragraphs (l)(1) through (11) of this section.


(1) Coordinates of all passive tube and canister monitors, including co-located samplers and field blanks, and if applicable, the meteorological station. The owner or operator shall determine the coordinates using an instrument with an accuracy of at least 3 meters. The coordinates shall be in decimal degrees with at least five decimal places.


(2) The start and stop times and dates for each sample, as well as the tube or canister identifying information.


(3) Sampling period average temperature and barometric pressure measurements.


(4) For each outlier determined in accordance with Section 9.2 of Method 325A of appendix A of this part the sampler location of and the concentration of the outlier and the evidence used to conclude that the result is an outlier. The evidence must include documentation of accidental contamination by the sample handler. High sample results attributed to unknown causes are not outliers if there is no evidence of sample contamination and the sample does not meet the requirements in Section 9.2 of Method 325A of appendix A of this part.


(5) For samples that will be adjusted for offsite impacts, the location of and the concentration measured simultaneously by the additional sampler(s), and the perimeter samplers to which it applies.


(6) Individual sample results, the calculated Δc for each monitored compound for each sampling period and the two samples used to determine it, whether correction for offsite impacts was used, and the annual average Δc for each monitored compound calculated after each sampling period.


(7) Method detection limit for each sample, including co-located samples and blanks.


(8) Documentation of the root cause analysis and any resulting corrective action taken each time an action level is exceeded, including the dates the root cause analysis was initiated and the resulting correction action(s) were taken. If real-time sampling techniques are required under § 63.184(e)(3)(B), the location of the real-time monitors for each 48-hour period.


(9) Any corrective action plan developed under § 63.184(f).


(10) Other records as required by Methods 325A, 325B, and 327 of appendix A of this part.


(11) If monitoring is conducted using canisters in accordance with § 63.184(b), if a near-field source correction is used as provided in § 63.184(g), or if an alternative test method is used that provides time-resolved measurements, records of hourly meteorological data, including temperature, barometric pressure, wind speed and wind direction, calculated daily unit vector wind direction and daily sigma theta, and other records specified in the site-specific monitoring plan.







---

[N] [59 FR 19568, Apr. 22, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 48177, Sept. 20, 1994; 60 FR 18030, Apr. 10, 1995; 61 FR 31441, June 20, 1996; 62 FR 2792, Jan. 17, 1997; 64 FR 20198, Apr. 26, 1999; 68 FR 37344, June 23, 2003; 89 FR 43225, May 16, 2024]




