# § 48.6420-3   Exempt sales; other payments or refunds available.

(a) *Exempt sales.* Credits or payments are allowable only for gasoline that was sold by the producer or importer in a transaction that was subject to tax under section 4081. No credit or payment shall be allowed or made under § 48.6420-1 with respect to gasoline which was exempt from the tax imposed by section 4081. For example, a State or local government may not file a claim with respect to any gasoline which it purchased tax free from the producer, even though the State or local government used the gasoline on a farm for farming purposes. Similarly, payment may not be made with respect to gasoline purchased by a State tax free for its exclusive use, as provided in section 4221, which is used on a State prison farm for farming purposes.


(b) *Other payments or refunds available.* Any amount which, without regard to the second sentence of section 6420(d) and this paragraph (b), would be allowable as a credit or payable to any person under § 48.6420-1 with respect to any gasoline is reduced by any other amount which is allowable as a credit or payable under section 6420, or is refundable under any other provision of the Code, to any person with respect to the same gasoline. Thus, a person who is the ultimate purchaser of gasoline may not file a claim for credit or payment with respect to that gasoline if another person is entitled to claim a payment, credit, or refund with respect to the same gasoline. For example, a State or local government may not file a claim for payment if it has executed, or intends to execute, a written consent to enable the producer to claim a credit or refund for the tax that was paid. See, for example, §§ 48.6416(a)-3(b)(2), 48.6416(b)(2)-2(d), and 48.6416(b)(2)-3(b)(1).



---

[N] [T.D. 8043, 50 FR 32036, Aug. 8, 1985]




