# ยง  139.402   Components of Airport Safety Management System.

An Airport Safety Management System must include:


(a) *Safety Policy.* A Safety Policy that, at a minimum:


(1) Identifies the accountable executive;


(2) Establishes and maintains a safety policy statement signed by the accountable executive;


(3) Ensures the safety policy statement is available to all employees and tenants;


(4) Identifies and communicates the safety organizational structure;


(5) Describes management responsibility and accountability for safety issues;


(6) Establishes and maintains safety objectives; and


(7) Defines methods, processes, and organizational structure necessary to meet safety objectives.


(b) *Safety Risk Management.* Safety Risk Management processes and procedures for identifying hazards and their associated risks within airport operations and for changes to those operations covered by this part that, at a minimum:


(1) Establish a system for identifying operational safety issues.


(2) Establish a systematic process to analyze hazards and their associated risks, which include:


(i) Describing the system;


(ii) Identifying hazards;


(iii) Analyzing the risk of identified hazards and/or analyzing proposed mitigations;


(iv) Assessing the level of risk associated with identified hazards; and


(v) Mitigating the risks of identified hazards, when appropriate.


(3) Establish and maintain records that document the certificate holder's Safety Risk Management processes.


(i) The records shall provide a means for airport management's acceptance of responsibility for assessed risks and mitigations.


(ii) Records associated with the certificate holder's Safety Risk Management processes must be retained for the longer of:


(A) Thirty-six consecutive calendar months after the risk analysis of identified hazards under paragraph (b)(2) of this section has been completed; or


(B) Twelve consecutive calendar months after mitigations required under paragraph (b)(2)(v) of this section have been completed.


(c) *Safety assurance.* Safety assurance processes and procedures to ensure mitigations developed through the certificate holder's Safety Risk Management processes and procedures are adequate, and the Airport's Safety Management System is functioning effectively. Those processes and procedures must, at a minimum:


(1) Provide a means for monitoring safety performance including a means for ensuring that safety objectives identified under paragraph (a)(6) of this section are being met.


(2) Establish and maintain a safety reporting system that provides a means for reporter confidentiality.


(3) Report pertinent safety information and data on a regular basis to the accountable executive. Reportable data includes:


(i) Compliance with the requirements under this subpart and subpart D of this part;


(ii) Performance of safety objectives established under paragraph (a)(6) of this section;


(iii) Safety critical information distributed in accordance with paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section;


(iv) Status of ongoing mitigations required under the Airport's Safety Risk Management processes as described under paragraph (b)(2)(v) of this section; and


(v) Status of a certificate holder's schedule for implementing the Airport Safety Management System as described under ยง 139.403.


(d) *Safety Promotion.* Safety Promotion processes and procedures to foster an airport operating environment that encourages safety. Those processes and procedures must, at a minimum:


(1) Provide all persons authorized to access the airport areas regulated under this part with a safety awareness orientation, which includes hazard identification and reporting. The safety awareness orientation materials must be readily available and must be reviewed and updated every twenty-four calendar months or sooner if necessary.


(2) Maintain a record of all safety awareness orientation materials made available under paragraph (d)(1) of this section including any revisions and means of distribution. Such records must be retained for twenty-four consecutive calendar months after the materials are made available.


(3) Provide safety training on those requirements of SMS and its implementation to each employee with responsibilities under the certificate holder's SMS that is appropriate to the individual's role. This training must be completed at least every twenty-four months.


(4) Maintain a record of all training by each individual under paragraph (d)(3) of this section that includes, at a minimum, a description and date of training received. Such records must be retained for twenty-four consecutive calendar months after completion of training.


(5) Develop and maintain formal means for communicating important safety information that, at a minimum:


(i) Ensures all persons authorized to access the airport areas regulated under this part are aware of the SMS and their safety roles and responsibilities;


(ii) Conveys critical safety information;


(iii) Provides feedback to individuals using the airport's safety reporting system required under paragraph (c)(2) of this section; and


(iv) Disseminates safety lessons learned to relevant airport employees or other stakeholders.


(6) Maintain records of communications required under this section for 12 consecutive calendar months.






