# ยง 13.50   Closure and restriction procedures.

(a) *Applicability and authority.* The Superintendent will follow the provisions of this section to close an area or restrict an activity, or terminate or relax a closure or restriction, in NPS areas in Alaska.


(b) *Factors.* In determining whether to close an area or restrict an activity, or whether to terminate or relax a closure or restriction, the Superintendent must ensure that the activity or area is managed in a manner compatible with the purposes for which the park area was established. The Superintendent's decision under this paragraph must therefore be guided by factors such as public health and safety, resource protection, protection of cultural or scientific values, subsistence uses, conservation of endangered or threatened species, and other management considerations.


(c) *Rulemaking requirements.* This paragraph applies only to a closure or restriction, or the termination or relaxation of such, which is of a nature, magnitude and duration that will result in a significant alteration in the public use pattern of the area; adversely affect the area's natural, aesthetic, scenic, or cultural values; or require a long-term modification in the resource management objectives of the area. Except in emergency situations, the closure or restriction, or the termination or relaxation of such, must be published as a rulemaking in the _Federal Register_.


(d) *Written determination.* Except in emergency situations, prior to implementing or terminating a closure or restriction, the superintendent shall prepare a written determination justifying the action. That determination shall set forth the reasons the closure or restriction authorized by paragraph (a) of this section has been established. This determination will be posted on the NPS Web site at *www.nps.gov.*

(e) *Restrictions on taking fish or wildlife.* (1) Except in emergencies, the NPS will consult with the State agency having responsibility over fishing, hunting, or trapping and provide an opportunity for public comment, including one or more public meetings near the affected NPS unit, prior to implementing a closure or restriction on taking fish or wildlife.


(2) Emergency closures or restrictions may not exceed a period of 60 days and may not be extended without following the nonemergency procedures of this section.


(f) *Notice.* A list of closures and restrictions will be compiled in writing and updated annually. The list will be posted on the NPS Web site at *www.nps.gov* and made available at park headquarters. Additional means of notice reasonably likely to inform residents in the affected vicinity will also be provided where available, such as:


(1) Publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the State or in local newspapers;


(2) Use of electronic media, such as the internet and email lists;


(3) Radio broadcast; or


(4) Posting of signs in the local vicinity.


(g) Violating a closure or restriction is prohibited.



---

[N] [80 FR 64344, Oct. 23, 2015]




