# ยง 73.16   Transfers.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, a select agent or toxin may only be transferred to individuals or entities registered to possess, use, or transfer that agent or toxin. A select agent or toxin may only be transferred under the conditions of this section and must be authorized by CDC or APHIS prior to the transfer. 
4

(b) A transfer may be authorized if:


(1) The sender:


(i) Has at the time of transfer a certificate of registration that covers the particular select agent or toxin to be transferred and meets all requirements in this part,


(ii) Meets the exemption requirements for the particular select agent or toxin to be transferred, or


(iii) Is transferring the select agent or toxin from outside the United States and meets all import requirements.


(2) At the time of transfer, the recipient has a certificate of registration that includes the particular select agent or toxin to be transferred and meets all of the requirements of this part.


(c) A select agent or toxin that is contained in a specimen for proficiency testing may be transferred without prior authorization from CDC or APHIS provided that, at least seven calendar days prior to the transfer, the sender reports to CDC or APHIS the select agent or toxin to be transferred and the name and address of the recipient.


(d) On a case-by-case basis, the HHS Secretary may authorize a transfer of a select agent or toxin, not otherwise eligible for transfer under this part under conditions prescribed by the HHS Secretary.


(e) To obtain authorization for transfer, APHIS/CDC Form 2 must be submitted.


(f) After authorization is provided by APHIS or CDC, the packaging of the select agent(s) and toxin(s) is performed by an individual approved by the HHS Secretary or Administrator to have access to select agents and toxins and is in compliance with all applicable laws concerning packaging.


(g) The sender must comply with all applicable laws governing packaging and shipping.


(h) Transportation in commerce starts when the select agent(s) or toxin(s) are packaged for shipment and ready for receipt by a courier transporting select agent(s) or toxin(s) and ends when the package is received by the intended recipient who is an individual approved by the HHS Secretary or Administrator to have access to select agents and toxins, following a security risk assessment by the Attorney General.


(i) The recipient must submit a completed APHIS/CDC Form 2 within two business days of receipt of a select agent or toxin.


(j) The recipient must immediately notify CDC or APHIS if the select agent or toxin has not been received within 48 hours after the expected delivery time, or if the package containing select agents or toxins has been damaged to the extent that a release of the select agent or toxin may have occurred.


(k) An authorization for a transfer shall be valid only for 30 calendar days after issuance, except that such an authorization becomes immediately null and void if any facts supporting the authorization change (e.g., change in the certificate of registration for the sender or recipient, change in the application for transfer).


(l) A registered individual or entity transferring an amount of a HHS toxin otherwise excluded under the provisions of ยง 73.3(d) must:


(1) Transfer the amounts only after the transferor uses due diligence and documents that the recipient has a legitimate need (*e.g.,* prophylactic, protective, bona fide research, or other peaceful purpose) to handle or use such toxins. Information to be documented includes, but is not limited, to the recipient information, toxin and amount transferred, and declaration that the recipient has legitimate purpose to store and use such toxins.


(2) Report to CDC if they detect a known or suspected violation of Federal law or become aware of suspicious activity related to a toxin listed in ยง 73.3(d) of this part.



---

[N] [70 FR 13316, Mar. 18, 2005, as amended at 77 FR 61115, Oct. 5, 2012; 79 FR 26862, May 12, 2014; 82 FR 6294, Jan. 19, 2017]




