# § 63.11651   What definitions apply to this subpart?

Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act, in § 63.2, and in this section as follows:


*Autoclave* means a pressure oxidation vessel that is used to treat gold ores (primarily sulfide refractory ore) and involves pumping a slurry of milled ore into the vessel which is highly pressurized with oxygen and heated to temperatures of approximately 350° to 430 °F.


*Calomel-based mercury control system* means a mercury emissions control system that uses scrubbers to remove mercury from the gas stream of a roaster or combination of roasters by complexing the mercury from the gas stream with mercuric chloride to form mercurous chloride (calomel). These scrubbers are also referred to as “mercury scrubbers.”


*Carbon adsorber* means a control device consisting of a single fixed carbon bed, multiple carbon beds or columns, carbon filter packs or modules, and other variations that uses activated carbon to remove pollutants from a gas stream.


*Carbon kiln* means a kiln or furnace where carbon is regenerated by heating, usually in the presence of steam, after the gold has been stripped from the carbon.


*Carbon processes with mercury retorts* means the affected source that includes carbon kilns, preg tanks, electrowinning cells, mercury retorts, and melt furnaces at gold mine ore processing and production facilities that use activated carbon, or resins that can be used as a substitute for activated carbon, to recover (adsorb) gold from the pregnant cyanide solution.


*Carbon processes without mercury retorts* means the affected source that includes carbon kilns, preg tanks, electrowinning cells, and melt furnaces, but has no retorts, at gold mine ore processing and production facilities that use activated carbon, or resins that can be used as a substitute for activated carbon, to recover (adsorb) gold from the pregnant cyanide solution.


*Concentrate* means the sludge-like material that is loaded with gold along with various other metals (such as silver, copper, and mercury) and various other substances, that is produced by electrowinning, the Merrill-Crowe process, flotation and gravity separation processes. *Concentrate* is measured as the input to mercury retorts, or for facilities without mercury retorts, as the input to melt furnaces before any drying takes place. For facilities without mercury retorts or melt furnaces, *concentrate* is measured as the quantity shipped.


*Deviation* means any instance where an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:


(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart, including but not limited to any emissions limitation or work practice standard;


(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or


(3) Exceeds any operating limit established under this subpart.


*Electrowinning* means a process that uses induced voltage on anode and cathode plates to remove metals from the continuous flow of solution, where the gold in solution is plated onto the cathode. Steel wool is typically used as the plating surface.


*Electrowinning Cells* means a tank in which the electrowinning takes place.


*Gold mine ore processing and production facility* means any industrial facility engaged in the processing of gold mine ore that uses any of the following processes: Roasting operations, autoclaves, carbon kilns, preg tanks, electrowinning, mercury retorts, or melt furnaces. Laboratories (see CAA section 112(c)(7)), individual prospectors, and very small pilot scale mining operations that processes or produces less than 100 pounds of concentrate per year are not a gold mine ore processing and production facility. A facility that produces primarily metals other than gold, such as copper, lead, zinc, or nickel (where these metals other than gold comprise 95 percent or more of the total metal production) that may also recover some gold as a byproduct is not a gold mine ore processing and production facility. Those facilities whereby 95 percent or more of total mass of metals produced are metals other than gold, whether final metal production is onsite or offsite, are not part of the gold mine ore processing and production source category.


*Melt furnace* means a furnace (typically a crucible furnace) that is used for smelting the gold-bearing material recovered from mercury retorting, or the gold-bearing material from electrowinning, the Merrill-Crowe process, or other processes for facilities without mercury retorts.


*Mercury retort* means a vessel that is operated under a partial vacuum at approximately 1,100° to 1,300 °F to remove mercury and moisture from the gold bearing sludge material that is recovered from electrowinning, the Merrill-Crowe process, or other processes. Mercury retorts are usually equipped with condensers that recover liquid mercury during the processing.


*Merrill-Crowe process* means a precipitation technique using zinc oxide for removing gold from a cyanide solution. Zinc dust is added to the solution, and gold is precipitated to produce a concentrate.


*Non-carbon concentrate processes* means the affected source that includes mercury retorts and melt furnaces at gold mine ore processing and production facilities that use the Merrill-Crowe process or other processes and do not use carbon (or resins that substitute for carbon) to recover (adsorb) gold from the pregnant cyanide solution.


*Ore dry grinding* means a process in which the gold ore is ground and heated (dried) prior to additional preheating or prior to entering the roaster.


*Ore preheating* means a process in which ground gold ore is preheated prior to entering the roaster.


*Ore pretreatment processes* means the affected source that includes roasting operations and autoclaves that are used to pre-treat gold mine ore at gold mine ore processing and production facilities prior to the cyanide leaching process.


*Pregnant solution tank (or preg tank)* means a storage tank for pregnant solution, which is the cyanide solution that contains gold-cyanide complexes that is generated from leaching gold ore with cyanide solution.


*Pregnant cyanide solution* means the cyanide solution that contains gold-cyanide complexes that are generated from leaching gold ore with a dilute cyanide solution.


*Quenching* means a process in which the hot calcined ore is cooled and quenched with water after it leaves the roaster.


*Roasting operation* means a process that uses an industrial furnace in which milled ore is combusted across a fluidized bed to oxidize and remove organic carbon and sulfide mineral grains in refractory gold ore. The emissions points of the roasting operation subject to this subpart include ore dry grinding, ore preheating, the roaster stack, and quenching.




