# ยง 248.177   Delegated responsibility to State agencies.

(a) *In general.* The Commissioner shall delegate some or all responsibility for implementing subpart B of this part to a State housing agency if such agency submits a preservation plan acceptable to the Commissioner. 


(b) *Approval.* State preservation plans shall be submitted in such a form and in accordance with such procedures as the Commissioner shall establish. The Commissioner may approve plans that contain: 


(1) An inventory of low income housing located within the State that is or will be eligible low income housing under subpart B of this part within five years; 


(2) A description of the agency's experience in the area of multifamily financing and restructuring; 


(3) A description of the administrative resources that the agency will commit to the processing of plans of action in accordance with subpart B of this part; 


(4) A description of the administrative resources that the agency will commit to the monitoring of approved plans of action in accordance with subpart B of this part; 


(5) An independent analysis of the performance of the multifamily housing inventory financed or otherwise monitored by the agency; 


(6) A certification by the public official responsible for submitting the consolidated plan under 24 CFR part 91 that the proposed activities are consistent with the approved consolidated plan of the State within which the eligible low income housing is located; and 


(7) Such other certifications or information that the Commissioner determines to be necessary to implement an approved State preservation plan, which may include incentives that are authorized under other provisions of subpart B of this part. 


(c) *Implementation agreements.* The Commissioner may enter into any agreements necessary to implement an approved State preservation plan, which may include incentives that are authorized under other provisions of subpart B of this part. 


(d) *Fees.* Any State agency with responsibility so delegated under subpart B of this part may not charge any owner of eligible low income housing any fee for accepting notices of intent, processing plans of action or any other process pursuant to approval of a plan of action under subpart B of this part. This prohibition shall not preclude: 


(1) An owner paying for its appraisal or share of a joint appraisal under the provisions of ยง 248.111; or 


(2) A State agency from collecting fees normally associated with providing and processing financing insured under part 241 of this chapter.



---

[N] [57 FR 12041, Apr. 8, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 16379, Mar. 30, 1995]




