# ยง 228.51   Bonding.

(a) *Bond requirements.* Before operations may begin under any contract or permit, a bond must be furnished to the authorized officer to ensure performance of payment (as necessary), reclamation, and other conditions of the contract or permit, except as noted in paragraphs (a) (1) and (3) of this section, where the authorized officer may waive such bonding. If an extension of time is granted as provided in ยง 228.53(b), the bond requirements must be recalculated and changed accordingly. 


(1) For *advance payment contracts* for 10,000 cubic yards or more in volume (or weight equivalent), a bond of not less than 10 percent of the total contract price or the value of the estimated annual production (whichever is less), plus the reclamation cost for the area covered by annual mining, is required. When the total volume is less than 10,000 cubic yards, bond requirements, if any, are at the discretion of the authorized officer.


(2) For any *deferred payment contract,* a bond equaling the value of the estimated annual production plus the reclamation cost for the area covered by annual mining is required.


(3) For *free use,* the authorized officer may require a reclamation bond which must be sufficient to cover the cost of reclamation of the anticipated annual work.


(b) *Types of bonding.* A bond must be one of the following:


(1) A bond of a corporate surety shown on the latest approved list issued by the U.S. Treasury Department and executed on an approved standard form;


(2) A cash bond;


(3) Negotiable securities of the United States;


(4) An irrevocable letter of credit acceptable to the Forest Service;


(5) A performance bond required by other Forest Service contracts or permits, provided the bond covers the performance and reclamation requirements related to the removal of mineral material from a designated pit or area for use in the performance of the contract or permit; or


(6) Any other types of bond specified in the Forest Service Manual.




