# § 3.812   Special allowance payable under section 156 of Pub. L. 97-377.

The provisions of this section apply to the payment of a special allowance to certain surviving spouses and children of individuals who died on active duty prior to August 13, 1981, or who died as a result of a service-connected disability which was incurred or aggravated prior to August 13, 1981. This special allowance is a replacement for certain social security benefits which were either reduced or terminated by provisions of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981. 


(a) *Eligibility requirements.* (1) A determination must first be made that the person on whose earnings record the claim is based either died on active duty prior to August 13, 1981, or died as a result of a service-connected disability which was incurred or aggravated prior to August 13, 1981. For purposes of this determination, character of discharge is not a factor for consideration, and death on active duty subsequent to August 12, 1981, is qualifying provided that the death resulted from a service-connected disability which was incurred or aggravated prior to August 13, 1981. 


(2) Once a favorable determination has been made under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, determinations as to the age, relationship and school attendance requirements contained in paragraphs (a)(1) and (b)(1) of section 156 of Pub. L. 97-377 will be made. In making these eligibility determinations VA shall apply the provisions of the Social Security Act, and any regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, as in effect during the claimant's period of eligibility. Unless otherwise provided in this section, when issues are raised concerning eligibility or entitlement to this special allowance which cannot be appropriately resolved under the provisions of the Social Security Act, or the regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, the provisions of title 38, Code of Federal Regulations, are for application. 


(b) *Computation of payment rate*—(1) *Basic entitlement rate.* A basic entitlement rate will be computed for each eligible claimant in accordance with the provisions of subparagraphs (a)(2) and (b)(2) of section 156 of Pub. L. 97-377 using data to be provided by the Social Security Administration. This basic entitlement rate will then be used to compute the monthly payment rate as described in paragraphs (b)(2) to (b)(6) of this section. 


(2) *Original or reopened awards to surviving spouses.* The monthly payment rate shall be equal to the basic entitlement rate increased by the overall average percentage (rounded to the nearest tenth of a percent) of each legislative increase in dependency and indemnity compensation rates under 38 U.S.C. 1311 which became effective concurrently with or subsequent to the effective date of the earliest adjustment under section 215(i) of the Social Security Act that was disregarded in computing the basic entitlement rate. 


(3) *Original and reopened awards to children.* The monthly payment rate shall be equal to the basic entitlement rate increased by the overall average percentage (rounded to the nearest tenth of a percent) of each legislative increase in the rates of educational assistance allowance under 38 U.S.C. 3531(b) which became effective concurrently with or subsequent to the effective date of the earliest adjustment under section 215(i) of the Social Security Act that was disregarded in computing the basic entitlement rate. 


(4) *Subsequent legislative increases in rates.* The monthly rate of special allowance payable to a surviving spouse shall be increased by the same overall average percentage increase (rounded to the nearest tenth of a percent) and on the same effective date as any legislative increase in the rates payable under 38 U.S.C. 1311. The monthly rate of special allowance payable to a child shall be increased by the same overall average percentage increase (rounded to the nearest tenth of a percent) and on the same effective date as any legislative increase in the rates payable under 38 U.S.C. 3531(b). 


(5) *Amendment of awards.* Prompt action shall be taken to amend any award of this special allowance to conform with evidence indicating a change in basic eligibility, any basic entitlement rate, or any effective date previously determined. It is the claimant's responsibility to promptly notify VA of any change in their status or employment which affects eligibility or entitlement. 


(6) *Rounding of monthly rates.* Any monthly rate computed under the provisions of this paragraph, if not a multiple of $1, shall be rounded to the next lower multiple of $1.


(c) *Claimants not entitled to this special allowance.* The following are not entitled to this special allowance for the reasons indicated.


(1) Claimants eligible for death benefits under 38 U.S.C. 1151. The deaths in such cases are not service-connected.


(2) Claimants eligible for death benefits under 38 U.S.C. 1318. The deaths in such cases are not service connected. 


(3) Claimants whose claims are based on an individual's service in: 


(i) The Commonwealth Army of the Philippines while such forces were in the service of the Armed Forces pursuant to the military order of the President dated July 26, 1941, including recognized guerrilla forces (see 38 U.S.C. 107). 


(ii) The Philippine Scouts under section 14, Pub. L. 190, 79th Congress (see 38 U.S.C. 107). 


(iii) The commissioned corps of the Public Health Service (specifically excluded by section 156 of Pub. L. 97-377), or 


(iv) The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (specifically excluded by section 156 of Pub. L. 97-377).


(d) *Appellate jurisdiction.* VA shall have appellate jurisdiction of all determinations made in connection with this special allowance.


(e) *Claims.* Claimants must file or submit a complete claim on a paper or electronic form prescribed by the Secretary in order for VA to pay this special allowance. When VA receives an intent to file a claim or inquiries as to eligibility, VA will follow the procedures outlined in § 3.155. Otherwise, the date of receipt of the complete claim will be accepted as the date of claim for this special allowance. See §§ 3.150, 3.151, 3.155, 3.400.


(f) *Retroactivity and effective dates.* There is no time limit for filing a claim for this special allowance. Upon the filing of a complete claim, benefits shall be payable for all periods of eligibility beginning on or after the first day of the month in which the claimant first became eligible for this special allowance, except that no payment may be made for any period prior to January 1, 1983. 



---

[N] [49 FR 21709, May 23, 1984, as amended at 54 FR 26030, June 21, 1989; 60 FR 20643, Apr. 27, 1995; 79 FR 57697, Sept. 25, 2014]




