# § 412.1   Label approval.

(a) No final label may be used on any product unless the label has been submitted for approval to the FSIS Labeling and Program Delivery Staff, accompanied by FSIS Form 7234-1, Application for Approval of Labels, Marking, and Devices, and approved by such staff, except for generically approved labels authorized for use in § 412.2. The management of the official establishment or establishment certified under a foreign inspection system, in accordance with parts 327 and 381, subpart T, must maintain a copy of all labels used, in accordance with parts 320 and 381, subpart Q, of this chapter. Such records must be made available to any duly authorized representative of the Secretary upon request.


(b) All labels required to be submitted for approval as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section will be submitted to the FSIS Labeling and Program Delivery Staff. A parent company for a corporation may submit only one label application for a product produced in other establishments that are owned by the corporation.


(c) The Food Safety and Inspection Service requires the submission of labeling applications for the following:


(1) Sketch labels as defined in paragraph (d) of this section for products which are produced under a religious exemption;


(2) [Reserved]


(3) Special statements and claims as defined in paragraph (e) of this section and presented in the context of a final label.


(4) Requests for the temporary use of final labels as prescribed in paragraph (f) of this section.


(d) A “sketch” label is the concept of a label. It may be a printer's proof or equivalent that is sufficiently legible to clearly show all labeling features, size, and location. The Food Safety and Inspection Service will accept sketches that are hand drawn or computer generated, or other reasonable facsimiles that clearly reflect and project the final version of the label.




(e) “Special statements and claims” are statements, claims, logos, trademarks, and other symbols on labels as defined in this paragraph (e).


(1) The following are considered special statements and claims:


(i) Those not defined in the Federal meat and poultry products inspection regulations or the Food Standards and Labeling Policy Book;


(ii) “Natural” claims, regardless of whether they are defined in the Food Standards and Labeling Policy Book; and


(iii) Health claims (including graphic representations of hearts), ingredient and processing method claims (*e.g.,* high-pressure processing), structure-function claims, claims regarding the raising of animals (*e.g.,* “no antibiotics administered”), products labeled as organic (except for those where only individual ingredients are labeled as organic), and instructional or disclaimer statements concerning pathogens (*e.g.,* “for cooking only” or “not tested for *E. coli* O157:H7”).


(2) The following are not considered special statements and claims:


(i) Allergen statements (*e.g.,* “contains soy”) applied in accordance with the Food Allergen Labeling and Consumer Protection Act;


(ii) Negative claims regarding ingredients not listed in the ingredients statement (*e.g.,* “No MSG Added,” “Preservative Free,” “No Milk,” “No Pork,” or “Made Without Soy”);


(iii) Statements that characterize a product's nutrient content in compliance with Title 9 of the CFR, such as “low fat”; and


(iv) Claims related to geographical significance, such as “German Brand Made in the US,” or those that make a country of origin statement on the label of any meat or poultry product “covered commodity,” 
1 or displays of geographic landmarks, such as a foreign country's flag, monument, or map.


(f)(1) Temporary approval for the use of a final label that may be deemed deficient in some particular may be granted by the FSIS Labeling and Program Delivery Staff. Temporary approvals may be granted for a period not to exceed 180 calendar days, under the following conditions:


(i) The proposed label would not misrepresent the product;


(ii) The use of the label would not present any potential health, safety, or dietary problems to the consumer;


(iii) Denial of the request would create undue economic hardship; and


(iv) An unfair competitive advantage would not result from the granting of the temporary approval.


(2) Extensions of temporary approvals may also be granted by the FSIS Labeling and Program Delivery Staff provided that the applicant demonstrates that new circumstances, meeting the above criteria, have developed since the original temporary approval was granted.



---

[N] [78 FR 66838, Nov. 7, 2013, as amended at 88 FR 2811, Jan. 18, 2023]




