# § 98.337   Records that must be retained.

In addition to the records required by § 98.3(g), you must retain the records specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section for each zinc production facility.

(a) If a CEMS is used to measure emissions, then you must retain under this subpart the records required for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in § 98.37 and the information listed in this paragraph (a):


(1) Monthly facility production quantity for each zinc product (tons).


(2) Annual operating hours for all Waelz kilns and electrothermic furnaces used in zinc production.


(b) If a CEMS is not used to measure emissions, you must also retain the records specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(7) of this section.


(1) Records of all analyses and calculations conducted for data reported as listed in § 98.336(b).


(2) Annual operating hours for Waelz kilns and electrothermic furnaces used in zinc production.


(3) Monthly production quantity for each zinc product (tons).


(4) Monthly mass of zinc bearing materials, flux materials (e.g., limestone, dolomite), and carbonaceous materials (e.g., coal, coke) charged to the kiln or furnace (tons).


(5) Sampling and analysis records for carbon content of zinc bearing materials, flux materials (e.g., limestone, dolomite), carbonaceous materials (e.g., coal, coke), charged to the kiln or furnace (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction).


(6) Monthly mass of carbon electrode consumed in for each electrothermic furnace (tons).


(7) Sampling and analysis records for carbon content of electrode materials.


(8) You must keep records that include a detailed explanation of how company records of measurements are used to estimate the carbon input to each Waelz kiln or electrothermic furnace, as applicable to your facility, including documentation of any materials excluded from Equation GG-1 of this subpart that contribute less than 1 percent of the total carbon inputs to the process. You also must document the procedures used to ensure the accuracy of the measurements of materials fed, charged, or placed in an affected unit including, but not limited to, calibration of weighing equipment and other measurement devices. The estimated accuracy of measurements made with these devices must also be recorded, and the technical basis for these estimates must be provided.


(c) *Verification software records.* You must keep a record of the file generated by the verification software specified in § 98.5(b) for the applicable data specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (9) of this section. Retention of this file satisfies the recordkeeping requirement for the data in paragraphs (c)(1) through (9) of this section.


(1) Annual mass of zinc bearing material charged to kiln or furnace (tons) (Equation GG-1 of § 98.333).


(2) Carbon content of the zinc bearing material, from the annual carbon analysis for kiln or furnace (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation GG-1).


(3) Annual mass of flux materials (e.g., limestone, dolomite) charged to each kiln or furnace (tons) (Equation GG-1).


(4) Carbon content of the flux materials charged to each kiln or furnace, from the annual carbon analysis (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation GG-1).


(5) Annual mass of carbon electrode consumed in each furnace (tons) (Equation GG-1).


(6) Carbon content of the carbon electrode consumed in each furnace, from the annual carbon analysis (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation GG-1).


(7) Annual mass of carbonaceous materials (e.g., coal, coke) charged to each kiln or furnace (tons) (Equation GG-1).


(8) Carbon content of the carbonaceous materials charged to each kiln or furnace, from the annual carbon analysis (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation GG-1).


(9) Identify whether each unit is a Waelz kiln or an electrothermic furnace.



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 79 FR 63799, Oct. 24, 2014]




