# ยง 894.815   I am a sponsor. Am I responsible to notify the Administrator and my TEI family members when my FEDVIP dental or vision eligibility and/or enrollment status changes?

Yes, as *sponsor,* you must notify the *Administrator* and your *TEI family members* of changes in your eligibility and enrollment status. Status as an *enrollee,* with a right to the enrollment, depends upon your *sponsor* status and eligibility as a *TEI,* and the enrollment action you have taken. Failure to notify the *Administrator* and your *TEI family members* of a change in status within the uniformed services that affects your eligibility to enroll may result in invalid continued enrollment, or an unexpected termination of enrollment, for your *TEI family members,* for which you will be responsible.


(a) *Example 1.* (1) Status change from non-enrollee to *enrollee.*

(2) You are on active duty (not *TEI* and not an *enrollee* in a dental or vision plan). Your *TEI certifying family member* may enroll and cover *TEI family members* in a FEDVIP plan. Upon a change in your status to a retiree or Retired Reserve member (who is not on active duty), you become a *TEI* and may enroll yourself and *TEI family members* in a FEDVIP plan. Your *TEI certifying family member* is no longer the *enrollee,* and you must notify the *Administrator* of your change in status. The *Administrator* will send the *TEI certifying family member* notice that his or her enrollment is terminated, and notify them that their *sponsor* (*i.e.* you), may enroll, and may cover *TEI family members* on the new enrollment.


(b) *Example 2.* (1) Status change from non-enrollee to *enrollee.*

(2) You are a retiree or a retired Reserve member and as a *TEI-D* you are eligible for, but not enrolled in, a FEDVIP dental plan and you satisfy at least one of the conditions at ยง 894.309(a)(3)(iii). You are not an *enrollee* because you are not enrolled, and therefore cannot cover *TEI family members.* Your *TEI certifying family member* may enroll and cover *TEI family members* in a FEDVIP dental plan. Upon a change in your status causing you to no longer satisfy one of the conditions, your *TEI certifying family member* is no longer the *enrollee,* and you must notify the *Administrator.* The *Administrator* will send your *TEI certifying family member* notice that their enrollment is terminated, and notify them that their *sponsor* (*i.e.* you), may enroll, and may cover *TEI family members* on the new enrollment.


(c) *Example 3.* (1) Status change from *enrollee* to non-enrollee.


(2) You are a retiree or Retired Reserve member (who is not on active duty), and you go on active duty. You lose *TEI* status and you are no longer eligible to be an *enrollee.* You must notify the *Administrator* of your change in status. The *Administrator* will terminate your enrollment and notify you that a *TEI certifying family member* may accept responsibility to self-certify as *enrollee* by enrolling and, if appropriate, covering other *TEI family members* by electing self plus one or self and family *type of enrollment* for only a FEDVIP vision plan. You are responsible to notify your covered *TEI family members* that your enrollment will terminate, and of their opportunity to accept responsibility to self-certify as *enrollee.*

