# ยง 4288.110   Applicant eligibility.

Sections 4288.110 through 4288.119 present the requirements associated with advanced biofuel producer eligibility, biofuel eligibility, eligibility notifications, and payment record requirements. To be eligible for this Program, the applicant must meet the requirements specified in paragraph (a) of this section and must provide additional information as may be requested by the Agency under paragraph (b) of this section. Public bodies and educational institutions are not eligible for this Program.


(a) *Eligible producer.* The applicant must be an advanced biofuel producer, as defined in this subpart.


(b) *Eligibility determination.* The Agency will determine an applicant's eligibility for participation in this Program. If an applicant's original submittal is not sufficient to verify an applicant's eligibility, the Agency will notify the applicant, in writing, as soon as practicable after receipt of the application. This notification will identify, at a minimum, the additional information being requested to enable the Agency to determine the applicant's eligibility and a timeframe in which to supply the information.


(1) If the applicant provides the requested information to the Agency within the specified timeframe, the Agency will determine the applicant's eligibility for the upcoming fiscal year.


(2) If the applicant does not provide the requested information to the Agency within the specified timeframe, the Agency will not consider the applicant any further for participation in the upcoming fiscal year. Such applicants may elect to enroll during the next sign-up period.


(c) *Ineligibility determination.* An otherwise eligible producer will be determined to be ineligible if the producer:


(1) Refuses to allow the Agency to verify any information provided by the producer under this subpart, including information for determining applicant eligibility, advanced biofuel eligibility, and application payments;


(2) Fails to meet any of the conditions set out in this subpart, in the contract, or in other Program documents; or


(3) Fails to comply with all applicable Federal, State, or local laws.



---

[N] [76 FR 7967, Feb. 11, 2011, as amended at 84 FR 71302, Dec. 27, 2019]




