# ยง 206.224   Debris removal.

(a) *Public interest.* Upon determination that debris removal is in the public interest, the Regional Administrator may provide assistance for the removal of debris and wreckage from publicly and privately owned lands and waters. Such removal is in the public interest when it is necessary to: 


(1) Eliminate immediate threats to life, public health, and safety; or


(2) Eliminate immediate threats of significant damage to improved public or private property; or 


(3) Ensure economic recovery of the affected community to the benefit of the community-at-large; or 


(4) Mitigate the risk to life and property by removing substantially damaged structures and associated appurtenances as needed to convert property acquired through a FEMA hazard mitigation program to uses compatible with open space, recreation, or wetlands management practices. Such removal must be completed within two years of the declaration date, unless the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate extends this period.


(b) *Debris removal from private property.* When it is in the public interest for an eligible applicant to remove debris from private property in urban, suburban and rural areas, including large lots, clearance of the living, recreational and working area is eligible except those areas used for crops and livestock or unused areas.


(c) *Assistance to individuals and private organizations.* No assistance will be provided directly to an individual or private organization, or to an eligible applicant for reimbursement of an individual or private organization, for the cost of removing debris from their own property. Exceptions to this are those private nonprofit organizations operating eligible facilities.



---

[N] [55 FR 2307, Jan. 23, 1990, as amended at 66 FR 33901, June 26, 2001]




