# ยง 151.16   Detention of merchandise.

(a) *Exemptions from applicability.* The provisions of this section are not applicable to detentions effected by CBP on behalf of other agencies of the U.S. Government in whom the determination of admissibility is vested.


(b) *Decision to detain or release.* Within five business days from the date on which merchandise is presented for CBP examination, CBP will decide whether to release or detain merchandise. Merchandise that is not released within the five business day period will be considered to be detained merchandise under 19 U.S.C. 1499(c)(1). For purposes of this section, merchandise will be considered to be presented for CBP examination when it is in a condition to be viewed and examined by a CBP officer. Mere presentation to the examining officer of a cargo van, container, or instrument of international traffic in which the merchandise to be examined is contained will not be considered to be presentation of merchandise for CBP examination for purposes of this section. Except when merchandise is examined at the public stores, the importer must pay all costs relating to the preparation and transportation of merchandise for CBP examination.


(c) *Notice of detention.* If a decision to detain merchandise is made, or the merchandise is not released within the five business day period described in paragraph (b) of this section, CBP will issue a notice to the importer or other party having an interest in such merchandise within five business days from such decision or failure to release. Issuance of a notice of detention is not to be construed as a final determination as to admissibility of the merchandise. The notice will be prepared by the CBP officer detaining the merchandise and will advise the importer or other interested party of the:


(1) Initiation of the detention, including the date the merchandise was presented for examination;


(2) Specific reason for the detention;


(3) Anticipated length of the detention;


(4) Nature of the tests or inquiries to be conducted; and


(5) Nature of any information which, if supplied to CBP, may accelerate the disposition of the detention.




(d) *Providing testing results.* Upon written request by the importer or other party having an interest in detained merchandise, CBP will provide copies of the results of any testing conducted on the merchandise together with a description of the testing procedures and methodologies used (unless such procedures or methodologies are proprietary to the holder of a copyright or patent or were developed by CBP for enforcement purposes). The results and test description will be in sufficient detail to permit the duplication and analysis of the testing and the results.


(e) *Final determinations.* A final determination with respect to admissibility of detained merchandise will be made within 30 days from the date the merchandise is presented for CBP examination. Such a determination may be the subject of a protest.


(f) *Effect of failure to make a determination.* The failure by CBP to make a final determination with respect to the admissibility of detained merchandise within 30 days after the merchandise has been presented for CBP examination, or such longer period if specifically authorized by law, will be treated as a decision by CBP to exclude the merchandise for purposes of section 514(a)(4) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1514(a)(4)). Such a deemed exclusion may be the subject of a protest.


(g) *Failure to decide protest.* If a protest which is filed as a result of a final determination or a deemed exclusion of detained merchandise is not allowed or denied in whole or in part before the 30th day after the day on which the protest was filed, it will be treated as having been denied on such 30th day for purposes of 28 U.S.C. 1581.


(h) *Decision before commencement of court action.* CBP may at any time after a deemed denial of a protest as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, but before commencement of a court action as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, grant a protest and permit release of detained merchandise, or deny a protest in accordance with ยง 174.30 of this chapter.


(i) *Commencement of court action; burden of proof and decisions of the court.* Once a court action respecting a detention is commenced, unless CBP establishes by a preponderance of the evidence that an admissibility decision has not been reached for good cause, the court will grant the appropriate relief which may include, but is not limited to, an order to cancel the detention and release the merchandise.


(j) *Seizure and forfeiture; denial of entry or exportation.* If otherwise provided by law, detained merchandise may be seized and forfeited. In lieu of seizure and forfeiture, where authorized by law, CBP may deny entry and permit the merchandise to be exported, with the importer responsible for paying all expenses of exportation.



---

[N] [T.D. 99-65, 64 FR 43611, Aug. 11, 1999, as amended by CBP Dec. 12-10, 77 FR 24380, Apr. 24, 2012; USCBP-2012-0011, 80 FR 56381, Sept. 18, 2015; 89 FR 52379, June 24, 2024]




