# ยง 503.6   Exclusions.

(a) *Treatment processes.* This part does not establish requirements for processes used to treat domestic sewage or for processes used to treat sewage sludge prior to final use or disposal, except as provided in ยง 503.32 and ยง 503.33.


(b) *Selection of a use or disposal practice.* This part does not require the selection of a sewage sludge use or disposal practice. The determination of the manner in which sewage sludge is used or disposed is a local determination.


(c) *Co-firing of sewage sludge.* This part does not establish requirements for sewage sludge co-fired in an incinerator with other wastes or for the incinerator in which sewage sludge and other wastes are co-fired. Other wastes do not include auxiliary fuel, as defined in 40 CFR 503.41(b), fired in a sewage sludge incinerator.


(d) *Sludge generated at an industrial facility.* This part does not establish requirements for the use or disposal of sludge generated at an industrial facility during the treatment of industrial wastewater, including sewage sludge generated during the treatment of industrial wastewater combined with domestic sewage.


(e) *Hazardous sewage sludge.* This part does not establish requirements for the use or disposal of sewage sludge determined to be hazardous in accordance with 40 CFR part 261.


(f) *Sewage sludge with high PCB concentration.* This part does not establish requirements for the use or disposal of sewage sludge with a concentration of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) equal to or greater than 50 milligrams per kilogram of total solids (dry weight basis).


(g) *Incinerator ash.* This part does not establish requirements for the use or disposal of ash generated during the firing of sewage sludge in a sewage sludge incinerator.


(h) *Grit and screenings.* This part does not establish requirements for the use or disposal of grit (e.g., sand, gravel, cinders, or other materials with a high specific gravity) or screenings (e.g., relatively large materials such as rags) generated during preliminary treatment of domestic sewage in a treatment works.


(i) *Drinking water treatment sludge.* This part does not establish requirements for the use or disposal of sludge generated during the treatment of either surface water or ground water used for drinking water.


(j) *Commercial and industrial septage.* This part does not establish requirements for the use or disposal of commercial septage, industrial septage, a mixture of domestic septage and commercial septage, or a mixture of domestic septage and industrial septage.




