# ยง 170.535   ONC-ACB and ONC-ATL application reconsideration.

(a) *Basis for reconsideration request.* An applicant may request that the National Coordinator reconsider a denial notice only if the applicant can demonstrate that clear, factual errors were made in the review of its application and that the errors' correction could lead to the applicant obtaining ONC-ACB or ONC-ATL status.


(b) *Submission requirement.* An applicant is required to submit, within 15 days of receipt of a denial notice, a written statement to the National Coordinator contesting the decision to deny its application and explaining with sufficient documentation what factual error(s) it believes can account for the denial. If the National Coordinator does not receive the applicant's reconsideration request within the specified timeframe, its reconsideration request may be rejected.


(c) *Reconsideration request review.* If the National Coordinator receives a timely reconsideration request, the National Coordinator is permitted up to 15 days from the date of receipt to review the information submitted by the applicant and issue a decision.


(d) *Decision.* (1) If the National Coordinator determines that clear, factual errors were made during the review of the application and that correction of the errors would remove all identified deficiencies, the applicant's authorized representative will be notified of the National Coordinator's determination and the applicant's successful achievement of ONC-ACB or ONC-ATL status.


(2) If, after reviewing an applicant's reconsideration request, the National Coordinator determines that the applicant did not identify factual errors or that the correction of the factual errors would not remove all identified deficiencies in the application, the National Coordinator may reject the applicant's reconsideration request.


(3) *Final decision.* A reconsideration decision issued by the National Coordinator is final and not subject to further review.



---

[N] [76 FR 1325, Dec. 7, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 72466, Oct. 19, 2016]




