# ยง 614.4050   Agricultural credit associations.

(a) *Terms to maturity on loans.* Agricultural credit associations are authorized to make or guarantee, subject to requirements of ยง 614.4200:


(1) Long-term real estate mortgage loans with maturities of not less than 5 nor more than 40 years, and continuing commitments to make such loans; and


(2) Short- and intermediate-term loans and provide other similar financial assistance for a term of not more than:


(i) 10 years; or


(ii) 15 years to aquatic producers and harvesters for their aquatic operations.


(b) *Loan participations.* Subject to the requirements of subpart H of this part, agricultural credit associations may enter into participation agreements with:


(1) Farm Credit banks and associations that are direct lenders and lenders that are not Farm Credit institutions on loans of the type it is authorized to make under titles I and II of the Act;


(2) Farm Credit banks and associations that are direct lenders on loans of the type it is not authorized to make, provided the borrower eligibility, membership, term, amount, loan security, and stock or participation certificate requirements of the originating institution are met; and


(3) The Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation to the extent provided in ยง 614.4055.


(c) *Other interests in loans.* (1) Subject to the requirements of subpart H of this part and the supervision of their respective funding banks, agricultural credit associations may sell:


(i) Interests in loans made under paragraph (a)(1) of this section only to:


(A) Farm Credit System institutions, as authorized by their respective funding banks;


(B) Lenders that are not Farm Credit System institutions, as authorized by their respective funding banks; and


(C) Any certified agricultural mortgage marketing facility, as defined by section 8.0(3) of the Act, for the purpose of pooling and securitizing such loans under title VIII of the Act.


(ii) Interests in loans made under paragraph (a)(2) of this section only to:


(A) Banks of the Farm Credit System, as authorized by their respective funding banks; and


(B) Any certified agricultural mortgage marketing facility, as defined by section 8.0(3) of the Act, for the purpose of pooling and securitizing such loans under title VIII of the Act.


(2) Subject to the requirements of subpart H of this part, agricultural credit associations may purchase:


(i) Interests in loans that comply with the requirements in paragraph (a)(1) of this section from institutions of the Farm Credit System;


(ii) Interests in loans that comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section from banks of the Farm Credit System; and


(iii) Nonvoting stock from institutions of the Farm Credit System.


(3) Agricultural credit associations, in their capacity as certified agricultural mortgage marketing facilities under title VIII of the Act, may purchase interests in loans, other than participation interests authorized by paragraph (b) of this section, from institutions other than Farm Credit System institutions for the purpose of pooling and securitizing such loans under title VIII of the Act.



---

[N] [55 FR 24880, June 19, 1990; 55 FR 28511, July 11, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 38247, Aug. 24, 1992; 62 FR 51013, Sept. 30, 1997; 64 FR 43049, Aug. 9, 1999; 65 FR 24102, Apr. 25, 2000; 67 FR 1285, Jan. 10, 2002; 85 FR 60693, Sept. 28, 2020] 




