# ยง 219.502   Pre-employment alcohol testing.

(a) A railroad may, but is not required to, conduct pre-employment alcohol testing under this part. If a railroad chooses to conduct pre-employment alcohol testing, the railroad must comply with the following requirements:


(1) The railroad must conduct a pre-employment alcohol test before the first performance of regulated service by an employee, regardless of whether he or she is a new employee or a first-time transfer to a position involving the performance of regulated service.


(2) The railroad must treat all employees performing regulated service the same for the purpose of pre-employment alcohol testing (*i.e.,* a railroad must not test some regulated employees and not others.)


(3) It must conduct the pre-employment tests after making a contingent offer of employment or transfer, subject to the employee passing the pre-employment alcohol test.


(4) It must conduct all pre-employment alcohol tests using the alcohol testing procedures of part 40 of this title.


(5) If a regulated employee's Federal pre-employment test indicates an alcohol concentration of 0.04 or greater, a railroad may not allow him or her to begin performing regulated service until he or she has completed the Federal return-to-duty process under ยง 219.104(d).


(b) As used in subpart H of this part with respect to a test authorized under this subpart, the term regulated employee includes an applicant for pre-employment testing only. If an applicant declines to be tested before the testing process commences, no record may be maintained of the declination. The determination of when an alcohol test commences must be made according to the provisions of ยง 40.243(a) of this title.



---

[N] [66 FR 41973, Aug. 9, 2001, as amended at 81 FR 37936, June 10, 2016]




