# § 721.11305   Unsaturated polycyclic hydrocarbon (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as unsaturated polycyclic hydrocarbon (PMN P-17-419) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3) through (5), (a)(6)(v) and (vi), (b), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For purposes of 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50. For purposes of 721.63(b), the concentration is set at 1.0%.


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (f), (g)(1), (g)(2)(i), (ii), (iv) and (v), (g)(3)(i) and (ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5). For purposes of § 721.72(e), the concentration is set at 1.0%. For purposes of § 721.72(g)(1), this substance may cause: Skin sensitization; specific target organ toxicity; skin irritation; respiratory complications; reproductive effects; developmental effects. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k) and (t). It is a significant new use to manufacture the substance for more than 9 months.


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.



---

[N] [86 FR 46144, Aug. 18, 2021]




