# ยง 51.3415   Definitions.

*Similar varietal characteristics* means that the potatoes in any lot have the same general shape, color, and character of skin and color of flesh.


*Fairly well shaped* means that the potato is not materially pointed, dumbbell-shaped, or otherwise deformed. 
2

*Moderately firm* means that the potato is not seriously shriveled or flabbly. 
2

*Not seriously misshapen* means that the potato is not seriously deformed and causing more than 10% waste when determining the non-peelable area directly due to shape.


*Soft rot or wet breakdown* means any soft, mushy or leaky condition of the tissue such as Leak, slimy soft rot, wet type Fusarium Tuber Rot, or wet breakdown following freezing injury or heat injury.


*Loose sprouts, dirt and foreign material* means unattached sprouts or sprouts that become detached during the grading of the sample, stems, vines, adhering dirt, loose dirt, stones, trash and other extraneous material.


*Damage* means any defect listed in ยง 51.3416, or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which cannot be removed without a loss of more than 5 percent of the total weight of the potato.


*Serious Damage* means any defect listed in ยง 51.3416, or an equally objectionable variation of any of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which cannot be removed without a loss of more than 10 percent of the total weight of the potato.


*External Defects* are defects which can be detected externally. Cutting may be required to determine the extent of the injury.


*Internal Defects* are defects which cannot be detected without cutting the potato.




