# § 1801.4   Definitions.

As used in this part: 


*Academic year* means the period of time, typically 8 or 9 months in which a full-time student would normally complete two semesters, three quarters, or the equivalent. 


*Foundation* means the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation. 


*Full-time student* means a student who is carrying a sufficient number of credit hours or their equivalent to secure the degree or certificate toward which he or she is working, in no more time than the length of time normally taken at his or her institution. 


*Graduate study* means the courses of study beyond the baccalaureate level which lead to an advanced degree. 


*Institution* means an institution of higher education. “Institution of higher education” has the meaning given in section 1201(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1141 (a)). 


*Junior* means a student who, following completion of the current academic year, has one more year of full-time course work to receive a baccalaureate degree. 


*President* means the principal official responsible for the overall direction of the operations of an institution. 


*Public service* means employment in: government at any level, the uniformed services, public interest organizations, non-governmental research and/or educational organizations, public and private schools, and public service oriented non-profit organizations such as those whose primary purposes are to help needy or disadvantaged persons or to protect the environment. 


*Resident* means a person who has legal residence in the State, recognized under State law. If a question arises concerning the State of residence, the Foundation determines, for the purposes of this program of which State the person is a resident, taking into account place of registration to vote, family's place of residence, home address listed for school registration, and eligibility for “in-State” tuition rates at public institutions of higher education. 


*Scholar* means a person who has been selected by the Foundation as a Truman Scholar, has accepted the Scholarship and agreed to the conditions of the award, and is eligible for Scholarship stipend(s). 


*Senior* means a student who is in his or her last year of study before receiving a baccalaureate degree. 


*Term* means the period which the institution uses to divide its academic year: semester, trimester, or quarter. 




