# § 12.407   Satisfaction of reparation award; enforcement; sanctions.

(a) *Satisfaction of reparation award*—(1) *Where initial decision has become the final decision.* Any reparation award ordered in an initial decision, or similar dispositive order (but not a final decision issued pursuant to § 12.106 of these rules), shall be satisfied in full within forty-five (45) days after service of the initial decision, unless a timely appeal thereof has been perfected pursuant to § 12.401, or unless the Commission, pursuant to § 12.403(a), has stayed the effective date of the initial decision.


(2) *Final decision pursuant to § 12.406.* Any reparation award ordered in a final decision of the Commission issued pursuant to § 12.406 of these rules shall be satisfied in full within fifteen (15) days after service of the final decision, or such other longer period of time as may be specified in the final decision, unless a petition for review is filed in accordance with section 14(e) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. 18(e).


(b) *Enforcement of reparation award.* If any person against whom a reparation award has been made does not timely comply with paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, the party in whose favor the award is made is entitled to seek enforcement of award in accordance with the procedure prescribed in section 14(d) of the Commodity Exchange Act, 7 U.S.C. 18(d).


(c) *Automatic suspension.* A person required to pay a reparation award shall be prohibited from trading on all contract markets and if such person is registered, the registration shall be suspended automatically, without further notice, unless such person shall, within fifteen (15) days after the time limit for satisfaction of an award (as prescribed in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section) expires, file with the Proceedings Clerk and serve on the other parties:


(1) A copy of a certified check or the equivalent showing Satisfaction of the award; or


(2) A sworn release executed by each recipient of a reparation award, which has not been satisfied by payment with a certified check or the equivalent; or


(3) A verified statement that a judicial appeal has been filed and perfected in accordance with section 14(e) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. 18(e). (This paragraph is applicable only in proceedings commenced pursuant to § 12.26 (b) or (c), and only if the person has timely filed and perfected an appeal to the Commission as prescribed in § 12.401.)


(d) *Reinstatement.* The sanctions imposed in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section shall remain in effect until the person required to pay the reparation award demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Commission that the amount required has been paid in full including prejudgment interest if awarded and post-judgment interest at the prevailing rate computed in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 1961 from the date directed in the final order to the date of payment, compounded annually. In the event an award of post-judgment interest is inadvertently omitted, such interest nevertheless shall run as calculated in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 1961 and the rules in this part.


(e) *Automatic suspension after appeal.* If on appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals the appellee prevails, or if the appeal is dismissed, the automatic prohibition against trading and suspension of registration shall become effective at the expiration of thirty (30) days from the date of judgment on the appeal, but if the judgment is stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, the suspension shall become effective ten (10) days after the expiration of such stay, unless prior thereto the judgment of the court or the final order of the Commission has been satisfied.



---

[N] [49 FR 6621, Feb. 22, 1984; 49 FR 15070, Apr. 17, 1984, as amended at 50 FR 40332, Oct. 3, 1985; 73 FR 70275, Nov. 20, 2008; 86 FR 64361, Nov. 18, 2021; 89 FR 71808, Sept. 4, 2024]




