# ยง 930.58   Grower diversion privilege.

(a) *In general.* Any grower may voluntarily elect to divert, in accordance with the provisions of this section, all or a portion of the cherries which otherwise, upon delivery to a handler, would become restricted percentage cherries. Upon such diversion and compliance with the provisions of this section, the Board shall issue to the diverting grower a grower diversion certificate which such grower may deliver to a handler. Any grower diversions completed in accordance with this section, but which are undertaken in districts subsequently exempted by the Board from volume regulation under ยง 930.52(d), shall qualify for diversion credit.


(b) *Eligible diversion.* Grower diversion certificates shall be issued to growers only if the cherries are diverted in accordance with the following terms and conditions or such other terms and conditions that the Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish. Diversion may take such of the following forms which the Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may designate: uses exempt under ยง 930.62; nonhuman food uses; or other uses, including diversion by leaving such cherries unharvested.


(c) *Application/mapping.* The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, shall develop rules and regulations providing for the diversion of cherries by growers. Such regulations may include, among other things:


(1) The form and content of applications and agreements relating to the diversion, including provisions for supervision and compensation; and


(2) Provisions for mapping areas in which cherries will be left unharvested.


(d) *Diversion certificate.* If the Board approves the application it shall so notify the applicant and conduct such supervision of the applicant's diversion of cherries as may be necessary to assure that the cherries have been diverted. After the diversion has been accomplished, the Board shall issue to the diverting grower a diversion certificate stating the weight of cherries diverted. Where diversion is carried out by leaving the cherries unharvested, the Board shall estimate the weight of cherries diverted on the basis of such uniform rule prescribed in rules and regulations as the Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may recommend to implement this section.



---

[N] [61 FR 49942, Sept. 24, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 51715, Aug. 8, 2002; 77 FR 33306, June 6, 2012]




