# 1803.903   Policy.

(a) *Policy.* 10 U.S.C. 4701 prohibits contractors or subcontractors from discharging, demoting, or otherwise discriminating against an employee as a reprisal for disclosing, to any of the entities listed at paragraph (b) of this section, information that the employee reasonably believes is evidence of gross mismanagement of a NASA contract, a gross waste of NASA funds, an abuse of authority relating to a NASA contract, a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety, or a violation of law, rule, or regulation related to a NASA contract (including the competition for or negotiation of a contract). Such reprisal is prohibited even if it is undertaken at the request of an executive branch official, unless the request takes the form of a non-discretionary directive and is within the authority of the executive branch official making the request.


(b) Entities to whom disclosure may be made:


(1) A Member of Congress or a representative of a committee of Congress.


(2) The NASA Inspector General or any other Inspector General that has oversight over contracts awarded by or on behalf of NASA.


(3) The Government Accountability Office.


(4) A NASA employee responsible for contract oversight or management.


(5) An authorized official of the Department of Justice or other law enforcement agency.


(6) A court or grand jury.


(7) A management official or other employee of the contractor or subcontractor who has the responsibility to investigate, discover, or address misconduct.


(c) *Disclosure clarified.* An employee who initiates or provides evidence of contractor or subcontractor misconduct in any judicial or administrative proceeding relating to waste, fraud, or abuse on a NASA contract shall be deemed to have made a disclosure.


(d) *Contracting officer actions.* A contracting officer who receives a complaint of reprisal of the type described in paragraph (a) of this section shall forward it to legal counsel and to the NASA Inspector General.



---

[N] [79 FR 43959, July 29, 2014, as amended at 88 FR 47807, July 25, 2023]




