# § 155.500   Definitions.

In addition to those definitions in §§ 155.20 and 155.300, for purposes of this subpart and § 155.740 of subpart H, the following terms have the following meanings:


*Appeal record* means the appeal decision, all papers and requests filed in the proceeding, and, if a hearing was held, the transcript or recording of hearing testimony or an official report containing the substance of what happened at the hearing, and any exhibits introduced at the hearing.


*Appeal request* means a clear expression, either orally or in writing, by an applicant, enrollee, employer, or small business employer or employee to have any eligibility determination or redetermination contained in a notice issued in accordance with § 155.310(g), § 155.330(e)(1)(ii), § 155.335(h)(1)(ii), § 155.610(i), § 155.715(e) or (f), or § 155.716(e) reviewed by an appeals entity.


*Appeals entity* means a body designated to hear appeals of eligibility determinations or redeterminations contained in notices issued in accordance with § 155.310(g), § 155.330(e)(1)(ii), § 155.335(h)(1)(ii), § 155.610(i), § 155.715(e) and (f), or § 155.716(e).


*Appellant* means the applicant or enrollee, the employer, or the small business employer or employee who is requesting an appeal.


*De novo review* means a review of an appeal without deference to prior decisions in the case.


*Evidentiary hearing* means a hearing conducted where evidence may be presented.


*Vacate* means to set aside a previous action.



---

[N] [78 FR 54136, Aug. 30, 2013, as amended at 83 FR 17063, Apr. 17, 2018]




