# § 60.261   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part. 


(a) *Electric submerged arc furnace* means any furnace wherein electrical energy is converted to heat energy by transmission of current between electrodes partially submerged in the furnace charge. 


(b) *Furnace charge* means any material introduced into the electric submerged arc furnace, and may consist of, but is not limited to, ores, slag, carbonaceous material, and limestone. 


(c) *Product change* means any change in the composition of the furnace charge that would cause the electric submerged arc furnace to become subject to a different mass standard applicable under this subpart. 


(d) *Slag* means the more or less completely fused and vitrified matter separated during the reduction of a metal from its ore.


(e) *Tapping* means the removal of slag or product from the electric submerged arc furnace under normal operating conditions such as removal of metal under normal pressure and movement by gravity down the spout into the ladle. 


(f) *Tapping period* means the time duration from initiation of the process of opening the tap hole until plugging of the tap hole is complete. 


(g) *Furnace cycle* means the time period from completion of a furnace product tap to the completion of the next consecutive product tap. 


(h) *Tapping station* means that general area where molten product or slag is removed from the electric submerged arc furnace. 


(i) *Blowing tap* means any tap in which an evolution of gas forces or projects jets of flame or metal sparks beyond the ladle, runner, or collection hood. 


(j) *Furnace power input* means the resistive electrical power consumption of an electric submerged arc furnace as measured in kilowatts. 


(k) *Dust-handling equipment* means any equipment used to handle particulate matter collected by the air pollution control device (and located at or near such device) serving any electric submerged arc furnace subject to this subpart. 


(l) *Control device* means the air pollution control equipment used to remove particulate matter generated by an electric submerged arc furnace from an effluent gas stream. 


(m) *Capture system* means the equipment (including hoods, ducts, fans, dampers, etc.) used to capture or transport particulate matter generated by an affected electric submerged arc furnace to the control device. 


(n) *Standard ferromanganese* means that alloy as defined by ASTM Designation A99-76 or 82 (Reapproved 1987) (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17).


(o) *Silicomanganese* means that alloy as defined by ASTM Designation A483-64 or 74 (Reapproved 1988) (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17).


(p) *Calcium carbide* means material containing 70 to 85 percent calcium carbide by weight. 


(q) *High-carbon ferrochrome* means that alloy as defined by ASTM Designation A101-73 or 93 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) grades HC1 through HC6.


(r) *Charge chrome* means that alloy containing 52 to 70 percent by weight chromium, 5 to 8 percent by weight carbon, and 3 to 6 percent by weight silicon. 


(s) *Silvery iron* means any ferrosilicon, as defined by ASTM Designation A100-69, 74, or 93 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17), which contains less than 30 percent silicon.


(t) *Ferrochrome silicon* means that alloy as defined by ASTM Designation A482-76 or 93 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17).


(u) *Silicomanganese zirconium* means that alloy containing 60 to 65 percent by weight silicon, 1.5 to 2.5 percent by weight calcium, 5 to 7 percent by weight zirconium, 0.75 to 1.25 percent by weight aluminum, 5 to 7 percent by weight manganese, and 2 to 3 percent by weight barium. 


(v) *Calcium silicon* means that alloy as defined by ASTM Designation A495-76 or 94 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17).


(w) *Ferrosilicon* means that alloy as defined by ASTM Designation A100-69, 74, or 93 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) grades A, B, C, D, and E, which contains 50 or more percent by weight silicon.


(x) *Silicon metal* means any silicon alloy containing more than 96 percent silicon by weight. 


(y) *Ferromanganese silicon* means that alloy containing 63 to 66 percent by weight manganese, 28 to 32 percent by weight silicon, and a maximum of 0.08 percent by weight carbon. 



---

[N] [41 FR 18501, May 4, 1976; 41 FR 20659, May 20, 1976, as amended at 48 FR 3738, Jan. 27, 1983; 65 FR 61758, Oct. 17, 2000] 




