# § 542.702   Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.

(a) *When required.* If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq.*) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.


(b) *Response*—(1) *Right to respond.* An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.


(2) *Deadline for response.* A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.


(i) *Computation of time for response.* A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.


(ii) *Extensions of time for response.* If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.


(3) *Form and method of response.* A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(c) *Settlement.* Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.


(d) *Guidelines.* Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.


(e) *Representation.* A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.






