# ยง 667.300   What are the reporting requirements for Workforce Investment Act programs?

(a) *General.* All States and other direct grant recipients must report financial, participant, and performance data in accordance with instructions issued by DOL. Required reports must be submitted no more frequently than quarterly within a time period specified in the reporting instructions. 


(b) *Subrecipient reporting.* (1) A State or other direct grant recipient may impose different forms or formats, shorter due dates, and more frequent reporting requirements on subrecipients. However, the recipient is required to meet the reporting requirements imposed by DOL. 


(2) If a State intends to impose different reporting requirements, it must describe those reporting requirements in its State WIA plan. 


(c) *Financial reports.* (1) Each grant recipient must submit financial reports. 


(2) Reports must include any income or profits earned, including such income or profits earned by subrecipients, and any costs incurred (such as stand-in costs) that are otherwise allowable except for funding limitations. (WIA sec. 185(f)(2)) 


(3) Reported expenditures and program income, including any profits earned, must be on the accrual basis of accounting and cumulative by fiscal year of appropriation. If the recipient's accounting records are not normally kept on the accrual basis of accounting, the recipient must develop accrual information through an analysis of the documentation on hand. 


(d) *Due date.* Financial reports and participant data reports are due no later than 45 days after the end of each quarter unless otherwise specified in reporting instructions. A final financial report is required 90 days after the expiration of a funding period or the termination of grant support. 


(e) *Annual performance progress report.* An annual performance progress report for each of the three programs under title I, subpart B is required by WIA section 136(d). 


(1) A State failing to submit any of these annual performance progress reports within 45 days of the due date may have its grant (for that program or all title I, subpart B programs) for the succeeding year reduced by as much as five percent, as provided by WIA section 136(g)(1)(B). 


(2) States submitting annual performance progress reports that cannot be validated or verified as accurately counting and reporting activities in accordance with the reporting instructions, may be treated as failing to submit annual reports, and be subject to sanction. Sanctions related to State performance or failure to submit these reports timely cannot result in a total grant reduction of more than five percent. Any sanction would be in addition to having to repay the amount of any incentive funds granted based on the invalid report. 




