# § 600.501   Vessel permits.

(a) *General.* (1) Each FFV fishing under the Magnuson-Stevens Act must have on board a permit issued under this section, unless it is engaged only in recreational fishing. 


(2) Permits issued under this section do not authorize FFV's or persons to harass, capture, or kill marine mammals. No marine mammals may be taken in the course of fishing unless that vessel has on board a currently valid Authorization Certificate under the MMPA. Regulations governing the taking of marine mammals incidental to commercial fishing operations are contained in 50 CFR part 229 of this title. 


(b) *Responsibility of owners and operators.* The owners and operators of each FFV are jointly and severally responsible for compliance with the Magnuson-Stevens Act, the applicable GIFA, this subpart, and any permit issued under the Magnuson-Stevens Act and this subpart. The owners and operators of each FFV bear civil responsibility for the acts of their employees and agents constituting violations, regardless of whether the specific acts were authorized or even forbidden by the employer or principal, and regardless of knowledge concerning the occurrence. 


(c) *Activity codes.* Permits to fish under this subpart may be issued by the Assistant Administrator for the activities described in this paragraph, but the permits may be modified by regulations of this subpart and by the conditions and restrictions attached to the permit (see paragraphs (e)(1)(v) and (l) of this section). The Assistant Administrator may issue a permit, as appropriate, for one or more of the activity codes listed. Only vessels of nations having a GIFA with the United States may be issued permits for activity codes 1 through 9. A GIFA is not required for a vessel to be issued a permit for activity code 10. The activity codes are described as follows:


(1) *Activity Code 1.* Catching, scouting, processing, transshipping, and supporting foreign vessels. Activity is limited to fish harvested or to be harvested by foreign vessels in the EEZ. 


(2) *Activity Code 2.* Processing, scouting, transshipping, and supporting foreign vessels. Activity is limited to fish harvested or to be harvested by foreign vessels in the EEZ. 


(3) *Activity Code 3.* Transshipping, scouting, and supporting foreign vessels. Activity is limited to fish harvested or to be harvested by foreign vessels in the EEZ. 


(4) *Activity Code 4.* Processing, scouting, transshipping, and supporting U.S. vessels delivering fish to foreign vessels. Activity is limited to the receipt of unprocessed fish harvested or to be harvested by U.S. vessels. 


(5) *Activity Code 5.* Transshipping, scouting, and supporting foreign vessels. Transshipment limited to fish received or to be received from foreign vessels processing fish from U.S. harvesting vessels. 


(6) *Activity Code 6.* Transshipping, scouting, and supporting U.S. vessels. Transshipment limited to U.S.-harvested fish processed on board U.S. vessels. 


(7) *Activity Code 7.* Processing, transshipping, and supporting foreign vessels. Activity limited to fish harvested or to be harvested by foreign vessels seaward of the EEZ. 


(8) *Activity Code 8.* Transshipping and supporting foreign vessels. Activity is limited to fish harvested or to be harvested seaward of the EEZ by foreign vessels or fish duly authorized for processing in the internal waters of one of the states. 


(9) *Activity Code 9.* Supporting U.S. fishing vessels and U.S. fish processing vessels and any foreign fishing vessels authorized under any activity code under paragraph (c) of this subpart. 


(10) *Activity Code 10.* Transshipping at sea for the purpose of transporting fish or fish products from a point within the EEZ or, with the concurrence of a state, within the boundaries of that state, to a point outside the United States.


(d) *Application.* (1) Applications for FFV permits authorizing activity codes 1 through 9 must be submitted by an official representative of a foreign nation to the DOS. Applications for permits authorizing activity codes 1 through 9 are available from, and should be submitted to, DOS, OES/OMC, Washington, DC 20520. Applications for FFV permits authorizing activity code 10 may be submitted by any person to the Assistant Administrator. Applications for permits authorizing activity code 10 are available from NMFS, Attn: Office of International Affairs, 1315 East West Highway, Silver Spring, Maryland 20910. All applicants should allow 90 days for review and comment by the public, involved governmental agencies, and appropriate Councils and for processing before the anticipated date to begin fishing. The permit application fee must be paid at the time of application according to § 600.518.


(2) Applicants must provide complete and accurate information requested on the permit application form. 


(3) Applicants for FFV's that will support U.S. vessels in joint ventures (Activity Code 4) must provide the additional information specified by the permit application form. 


(4) Each applicant may request to substitute one FFV for another of the same flag by submitting a new application form and a short explanation of the reason for the substitution to the appropriate address listed at paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Each substitution is considered a new application, and a new application fee must be paid. NMFS will promptly process an application for a vessel replacing a permitted FFV that is disabled or decommissioned, once the appropriate Council(s) and governmental agencies have been notified of the substituted application.


(e) *Issuance.* (1) Permits may be issued to an FFV by the Assistant Administrator after—


(i) The Assistant Administrator determines that the fishing described in the application will meet the requirements of the Magnuson-Stevens Act and approves the permit application.


(ii) The applicant has paid the fees and provided any assurances required by the Secretary in accordance with the provisions of § 600.518.


(iii) The applicant has appointed an agent.


(iv) The applicant has identified a designated representative.


(v) The applicant has accepted the general “conditions and restrictions” of receiving permits, as required by section 204(b)(7) of the Magnuson-Stevens Act, and any “additional restrictions” attached to the permit for the conservation and management of fishery resources or for the prevention of significant impairment of the national defense or security interests.


(2) The DOS will provide permits for activity codes 1 through 9 to the official representative of the applicant foreign nation. The Assistant Administrator will provide permits for activity code 10 directly to the applicant.


(3) An approved permit will contain—


(i) The name and IRCS of the FFV and its permit number.


(ii) The permitted fisheries and/or activity codes.


(iii) The date of issuance and expiration date, if other than December 31.


(iv) All conditions and restrictions, and any additional restrictions and technical modifications appended to the permit.


(4) Permits are not issued for boats that are launched from larger vessels. Any enforcement action that results from the activities of a launched boat will be taken against the permitted vessel.


(f) *Duration.* A permit is valid from its date of issuance to its date of expiration, unless it is revoked or suspended or the nation issuing the FFV's documents does not accept amendments to the permit made by the Assistant Administrator in accordance with the procedures of paragraph (l) of this section. The permit will be valid for no longer than the calendar year in which it was issued. 


(g) *Transfer.* Permits are not transferable or assignable. A permit is valid only for the FFV to which it is issued. 


(h) *Display.* Each FFV operator must have a properly completed permit form available on board the FFV when engaged in fishing activities and must produce it at the request of an authorized officer or observer. 


(i) *Suspension and revocation.* NMFS may apply sanctions to an FFV's permit by revoking, suspending, or imposing additional permit restrictions on the permit under 15 CFR part 904, if the vessel is involved in the commission of any violation of the Magnuson-Stevens Act, the GIFA, or this subpart; if an agent and a designated representative are not maintained in the United States; if a civil penalty or criminal fine imposed under the Magnuson-Stevens Act has become overdue; or as otherwise specified in the Magnuson-Stevens Act. 


(j) *Fees.* Permit application fees are described in § 600.518.


(k) *Change in application information.* The applicant must report, in writing, any change in the information supplied under paragraph (d) of this section to the Assistant Administrator within 15 calendar days after the date of the change. Failure to report a change in the ownership from that described in the current application within the specified time frame voids the permit, and all penalties involved will accrue to the previous owner.


(l) *Permit amendments.* (1) The Assistant Administrator may amend a permit by adding “additional restrictions” for the conservation and management of fishery resources covered by the permit, or for the national defense or security if the Assistant Administrator determines that such interests would be significantly impaired without such restrictions. Compliance with the added additional restrictions is a condition of the permit. Violations of added additional restrictions will be treated as violations of this subpart. 


(2) The Assistant Administrator may make proposed additional restrictions effective immediately, if necessary, to prevent substantial harm to a fishery resource of the United States, to allow for the continuation of ongoing fishing operations, or to allow for fishing to begin at the normal time for opening of the fishery. 


(3) The Assistant Administrator will send proposed additional restrictions to each Nation whose vessels are affected (via the Secretary of State), to the appropriate Councils, and to the Commandant of the Coast Guard. NMFS will, at the same time, publish a document of any significant proposed additional restrictions in the _Federal Register._ The document will include a summary of the reasons underlying the proposal, and the reasons that any proposed additional restrictions are made effective immediately. 


(4) The Nation whose vessels are involved, the owners of the affected vessels, their representatives, the agencies specified in paragraph (l)(3) of this section, and the public may submit written comments on the proposed additional restrictions within 30 days after publication in the _Federal Register._

(5) The Assistant Administrator will make a final decision regarding the proposed additional restrictions as soon as practicable after the end of the comment period. The Assistant Administrator will provide the final additional restrictions to the Nation whose vessels are affected (via the Secretary of State) according to the procedures of paragraph (e) of this section. The Assistant Administrator will include with the final additional restrictions to the Nation, a response to comments submitted. 


(6) Additional restrictions may be modified by following the procedures of paragraphs (l)(2) through (l)(5) of this section. 



---

[N] [61 FR 32540, June 24, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 7075, Feb. 12, 1998; 64 FR 39019, July 21, 1999; 76 FR 59305, Sept. 26, 2011] 




