# § 860.136   Procedures for transitional products under section 520(l) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.

(a) Section 520(*l*)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act applies to reclassification proceedings initiated by the Commissioner or in response to a request by a manufacturer or importer for reclassification of a device currently in class III by operation of section 520(*l*)(1). This section applies only to devices that the Food and Drug Administration regarded as “new drugs” before May 28, 1976.


(b) The procedures for effecting reclassification under section 520(*l*) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act when initiated by a manufacturer or importer are as follows:


(1) The manufacturer or importer of the device files a petition for reclassification of the device in accordance with § 860.123. 


(2) Within 30 days after the petition is filed, the Commissioner notifies the petitioner of any deficiencies in the petition that prevent the Commissioner from making a decision on it, allowing the petitioner to supplement a deficient petition. Within 30 days after any supplemental material is received, the Commissioner notifies the petitioner whether the petition, as supplemented, is adequate for review. 


(3) The Commissioner consults with the appropriate classification panel with regard to the petition in accordance with § 860.125. 


(4) Within 180 days after the petition is filed (where the Commissioner has determined it to be adequate for review), the Commissioner, by order in the form of a letter to the petitioner, either denies the petition or classifies the device into class I or class II in accordance with the criteria set forth in § 860.3(c).


(5) Within a reasonable time after issuance of an order under this section, the Commissioner announces the order by notice published in the _Federal Register._

(c) By administrative order, the Commissioner may, on the Commissioner's own initiative, change the classification from class III under section 520(*l*) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act either to class II, if the Commissioner determines that special controls in addition to general controls are necessary and sufficient to provide reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the device and there is sufficient information to establish special controls to provide such assurance, or to class I if the Commissioner determines that general controls alone would provide reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the device. The procedures for the reclassification proceeding under this paragraph (c) are as follows:


(1) The Commissioner publishes a proposed reclassification order in the _Federal Register_ seeking comment on the proposed reclassification.


(2) The Commissioner may consult with the appropriate classification panel with respect to the reclassification of the device. The panel will consider reclassification in accordance with the consultation procedures of § 860.125.


(3) Following consideration of comments to a public docket and any panel recommendations or comments, the Commissioner may change the classification of a device by final administrative order published in the _Federal Register_.


(d) An administrative order under this section changing the classification of a device from class III to class II may establish the special controls necessary to provide reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the device.



---

[N] [43 FR 32993, July 28, 1978, as amended at 83 FR 64458, Dec. 17, 2018]




