# ยง 1808.302   Bond terms and conditions.

(a) *Maturity date.* As required by 12 U.S.C. 4713a(e)(1)(D), the maturity date of a Bond shall not be later than 30 years after the Bond Issue Date. The maturity date for any advance of funds under a Bond shall not be later than the maturity date of the Bond.


(b) *Nonrecourse obligation.* Each Bond shall be a nonrecourse obligation of the Qualified Issuer, payable solely from amounts available pursuant to the Bond Documents.


(c) *Terms.* The Bonds may contain only terms that are consistent with the lending policies and terms of the Bond Purchaser.


(d) *No subordination.* The Bonds or Bond Loans may not be subordinated to any new or existing liability and effective subordination of the Bonds or Bond Loans to tax-exempt obligations will render the Guarantee void, in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-129 (Policies for Federal Credit Programs and Non-Tax Receivables) and applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.


(e) *Other limitations.* The CDFI Fund may impose other limitations as appropriate to administer the CDFI Bond Guarantee Program including, but not limited to, requiring Qualified Issuers to obtain Credit Enhancement to safeguard against the risk of default.


(f) *Terms for Bond issuance and disbursement of Bond Proceeds.* (1) The Qualified Issuer must execute Bond Loan documents for 100 percent of the principal amount of each Bond on the Bond Issue Date. There will be an annual assessment to determine whether the Qualified Issuer is subject to the repayment provision established in 12 U.S.C. 4713a(c)(4). Terms and conditions for the annual assessment will be set forth in the applicable Notice of Guarantee Availability.


(2) Disbursements of Bond Proceeds to the Qualified Issuer shall be made pursuant to an advance request process established by the Bond Purchaser and the CDFI Fund under which the Qualified Issuer shall request an advance of funds under a Bond.


(g) *Amortization of Bond.* The principal amount of each advance of funds under a Bond shall amortize in level debt service payments of principal and interest, which payments shall be due either quarterly or semi-annually, as determined by the Qualified Issuer and the Bond Purchaser, and which shall begin on the first principal payment date specified in the Bond, as determined by the Qualified Issuer and the Bond Purchaser. Prior to the first principal payment date, interest accrued shall be due on the payment dates specified in the Bond, as determined by the Qualified Issuer and the Bond Purchaser.


(h) *Optional prepayment of Bonds.* All or a portion of any advance of funds under a Bond, or the Bond in its entirety, may be prepaid by the Qualified Issuer at any time. Any partial prepayment of an advance shall be in an amount equal to at least $100,000 of principal. Each partial prepayment of an advance of funds under a Bond shall be applied in the manner set forth in the Bond. Any partial or full prepayment of an advance of funds under a Bond shall be subject to the payment of a prepayment price, as provided in the Bond Documents.


(i) *Mandatory prepayment of Bonds.* (1) Any Bond shall be subject to mandatory prepayment if Bond Loans or Secondary Loans are not made in a timely manner, as follows:


(i) On the Calculation Date (as defined in subsection 1808.308(e)) of each year, any amount retained in the Relending Subaccount that exceeds the Relending Subaccount Maximum (as defined in subsection 1808.308(d)) by $100,000 or more shall be applied to prepay Bonds on the next succeeding payment date.


(ii) Any amounts derived from the liquidation of collateral from the Bond Loan and/or Secondary Loan in connection with the exercise by the Guarantor, the Qualified Issuer or the Bondholder of remedies upon default of the Bond Loan shall be applied, immediately upon liquidation, in the following order (inclusive of reasonable fees and expenses associated therewith):


(A) To the repayment of any amounts drawn under the Guarantee;


(B) To the prepayment of Bonds, in a like amount;


(C) To the replenishment of any funds drawn from the Risk-Share Pool Fund; and


(D) To the Eligible CDFI for application in accordance with the Secondary Loan documents.


(2) When an amount is required to be applied as a mandatory prepayment of Bonds, the Qualified Issuer may select which advances of funds under a Bond are to be prepaid. Any amount applied as a partial prepayment of an advance under a Bond shall be applied as provided in the Bond. Any partial or full prepayment of an advance of funds under a Bond shall be subject to the payment of a prepayment price, as provided in the Bond Documents.




