# § 334.748   Wynnhaven Beach, Fla., at Eglin AFB; restricted area.

(a) *The area.* The restricted area shall encompass all navigable waters of the United States, as defined at 33 CFR part 329, within the area bounded by a line connecting the following coordinates: Commencing from the shoreline at latitude 30°24′35.06″ N, longitude 086°46′20.31″ W; thence to latitude 30°24′33.57″ N, longitude 086°46′20.31″ W; then the line meanders irregularly, following the shoreline at a distance of 150 feet seaward from the mean high water line to a point at latitude 30°24′34.81″ N, longitude 086°46′09.19″ W, thence proceeding directly to a point on the shoreline at latitude 30°24′36.30″ N, longitude 086°46′09.19″ W.


(b) *The regulations.* (1) All persons, vessels and other craft are permitted access to the restricted area described in paragraph (a) of this section. Any person or vessel within the restricted area will be subject to identification checks by U.S. Air Force patrol boats. During times of high security threats against Eglin AFB, all entry, transit, anchoring or drifting within the restricted area described in paragraph (a) of this section for any reason is not allowed without the permission of the Commander, Eglin AFB, Florida, or his/her authorized representative.


(2) The area identified in paragraph (a) of this section and the associated restrictions described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section are in effect 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.


(c) *Enforcement.* (1) The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commander, 96 Air Base Wing, Eglin AFB, Florida and such agencies as he/she may designate.


(2) Enforcement of the regulations in this section will be accomplished in accordance with the active security level as defined by the Department of Defense Force Protection Condition (FPCON) System.



---

[N] [76 FR 75457, Dec. 2, 2011]




