# § 150.17   Submission to Commission of nuclear material status reports.

(a) Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section and § 150.17a, each person possessing, or who had possessed in the previous reporting period, at any one time and location, under an Agreement State license, special nuclear material in a quantity totaling one gram or more of contained uranium-235, uranium-233, or plutonium, shall complete and submit, in computer-readable format Material Balance Reports concerning special nuclear material that the licensee has received, produced, possessed, transferred, consumed, disposed of, or lost. This prescribed computer-readable report replaces the DOE/NRC Form 742 which has been previously submitted in paper form. The Physical Inventory Listing Report must be submitted with each Material Balance Report. This prescribed computer-readable report replaces the DOE/NRC Form 742C which has been previously submitted in paper form. Each licensee shall prepare and submit the reports described in this paragraph as specified in the instructions in NUREG/BR-0007 and NMMSS Report D-24 “Personal Computer Data Input for NRC Licensees.” Copies of these instructions may be obtained from the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Division of Fuel Management, Washington, DC 20555-0001, or by e-mail to *RidsNmssFcss@nrc.gov.* Each person subject to this requirement shall submit a report no later than March 31 of each year. The Commission may, when good cause is shown, permit a licensee to submit Material Balance Reports and Physical Inventory Listing Reports at other times. Each licensee required to report material balance, and inventory information, as described in this part, shall resolve any discrepancies identified during the report review and reconciliation process within 30 calendar days of notification of a discrepancy identified by NRC.


(b) Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section and § 150.17a, each person possessing, or who had possessed in the previous reporting period, at any one time and location, under an Agreement State license:


(1) One kilogram or more of uranium or thorium source material with foreign obligations, shall document holdings as of September 30 of each year and submit to the Commission within 30 days. Alternatively, these reports may be submitted with the licensee's material status reports on special nuclear material filed under part 72 or 74 of this chapter. This statement must be submitted to the address specified in the reporting instructions in NUREG/BR-0007, and include the Reporting Identification Symbol (RIS) assigned by the Commission.


(2) One kilogram or more of uranium or thorium source material in the operation of enrichment services, downblending uranium that has an initial enrichment of the U
235 isotope of 10 percent or more, or in the fabrication of mixed-oxide fuels shall complete and submit, in computer-readable format, Material Balance and Physical Inventory Listing Reports concerning source material that the licensee has received, produced, possessed, transferred, consumed, disposed, or lost. Reports must be submitted for each Reporting Identification Symbol (RIS) account including all holding accounts. Each licensee shall prepare and submit these reports as specified in the instructions in NUREG/BR-0007 and NMMSS Report D-24, “Personal Computer Data Input for NRC Licensees.” These reports must document holdings as of September 30 of each year and submitted to the Commission within 30 days. Alternatively, these reports may be submitted with the licensee's material status reports on special nuclear material filed under part 72 or 74 of this chapter. Copies of the reporting instructions may be obtained by writing to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Division of Fuel Management, Washington, DC 20555-0001, or by e-mail to *RidsNmssFcss@nrc.gov.* Each licensee required to report material balance, and inventory information, as described in this part, shall resolve any discrepancies identified during the report review and reconciliation process within 30 calendar days of the notification of a discrepancy identified by the NRC.


(c)(1) Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, each licensee who is authorized to possess uranium or thorium pursuant to a specific license shall notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center by telephone, at the numbers listed in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter, of any incident in which an attempt has been made or is believed to have been made to commit a theft or unlawful diversion of more than 6.8 kilograms (kg) [15 pounds] of such material at any one time or more than 68 kg [150 pounds] of such material in any one calendar year. 


(2) The licensee shall notify the NRC as soon as possible, but within 4 hours, of discovery of any incident in which an attempt has been made or is believed to have been made to commit a theft or unlawful diversion of such material. 


(3) The initial notification shall be followed within a period of sixty (60) days by a written followup notification submitted in accordance with § 150.4. A copy of the written followup notification shall also be sent to the appropriate NRC Regional Office as shown in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter and to Director, Division of Security Policy, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. 


(4) Subsequent to the submission of the written followup notification required by this paragraph, the licensee shall promptly update the written followup notification, in accordance with this paragraph, with any substantive additional information, which becomes available to the licensee, concerning an attempted or apparent theft or unlawful diversion of source material.


(d) The reports described in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section are not required for:


(1) Processed ores containing less than five (5) percent of uranium or thorium, or any combination of uranium and thorium, by dry weight;


(2) Thorium contained in magnesium-thorium and tungsten-thorium alloys, if the thorium content in the alloys does not exceed 4 percent by weight;


(3) Chemical catalysts containing uranium depleted in the U-235 isotope to 0.4 percent or less, if the uranium content of the catalyst does not exceed 15 percent by weight; or


(4) Any source material contained in non-nuclear end use devices or components, including but not limited to permanently installed shielding, teletherapy, radiography, X-ray, accelerator devices, or munitions.



---

[N] [35 FR 12196, July 30, 1970, as amended at 36 FR 10938, June 5, 1971; 41 FR 16448, Apr. 19, 1976; 49 FR 24708, June 15, 1984; 51 FR 9767, Mar. 21, 1986; 52 FR 31613, Aug. 21, 1987; 59 FR 35622, July 13, 1994; 60 FR 24553, May 9, 1995; 68 FR 10365, Mar. 5, 2003; 68 FR 58825, Oct. 10, 2003; 73 FR 32465, June 9, 2008; 74 FR 62686, Dec. 1, 2009; 75 FR 73946, Nov. 30, 2010; 79 FR 75742, Dec. 19, 2014; 84 FR 65646, Nov. 29, 2019]




