# § 634.15   Agreements.

The State Conservationist, NRCS, upon receiving notice of an approved project, is to enter into a grant agreement with the administering agency, except in those cases where USDA is to administer the program. When USDA retains administration, the State Conservationist, NRCS, is to enter into a fund transfer agreement with the State Executive Director, ASCS.


(a) *Grant agreements.* Grant agreements detail the working arrangements and applicable operating regulations between NRCS and the administering agency. A written grant agreement identifying the parties involved, their responsibilities for carrying out the program, and the amount of program funds to be encumbered by NRCS is to be executed by the parties. This agreement is the fund obligating document. It also sets out the necessary working arrangements between parties for determining and allocating the administering agency's costs. All grants to administering agencies are to be in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-102, Department of the Treasury Circular No. 1075, and Federal Management Circular No. 74-4. State or local administering agency grants will be funded under Letter-of-Credit serviced by the U.S. Treasury Regional Disbursing Office, or by NRCS approved advance/reimbursement financing arrangements subject to the terms and conditions of the grant agreement.


(1) The grant agreement will provide for payment of cost-sharing for BMP (§ 634.5(j)) and administrative costs (§ 634.5(c)).


(2) The grant agreement may provide for payment of technical assistance costs when the administering agency has the capability, and the NRCS designates that agency to provide this assistance to RCWP participants.


(3) The administering agency is to monitor the performance of activities supported by RCWP grant funds to assure that time schedules and participant RCWP contract requirements are being met. Performance goals are to be measured against the terms of the grant agreement and program directives. When NRCS determines that onsite technical inspections, certified completion data, and financial status reports do not provide adequate grant evaluation data, the following information may be requested:


(i) A comparison of actual accomplishments with the objectives established for the plan,


(ii) Reasons why established objectives were not met, and 


(iii) Objectives established for the next reporting period.


(4) Grant agreements may be amended by mutural agreement of the parties to the agreement. NRCS may unilaterally amend agreements when the sole consideration is a change in the cost and the Administrator, NRCS, based on NRCWCC recommendations, determines that such an adjustment is necessary to carry out the program efficiently and effectively.


(b) *Fund transfer agreements.* When it is impractical for NRCS to enter into agreements with local soil conservation districts, State soil and water conservation agencies, or State water quality agencies to administer the program in a project area, USDA will retain program administration. In this case, the State Executive Director, ASCS, and the State Conservationist, NRCS, are to enter into an agreement for the transfer of funds to ASCS through county ASC committees for activities included in administrative cost (§ 634.5(c)) and BMP cost (§ 634.5(j)). The following general working arrangements are to apply:


(1) Administering contracts, making cost-share payment, and program reporting are to be provided by ASCS as the administering agency.


(2) NRCS, or its designee, with appropriate Federal or State agency support, will provide technical assistance to participants in preparing RCWP contracts and in carrying out their water-quality plans.


(c) *Agreements for services.* NRCS may enter into an agreement for services with a State or local agency. The designee must meet the requirements of OMB Circular No. A-102.


(d) *Contracts for services.* NRCS may enter into contracts for services with individuals or firms for providing technical assistance.




