# § 25.335   Design airspeeds.

The selected design airspeeds are equivalent airspeeds (EAS). Estimated values of *V*_S__0_ and *V*_S__1_ must be conservative. 


(a) *Design cruising speed, V*_C_. For *V*_C,_ the following apply: 


(1) The minimum value of *V*_C_ must be sufficiently greater than *V*_B_ to provide for inadvertent speed increases likely to occur as a result of severe atmospheric turbulence. 


(2) Except as provided in § 25.335(d)(2), V_C_ may not be less than V_B_ + 1.32 U _REF_ (with U_REF_ as specified in § 25.341(a)(5)(i)). However V_C_ need not exceed the maximum speed in level flight at maximum continuous power for the corresponding altitude.


(3) At altitudes where *V*_D_ is limited by Mach number, *V*_C_ may be limited to a selected Mach number. 


(b) *Design dive speed, V*_D_. *V*_D_ must be selected so that *V*_C_/*M*_C_ is not greater than 0.8 *V*_D_/*M*_D,_ or so that the minimum speed margin between *V*_C_/*M*_C_ and *V*_D_/*M*_D_ is the greater of the following values: 


(1) From an initial condition of stabilized flight at *V*_C_/*M*_C,_ the airplane is upset, flown for 20 seconds along a flight path 7.5° below the initial path, and then pulled up at a load factor of 1.5*g* (0.5*g* acceleration increment). The speed increase occurring in this maneuver may be calculated if reliable or conservative aerodynamic data is used. Power as specified in § 25.175(b)(1)(iv) is assumed until the pullup is initiated, at which time power reduction and the use of pilot controlled drag devices may be assumed; 


(2) The minimum speed margin must be enough to provide for atmospheric variations (such as horizontal gusts, and penetration of jet streams and cold fronts) and for instrument errors and airframe production variations. These factors may be considered on a probability basis. The margin at altitude where M_C_ is limited by compressibility effects must not less than 0.07M unless a lower margin is determined using a rational analysis that includes the effects of any automatic systems. In any case, the margin may not be reduced to less than 0.05M.


(c) *Design maneuvering speed V*_A_. For *V*_A_, the following apply: 


(1) V_A_ may not be less than V_S__1_ √n where—


(i) *n* is the limit positive maneuvering load factor at *V*_C_; and 


(ii) *V*_S__1_ is the stalling speed with flaps retracted. 


(2) *V*_A_ and *V*_S_ must be evaluated at the design weight and altitude under consideration. 


(3) *V*_A_ need not be more than *V*_C_ or the speed at which the positive *C*_N max_ curve intersects the positive maneuver load factor line, whichever is less. 


(d) *Design speed for maximum gust intensity, V*_B_.


(1) V_B_ may not be less than 


(2) At altitudes where V_C_ is limited by Mach number—


(i) V_B_ may be chosen to provide an optimum margin between low and high speed buffet boundaries; and,


(ii) V_B_ need not be greater than V_C_.


(e) *Design flap speeds, V*_F_. For *V*_F_, the following apply: 


(1) The design flap speed for each flap position (established in accordance with § 25.697(a)) must be sufficiently greater than the operating speed recommended for the corresponding stage of flight (including balked landings) to allow for probable variations in control of airspeed and for transition from one flap position to another. 


(2) If an automatic flap positioning or load limiting device is used, the speeds and corresponding flap positions programmed or allowed by the device may be used. 


(3) *V*_F_ may not be less than—


(i) 1.6 *V*_S__1_ with the flaps in takeoff position at maximum takeoff weight; 


(ii) 1.8 *V*_S__1_ with the flaps in approach position at maximum landing weight, and 


(iii) 1.8 *V*_S__0_ with the flaps in landing position at maximum landing weight. 


(f) *Design drag device speeds, V*_DD_. The selected design speed for each drag device must be sufficiently greater than the speed recommended for the operation of the device to allow for probable variations in speed control. For drag devices intended for use in high speed descents, *V*_DD_ may not be less than *V*_D_. When an automatic drag device positioning or load limiting means is used, the speeds and corresponding drag device positions programmed or allowed by the automatic means must be used for design. 



---

[N] [Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5672, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-86, 61 FR 5220, Feb. 9, 1996; Amdt. 25-91, 62 FR 40704, July 29, 1997] 




