# ยง 500.1   Definitions.

As used in this chapter,


(a) The *Warden* means the chief executive officer of a U.S. Penitentiary, Federal Correctional Institution, Medical Center for Federal Prisoners, Federal Prison Camp, Federal Detention Center, Metropolitan Correctional Center, or any federal penal or correctional institution or facility. *Warden* also includes any staff member with authority explicitly delegated by any chief executive officer.


(b) *Staff* means any employee of the Bureau of Prisons or Federal Prison Industries, Inc.


(c) *Inmate* means all persons in the custody of the Federal Bureau of Prisons or Bureau contract facilities, including persons charged with or convicted of offenses against the United States; D.C. Code felony offenders; and persons held as witnesses, detainees, or otherwise.


(d) *Institution* means a U.S. Penitentiary, a Federal Correctional Institution, a Federal Prison Camp, a Federal Detention Center, a Metropolitan Correctional Center, a Metropolitan Detention Center, a U.S. Medical Center for Federal Prisoners, a Federal Medical Center, or a Federal Transportation Center.


(e) *Shall* means an obligation is imposed.


(f) *May* means a discretionary right, privilege, or power is conferred.


(g) *May not* means a prohibition is imposed.


(h) Contraband is material prohibited by law, regulation, or policy that can reasonably be expected to cause physical injury or adversely affect the safety, security, or good order of the facility or protection of the public.


(i) *Qualified health personnel* includes physicians, dentists, and other professional and technical workers who engage in activities within their respective levels of health care training or experience which support, complement, or supplement the administration of health care.



---

[N] [44 FR 38244, June 29, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 48969, Oct. 21, 1983; 56 FR 31530, July 10, 1991; 63 FR 55775, Oct. 16, 1998; 66 FR 55065, Oct. 31, 2001; 80 FR 45885, Aug. 3, 2015]




