# § 423.507   Nonrenewal of contract.

(a) *Nonrenewal by a Part D plan sponsor.* (1) Except for fallback entities, a Part D plan sponsor may elect not to renew its contract with CMS, effective at the end of the term of the contract for any reason provided it meets the timeframes for doing so set forth in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section.


(2) If a Part D plan sponsor does not intend to renew its contract, it must notify—


(i) CMS in writing by the first Monday of June in the year in which the contract ends;


(ii) Each Medicare enrollee by mail at least 90 calendar days before the date on which the nonrenewal is effective. The sponsor must also provide information about alternative enrollment options by doing one or more of the following:


(A) Provide a CMS approved written description of alternative MA plan and PDP options available for obtaining qualified prescription drug coverage within the beneficiaries' region.


(B) Place outbound calls to all affected enrollees to ensure beneficiaries know who to contact to learn about their enrollment options.


(3)(i) If a Part D plan sponsor does not renew a contract under this paragraph (a), CMS cannot enter into a contract with the organization for 2 years in the PDP region or regions served by the contract unless there are circumstances that warrant special consideration, as determined by CMS.


(ii) If a PDP sponsor does not renew any of its PBPs in a PDP region, CMS does not approve plan bids submitted by the organization in that PDP region for 2 years unless there are circumstances that warrant special consideration, as determined by CMS.


(iii) The provisions of this paragraph do not apply to employer group waiver plans offered by a Part D plan sponsor.


(4) During the same 2-year period specified under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, CMS will not contract with an organization whose covered persons also served as covered persons for the non-renewing sponsor. A “covered person” as used in this paragraph means one of the following:


(i) All owners of nonrenewed or terminated organizations who are natural persons, other than shareholders who have an ownership interest of less than 5 percent.


(ii) An owner of a whole or part interest in a mortgage, deed of trust, note or other obligation secured (in whole or in part) by the organization, or by any of the property or assets thereof, which whole or part interest is equal to or exceeds 5 percent of the total property and assets of the organization.


(iii) A member of the board of directors or board of trustees of the entity, if the organization is organized as a corporation.


(5) If a Part D plan sponsor does not renew a contract under this paragraph (a), it must ensure the timely transfer of any data or files.


(b) [Reserved]



---

[N] [70 FR 4525, Jan. 28, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 68733, Dec. 5, 2007; 74 FR 1546, Jan. 12, 2009; 75 FR 19821, Apr. 15, 2010; 76 FR 21575, Apr. 15, 2011; 83 FR 16750, Apr. 16, 2018; 89 FR 30838, Apr. 23, 2024]






