# ยง 674.27   State safety oversight program standards.

(a) An SSOA must adopt and distribute a written SSO program standard, consistent with the National Public Transportation Safety Plan and the rules for Public Transportation Agency Safety Plans. This SSO program standard must identify the processes and procedures that govern the activities of the SSOA. Also, the SSO program standard must identify the processes and procedures an RTA must have in place to comply with the standard. At minimum, the program standard must meet the following requirements:


(1) *Program management.* The SSO program standard must explain the authority of the SSOA to oversee the safety of rail fixed guideway public transportation systems; the policies that govern the activities of the SSOA; the reporting requirements that govern both the SSOA and the rail fixed guideway public transportation systems; and the steps the SSOA will take to ensure open, on-going communication between the SSOA and every rail fixed guideway public transportation system within its oversight.


(2) *Program standard development.* The SSO program standard must explain the SSOA's process for developing, reviewing, adopting, and revising its minimum standards for safety, and distributing those standards to the rail fixed guideway public transportation systems.


(3) *Disposition of RTA comments.* The SSO program standard must establish a disposition process that defines how the SSOA will address any comments the RTA makes with respect to the SSO program standard.


(4) *Program policy and objectives.* The SSO program standard must set an explicit policy and objectives for safety in rail fixed guideway public transportation throughout the State.


(5) *Oversight of RTA Public Transportation Agency Safety Plans and internal safety reviews.* The SSO program standard must explain the role of the SSOA in overseeing an RTA's execution of its Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan and any related safety reviews of the RTA's fixed guideway public transportation system. The SSO program standard must describe the process whereby the SSOA will receive and evaluate all material submitted under the signature of an RTA's Accountable Executive. The SSO program standard must define baseline RTA internal safety review requirements including, at a minimum, the following requirements:


(i) The RTA must develop and document an ongoing internal safety review process to ensure that all elements of an RTA's Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan are performing and being implemented as intended.


(ii) The RTA's internal safety review process must ensure that the implementation of all elements of its Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan are reviewed within a three-year period.


(iii) The RTA must notify the SSOA at least thirty (30) days before the RTA conducts an internal safety review of any aspect of the rail fixed guideway public transportation system and provide any checklists or procedures it will use during the review.


(iv) The RTA must submit a report to the SSOA annually documenting the internal safety review activities and the status of subsequent findings and corrective actions.


(6) *Oversight of safety risk mitigations.* The SSO program standard must explain the role of the SSOA in overseeing an RTA's development, implementation, and monitoring of safety risk mitigations related to rail fixed guideway transportation, including how the SSOA will track RTA safety risk mitigations. The SSO program standard must specify the frequency and format whereby the SSOA will receive and review information on RTA safety risk mitigation status and effectiveness.


(7) *Oversight of RTA compliance with the Public Transportation Safety Certification Training Program.* The SSO program standard must explain how the SSOA will ensure that the RTA satisfies the requirements of the *Public Transportation Safety Certification Training Program,* including the RTA's designation of personnel and the RTA's identification of refresher training.


(8) *Triennial SSOA audits of RTA Public Transportation Agency Safety Plans.* The SSO program standard must explain the process the SSOA will follow and the criteria the SSOA will apply in conducting a complete audit of the RTA's compliance with its Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan at least once every three years, in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 5329. Alternatively, the SSOA and RTA may agree that the SSOA will conduct its audit on an on-going basis over the three-year timeframe. The program standard must establish a procedure the SSOA and RTA will follow to manage findings and recommendations arising from the triennial audit.


(9) *Safety event notifications.* The SSO program standard must establish requirements for RTA notifications of safety events occurring on the RTA's rail fixed guideway public transportation system, including notifications to the SSOA and to FTA. SSOA safety event notification requirements must address, specifically, the time limits for notification, methods of notification, and the nature of the information the RTA must submit to the SSOA.


(10) *Investigations.* The SSO program standard must identify safety events that require an RTA to conduct an investigation. Also, the program standard must address how the SSOA will oversee an RTA's own internal investigation; the role of the SSOA in supporting any investigation conducted or findings and recommendations made by the NTSB or FTA; and procedures for protecting the confidentiality of the investigation reports.


(11) *Corrective actions.* The program standard must explain the process and criteria by which the SSOA may order an RTA to develop and carry out a corrective action plan (CAP), and a procedure for the SSOA to review and approve a CAP. Also, the program standard must explain the SSOA's policy and practice for tracking and verifying an RTA's compliance with the CAP and managing any conflicts between the SSOA and RTA relating either to the development or execution of the CAP or the findings of an investigation.


(12) *Inspections.* The SSO program standard must include or incorporate by reference a risk-based inspection program that:


(i) Is commensurate with the number, size, and complexity of the rail fixed guideway public transportation systems that the State safety oversight agency oversees;


(ii) Provides the SSOA with the authority and capability to enter the facilities of each rail fixed guideway public transportation system that the SSOA oversees to inspect infrastructure, equipment, records, personnel, and data, including the data that the RTA collects when identifying and evaluating safety risks; and


(iii) Include policies and procedures regarding the access of the SSOA to conduct inspections of the rail fixed guideway public transportation system, including access for inspections that occur without advance notice to the RTA.


(13) *Vehicle maintenance and testing.* The SSO program standard must include the process by which the SSOA will review an RTA's rail transit vehicle maintenance program, including the RTA's periodic testing of rail transit vehicle braking systems to ensure performance and to detect potential latent system failures.


(14) *Data collection.* The program standard must include policies and procedures for collecting and reviewing data that the RTA uses when identifying hazards and assessing safety risk and explain how the SSOA uses collected data to support oversight of the RTA's safety risk management process. The frequency of collection shall be commensurate with the size and complexity of the rail fixed guideway public transportation system.


(b) At least once a year an SSOA must submit its SSO program standard and any referenced program procedures to FTA, with an indication of any revisions made to the program standard since the last annual submittal. FTA will evaluate the SSOA's program standard as part of its continuous evaluation of the State Safety Oversight Program, and in preparing FTA's report to Congress on the certification status of that State Safety Oversight Program, in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 5329.






