# § 63.367   Recordkeeping requirements.

(a) If you own or operate an affected source subject to § 63.362, you must comply with the recordkeeping requirements in § 63.10(a) through (c), according to the applicability in table 6 to this subpart, and in this section. All records required to be maintained by this subpart or a subpart referenced by this subpart shall be maintained in such a manner that they can be readily accessed and are suitable for inspection.


(b) You must maintain the previous five years of records specified in § 63.366(b) and (c), as applicable.


(c) You must maintain the previous five years of records for compliance tests and associated data analysis, as applicable.


(d) Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.


(e) If you are using an EtO CEMS to demonstrate continuous compliance, you must maintain the previous five years of records for all required certification and QA tests.


(f) For each deviation from an emission limit, operating limit, or best management practice, you must keep a record of the information specified in paragraph (g)(1) through (4) of this section. The records shall be maintained as specified in § 63.10(b)(1).


(1) The occurrence and duration of each startup, shutdown, or malfunction of process, air pollution control, and monitoring equipment.


(2) In the event that an affected unit does not meet an applicable standard, record the number of deviations. For each deviation, record the date, time, cause, and duration of each deviation.


(3) For each failure to meet an applicable standard, record and retain a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(4) Record actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.362(k) and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.






