# § 721.1230   Benzene, ethenyl-, ar-bromo derivatives.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as benzene, ethenyl-, ar-bromo derivatives (PMN P-84-660; CAS No. 125904-11-2) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this SNUR do not apply when the substance is present only in a mixture or in a polymer matrix, if the combined concentration of this substance and the substance identified in § 721.1240 as benzene, (2-bromoethyl)-, ar-bromo derivatives (PMN P-84-704; CAS No. 125904-10-1), present as residual monomers in the mixture or polymer matrix, does not exceed 0.5% by weight or volume. This exemption does not apply if there is reason to believe that during intended use, processing, or other handling, these substances combined may be reconcentrated above the 0.5% level in the mixture or polymer matrix.


(2) The significant new uses are: (i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1) (including when the substance becomes airborne in any form), (a)(3), (a)(4) (when the substance becomes airborne in any form), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(xii), (a)(5)(xiii), (a)(5)(xiv), (a)(5)(xv) and (c). As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose to follow the NCEL provisions in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi) (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (a), (b), (j) (flame retardant), and (l).


(iv) *Disposal.* It is a significant new use to dispose of the substance other than as follows: 


(A) The following forms of the substance - the substance as a commercial chemical product or manufacturing chemical intermediate; the substance as an off-specification commercial chemical product or manufacturing chemical intermediate; the substance as a residue remaining in a container or in an inner liner removed from a container that has held the substance, unless the container is empty as defined in 40 CFR 261.7(b)(3); any residue or contaminated soil, water, or other debris resulting from the cleanup of a spill into or on any land or water of the substance as a commercial chemical product or manufacturing chemical intermediate, or any residue or contaminated soil, water, or other debris resulting from the cleanup of a spill into or on any land or water, of the substance as an off-specification commercial chemical product or manufacturing chemical intermediate; and any waste stream containing greater than 1.0% of this substance and the substance identified in § 721.1240 combined - shall be disposed of as follows: Requirements as specified in § 721.85 (a)(1), (b)(1), (c)(1), (a)(2), (b)(2), and (c)(2); the landfill shall be operated in accordance with Subtitle C of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.


(B) Any forms of the substance other than those described in paragraph (a)(2)(iv)(A) of this section, including waste streams containing 1.0% or less of this substance and the substance identified in § 721.1240, shall be disposed of as follows: § 721.85 (a)(1), (b)(1), (c)(1), (a)(2), (b)(2), (c)(2), (a)(3), (b)(3), (c)(3), carbon adsorption followed by either physical destruction, or as specified in § 721.90; the landfill shall be operated in accordance with the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.


(v) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(2)(iv), (b)(2)(iv), (c)(2)(iv), (a)(2)(v), (b)(2)(v), (c)(2)(v), (a)(3), (b)(3), and (c)(3).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance, as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (k).


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [67 FR 17647, Apr. 11, 2002]




