# § 105.14   Fire extinguishing equipment.

(a) In addition to the extinguishers in the table to § 28.160 of this chapter, each vessel must carry at least two 40-B fire extinguishers that are approved under § 162.028 or § 162.039 of this chapter and must be located at or near the dispensing area. Extinguishers with larger numerical ratings or multiple letter designations may be used to meet this requirement. This equipment must be examined before issuing a letter of compliance.




(b) Each vessel must be provided with a hand-operated portable fire pump having a capacity of at least 5 gallons per minute and equipped with a suction and discharge hose suitable for use in firefighting. The pump may also serve as a bilge pump.


(c) A self-priming power-driven fire pump must be installed on each vessel of more than 65 feet in length overall. The pump must be able to discharge an effective stream from a hose connected to the highest outlet, must be fitted with a pressure gauge, and must have a minimum capacity of 50 gallons per minute at a pressure of not less than 60 pounds per square inch at the pump outlet. The pump must be self-priming and connected to the fire main and may be driven off a propulsion engine or other source of power. The pump may also be connected to the bilge system so that it can serve as either a fire pump or a bilge pump.


(d) Each vessel that must have a power-driven fire pump must also have a fire main system that includes a fire main, hydrants, hoses, and nozzles.


(1) Fire hydrants must be of sufficient number and located such that any part of the vessel may be reached with an effective stream of water from a single length of hose.


(2) All piping, valves, and fittings must be in accordance with good marine practice and suitable for the purpose intended.


(3) One length of the fire hose must be attached to each fire hydrant at all times. The fire hose may be a commercial fire hose or equivalent of not more than a 1
1/2-inch diameter, or a garden hose of not less than a 
5/8-inch nominal inside diameter. The hose must be in one piece, not less than 25 feet, and not more than 50 feet in length. If a 1
1/2-inch diameter fire hose is used after January 1, 1980, each length of hose must be lined as a commercial fire hose that conforms to UL 19 (incorporated by reference; see § 105.3). A hose that bears a UL label as a lined fire hose is accepted as conforming to this requirement. The hose must have a combination nozzle approved by the Commandant in accordance with 46 CFR subpart 162.027. If a garden hose is used, it must be of a good commercial grade constructed of an inner rubber tube, plies of braided cotton reinforcement, and an outer rubber cover, or of equivalent material, and must be fitted with a commercial garden hose nozzle of good-grade bronze or equivalent metal. All fittings on fire hoses must be of brass, copper, or other suitable corrosion-resistant metal.





---

[N] [81 FR 13283, Mar. 14, 2016, as amended by USCG-2020-0519, 89 FR 76699, Sept. 18, 2024]




