# § 1234.14   What are the requirements for environmental controls for records storage facilities?

(a) *Paper-based temporary records.* Paper-based temporary records must be stored under environmental conditions that prevent the active growth of mold. Exposure to moisture through leaks or condensation, relative humidities in excess of 70%, extremes of heat combined with relative humidity in excess of 55%, and poor air circulation during periods of elevated heat and relative humidity are all factors that contribute to mold growth.


(b) *Nontextual temporary records.* Nontextual temporary records, including microforms and audiovisual and electronic records, must be stored in records storage space that is designed to preserve them for their full retention period. New records storage facilities that store nontextual temporary records must meet the requirements in this paragraph (b) beginning on September 28, 2005. Existing records storage facilities that store nontextual temporary records must meet the requirements in this paragraph (b) no later than October 1, 2009. At a minimum, nontextual temporary records must be stored in records storage space that meets the requirements for medium term storage set by the appropriate standard in this paragraph (b). In general, medium term conditions as defined by these standards are those that will ensure the preservation of the materials for at least 10 years with little information degradation or loss. Records may continue to be usable for longer than 10 years when stored under these conditions, but with an increasing risk of information loss or degradation with longer times. If temporary records require retention longer than 10 years, better storage conditions (cooler and drier) than those specified for medium term storage will be needed to maintain the usability of these records. The applicable standards are:


(1) ANSI/PIMA IT9.11 (incorporated by reference, see § 1234.3);


(2) ANSI/NAPM IT9.23 (incorporated by reference, see § 1234.3);


(3) ANSI/PIMA IT9.25 (incorporated by reference, see § 1234.3);


(4) ANSI/NAPM IT9.20 (incorporated by reference, see § 1234.3); and/or


(5) ANSI/NAPM IT9.18 (incorporated by reference, see § 1234.3).


(c) *Paper-based permanent, unscheduled and sample/select records.* Paper-based permanent, unscheduled, and sample/select records must be stored in records storage space that provides 24 hour/365 days per year air conditioning (temperature, humidity, and air exchange) equivalent to that required for office space. See ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 55 (incorporated by reference, see § 1234.3), and ASHRAE Standard 62 (incorporated by reference, see § 1234.3), for specific requirements. New records storage facilities that store paper-based permanent, unscheduled, and/or sample/select records must meet the requirement in this paragraph (c) beginning on September 28, 2005. Existing storage facilities that store paper-based permanent, unscheduled, and/or sample/select records must meet the requirement in this paragraph (c) no later than October 1, 2009.


(d) *Nontextual permanent, unscheduled, and/or sample/select records.* All records storage facilities that store microfilm, audiovisual, and/or electronic permanent, unscheduled, and/or sample/select records must comply with the storage standards for permanent and unscheduled records in parts 1238, 1237, and/or 1236 of this subchapter, respectively.




