# § 201.7   Tribal Mitigation Plans.

The Indian Tribal Mitigation Plan is the representation of the Indian tribal government's commitment to reduce risks from natural hazards, serving as a guide for decision makers as they commit resources to reducing the effects of natural hazards.


(a) *Plan requirement.* (1) Indian Tribal governments applying to FEMA as a recipient must have an approved Tribal Mitigation Plan meeting the requirements of this section as a condition of receiving non-emergency Stafford Act assistance and FEMA mitigation grants. Emergency assistance provided under 42 U.S.C. 5170a, 5170b, 5173, 5174, 5177, 5179, 5180, 5182, 5183, 5184, 5192 will not be affected. Mitigation planning grants provided through the PDM program, authorized under section 203 of the Stafford Act, 42 U.S.C. 5133, will also continue to be available.


(2) Indian Tribal governments applying through the State as a subrecipient must have an approved Tribal Mitigation Plan meeting the requirements of this section in order to receive HMGP project grants. A Tribe must have an approved Tribal Mitigation Plan in order to apply for and receive FEMA mitigation project grants, under all other mitigation grant programs. The provisions in § 201.6(a)(3) are available to Tribes applying as subrecipients.


(3) Multi-jurisdictional plans (*e.g.,* county-wide or watershed plans) may be accepted, as appropriate, as long as the Indian Tribal government has participated in the process and has officially adopted the plan. Indian Tribal governments must address all the elements identified in this section to ensure eligibility as a recipient or as a subrecipient.


(b) An effective planning process is essential in developing and maintaining a good plan. The mitigation planning process should include coordination with other tribal agencies, appropriate Federal agencies, adjacent jurisdictions, interested groups, and be integrated to the extent possible with other ongoing tribal planning efforts as well as other FEMA mitigation programs and initiatives.


(c) *Plan content.* The plan must include the following:


(1) Documentation of the *planning process* used to develop the plan, including how it was prepared, who was involved in the process, and how the public was involved. This must include:


(i) An opportunity for the public to comment on the plan during the drafting stage and prior to plan approval, including a description of how the Indian Tribal government defined “public;”


(ii) As appropriate, an opportunity for neighboring communities, Tribal and regional agencies involved in hazard mitigation activities, and agencies that have the authority to regulate development, as well as businesses, academia, and other private and nonprofit interests to be involved in the planning process;


(iii) Review and incorporation, if appropriate, of existing plans, studies, and reports; and


(iv) Be integrated to the extent possible with other ongoing Tribal planning efforts as well as other FEMA programs and initiatives.


(2) A *risk assessment* that provides the factual basis for activities proposed in the strategy to reduce losses from identified hazards. Tribal risk assessments must provide sufficient information to enable the Indian Tribal government to identify and prioritize appropriate mitigation actions to reduce losses from identified hazards. The risk assessment must include:


(i) A description of the type, location, and extent of all natural hazards that can affect the Tribal planning area. The plan must include information on previous occurrences of hazard events and on the probability of future hazard events.


(ii) A description of the Indian Tribal government's vulnerability to the hazards described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section. This description must include an overall summary of each hazard and its impact on the Tribe. The plan should describe vulnerability in terms of:


(A) The types and numbers of existing and future buildings, infrastructure, and critical facilities located in the identified hazard areas;


(B) An estimate of the potential dollar losses to vulnerable structures identified in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A) of this section and a description of the methodology used to prepare the estimate;


(C) A general description of land uses and development trends within the Tribal planning area so that mitigation options can be considered in future land use decisions; and


(D) Cultural and sacred sites that are significant, even if they cannot be valued in monetary terms.


(3) A *mitigation strategy* that provides the Indian Tribal government's blueprint for reducing the potential losses identified in the risk assessment, based on existing authorities, policies, programs and resources, and its ability to expand on and improve these existing tools. This section must include:


(i) A description of mitigation goals to reduce or avoid long-term vulnerabilities to the identified hazards.


(ii) A section that identifies and analyzes a comprehensive range of specific mitigation actions and projects being considered to reduce the effects of each hazard, with particular emphasis on new and existing buildings and infrastructure.


(iii) An action plan describing how the actions identified in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section will be prioritized, implemented, and administered by the Indian Tribal government.


(iv) A discussion of the Indian Tribal government's pre- and post-disaster hazard management policies, programs, and capabilities to mitigate the hazards in the area, including: An evaluation of Tribal laws, regulations, policies, and programs related to hazard mitigation as well as to development in hazard-prone areas; and a discussion of Tribal funding capabilities for hazard mitigation projects.


(v) Identification of current and potential sources of Federal, Tribal, or private funding to implement mitigation activities.


(vi) In accordance with § 77.6(b) of this chapter, applicants and subapplicants for FMA project grants must have a FEMA-approved mitigation plan that addresses identified flood hazards and provides for reduction of flood losses to structures for which NFIP coverage is available.


(4) A *plan maintenance process* that includes:


(i) A section describing the method and schedule of monitoring, evaluating, and updating the mitigation plan.


(ii) A system for monitoring implementation of mitigation measures and project closeouts.


(iii) A process by which the Indian Tribal government incorporates the requirements of the mitigation plan into other planning mechanisms such as reservation master plans or capital improvement plans, when appropriate.


(iv) Discussion on how the Indian Tribal government will continue public participation in the plan maintenance process.


(v) A system for reviewing progress on achieving goals as well as activities and projects identified in the mitigation strategy.


(5) The plan must be formally adopted by the governing body of the Indian Tribal government prior to submittal to FEMA for final review and approval.


(6) The plan must include assurances that the Indian Tribal government will comply with all applicable Federal statutes and regulations in effect with respect to the periods for which it receives grant funding, including 2 CFR parts 200 and 3002. The Indian Tribal government will amend its plan whenever necessary to reflect changes in Tribal or Federal laws and statutes.


(d) *Plan review and updates.* (1) Plans must be submitted to the appropriate FEMA Regional Office for formal review and approval. Indian Tribal governments who would like the option of being a subrecipient under the State must also submit their plan to the State Hazard Mitigation Officer for review and coordination.


(2) The Regional review will be completed within 45 days after receipt from the Indian Tribal government, whenever possible.


(3) Indian Tribal governments must review and revise their plan to reflect changes in development, progress in local mitigation efforts, and changes in priorities, and resubmit it for approval within 5 years in order to continue to be eligible for non-emergency Stafford Act assistance and FEMA mitigation grant funding.



---

[N] [72 FR 61749, Oct. 31, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 47482, Sept. 16, 2009; 79 FR 76085, Dec. 19, 2014; 80 FR 59551, Oct. 2, 2015; 86 FR 50675, Sept. 10, 2021]




