# § 721.10784   Mixed butyltin mercaptoester sulfides (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified generically as mixed butyltin mercaptoester sulfides (PMNs P-14-216, P-14-217, and P-14-218) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the PMN substances after they have been completely reacted (cured) or permanently entrained into a solid polyvinyl chloride matrix.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i) through (iv), (a)(3), (b)(concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible.


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e)(concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(v), (g)(1)(viii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80. A significant new use is any use other than as a stabilizer in polyvinyl chloride (PVC) at a concentration of no greater than 2 percent.


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 0.5).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of these substances.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [79 FR 63838, Oct. 27, 2014]




