# § 63.484   Storage vessel provisions.

(a) This section applies to each storage vessel that is assigned to an affected source, as determined by § 63.480(g). Except for those storage vessels exempted by paragraph (b) of this section, the owner or operator of affected sources shall comply with the requirements of §§ 63.119 through 63.123 and 63.148, with the differences noted in paragraphs (c) through (u) of this section, for the purposes of this subpart.




(b) Storage vessels described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(7) of this section are exempt from the storage vessel requirements of this section.


(1) Storage vessels containing styrene-butadiene latex;


(2) Storage vessels containing latex products other than styrene-butadiene latex, located downstream of the stripping operations; 


(3) Storage vessels containing high conversion latex products;


(4) Storage vessels located downstream of the stripping operations at affected sources subject to the back-end residual organic HAP limitation located in § 63.494(a)(1) through (3), that are complying through the use of stripping technology, as specified in § 63.495;


(5) Storage vessels containing styrene;


(6) Storage vessels containing acrylamide; and


(7) Storage vessels containing epichlorohydrin.


(c) When the term “storage vessel” is used in §§ 63.119 through 63.123, the definition of this term in § 63.482 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. 


(d) When the term “Group 1 storage vessel” is used in §§ 63.119 through 63.123, the definition of this term in § 63.482 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. 


(e) When the term “Group 2 storage vessel” is used in §§ 63.119 through 63.123, the definition of this term in § 63.482 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. 


(f) When the emissions averaging provisions of § 63.150 are referred to in § 63.119 and § 63.123, the emissions averaging provisions contained in § 63.503 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. 


(g) When December 31, 1992 is referred to in § 63.119, June 12, 1995 shall apply instead, for the purposes of this subpart. 


(h) When April 22, 1994 is referred to in § 63.119, June 19, 2000 shall apply instead, for the purposes of this subpart. 


(i) The owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with this paragraph instead of § 63.120(d)(1)(ii) for the purposes of this subpart. If the control device used to comply with § 63.119(e) is also used to comply with any of the requirements found in §§ 63.485 through 63.501, the performance test required in or accepted by the applicable requirements in §§ 63.485 through 63.501 is acceptable for demonstrating compliance with § 63.119(e), for the purposes of this subpart. The owner or operator will not be required to prepare a design evaluation for the control device as described in § 63.120(d)(1)(i), if the performance test meets the criteria specified in paragraphs (i)(1) and (i)(2) of this section. 


(1) The performance test demonstrates that the control device achieves greater than or equal to the required control efficiency specified in § 63.119(e)(1) or § 63.119(e)(2), as applicable; and


(2) The performance test is submitted as part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.506(e)(5). If the performance test report is submitted electronically through the EPA's CEDRI in accordance with § 63.152(h), the process unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested, and the date that such performance test was conducted may be submitted in the notification of compliance status report in lieu of the performance test results. The performance test results must be submitted to CEDRI by the date the notification of compliance status report is submitted.




(j) When the term “range” is used in §§ 63.120(d)(3)(i), 63.120(d)(5), and 63.122(g)(2), the term “level” shall apply instead, for the purposes of this subpart. 


(k) For purposes of this subpart, the monitoring plan required by § 63.120(d)(2) shall specify for which control devices the owner or operator has selected to follow the procedures for continuous monitoring specified in § 63.505. For those control devices for which the owner or operator has selected to not follow the procedures for continuous monitoring specified in § 63.505, the monitoring plan shall include a description of the parameter or parameters to be monitored to ensure that the control device is being properly operated and maintained, an explanation of the criteria used for selection of that parameter (or parameters), and the frequency with which monitoring will be performed (e.g., when the liquid level in the storage vessel is being raised), as specified in § 63.120(d)(2)(i). 


(l) For purposes of this subpart, the monitoring plan required by § 63.122(b) shall be included in the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.506(e)(5). 


(m) When the Notification of Compliance Status requirements contained in § 63.152(b) are referred to in §§ 63.120, 63.122, and 63.123, the Notification of Compliance Status requirements contained in § 63.506(e)(5) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. 


(n) When the Periodic Report requirements contained in § 63.152(c) are referred to in §§ 63.120 and 63.122, the Periodic Report requirements contained in § 63.506(e)(6) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. 


(o) When other reports as required in § 63.152(d) are referred to in § 63.122, the reporting requirements contained in § 63.506(e)(7) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. 


(p) When the Initial Notification requirements contained in § 63.151(b) are referred to in §§ 63.119 through 63.123, for the purposes of this subpart the owner or operator of an affected source need not comply. 


(q) When the determination of equivalence criteria in § 63.102(b) are referred to in § 63.121(a), the provisions in § 63.6(g) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. 


(r) When § 63.119(a) requires compliance according to the schedule provisions in § 63.100, owners and operators of affected sources shall instead comply with the requirements in §§ 63.119(a)(1) through 63.119(a)(4) by the compliance date for storage vessels, which is specified in § 63.481. 


(s) In § 63.120(e)(1), instead of the reference to § 63.11(b), the requirements of § 63.504(c) shall apply. 


(t) Owners and operators of affected sources must make the substitutions as specified in paragraphs (t)(1) through (4) of this section:


(1) Substitute “For each affected source as described in § 63.480” for each occurrence of the phrase “For each source as defined in § 63.101”.


(2) Substitute “beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n)” for each occurrence of the phrase “beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10)”.


(3) Substitute “owners and operators of affected sources as described in § 63.480” for each occurrence of the phrase “owners and operators of sources as defined in § 63.101”.


(4) Substitute “§ 63.508” for each occurrence of “§ 63.108”.




(u) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(o), if the storage vessel (of any capacity and vapor pressure) stores liquid containing chloroprene such that the storage vessel is considered to be in chloroprene service, as defined in § 63.482, then the owner or operator must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (u)(1) through (3) of this section in addition to all other applicable requirements specified in § 63.483 and elsewhere in this section.


(1) Reduce emissions of chloroprene by venting emissions through a closed vent system to a non-flare control device that reduces chloroprene by greater than or equal to 98 percent by weight, or to a concentration less than 1 ppmv for each storage vessel vent. If a combustion device is used, the chloroprene concentration of 1 ppmv must be corrected to 3 percent oxygen.


(2) To demonstrate compliance with the emission limits specified in paragraph (u)(1) of this section for storage vessels in chloroprene service, owners and operators must meet the requirements specified in § 63.510.


(3) Owners and operators must keep the records specified in paragraphs (u)(3)(i) and (u)(3)(ii) of this section in addition to those records specified elsewhere in this section.


(i) For storage vessels in chloroprene service, records of the concentration of chloroprene of the fluid stored in each storage vessel.


(ii) The owner or operator must keep records of all periods during which operating values are outside of the applicable operating limits specified in § 63.510(b)(4) through (6) when regulated material is being routed to the non-flare control device. The record must specify the operating parameter, the applicable limit, and the highest (for maximum operating limits) or lowest (for minimum operating limits) value recorded during the period.





---

[N] [62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 38049, June 19, 2000; 76 FR 22588, Apr. 21, 2011; 89 FR 43242, May 16, 2024]




