# § 721.10271   3′H-Cyclopropa[1,9][5,6]fullerene-C60-Ih-3′-butanoic acid, 3′-phenyl-, methyl ester.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 3′H-Cyclopropa[1,9][5,6]fullerene-C60-Ih-3′-butanoic acid, 3′-phenyl-, methyl ester, (PMNs P-09-142 and Chemical A in P-09-416, CAS Number 160848-22-6) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities of the PMN substances after they have been completely reacted (cured); embedded or incorporated into a polymer matrix that itself has been reacted (cured); or embedded in a permanent solid polymer form that is not intended to undergo further processing, except for mechanical processing.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(clothing which covers any other exposed areas of the arms, legs, and torso), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirator meets the minimum requirements for § 721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped with N100 cartridges.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (k) (use as a compound used in fabrication and/or operation of electronic devices that enables or improves the conductivity, efficiency, voltage or other characteristics of the device, a compound that improves the mechanical properties of lubricants and plastics, or use as an acceptor molecule in a polymer coating in an encapsulated organic photovoltaic electronic device) and (q).


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.



---

[N] [78 FR 38219, June 26, 2013]




