# ยง 4.1021   What are the requirements for motions for intervention and responses?

(a) *General.* A person may file a motion for intervention within 30 days after OFA issues the notice of the election of hearing under 25 CFR 83.39(a)(1).


(b) *Content of the motion.* The motion for intervention must contain the following:


(1) A statement setting forth the interest of the person and, if the person seeks intervention under paragraph (d) of this section, a showing of why that interest may be adversely affected by the final determination of the Assistant Secretary under 25 CFR 83.43;


(2) An explanation of the person's position with respect to the issues of law and issues of material fact raised in the election of hearing in no more than five pages; and


(3) A list of the witnesses and exhibits the person intends to present at the hearing, other than solely for impeachment purposes, including:


(i) For each witness listed, his or her name, address, telephone number, and qualifications and a brief narrative summary of his or her expected testimony; and


(ii) For each exhibit listed, a statement specifying where the exhibit is located in the administrative record reviewed by OFA.


(c) *Timing of response to a motion.* Any response to a motion for intervention must be filed by a party within 7 days after service of the motion.


(d) *Intervention of right.* The ALJ will grant intervention where the person has an interest that may be adversely affected by the Assistant Secretary's final determination under 25 CFR 83.43.


(e) *Permissive intervention.* If paragraph (d) of this section does not apply, the ALJ will consider the following in determining whether intervention is appropriate:


(1) The nature of the issues;


(2) The adequacy of representation of the person's interest which is provided by the existing parties to the proceeding; and


(3) The ability of the person to present relevant evidence and argument.


(f) *How an intervenor may participate.* (1) A person granted leave to intervene under paragraph (d) of this section may participate as a full party or in a capacity less than that of a full party.


(2) If the intervenor wishes to participate in a limited capacity or if the intervenor is granted leave to intervene under paragraph (e) of this section, the extent and the terms of the participation will be determined by the ALJ.


(3) An intervenor may not raise issues of law or issues of material fact beyond those raised in the election of hearing under 25 CFR 83.38(a)(1).




