# § 192.9   What requirements apply to gathering pipelines?

(a) *Requirements.* An operator of a gathering line must follow the safety requirements of this part as prescribed by this section.




(b) *Offshore lines.* An operator of an offshore gathering line must comply with requirements of this part applicable to transmission lines, except the requirements in §§ 192.13(d), 192.150, 192.285(e), 192.319(d) through (g), 192.461(f) through (i), 192.465(d) and (f), 192.473(c), 192.485(c), 192.493, 192.506, 192.607, 192.613(c), 192.619(e), 192.624, 192.710, 192.712, and 192.714, and in subpart O of this part. Further, operators of offshore gathering lines are exempt from the requirements of §§ 192.617(b) through (d) and 192.635. Lastly, operators of offshore gathering lines are exempt from the requirements of § 192.615 (but an operator of an offshore gathering line must comply with the requirements of 49 CFR 192.615, effective as of October 4, 2022).




(c) *Type A lines.* An operator of a Type A regulated onshore gathering line must comply with the requirements of this part applicable to transmission lines, except the requirements in §§ 192.13(d), 192.150, 192.285(e), 192.319(d) through (g), 192.461(f) through (i), 192.465(d) and (f), 192.473(c), 192.485(c) 192.493, 192.506, 192.607, 192.613(c), 192.619(e), 192.624, 192.710, 192.712, and 192.714, and in subpart O of this part. However, an operator of a Type A regulated onshore gathering line in a Class 2 location may demonstrate compliance with subpart N of this part by describing the processes it uses to determine the qualification of persons performing operations and maintenance tasks. Further, operators of Type A regulated onshore gathering lines are exempt from the requirements of §§ 192.179(e) through (g), 192.610, 192.617(b) through (d), 192.634, 192.635, 192.636, and 192.745(c) through (f). Lastly, operators of Type A regulated onshore gathering lines are exempt from the requirements of § 192.615 (but an operator of a Type A regulated onshore gathering line must comply with the requirements of 49 CFR 192.615, effective as of October 4, 2022).




(d) *Type B lines.* An operator of a Type B regulated onshore gathering line must comply with the following requirements:


(1) If a line is new, replaced, relocated, or otherwise changed, the design, installation, construction, initial inspection, and initial testing must be in accordance with requirements of this part applicable to transmission lines. Compliance with §§ 192.67, 192.127, 192.179(e) and (f), 192.205, 192.227(c), 192.285(e), 192.319(d) through (g), 192.506, 192.634, and 192.636 is not required;


(2) If the pipeline is metallic, control corrosion according to requirements of subpart I of this part applicable to transmission lines, except the requirements in §§ 192.461(f) through (i), 192.465(d) and (f), 192.473(c), 192.485(c), and 192.493;




(3) If the pipeline contains plastic pipe or components, the operator must comply with all applicable requirements of this part for plastic pipe components;


(4) Carry out a damage prevention program under § 192.614;


(5) Establish a public education program under § 192.616;


(6) Establish the MAOP of the line under § 192.619(a), (b), and (c);


(7) Install and maintain line markers according to the requirements for transmission lines in § 192.707; and


(8) Conduct leakage surveys in accordance with the requirements for transmission lines in § 192.706, using leak-detection equipment, and promptly repair hazardous leaks in accordance with § 192.703(c).


(e) *Type C lines.* The requirements for Type C gathering lines are as follows.


(1) An operator of a Type C onshore gathering line with an outside diameter greater than or equal to 8.625 inches must comply with the following requirements:


(i) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section for pipe and components made with composite materials, the design, installation, construction, initial inspection, and initial testing of a new, replaced, relocated, or otherwise changed Type C gathering line, must be done in accordance with the requirements in subparts B through G and J of this part applicable to transmission lines. Compliance with §§ 192.67, 192.127, 192.179(e) and (f), 192.205, 192.227(c), 192.285(e), 192.319(d) through (g), 192.506, 192.634, and 192.636 is not required;


(ii) If the pipeline is metallic, control corrosion according to requirements of subpart I of this part applicable to transmission lines, except the requirements in §§ 192.461(f) through (i), 192.465(d) and (f), 192.473(c), 192.485(c), and 192.493;




(iii) Carry out a damage prevention program under § 192.614;


(iv) Develop and implement procedures for emergency plans in accordance with the requirements of 49 CFR 192.615, effective as of October 4, 2022;


(v) Develop and implement a written public awareness program in accordance with § 192.616;


(vi) Install and maintain line markers according to the requirements for transmission lines in § 192.707; and


(vii) Conduct leakage surveys in accordance with the requirements for transmission lines in § 192.706 using leak-detection equipment, and promptly repair hazardous leaks in accordance with § 192.703(c).


(2) An operator of a Type C onshore gathering line with an outside diameter greater than 12.75 inches must comply with the requirements in paragraph (e)(1) of this section and the following:


(i) If the pipeline contains plastic pipe, the operator must comply with all applicable requirements of this part for plastic pipe or components. This does not include pipe and components made of composite materials that incorporate plastic in the design; and


(ii) Establish the MAOP of the pipeline under § 192.619(a) or (c) and maintain records used to establish the MAOP for the life of the pipeline.




(f) *Exceptions.* (1) Compliance with paragraphs (e)(1)(ii), (v), (vi), and (vii) and (e)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section is not required for pipeline segments that are 16 inches or less in outside diameter if one of the following criteria are met:


(i) *Method 1.* The segment is not located within a potential impact circle containing a building intended for human occupancy or other impacted site. The potential impact circle must be calculated as specified in § 192.903, except that a factor of 0.73 must be used instead of 0.69. The MAOP used in this calculation must be determined and documented in accordance with paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section.


(ii) *Method 2.* The segment is not located within a class location unit (*see* § 192.5) containing a building intended for human occupancy or other impacted site.


(2) Paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section is not applicable to pipeline segments 40 feet or shorter in length that are replaced, relocated, or changed on a pipeline existing on or before May 16, 2022.


(3) For purposes of this section, the term “building intended for human occupancy or other impacted site” means any of the following:


(i) Any building that may be occupied by humans, including homes, office buildings factories, outside recreation areas, plant facilities, etc.;


(ii) A small, well-defined outside area (such as a playground, recreation area, outdoor theater, or other place of public assembly) that is occupied by 20 or more persons on at least 5 days a week for 10 weeks in any 12-month period (the days and weeks need not be consecutive); or


(iii) Any portion of the paved surface, including shoulders, of a designated interstate, other freeway, or expressway, as well as any other principal arterial roadway with 4 or more lanes.




(g) *Compliance deadlines.* An operator of a regulated onshore gathering line must comply with the following deadlines, as applicable.


(1) An operator of a new, replaced, relocated, or otherwise changed line must be in compliance with the applicable requirements of this section by the date the line goes into service, unless an exception in § 192.13 applies.


(2) If a Type A or Type B regulated onshore gathering pipeline existing on April 14, 2006, was not previously subject to this part, an operator has until the date stated in the second column to comply with the applicable requirement for the pipeline listed in the first column, unless the Administrator finds a later deadline is justified in a particular case:


(3) If, after April 14, 2006, a change in class location or increase in dwelling density causes an onshore gathering pipeline to become a Type A or Type B regulated onshore gathering line, the operator has 1 year for Type B lines and 2 years for Type A lines after the pipeline becomes a regulated onshore gathering pipeline to comply with this section.


(4) If a Type C gathering pipeline existing on or before May 16, 2022, was not previously subject to this part, an operator must comply with the applicable requirements of this section, except for paragraph (h) of this section, on or before:


(i) May 16, 2023; or


(ii) An alternative deadline approved by PHMSA. The operator must notify PHMSA and State or local pipeline safety authorities, as applicable, no later than 90 days in advance of the deadline in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The notification must be made in accordance with § 192.18 and must include a description of the affected facilities and operating environment, the proposed alternative deadline for each affected requirement, the justification for each alternative compliance deadline, and actions the operator will take to ensure the safety of affected facilities.


(5) If, after May 16, 2022, a change in class location, an increase in dwelling density, or an increase in MAOP causes a pipeline to become a Type C gathering pipeline, or causes a Type C gathering pipeline to become subject to additional Type C requirements (*see* paragraph (f) of this section), the operator has 1 year after the pipeline becomes subject to the additional requirements to comply with this section.




(h) *Composite materials.* Pipe and components made with composite materials not otherwise authorized for use under this part may be used on Type C gathering pipelines if the following requirements are met:


(1) Steel and plastic pipe and components must meet the installation, construction, initial inspection, and initial testing requirements in subparts B though G and J of this part applicable to transmission lines.


(2) Operators must notify PHMSA in accordance with § 192.18 at least 90 days prior to installing new or replacement pipe or components made of composite materials otherwise not authorized for use under this part in a Type C gathering pipeline. The notifications required by this section must include a detailed description of the pipeline facilities in which pipe or components made of composite materials would be used, including:


(i) The beginning and end points (stationing by footage and mileage with latitude and longitude coordinates) of the pipeline segment containing composite pipeline material and the counties and States in which it is located;


(ii) A general description of the right-of-way including high consequence areas, as defined in § 192.905;


(iii) Relevant pipeline design and construction information including the year of installation, the specific composite material, diameter, wall thickness, and any manufacturing and construction specifications for the pipeline;


(iv) Relevant operating information, including MAOP, leak and failure history, and the most recent pressure test (identification of the actual pipe tested, minimum and maximum test pressure, duration of test, any leaks and any test logs and charts) or assessment results;


(v) An explanation of the circumstances that the operator believes make the use of composite pipeline material appropriate and how the design, construction, operations, and maintenance will mitigate safety and environmental risks;


(vi) An explanation of procedures and tests that will be conducted periodically over the life of the composite pipeline material to document that its strength is being maintained;


(vii) Operations and maintenance procedures that will be applied to the alternative materials. These include procedures that will be used to evaluate and remediate anomalies and how the operator will determine safe operating pressures for composite pipe when defects are found;


(viii) An explanation of how the use of composite pipeline material would be in the public interest; and


(ix) A certification signed by a vice president (or equivalent or higher officer) of the operator's company that operation of the applicant's pipeline using composite pipeline material would be consistent with pipeline safety.


(3) Repairs or replacements using materials authorized under this part do not require notification under this section.





---

[N] [Amdt. 192-102, 71 FR 13301, Mar. 15, 2006, as amended by Amdt. 192-120, 80 FR 12777, Mar. 11, 2015; Amdt. 192-124, 83 FR 58716, Nov. 20, 2018; Amdt. 192-125, 84 FR 52244, Oct. 1, 2019; Amdt. 192-129, 86 FR 63296, Nov. 15, 2021; Amdt. 192-130, 87 FR 20982, Apr. 8, 2022; Amdt. 192-132, 87 FR 52268, Aug. 24, 2022; Amdt. 192-134, 88 FR 50060, Aug. 1, 2023; Amdt. No. 192-138, 90 FR 3715, Jan. 15, 2025]




