# § 4.32   Mandatory label information.

(a) There shall be stated on the brand label:


(1) Brand name, in accordance with § 4.33.


(2) Class, type, or other designation, in accordance with § 4.34.


(3) [Reserved]


(4) On blends consisting of American and foreign wines, if any reference is made to the presence of foreign wine, the exact percentage by volume.


(b) There shall be stated on any label affixed to the container:


(1) Name and address, in accordance with § 4.35.


(2) Net contents, in accordance with § 4.37. If the net contents is a standard of fill other than an authorized metric standard of fill as prescribed in § 4.72, the net contents statement shall appear on a label affixed to the front of the bottle.


(3) Alcohol content, in accordance with § 4.36.


(c) There shall be stated on the brand label or on a back label a statement that the product contains FD&C Yellow No. 5, where that coloring material is used in a product bottled on or after October 6, 1984.


(d) *Declaration of cochineal extract or carmine.* There shall be stated on a front label, back label, strip label, or neck label a statement that the product contains the color additive cochineal extract or the color additive carmine, prominently and conspicuously, using the respective common or usual name (“cochineal extract” or “carmine”), where either of the coloring materials is used in a product that is removed on or after April 16, 2013. (For example: “Contains Cochineal Extract” or “Contains Carmine” or, if applicable, “Contains Cochineal Extract and Carmine”).


(e) *Declaration of sulfites.* There shall be stated on a front label, back label, strip label or neck label, the statement “Contains sulfites” or “Contains (a) sulfiting agent(s)” or a statement identifying the specific sulfiting agent where sulfur dioxide or a sulfiting agent is detected at a level of 10 or more parts per million, measured as total sulfur dioxide. The provisions of this paragraph shall apply to:


(1) Any certificate of label approval issued on or after January 9, 1987;


(2) Any wine bottled on or after July 9, 1987, regardless of the date of issuance of the certificate of label approval; and,


(3) Any wine removed on or after January 9, 1988.



---

[N] [T.D. 6521, 25 FR 13835, Dec. 29, 1960]


