# § 2400.0-5   Definitions.

As used in the regulations of this group—


(a) *Residential* refers to single or multi-family dwellings or combinations thereof, and related community facilities, both seasonal and year-round. 


(b) *Commercial* refers to the sale, exchange, or distribution of goods and services. 


(c) *Industrial* refers to the manufacture, processing, and testing of goods and materials, including the production of power. It does not refer to the growing of agricultural crops, or the raising of livestock, or the extraction or severance of raw materials from the land being classified, but it does include activities incidental thereto. 


(d) *Agricultural* refers to the growing of cultivated crops. 


(e) *Community* refers to a village, town or city, or similar subdivision of a State, whether or not incorporated. 


(f) *Domestic livestock* refers to cattle, horses, sheep, goats and other grazing animals owned by livestock operators, provided such operators meet the qualification set forth in § 4111.1-1 or § 4131.1-3 of this chapter. This definition includes animals raised for commercial purposes and also *domestic livestock* within the meaning of § 4111.3-1(d)(1) of this chapter. 


(g) *Fish and wildlife* refers to game, fish and other wild animals native or adaptable to the public lands and waters. 


(h) *Mineral* refers to any substance that (1) is recognized as mineral, according to its chemical composition, by the standard authorities on the subject, or (2) is classified as mineral product in trade or commerce, or (3) possesses economic value for use in trade, manufacture, the sciences, or in the mechanical or ornamental arts. 


(i) *Occupancy* refers to use of lands as a site for any type of useful structure whatsoever. 


(j) *Outdoor recreation* includes, but is not limited to, hunting, fishing, trapping, photography, horseback riding, picnicking, hiking, camping, swimming, boating, rock and mineral collecting, sightseeing, mountain climbing, and skiing. 


(k) *Timber production* refers to the growth of trees in forests and woodlands. 


(l) *Watershed protection* refers to maintenance of the stability of soil and soil cover and the control of the natural flow of water. 


(m) *Wilderness* refers to areas in a native condition or reverted to a native condition, substantially free of man-made structures and human habitation. 


(n) *Public value* refers to an asset held by, or a service performed for, or a benefit accruing to the people at large. 


(o) *Multiple use* means the management of the various surface and subsurface resources so that they are utilized in the combination that will best meet the present and future needs of the American people; the most judicious use of the land for some or all of these resources or related services over areas large enough to provide sufficient latitude for periodic adjustments in use to conform to changing needs and conditions; the use of some land for less than all of the resources; and harmonious and coordinated management of the various resources, each with the other, without impairment of the productivity of the land, with consideration being given to the relative values of the various resources, and not necessarily the combination of uses that will give the greatest dollar return or the greatest unit output. 


(p) *Sustained yield of the several products and services* means the achievement and maintenance of a high-level annual or regular periodic output of the various renewable resources of land without impairment of the productivity of the land. 




