# § 431.322   Definitions concerning metal halide lamp ballasts and fixtures.

*Active mode* means the condition in which an energy-using product:


(1) Is connected to a main power source;


(2) Has been activated; and


(3) Provides one or more main functions.


*Ballast* means a device used with an electric discharge lamp to obtain necessary circuit conditions (voltage, current, and waveform) for starting and operating.


*Ballast efficiency* means, in the case of a high intensity discharge fixture, the efficiency of a lamp and ballast combination, expressed as a percentage, and calculated in accordance with the following formula: Efficiency = P_out_/P_in_ where:


(1) P_out_ equals the measured operating lamp wattage; and


(2) P_in_ equals the measured operating input wattage.


(3) The lamp, and the capacitor when the capacitor is provided, shall constitute a nominal system in accordance with the ANSI C78.43-2017 (incorporated by reference; see § 431.323);


(4) For ballasts with a frequency of 60 Hz, Pin and Pout shall be measured after lamps have been stabilized according to Section 4.4 of ANSI C82.6-2015 (incorporated by reference; see § 431.323) using a wattmeter with accuracy specified in Section 4.5 of ANSI C82.6-2015; and


(5) For ballasts with a frequency greater than 60 Hz, Pin and Pout shall have a basic accuracy of ±0.5 percent at the higher of either 3 times the output operating frequency of the ballast or 2.4 kHz.


*Basic model* means all units of a given type of covered product (or class thereof) manufactured by one manufacturer, having the same primary energy source, and which have essentially identical electrical, physical, and functional (or hydraulic) characteristics that affect energy consumption, energy efficiency, water consumption, or water efficiency, and are rated to operate a given lamp type and wattage.


*Ceramic metal halide lamp* means a metal halide lamp with an arc tube made of ceramic materials.


*Electronic ballast* means a device that uses semiconductors as the primary means to control lamp starting and operation.


*General lighting application* means lighting that provides an interior or exterior area with overall illumination.


*High-frequency electronic metal halide ballast* means an electronic ballast that operates a lamp at an output frequency of 1000 Hz or greater.


*Metal halide ballast* means a ballast used to start and operate metal halide lamps.


*Metal halide lamp* means a high intensity discharge lamp in which the major portion of the light is produced by radiation of metal halides and their products of dissociation, possibly in combination with metallic vapors.


*Metal halide lamp fixture* means a light fixture for general lighting application designed to be operated with a metal halide lamp and a ballast for a metal halide lamp.


*Nonpulse-start electronic ballast* means an electronic ballast with a starting method other than pulse-start.


*Off mode* means the condition in which an energy-using product:


(1) Is connected to a main power source; and


(2) Is not providing any standby or active mode function.


*PLC control signal* means a power line carrier (PLC) signal that is supplied to the ballast using the input ballast wiring for the purpose of controlling the ballast and putting the ballast in standby mode.


*Probe-start metal halide ballast* means a ballast that starts a probe-start metal halide lamp that contains a third starting electrode (probe) in the arc tube, and does not generally contain an igniter but instead starts lamps with high ballast open circuit voltage.


*Pulse-start metal halide ballast* means an electronic or electromagnetic ballast that starts a pulse-start metal halide lamp with high voltage pulses, where lamps shall be started by the ballast first providing a high voltage pulse for ionization of the gas to produce a glow discharge and then power to sustain the discharge through the glow-to-arc transition.


*Quartz metal halide lamp* means a metal halide lamp with an arc tube made of quartz materials.


*Reference lamp* is a metal halide lamp that meets the operating conditions of a reference lamp as defined by ANSI C82.9-2016 (incorporated by reference; see § 431.323).


*Standby mode* means the condition in which an energy-using product:


(1) Is connected to a main power source; and


(2) Offers one or more of the following user-oriented or protective functions:


(i) To facilitate the activation or deactivation of other functions (including active mode) by remote switch (including remote control), internal sensor, or timer;


(ii) Continuous functions, including information or status displays (including clocks) or sensor-based functions.



---

[N] [74 FR 12075, Mar. 23, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 10966, Mar. 9, 2010; 74 FR 12074, Mar. 23, 2009; 79 FR 7843, Feb. 10, 2014; 87 FR 37699, June 24, 2022]




