# § 644.7   What definitions apply?

(a) *General definitions.* The following terms used in this part are defined in 2 CFR part 200, subpart A, or in 34 CFR 77.1:


(b) *Other definitions.* The following definitions also apply to this part:


*Different population* means a group of individuals that an eligible entity desires to serve through an application for a grant under the Educational Opportunity Centers program and that—


(i) Is separate and distinct from any other population that the entity has applied for a grant under this chapter to serve; or


(ii) While sharing some of the same needs as another population that the eligible entity has applied for a grant to serve, has distinct needs for specialized services.


*Financial and economic literacy* means knowledge about personal financial decision-making, which may include but is not limited to knowledge about—


(i) Personal and family budget planning;


(ii) Understanding credit building principles to meet long-term and short-term goals (*e.g.,* loan to debt ratio, credit scoring, negative impacts on credit scores);


(iii) Cost planning for postsecondary or postbaccalaureate education (*e.g.,* spending, saving, personal budgeting);


(iv) College cost of attendance (*e.g.,* public vs. private, tuition vs. fees, personal costs);


(v) Financial assistance (*e.g.,* searches, application processes, and differences between private and government loans, assistanceships); and


(vi) Assistance in completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA).


*Foster care youth* means youth who are in foster care or are aging out of the foster care system.


*HEA* means the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended.


*Homeless children and youth* means those persons defined in section 725 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11434a).


*Individual with a disability* means a person who has a disability, as that term is defined in section 12102 of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12101 *et seq.*).


*Institution of higher education* means an educational institution as defined in sections 101 and 102 of the HEA.


*Low-income individual* means an individual whose family's taxable income did not exceed 150 percent of the poverty level amount in the calendar year preceding the year in which the individual initially participated in the project. The poverty level amount is determined by using criteria of poverty established by the Bureau of the Census of the U.S. Department of Commerce.


*Participant* means an individual who—


(i) Is determined to be eligible to participate in the project under § 644.3; and


(ii) Receives project services.


*Postsecondary education* means education beyond the secondary school level.


*Potential first-generation college student* means—


(i) An individual neither of whose parents received a baccalaureate degree; or


(ii) An individual who regularly resided with and received support from only one parent and whose supporting parent did not receive a baccalaureate degree.


*Secondary school* means a school that provides secondary education as determined under State law, except that it does not include education beyond grade 12.


*Target area* means a geographic area served by an Educational Opportunity Centers project.


*Veteran* means a person who—


(i) Served on active duty as a member of the Armed Forces of the United States for a period of more than 180 days and was discharged or released under conditions other than dishonorable;


(ii) Served on active duty as a member of the Armed Forces of the United States and was discharged or released because of a service connected disability;


(iii) Was a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces of the United States and was called to active duty for a period of more than 30 days; or


(iv) Was a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces of the United States who served on active duty in support of a contingency operation (as that term is defined in section 101(a)(13) of title 10, United States Code) on or after September 11, 2001.



---

[N] [59 FR 2658, Jan. 18, 1994, as amended at 75 FR 65780, Oct. 26, 2010; 79 FR 76102, Dec. 19, 2014]




