# ยง 21.72   Definitions.

(a) *Child support.* Periodic payments for the support and maintenance of a child or children, subject to and in accordance with State or local law. This includes, but is not limited to payments to provide for health care, education, recreation, clothing, or to meet other specific needs of such a child or children.


(b) *Spousal support.* Periodic payments for the support and maintenance of a spouse or former spouse in accordance with State or local law. It includes, but is not limited to, separate maintenance, alimony pendente lite, and maintenance. Spousal support does not include any payment for transfer of property or its value by an individual to his or her spouse or former spouse in compliance with any community property settlement, equitable distribution of property, or other division of property between spouse or former spouse.


(c) *Notice.* A court order, letter, or similar documentation issued by an authorized person, which provides notification that an officer has failed to make periodic support payments under a support order.


(d) *Support order.* Any order providing for child or child and spousal support issued by a court of competent jurisdiction or by administrative procedures established under State law that affords substantially due process and is subject to judicial review. A court of competent jurisdiction includes Indian tribal courts within any State, territory, or possession of the United States and the District of Columbia.


(e) *Authorized person.* (1) Any agent or attorney of any State having in effect a plan approved under part D of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 651-665), who has the duty or authority to seek recovery of any amounts owed as child or child and spousal support (including, when authorized under a State plan, any official of a political subdivision); and (2) the court which has authority to issue an order against the officer for the support and maintenance of a child, or any agent of such court.


(f) *Active duty.* Full-time duty in the Service, including full-time training duty.


(g) *Legal officer.* Shall be an officer of the Service or employee of the Department who is a lawyer and who has substantial knowledge of the regulations, policies, and procedures relating to the implementation of section 172 of Pub. L. 97-248.




