# § 21.7673   Measurement of concurrent enrollments.

(a) *Conversion of units of measurement required.* Where a reservist enrolls concurrently in courses offered by two schools and the standards for measurement of the courses pursued concurrently in the two schools are different, the Department of Veterans Affairs will measure the reservist's enrollment by converting the units of measurement for courses in the second school to their equivalent in units of measurement required for the courses in the program of education which the reservist is pursuing at the primary institution. This conversion will be accomplished as follows:


(1) If VA measures the course at the primary institution on a credit-hour basis (including a course which does not lead to a standard college degree, which is being measured on a credit-hour basis as provided in § 21.7672(b)), and VA measures the courses at the second school on a clock-hour basis, the clock hours will be converted to credit hours.


(2) If VA measures the courses pursued at the primary institution on a clock-hour basis, and VA measures the courses pursued at the second school on a credit-hour basis, including courses which qualify for credit-hour measurement on the basis of § 21.7672(b), VA will convert the credit hours to clock hours to determine the reservist's training time.


(b) *Conversion of clock hours to credit hours.* If the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section require the Department of Veteran Affairs to convert clock hours, it will do so by—


(1) Dividing the number of credit hours which the Department of Veterans Affairs considers to be full-time at the educational institution whose courses are measured on a credit-hour basis by the number of clock hours which are full-time at the educational institution whose courses are measured on a clock-hour basis; and


(2) Multiplying each clock hour of attendance by the decimal determined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The Department of Veterans Affairs will drop all fractional hours.


(c) *Conversion of credit hours to clock hours.* If the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section require the Department of Veterans Affairs to convert credit hours to clock hours, it will do so by—


(1) Dividing the number of clock hours which the Department of Veterans Affairs considers to be full-time at the educational institution whose courses are measured on a clock-hour basis by the number of credit hours which are full-time at the educational institution whose courses are measured on a credit-hour basis; and


(2) Multiplying each credit hour by the number determined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The Department of Veterans Affairs will drop all fractional hours.


(d) *Standards for measurement the same.* If VA measures the courses pursued at both institutions on either a clock-hour basis or a credit-hour basis, VA will measure the reservist's enrollment by adding together the units of measurement for the courses in the second school and the units of measurement for courses in the primary institution. The standard for full time will be the full-time standard for the courses at the primary institution.



---

[N] [56 FR 9632, Mar. 7, 1991, as amended at 61 FR 29310, June 10, 1996]




