# ยง 62.10100   Identification of plan.

(a) *Identification of plan.* South Carolina Designated Facility Plan (Section 111(d) Plan).


(b) The plan was officially submitted as follows:


(1) Implementation Plan for Control of Designated Pollutants, including sulfuric acid mist from sulfuric acid plants and total reduced sulfur from kraft pulp mills, submitted on December 22, 1981. 


(2) A revision to South Carolina's 111(d) plan for total reduced sulfur which was submitted on December 13, 1984. This revision approved an alternate emission limit for the digesters and an extended compliance schedule for the evaporators at Stone Container Corporation.


(3) South Carolina Implementation Plan for Existing Large Municipal Waste Combustors, submitted on January 14, 1998, by the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control.


(4) South Carolina Implementation Plan for Existing Municipal Solid Waste Landfills, submitted on April 12, 1999, by the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control.


(5) South Carolina Designated Facility Plan (Section 111(d)/129) for Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators, submitted on September 19, 2000, by the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control.


(c) *Designated facilities.* The plan applies to existing facilities in the following categories sources:


(1) Sulfuric acid plants.


(2) Kraft pulp mills.


(3) Existing municipal waste combustors.


(4) Existing municipal solid waste landfills.


(5) Existing hospital/medical/infectious waste incinerators.



---

[N] [47 FR 29236, July 6, 1982, as amended at 50 FR 33037, Aug. 16, 1985; 63 FR 40048, July 27, 1998; 64 FR 46151, Aug. 24, 1999; 66 FR 48567, Sept. 21, 2001]




