# ยง 305.29   Required testing by designated laboratory.

Upon notification by the Commission or its designated representative, a manufacturer of a covered product shall supply, at the manufacturer's expense, no more than two of each model of each product to a laboratory, which will be identified by the Commission or its designated representative in the notice, for the purpose of ascertaining whether the estimated annual energy consumption, the estimated annual operating cost, or the energy efficiency rating, or the light output, energy usage and life ratings or, for general service fluorescent lamps, the color rendering index, disclosed on the label or fact sheet or in an industry directory, or, as required in a catalog, or the representation made by the label that the product is in compliance with applicable standards in section 325 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 6295, is accurate. Such a procedure will only be followed after the Commission or its staff has examined the underlying test data provided by the manufacturer as required by ยง 305.28(b) and after the manufacturer has been afforded the opportunity to reverify test results from which the estimated annual energy consumption, the estimated annual operating cost, or the energy efficiency rating for each basic model was derived, or the light output, energy usage and life ratings or, for general service fluorescent lamps, the color rendering index, for each basic model or lamp type was derived. A representative designated by the Commission shall be permitted to observe any reverification procedures required by this part, and to inspect the results of such reverification. The Commission will pay the charges for testing by designated laboratories.



---

[N] [59 FR 67530, Dec. 29, 1994. Redesignated at 72 FR 49971, Aug. 29, 2007, as amended at 72 FR 49974, Aug. 29, 2007. Redesignated at 84 FR 58029, Oct. 30, 2019, as amended at 84 FR 58037, Oct. 30, 2019]




