# ยง 760.1707   Information to be furnished.

(a) The affected farmer must furnish to the FSA county committee complete and accurate information sufficient to enable the FSA county committee or the Deputy Administrator to make the determinations required in this subpart. Such information must include, but is not limited to:


(1) A copy of the notice from, or other evidence of action by, the public agency which resulted in the dumping or removal of the affected farmer's milk from the commercial market.


(2) The specific weather or disaster event and its results on milk marketing for the claim period.


(3) The quantity and butterfat test of milk produced and marketed during the base period. This information must be a certified statement from the affected farmer's milk marketing organization or any other evidence the FSA county committee accepts as an accurate record of milk production and butterfat tests during the base period.


(4) The average number of dry cows, bred heifers, and cows milked during the base period and during each pay period in the application.


(5) The affected farmer will provide two milk marketing statements, one for the base period and one for the claim period.


(6) On the milk marketing statement the per hundredweight hauling rate and the per hundredweight $0.15 promotion fee, which are normally incurred by affected farmers who market through the milk marketing organization, that the affected farmer did not incur because of the dumping or removal of the milk from the commercial market, then the average price stated by the milk marketing organization will be the average gross price paid less these costs. If the milk marketing organization does not have this information, the affected farmer will furnish a statement specifying these costs, if any.


(7) The amount of proceeds, if any, received by the affected farmer from the marketing of milk produced during the application period.


(8) The amount of any payments not subject to refund made to the affected farmer by the milk marketing organization with respect to the milk produced during the application period and removed from the commercial market.


(9) A detailed written statement from the affected farmer regarding the circumstances of the milk removal or dumping, the type and geographic scope of the weather event, what transportation limitations occurred in addition to how and where the removed or dumped milk was discarded.


(b) If requested by FSA, the affected farmer must provide additional documentation that establishes the affected farmer's eligibility for a Milk Loss Program payment.



---

[N] [88 FR 62290, Sept. 11, 2023]










