# § 842.707   Partial deferred payment of the lump-sum credit if annuity commences after January 3, 1988, and before October 1, 1989.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, if the annuity of an employee or Member commences after January 3, 1988, and before October 1, 1989, the lump-sum credit payable under § 842.705 is payable to the individual, or his or her survivors, according to the following schedule:


(1) Sixty percent of the lump-sum credit is payable at the time of retirement, and


(2) Forty percent is payable, with interest determined under section 8334(e)(3) of title 5, United States Code, one year after the time of retirement.


(b) If an employee or Member whose annuity commences after January 3, 1988, and before October 1, 1989, dies before the time limit prescribed in § 842.704(b)(2), that individual is subject to § 842.704 (c) or (d), but the lump-sum credit will be paid in accordance with the schedule in paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) An annuitant is exempt from the deferred payment schedule under paragraph (a) of this section if the individual—


(1) Separates involuntarily, other than for cause on charges of delinquency or misconduct, or


(2) Has, at the time of retirement, a life-threatening affliction or other critical medical condition.


(3)(i) For the purpose of this section, *life-threatening affliction or other critical medical condition* means a medical condition so severe as to reasonably limit an individual's probable life expectancy to less than 2 years.


(ii) The existence of one of the following medical conditions is *prima facie* evidence of a life-threatening affliction or other critical medical condition:


(A) Metastatic and/or inoperable neoplasms.


(B) Aortic stenosis (severe).


(C) Class IV cardiac disease with congestive heart failure.


(D) Respiratory failure.


(E) Cor pulmonale with respiratory failure.


(F) Emphysema with respiratory failure.


(G) [Reserved]


(H) Severe cardiomyopathy—Class IV.


(I) Aplastic anemia.


(J) Uncontrolled hypertension with hypertensive encephalopathy.


(K) Cardiac aneurysm not amenable to surgical treatment.


(L) Agranulocytosis.


(M) Severe hepatic failure.


(N) Severe hypoxic brain damage.


(O) Severe portal hypertension with esophageal varices.


(P) AIDS (Active—Not AIDS Related Complex or only seropositivity).


(Q) Life-threatening infections (encephalitis, meningitis, rabies, etc.).


(R) Scleroderma with severe esophageal involvement.


(S) Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (rapidly progressive).


(T) Hemiplegia with life threatening complications.


(U) Quadriplegia with life threatening complications.


(iii) Evidence of the existence of a life-threatening affliction or other critical medical condition must be certified by a physician and sent to OPM on or before the date the annuitant elects to receive an alternative form of annuity. For the purpose of this section, “physician” has the same meaning given that term in § 339.102 of this chapter.


(iv) If a medical condition other than those listed in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section is claimed as a basis for exemption from the deferred payment schedule, OPM will review the physician's certification to determine whether the cited condition is life-threatening or critical.


(v) The cost of providing medical documentation under this paragraph rests with the employee or Member, unless OPM exercises its choice of physician.



---

[N] [53 FR 11635, Apr. 8, 1988, as amended at 60 FR 54587, Oct. 25, 1995]




