# § 58.505   Meaning of words.

For the purpose of the regulations in this subpart, words in the singular form shall be deemed to impart the plural and vice versa, as the case may demand. Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the following meaning: 


(a) *Condensed skim.* Skim milk which has been condensed to approximately one-third the original volume in accordance with standard commercial practice. 


(b) *Cottage cheese.* (1) The soft uncured cheese meeting the requirements of the Food and Drug Administration for dry curd cottage cheese (21 CFR 133.129). 


(2) *Cottage Cheese.* The soft uncured cheese meeting the requirements of the Food and Drug Administration for cottage cheese (21 CFR 133.128). 


(3) *Reduced Fat, Light, and Fat Free Cottage Cheese.* The products conforming to all applicable Federal Regulations including “Cottage cheese,” Food and Drug Administration (21 CFR 133.128), “Dry curd cottage cheese,” Food and Drug Administration (21 CFR 133.129), “Nutrient content claims for fat, fatty acid, and cholesterol content of foods,” Food and Drug Administration (21 CFR 101.62), and “Requirements for foods named by use of a nutrient content claim and a standardized term,” Food and Drug Administration (21 CFR 130.10). 


(c) *Direct acidification.* The production of cottage cheese, without the use of bacterial starter cultures, through the use of approved food grade acids. This product shall be labeled according to the requirements of the Food and Drug Administration, 21 CFR 133.128 or 133.129, as appropriate. 


(d) *Cottage Cheese with fruits, nuts, chives, or other vegetables.* Shall consist of cottage cheese to which has been added fruits, nuts, chives, and other vegetables. The finished cheese shall comply with the requirements of the Food and Drug Administration for cottage cheese (21 CFR 133.128). 


(e) *Cream.* The milkfat portion of milk which rises to the surface of milk on standing or is separated from it by centrifugal force and contains not less than 18.0 percent of milkfat. 


(f) *Creaming mixture.* The creaming mixture consists of cream or a mixture of cream with milk or skim milk or both. To adjust the solids content, nonfat dry milk or concentrated skim milk may be added but not to exceed 3.0 percent by weight of the creaming mixture. It may or may not contain a culture of harmless lactic acid and flavor producing bacteria, food grade acid, salt, and stabilizers with or without carriers. The creaming mixture in its final form may or may not be homogenized and shall conform to the requirements of the Food and Drug Administration (21 CFR 133.128(b)).



---

[N] [40 FR 47911, Oct. 10, 1975. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 67 FR 48976, July 29, 2002]




