# § 102.23   Origin and Manufacturer Identification.

(a) *Textile or apparel product manufacturer identification.* All commercial importations of textile or apparel products must identify on CBP Form 3461, or its electronic equivalent, (Entry/Immediate Delivery) and CBP Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent, (Entry Summary), and in all electronic data transmissions that require identification of the manufacturer, the manufacturer of such products through a manufacturer identification code (MID) constructed from the name and address of the entity performing the origin-conferring operations pursuant to § 102.21 or § 102.22 of this part, as applicable. The code must be accurately constructed using the methodology set forth in the appendix to this part, including the use of the two-letter International Organization for Standardization (ISO) code for the country of origin of such products. When a single entry is filed for products of more than one manufacturer, the products of each manufacturer must be separately identified. Importers must be able to demonstrate to CBP their use of reasonable care in determining the manufacturer. If an entry filed for such merchandise fails to include the MID properly constructed from the name and address of the manufacturer, the Center director may reject the entry or take other appropriate action. For purposes of this paragraph, “textile or apparel products” means goods classifiable in Section XI, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS), and goods classifiable in any 10-digit HTSUS number outside of Section XI with a three-digit textile category number assigned to the specific subheading.


(b) *Incomplete or insufficient information.* If the Center director is unable to determine the country of origin of a textile or apparel product, the importer must submit additional information as requested by the Center director. Release of the product from CBP custody will be denied until a determination of the country of origin is made based upon the information provided or the best information available.


(c) *Date of exportation.* For quota, visa or export license requirements, and statistical purposes, the date of exportation for textile or apparel products listed in § 102.21(b)(5) will be the date the vessel or carrier leaves the last port in the country of origin, as determined by application of § 102.21 or § 102.22, as applicable. Contingency of diversion in another foreign territory or country will not change the date of exportation for quota, visa or export license requirements or for statistical purposes.



---

[N] [CBP Dec. 05-32, 70 FR 58013, Oct. 5, 2005, as amended at CBP Dec. 11-09, 76 FR 14584, Mar. 17, 2011; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61286, Oct. 13, 2015; CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93017, Dec. 20, 2016]




