# ยง 423.279   National average monthly bid amount.

(a) *Bids included.* For each year (beginning with 2006) CMS computes a national average monthly bid amount from approved bids submitted under ยง 423.265 in order to calculate the base beneficiary premium, as provided in ยง 423.286(c). The national average monthly bid amount is equal to a weighted average of the standardized bid amounts for each prescription drug plan (not including fallbacks) and for each MA-PD plan described in section 1851(a)(2)(A)(i) of the Act. The calculation does not include bids submitted by MSA plans, MA private fee-for-service plans, specialized MA plans for special needs individuals, PACE programs under section 1894, and contracts under reasonable cost reimbursement contracts under section 1876(h) of the Act.


(b) *Calculation of weighted average.* (1) The national average monthly bid amount is a weighted average, with the weight for each plan equal to a percentage with the numerator equal to the number of Part D eligible individuals enrolled in the plan in the reference month (as defined in ยง 422.258(c)(1) of this chapter) and the denominator equal to the total number of Part D eligible individuals enrolled in a reference month in all Part D plans except MSA plans, fallbacks, MA private fee-for-service plans, specialized MA plans for special needs individuals, PACE programs under section 1894, and contracts under reasonable cost reimbursement contracts under section 1876(h) of the Act.


(2) For purposes of calculating the monthly national average monthly bid amount for 2006, CMS assigns equal weighting to PDP sponsors (other than fallback entities) and assigns MA-PD plans included in the national average bid a weight based on prior enrollment (new MA-PD plans are assigned zero weight).


(c) *Geographic adjustment.* (1) Upon the development of an appropriate methodology, the national average monthly bid amount for Part D plans will be adjusted to take into account differences in prices for Part D drugs among PDP regions.


(2) CMS does not apply any geographic adjustments if CMS determines that price variations among PDP regions are negligible.


(3) CMS applies any geographic adjustment in a budget neutral manner so as to not result in a change in the aggregate payments that may have been made if CMS had not applied an adjustment.


(4) CMS does not apply any geographic adjustment until an appropriate methodology is developed.




