# § 93.303   Definitions.

For the purposes of this subpart:


*Allocation* means authorization to conduct a commercial air tour in the Grand Canyon National Park (GCNP) Special Flight Rules Area (SFRA).


*Commercial air tour* means any flight conducted for compensation or hire in a powered aircraft where a purpose of the flight is sightseeing. If the operator of a flight asserts that the flight is not a commercial air tour, factors that can be considered by the Administrator in making a determination of whether the flight is a commercial air tour include, but are not limited to—


(1) Whether there was a holding out to the public of willingness to conduct a sightseeing flight for compensation or hire;


(2) Whether a narrative was provided that referred to areas or points of interest on the surface;


(3) The area of operation;


(4) The frequency of flights;


(5) The route of flight;


(6) The inclusion of sightseeing flights as part of any travel arrangement package; or


(7) Whether the flight in question would or would not have been canceled based on poor visibility of the surface.


*Commercial Special Flight Rules Area Operation* means any portion of any flight within the Grand Canyon National Park Special Flight Rules Area that is conducted by a certificate holder that has operations specifications authorizing flights within the Grand Canyon National Park Special Flight Rules Area. This term does not include operations conducted under an FAA Form 7711-1, Certificate of Waiver or Authorization. For more information on commercial special flight rules area operations, *see* “Grand Canyon National Park Special Flight Rules Area (GCNP SFRA) Procedures Manual,” which is available online or from the responsible Flight Standards Office.


*GCNP quiet aircraft technology designation* means an aircraft that is subject to § 93.301 and has been shown to comply with the noise limit specified in appendix A of this part.


*Number of passenger seats* means the number of passenger seats for which an individual aircraft is configured.


*Park* means Grand Canyon National Park.


*Special Flight Rules Area* means the Grand Canyon National Park Special Flight Rules Area.



---

[N] [65 FR 17732, Apr. 4, 2000, as amended at 70 FR 16092, Mar. 29, 2005; Amdt. 93-102, 83 FR 48212, Sept. 24, 2018]




