# § 424.20   Requirements for posthospital SNF care.

Medicare Part A pays for posthospital SNF care furnished by an SNF, or a hospital or CAH with a swing-bed approval, only if the certification and recertification for services are consistent with the content of paragraph (a) or (c) of this section, as appropriate.


(a) *Content of certification*—(1) *General requirements.* Posthospital SNF care is or was required because—


(i) The individual needs or needed on a daily basis skilled nursing care (furnished directly by or requiring the supervision of skilled nursing personnel) or other skilled rehabilitation services that, as a practical matter, can only be provided in an SNF or a swing-bed hospital on an inpatient basis, and the SNF care is or was needed for a condition for which the individual received inpatient care in a participating hospital or a qualified hospital, as defined in § 409.3 of this chapter, or for a new condition that arose while the individual was receiving care in the SNF or swing-bed hospital for a condition for which he or she received inpatient care in a participating or qualified hospital; or


(ii) The individual has been correctly assigned one of the case-mix classifiers that CMS designates as representing the required level of care, as provided in § 409.30 of this chapter.


(2) *Special requirement for certifications performed prior to July 1, 2002: A swing-bed hospital with more than 49 beds (but fewer than 100) that does not transfer a swing-bed patient to a SNF within 5 days of the availability date.* Transfer of the extended care patient to the SNF is not medically appropriate.


(b) *Timing of certification*—(1) *General rule.* The certification must be obtained at the time of admission or as soon thereafter as is reasonable and practicable.


(2) *Special rules for certain swing-bed hospitals.* For swing-bed hospitals with more than 49 beds that are approved after March 31, 1988, the extended care patient's physician has 5 days (excluding weekends and holidays) beginning on the availability date as defined in § 413.114(b), to certify that the transfer of the extended care patient is not medically appropriate.


(c) *Content of recertifications.* (1) The reasons for the continued need for posthospital SNF care:


(2) The estimated time the individual will need to remain in the SNF;


(3) Plans for home care, if any; and 


(4) If appropriate, the fact that continued services are needed for a condition that arose after admission to the SNF and while the individual was still under treatment for the condition for which he or she had received inpatient hospital services.


(d) *Timing of recertifications.* (1) The first recertification is required no later than the 14th day of posthospital SNF care.


(2) Subsequent recertifications are required at least every 30 days after the first recertification.


(e) *Signature.* Certification and recertification statements may be signed by—


(1) The physician responsible for the case or, with his or her authorization, by a physician on the SNF staff or a physician who is available in case of an emergency and has knowledge of the case; or 


(2) A physician extender (that is, a nurse practitioner, a clinical nurse specialist, or a physician assistant as those terms are defined in section 1861(aa)(5) of the Act) who does not have a direct or indirect employment relationship with the facility but who is working in collaboration with a physician. For purposes of this section—


(i) *Collaboration.* (A) Collaboration means a process whereby a physician extender works with a doctor of medicine or osteopathy to deliver health care services.


(B) The services are delivered within the scope of the physician extender's professional expertise, with medical direction and appropriate supervision as provided for in guidelines jointly developed by the physician extender and the physician or other mechanisms defined by Federal regulations and the law of the State in which the services are performed.


(ii) *Types of employment relationships.* (A) *Direct employment relationship.* A direct employment relationship with the facility is one in which the physician extender meets the common law definition of the facility's “employee,” as specified in §§ 404.1005, 404.1007, and 404.1009 of title 20 of the regulations. When a physician extender meets this definition with respect to an entity other than the facility itself, and that entity has an agreement with the facility for the provision of nursing services under § 409.21 of this subchapter, the facility is considered to have an indirect employment relationship with the physician extender.


(B) *Indirect employment relationship.* (*1*) When a physician extender meets the definition of a direct employment relationship in paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(A) of this section with respect to an entity other than the facility itself, and that entity has an agreement with the facility for the provision of nursing services under § 409.21 of this subchapter, the facility is considered to have an indirect employment relationship with the physician extender.


(*2*) An indirect employment relationship does not exist if the agreement between the entity and the facility involves only the performance of delegated physician tasks under § 483.30(e) of this chapter.


(f) *Recertification requirement fulfilled by utilization review.* A SNF may substitute utilization review of extended stay cases for the second and subsequent recertifications, if it includes this procedure in its utilization review plan. 


(g) *Description of procedures.* The SNF must have available on file a written description that specifies the certification and recertification time schedule and indicates whether utilization review is used as an alternative to the second and subsequent recertifications.



---

[N] [53 FR 6634, Mar. 2, 1988, as amended at 54 FR 37275, Sept. 7, 1989; 58 FR 30671, May 26, 1993; 60 FR 38272, July 26, 1995; 62 FR 46037, Aug. 29, 1997; 63 FR 26311, May 12, 1998; 63 FR 53307, Oct. 5, 1998; 66 FR 39600, July 31, 2001; 70 FR 45055, Aug. 4, 2005; 75 FR 73626, Nov. 29, 2010; 82 FR 36635, Aug. 4, 2017; 83 FR 39290, Aug. 8, 2018]




