# § 60.14   Respiratory protection.

(a) *Temporary use of respirators at metal and nonmetal mines.* The metal and nonmetal mine operator shall use respiratory protection as a temporary measure in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section when miners must work in concentrations of respirable crystalline silica above the PEL while:


(1) Engineering control measures are being developed and implemented; or


(2) It is necessary by the nature of work involved (for example, occasional entry into hazardous atmospheres to perform maintenance or investigation).


(b) *Miners unable to wear respirators at all mines.* Upon written determination by a physician or other licensed health care professional (PLHCP) that an affected miner is unable to wear a respirator, the miner shall be temporarily transferred either to work in a separate area of the same mine or to an occupation at the same mine where respiratory protection is not required.


(1) The affected miner shall continue to receive compensation at no less than the regular rate of pay in the occupation held by that miner immediately prior to the transfer.


(2) The affected miner may be transferred back to the miner's initial work area or occupation when temporary use of respirators under paragraph (a) of this section or section 60.13 is no longer required.


(c) *Respiratory protection requirements at all mines.* (1) Affected miners shall be provided with a NIOSH-approved atmosphere-supplying respirator or NIOSH-approved air-purifying respirator equipped with the following:


(i) Particulate protection classified as 100 series under 42 CFR part 84; or


(ii) Particulate protection classified as High Efficiency “HE” under 42 CFR part 84.


(2) When approved respirators are used, the mine operator must have a written respiratory protection program that meets the following requirements in accordance with ASTM F3387-19: program administration; written standard operating procedures; medical evaluation; respirator selection; training; fit testing; maintenance, inspection, and storage. ASTM F3387-19, *Standard Practice for Respiratory Protection,* approved August 1, 2019, is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact MSHA at: MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5450; (202) 693-9440; or any Mine Safety and Health Enforcement District Office. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations* or email *fr.inspection@nara.gov.* The material may be obtained from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; *www.astm.org.*

