# § 177.22   Definitions.

(a) *Country of origin.* For the purpose of this subpart, an article is a product of a country or instrumentality only if (1) it is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of that country or instrumentality, or (2) in the case of an article which consists in whole or in part of materials from another country or instrumentality, it has been substantially transformed into a new and different article of commerce with a name, character, or use distinct from that of the article or articles from which it was so transformed. The term “instrumentality” shall not be construed to include any agency or division of the government of a country, but may be construed to include such arrangements as the European Economic Community.


(b) *Advisory ruling.* An advisory ruling is a non-binding, non-reviewable written statement issued by the Director, Commercial and Trade Facilitation Division, Regulations and Rulings, Headquarters, U.S. Customs and Border protection, which does no more than call attention to a well established interpretation or principal of law relating to the country of origin, without applying it to a particular set of facts. CBP will issue an advisory ruling in response to a request for a final determination if:


(1) The request suggests that general information, rather than a final determination, is actually being sought,


(2) The request is incomplete or otherwise fails to meet the requirements set forth in § 177.25(a), or


(3) The ruling requested cannot be issued for any other reason, and CBP believes that the general information supplied by an advisory ruling may be of some benefit to the party making the request. An advisory ruling is not a ruling issued prior to importation under 28 U.S.C. 1581(h).


(c) *Final determination.* A final determination is a binding judicially reviewable statement issued by the Executive Director, Regulations and Rulings, Office of International Trade, Headquarters, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, in response to a written request submitted under the provisions of this subpart that interprets and applies the provisions of law and regulation relating to the country of origin to a specific set of facts. A final determination may be issued to a party-at-interest prior to actual entry of the merchandise.


(d) *Party-at-interest.* For purposes of this subpart the term party-at-interest means:


(1) A foreign manufacturer, producer, or exporter, or a United States importer of merchandise which is the subject of a final determination under this subpart,


(2) A manufacturer, producer, or wholesaler in the United States of a like product,


(3) United States members of a labor organization or other association of workers whose members are employed in the manufacture, production, or wholesale in the United States of a like product, and


(4) A trade or business association a majority of whose members manufacture, produce, or wholesale a like product in the United States.



---

[N] [T.D. 83-13, 48 FR 1189, Jan. 11, 1983, as amended by T.D. 91-77, 56 FR 46115, Sept. 10, 1991]




