# ยง 193.11   What is the notice procedure?

This section states the notice procedure for the FAA to designate information as protected under this part. This procedure is used when there is not an immediate safety or security need for the information. This procedure generally is used to specify a type of information that you and others like you will provide on an on-going basis.


(a) *Application.* You may apply to have information designated as protected under this part by submitting an application addressed to the U.S. Department of Transportation, Docket Operations, West Building Ground Floor, Room W12-140, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590 for paper submissions, and the Federal Docket Management System (FDMS) Web page at *http://www.regulations.gov* for electronic submissions. Your application must include the designation described in paragraph (c) of this section that you want the FAA to issue. You should not include in your application any information that you do not want available to the public. The FAA may issue a proposed designation based on the application or may deny your application.


(b) *Proposed designation.* Before issuing a designation under this section, based either on your application or the FAA's own initiative, the FAA publishes a proposed designation in the _Federal Register_ and requests comment.


(c) *Designation.* The FAA designates information as protected under this part if, after review of the comments, the FAA makes the findings in ยง 193.7. The FAA publishes in the _Federal Register_ an order designating the information provided under the program as protected under this part. The designation includes the following:


(1) A summary of why the FAA finds that you and others, if applicable, will provide the information voluntarily.


(2) A description of the type of information that you and others, if applicable, may voluntarily provide under the program and a summary of why the FAA finds that the information is safety or security related.


(3) A summary of why the FAA finds that the disclosure of the information would inhibit you and others, if applicable, from voluntarily providing of that type of information.


(4) A summary of why the receipt of that type of information aids in fulfilling the FAA's safety and security responsibilities.


(5) A summary of why withholding such information from disclosure would be consistent with the FAA's safety and security responsibilities, including a statement as to the circumstances under which, and a summary of why, withholding such information from disclosure would not be consistent with the FAA's safety and security responsibilities, as described in ยง 193.9.


(6) A summary of how the FAA will distinguish information protected under this part from information the FAA receives from other sources.


(7) A summary of the significant comments received and the FAA's responses.


(d) *Amendment of designation.* The FAA may amend a designation using the procedures in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section.


(e) *Withdrawal of designation.* The FAA may withdraw a designation under this section at any time the FAA finds that continuation of the designation does not meet the elements of ยง 193.7, or if the requirements of the designation are not met. The FAA withdraws the designation by publishing a notice in the _Federal Register._ The withdrawal is effective on the date of publication or such later date as the notice may state. Information provided during the time the program was designated remains protected under this part and the program. Information provided after the withdrawal of the designation is effective is not protected under this part or the program.



---

[N] [66 FR 33805, June 25, 2001, as amended at 72 FR 68475, Dec. 5, 2007]




