# § 151.2070   Recordkeeping requirements.

(a) The master, owner, operator, agent, or person in charge of a vessel bound for a port or place in the United States, unless specifically exempted by § 151.2015 of this subpart, must ensure the maintenance of written or digital records that include the information required to be reported by § 151.2060 of this subpart and the sediment information in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(1) *Discharge of sediment.* If sediment was discharged within the jurisdiction of the United States, include the name and location of the facility where sediment disposal took place.


(2) *Certification of accurate information.* Include the master, owner, operator, agent, person in charge, or responsible officer's printed name, title, and signature attesting to the accuracy of the information provided and that the activities were in accordance with the ballast water management plan required by § 151.2050(g). If exceptional circumstances required deviation from the plan, the details surrounding the need for deviation and associated actions must be explained. The signature requirement may be satisfied by affirming the certification portion of the electronic ballast water report.


(b) The master, owner, operator, agent, or person in charge of a vessel subject to this section must retain a signed copy of this information onboard the vessel for 2 years.


(c) The recordkeeping requirements in this section may be met by maintaining a copy of the reporting form completed pursuant to § 151.2060 of this subpart, in addition to maintaining a record of the sediment information in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. These records may be stored on digital media but must be readily viewable by the Coast Guard during an inspection.


(d) The master, owner, operator, agent, or person in charge of a vessel subject to this section must retain the monitoring records required in 46 CFR 162.060-20(b) for 2 years. These records may be stored on digital media but must be readily viewable by the Coast Guard during an inspection.



---

[N] [USCG-2012-0924, 80 FR 73115, Nov. 24, 2015]




