# § 191.183   Articles manufactured or produced in the United States.

(a) *Procedure for filing documents.* Except as otherwise provided, the drawback procedures prescribed in this part shall be followed as applicable to drawback under this subpart on articles manufactured or produced in the United States with the use of imported or substituted merchandise, and on flavoring extracts or medicinal or toilet preparations (including perfumery) manufactured or produced with the use of domestic tax-paid alcohol.


(b) *Notice of transfer*—(1) *Evidence of export.* The notice of zone transfer on Customs Form 214 shall be in place of the documents under subpart G of this part to establish the exportation.


(2) *Filing procedures.* The notice of transfer, in triplicate, shall be filed with the drawback office where the foreign trade zone is located prior to the transfer of the articles to the zone, or within 3 years after the transfer of the articles to the zone. A notice filed after the transfer shall state the foreign trade zone lot number.


(3) *Contents of notice.* Each notice of transfer shall show the:


(i) Number and location of the foreign trade zone;


(ii) Number and kind of packages and their marks and numbers;


(iii) Description of the articles, including weight (gross and net), gauge, measure, or number; and


(iv) Name of the transferor.


(c) *Action of foreign trade zone operator.* After articles have been received in the zone, the zone operator shall certify on a copy of the notice of transfer the receipt of the articles (see § 191.184(d)(2)) and forward the notice to the transferor or the person designated by the transferor, unless the export summary procedure, provided for in § 191.73, is used. If the export summary procedure is used, the requirements in § 191.73 shall be complied with, as applicable. The transferor shall verify that the notice has been certified before filing it with the drawback claim.


(d) *Drawback entries.* Drawback entries shall be filed on Customs Form 7551 to indicate that the merchandise was transferred to a foreign trade zone. The “Declaration of Exportation” shall be modified as follows:


