# ยง 1773.3   Annual audit.

(a) Each auditee must have its financial statements audited annually by an auditor selected by the auditee and approved by RUS as set forth in ยง 1773.4. All auditees, except those subject to the Single Audit Act, must submit audited financial statements on a comparative basis covering at least two consecutive 12-month periods, unless the entity has not been in existence for two consecutive 12-month audit periods. Financial statements should be prepared in accordance with GAAP, or if prepared using a special purpose framework, reconciling schedules should be included. Audits of consolidated financial statements of the parent are not an acceptable replacement for an audit of the auditee.


(b) Each auditee must establish an annual audit date within 12 months of the date of the first advance and must prepare annual financial statements for the audit date established. Each auditee must notify RUS of the audit date at least 90 days prior to the selected audit date.


(c) Auditees not subject to 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, must furnish a reporting package to RUS within 120 days of the audit date. (See ยง 1773.21) Until all loans made or guaranteed by RUS are repaid and unliquidated obligations rescinded, auditees must continue to provide annual audited financial statements. Auditees with grant funding only must furnish annual audited financial statements in the year of the first advance and until all funds have been advanced or rescinded, and all financial compliance requirements have been fully satisfied.




(d) An auditee that is identified as a non-Federal entity as defined in 2 CFR 200.1, which means a State, local government, Indian tribe, Institution of Higher Education (IHE), or nonprofit organization that carries out a Federal award as a recipient or subrecipient, must meet the audit requirements outlined in 2 CFR 200.501 and 200.502 and the Single Audit Act, and not this part.


(1) For auditees expending less than the threshold for expenditure in Federal awards during the year, RUS reserves its right under 2 CFR 200.503(b) and (c) to arrange for an audit performed in accordance with this part.




(2) Within 30 days after the audit date, auditees subject to 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, must notify RUS, in writing via email, of the total Federal awards expended during the year and must state whether the audit will be performed in accordance with the Single Audit Act or this part.


(e) Subpart F of 2 CFR part 200 does not apply to audits of RUS electric and telecommunications cooperatives and for-profit telecommunications awardees unless the awardee has contractually agreed with another Federal agency (*e.g.,* Federal Emergency Management Agency) to provide a financial audit performed in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F. In no circumstance will an auditee be required to submit separate audits performed in accordance with this part and 2 CFR part 200, subpart F.



---

[N] [88 FR 7563, Feb. 6, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 88634, Nov. 8, 2024]






