# ยง 35.515   Evaluation of performance.

(a) *Joint evaluation process.* The applicant and the Regional Administrator will develop a process for jointly evaluating and reporting progress and accomplishments under the work plan (see ยง 35.507(b)(2)(iv)). A description of the evaluation process and reporting schedule must be included in the work plan. The schedule must require the recipient to report at least annually and must satisfy the requirements for progress reporting under 2 CFR 200.329.

(b) *Elements of the evaluation process.* The evaluation process must provide for: 


(1) A discussion of accomplishments as measured against work plan commitments; 


(2) A discussion of the cumulative effectiveness of the work performed under all work plan components; 


(3) A discussion of existing and potential problem areas; and 


(4) Suggestions for improvement, including, where feasible, schedules for making improvements. 


(c) *Resolution of issues.* If the joint evaluation reveals that the recipient has not made sufficient progress under the work plan, the Regional Administrator and the recipient will negotiate a resolution that addresses the issues. If the issues cannot be resolved through negotiation, the Regional Administrator may take appropriate measures under 2 CFR 200.339-200.243. The recipient may request review of the Regional Administrator's decision under the dispute processes in 2 CFR part 1500, subpart E.

(d) *Evaluation reports.* The Regional Administrator will ensure that the required evaluations are performed according to the negotiated schedule and that copies of evaluation reports are placed in the official files and provided to the recipient. 



---

[N] [66 FR 3795, Jan. 16, 2001, as amended at 79 FR 76055, Dec. 19, 2014; 87 FR 30398, May 19, 2022]




