# ยง 1.170A-3   Reduction of charitable contribution for interest on certain indebtedness.

(a) *In general.* Section 170(f)(5) requires that the amount of a charitable contribution be reduced for certain interest to the extent necessary to avoid the deduction of the same amount both as an interest deduction under section 163 and as a deduction for charitable contributions under section 170. The reduction is to be determined in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. 


(b) *Interest attributable to postcontribution period.* In determining the amount to be taken into account as a charitable contribution for purposes of section 170, the amount determined without regard to section 170(f)(5) or this section shall be reduced by the amount of interest which has been paid, or is to be paid, by the taxpayer, which is attributable to any liability connected with the contribution, and which is attributable to any period of time after the making of the contribution. The deduction otherwise allowable for charitable contributions under section 170 is required to be reduced pursuant to section 170(f)(5) and this section only if, in connection with a charitable contribution, a liability is assumed by the recipient of the contribution or by any other person or if the charitable contribution is of property which is subject to a liability. Thus, if a charitable contribution is made in property and the transfer is conditioned upon the assumption of a liability by the donee or by some other person, the contribution must be reduced by the amount of any interest which has been paid, or will be paid, by the taxpayer, which is attributable to the liability, and which is attributable to any period after the making of the contribution. The adjustment referred to in this paragraph must also be made where the contributed property is subject to a liability and the value of the property reflects the payment by the donor of interest with respect to a period of time after the making of the contribution. 


(c) *Interest attributable to precontribution period.* If, in connection with the charitable contribution of a bond, a liability is assumed by the recipient or by any other person, or if the bond is subject to a liability, then, in determining the amount to be taken into account as a charitable contribution under section 170, the amount determined without regard to section 170(f)(5) and this section shall, without regard to whether any reduction may be required by paragraph (b) of this section, also be reduced for interest which has been paid, or is to be paid, by the taxpayer on indebtedness incurred or continued to purchase or carry such bond, and which is attributable to any period before the making of the contribution. However, the reduction referred to in this paragraph shall be made only to the extent that such reduction does not exceed the interest (including bond discount and other interest equivalent) receivable on the bond, and attributable to any period before the making of the contribution which is not, by reason of the taxpayer's method of accounting, includible in the taxpayer's gross income for any taxable year. For purposes of section 170(f)(5) and this section the term *bond* means any bond, debenture, note, or certificate or other evidence of indebtedness. 


(d) *Illustrations.* The application of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:


(e) *Effective date.* This section applies only to contributions paid in taxable years beginning after December 31, 1969.



---

[N] [T.D. 7207, 37 FR 20775, Oct. 4, 1972]




