# ยง 1.279-2   Amount of disallowance of interest on corporate acquisition indebtedness.

(a) *In general.* Under section 279(a), no deduction is allowed for any interest paid or incurred by a corporation during the taxable year with respect to its corporate acquisition indebtedness to the extent that such interest exceeds: 


(1) $5 million, reduced by 


(2) The amount of interest paid or incurred by such corporation during such year on any obligation issued after December 31, 1967, to provide consideration directly or indirectly for an acquisition described in section 279(b)(1) but which is not corporate acquisition indebtedness. Such an obligation is not corporate acquisition indebtedness if it: 


(i) Was issued prior to October 10, 1969, or 


(ii) Was issued after October 9, 1969, but does not meet any one or more of the tests of section 279(b) (2), (3), or (4), or 


(iii) Was originally deemed to be corporate acquisition indebtedness but is no longer so treated by virtue of the application of paragraphs (3) or (4) of section 279(d) or 


(iv) Is specifically excluded from treatment as corporate acquisition indebtedness by virtue of sections 279(d)(5), (f), or (i).


(b) *Certain terms defined.* When used in section 279 and the regulations thereunder: 


(1) The term *issued* includes the giving of a note or other evidence of indebtedness to a bank or other lender as well as an issuance of a bond or debenture. In the case of obligations which are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the date of issue is the date on which the issue is first offered to the public. In the case of obligations which are not so registered, the date of issue is the date on which the obligation is sold to the first purchaser. 


(2) The term *interest* includes both stated interest and unstated interest (such as original issue discount as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of ยง 1.163-4 and amounts treated as interest under section 483). 


(3) The term *money* means cash and its equivalent. 


(4) The term *control* shall have the meaning assigned to such term by section 368(c). 


(5) The term *affiliated group* shall have the meaning assigned to such term by section 1504(a), except that all corporations other than the acquired corporation shall be treated as includible corporations (without any exclusion under section 1504(b)) and the acquired corporation shall not be treated as an includible corporation. This definition shall apply whether or not some or all of the members of the affiliated group file a consolidated return. 


(c) *Examples.* The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:



---

[N] [T.D. 7262, 38 FR 5844, Mar. 5, 1973] 




