# ยง 2809.11   How will the BLM call for nominations?

(a) *Call for nominations.* The BLM may publish a call for nominations for lands to be included in a competitive process. The BLM will publish this notice in the _Federal Register_ and may also use other notification methods, such as a newspaper of general circulation in the area affected, or the internet. The _Federal Register_ notice and any other notices will include:


(1) The date, time, and location by which nominations must be submitted;


(2) The date by which nominators will be notified of the BLM's decision on timely submissions;


(3) The area or areas within which nominations are being requested; and


(4) The qualification for a nominator, which must include, at a minimum, the requirements for an applicant, see ยง 2803.10.


(b) *Nomination submission.* Nominations for lands to be included in a competitive process must be in writing, and include the following:


(1) A refundable nomination fee of $5 per acre;


(2) The nominator's name and personal or business address. The name of only one citizen, association, partnership, corporation, or municipality may appear as the nominator. All communications relating to submissions will be sent to that name and address, which constitutes the nominator's name and address of record; and


(3) The legal land description and a map of the nominated lands. The lands nominated may be the entire area or part of the area made available under the call for nominations.


(c) The BLM will not accept your submission if it does not comply with the requirements of this section, or if you are not qualified to hold a grant or lease under ยง 2803.10.


(d) *Withdrawing a nomination.* A nomination cannot be withdrawn, except by the BLM for cause, in which case the nomination fee will be refunded.


(e) The BLM may decide whether to conduct an offer for nominated lands.



---

[N] [89 FR 35683, May 1, 2024]




