# § 75.1911   Fire suppression systems for diesel-powered equipment and fuel transportation units.

(a) The fire suppression system required by §§ 75.1907 and 75.1909 shall be a multipurpose dry chemical type (ABC) fire suppression system listed or approved by a nationally recognized independent testing laboratory and appropriate for installation on diesel-powered equipment and fuel transportation units.


(1) The system shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications and the limitations of the listing or approval.


(2) The system shall be installed in a protected location or guarded to minimize physical damage from routine vehicle operations.


(3) Suppressant agent distribution tubing or piping shall be secured and protected against damage, including pinching, crimping, stretching, abrasion, and corrosion.


(4) Discharge nozzles shall be positioned and aimed for maximum fire suppression effectiveness. Nozzles shall also be protected against the entrance of foreign materials such as mud, coal dust, or rock dust.


(b) The fire suppression system shall provide fire suppression and, if automatic, fire detection for the engine including the starter, transmission, hydraulic pumps and tanks, fuel tanks, exposed brake units, air compressors and battery areas on diesel-powered equipment and electric panels or controls used on fuel transportation units and other areas as necessary.


(c) If automatic, the fire suppression system shall include audible and visual alarms to warn of fires or system faults. 


(d) The fire suppression system shall provide for automatic engine shutdown. If the fire suppression system is automatic, engine shutdown and discharge of suppressant agent may be delayed for a maximum of 15 seconds after the fire is detected by the system. 


(e) The fire suppression system shall be operable by at least two manual actuators. One actuator shall be located on each side of the equipment. If the equipment is provided with an operator's compartment, one of the manual actuators shall be located in the compartment within reach of the operator. 


(f) The fire suppression system shall remain operative in the event of engine shutdown, equipment electrical system failure, or failure of any other equipment system. 


(g) The electrical components of each fire suppression system installed on equipment used where permissible electric equipment is required shall be permissible or intrinsically safe and such components shall be maintained in permissible or intrinsically safe condition. 


(h) Electrically operated detection and actuation circuits shall be monitored and provided with status indicators showing power and circuit continuity. If the system is not electrically operated, a means shall be provided to indicate the functional readiness status of the detection system. 


(i) Each fire suppression system shall be tested and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's recommended inspection and maintenance program and as required by the nationally recognized independent testing laboratory listing or approval, and be visually inspected at least once each week by a person trained to make such inspections. 


(j) *Recordkeeping.* Persons performing inspections and tests of fire suppression systems under paragraph (i) shall record when a fire suppression system does not meet the installation or maintenance requirements of this section. 


(1) The record shall include the equipment on which the fire suppression system did not meet the installation or maintenance requirements of this section, the defect found, and the corrective action taken. 


(2) Records are to be kept manually in a secure manner not susceptible to alteration or recorded electronically in a secured computer system that is not susceptible to alteration. 


(3) Records shall be maintained at a surface location at the mine for one year and made available for inspection by an authorized representative of the Secretary and miners' representatives. 


(k) All miners normally assigned to the active workings of the mine shall be instructed about the hazards inherent to the operation of the fire suppression systems and, where appropriate, the safeguards available for each system. 


(l) For purposes of § 75.380(f), a fire suppression system installed on diesel-powered equipment and meeting the requirements of this section is equivalent to a fire suppression system meeting the requirements of §§ 75.1107-3 through 75.1107-16. 




