# § 200.434   Contributions and donations.

(a) Costs of contributions and donations, including cash, property, and services, from the recipient or subrecipient to other entities are unallowable.


(b) The value of services and property donated (that is, in-kind donations) to the recipient or subrecipient may not be charged to the Federal award either as a direct or indirect cost. The value of donated services and property may be used to meet cost sharing requirements (see § 200.306). Depreciation on donated assets is permitted so long as the donated property is not counted towards meeting cost sharing requirements (see § 200.436).


(c) Services donated or volunteered to the recipient or subrecipient may be provided by professional and technical personnel, consultants, and other skilled and unskilled labor. The value of these services may not be charged to the Federal award as a direct or indirect cost. However, the value of donated services may be used to meet cost sharing requirements in accordance with the provisions of § 200.306.


(d) To the extent feasible, services donated to the recipient or subrecipient will be supported by the same methods used to support the allocability of regular personnel services.


(e) The following provisions apply to nonprofit organizations. The value of services donated to a nonprofit organization and used in the performance of a direct cost activity must be considered in the determination of the recipient's or subrecipient's indirect cost rate(s) and, accordingly, must be allocated a proportionate share of applicable indirect costs when the following circumstances exist:


(1) The aggregate value of the services is material;


(2) The services are supported by a significant amount of the indirect costs incurred by the recipient or subrecipient;


(i) In those instances where there is no basis for determining the fair market value of the services rendered, the recipient or subrecipient and the cognizant agency for indirect costs must negotiate an appropriate allocation of indirect cost to the services.


(ii) Where donated services directly benefit a project supported by the Federal award, the indirect costs allocated to the services will be considered as a part of the project's total costs. Such indirect costs may be reimbursed under the Federal award or used to meet cost sharing requirements.


(f) Fair market value of donated services must be computed as described in § 200.306.


(g) Personal property and use of space.


(1) Donated personal property and use of space may be furnished to a recipient or subrecipient. The value of the personal property and space may not be charged to the Federal award either as a direct or indirect cost.


(2) The value of the donations of personal property and use of space may be used to meet cost sharing requirements described in § 200.300. The recipient or subrecipient must value the donations in accordance with § 200.300. Where the recipient or subrecipient treats donations as indirect costs, indirect cost rates must separate the value of the donations so that reimbursement is not made.




