# ยง 1.584-1   Common trust funds.

(a) *Method of taxation.* A common trust fund maintained by a bank is not subject to taxation under this chapter and is not considered a corporation. Its participants are taxed on their proportionate share of income from the common trust fund.


(b) *Conditions for qualification.* (1) For a fund to be qualified as a common trust fund it must be maintained by a bank (as defined in section 581) in conformity with the rules and regulations of the Comptroller of the Currency, exclusively for the collective investment and reinvestment of contributions to the fund by the bank. The bank may either act alone or with one or more other fiduciaries, but it must act solely in its capacity as one or a combination of the following: (i) As a trustee of a trust created by will, deed, agreement, declaration of trust, or order of court; (ii) as an executor of a will or as an administrator of an estate; (iii) as a guardian (by whatever name known under local law) of the estate of an infant, of an incompentent individual, or of an absent individual; or (iv) on or after October 3, 1976, as a custodian of a UniformGifts to Minors account. A Uniform Gifts to Minors account is an account established pursuant to a State law substantially similar to the Uniform Gifts to Minors Act. (*See* the Uniform Gifts to Minors Act of 1956 or the Uniform Gifts to Minors Act of 1966, as published by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws.) The Commissioner will publish a list of the States whose laws he determines to be substantially similar to such uniform acts. A bank that maintains a Uniform Gifts to Minors Act account must establish, to the satisfaction of the Commissioner or his delegate, that with respect to the account the bank has duties and responsibilities similar to the duties and responsibilities of a trustee or guardian.


(2) A common trust fund may be a participant in another common trust fund.


(c) *Affiliated groups.* For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1975, two or more banks that are members of the same affiliated group (within the meaning of section 1504) are treated, for purposes of section 584, as one bank for the period of their affiliation. A common trust fund may be maintained by one or by more than one member of an affiliated group. Any member of the group may, but need not, contribute to the fund. Further, for purposes of this paragraph, members of an affiliated group may be, but need not be, co-trustees of the common trust fund.



---

[N] [T.D. 6500, 25 FR 11737, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 7935, 49 FR 1694, Jan. 13, 1984]




