# § 54.1601   Participating providers.

(a) *Eligible telecommunications carriers.* A broadband provider that is designated as an eligible telecommunications carrier may participate in the Emergency Benefit Broadband Program as a participating provider.


(b) *Other broadband providers.* A broadband provider that is not designated as an eligible telecommunications carrier may seek approval from the Wireline Competition Bureau to participate in the Emergency Broadband Benefit Program as a participating provider.


(1) The Wireline Competition Bureau shall review and act on applications to be designated as a participating provider on an expedited basis. Such applications shall contain:


(i) The states or territories in which the provider plans to participate;


(ii) The service areas in which the provider has the authority, if needed, to operate in each state or territory, but has not been designated an eligible telecommunications carrier; and,


(iii) Certifications and documentation of the provider's plan to combat waste, fraud, and abuse.


(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Wireline Competition Bureau shall automatically approve as a participating provider a broadband provider that has an established program as of April 1, 2020, that is widely available and offers internet service offerings to eligible households and maintains verification processes that are sufficient to avoid fraud, waste, and abuse. Such applications seeking automatic approval shall contain:


(i) The states or territories in which the provider plans to participate;


(ii) The service areas in which the provider has the authority, if needed, to operate in each state or territory, but has not been designated an Eligible Telecommunications Carrier; and,


(iii) A description, supported by documentation, of the established program with which the provider seeks to qualify for automatic admission to the Emergency Broadband Benefit Program.


(c) *Election notice.* All participating providers must file an election notice with the Administrator. The election notice must be submitted in a manner and form consistent with the direction of the Wireline Competition Bureau and the Administrator. At a minimum the election notice should contain:


(1) The states or territories in which the provider plans to participate in the Emergency Broadband Benefit Program;


(2) A statement that, in each state or territory, the provider was a “broadband provider” as of December 1, 2020;


(3) A list of states or territories where the provider is an existing Eligible Telecommunications Carrier, if any;


(4) A list of states or territories where the provider received Wireline Competition Bureau approval, whether automatic or expedited, to participate, if any;


(5) Whether the provider intends to distribute connected devices;


(6) A description of the internet service offerings for which the provider plans to seek reimbursement in each state or territory; and,


(7) Documentation demonstrating the standard rates for those services in each state; and any other information necessary to establish participating providers in the Administrator's systems.


(d) *Suspension and debarment.* The prohibition on participation and suspension and debarment rules established in 47 CFR 54.8, shall apply to activities associated with or related to the Emergency Broadband Benefit Program.




