# § 125.133   What special definitions apply to this subpart?

In addition to the definitions set forth at 40 CFR 125.83, the following special definitions apply to this subpart:


*Cooling water* means water used for contact or noncontact cooling, including water used for equipment cooling, evaporative cooling tower makeup, and dilution of effluent heat content. The intended use of the cooling water is to absorb waste heat rejected from the process or processes used, or from auxiliary operations on the facility's premises. Cooling water that is used in another industrial process either before or after it is used for cooling is considered process water rather than cooling water for the purposes of calculating the percentage of a new offshore oil and gas extraction facility's intake flow that is used for cooling purposes in § 125.131(c).


*Fixed facility* means a bottom founded offshore oil and gas extraction facility permanently attached to the seabed or subsoil of the outer continental shelf (e.g., platforms, guyed towers, articulated gravity platforms) or a buoyant facility securely and substantially moored so that it cannot be moved without a special effort (e.g., tension leg platforms, permanently moored semi-submersibles) and which is not intended to be moved during the production life of the well. This definition does not include mobile offshore drilling units (MODUs) (e.g., drill ships, temporarily moored semi-submersibles, jack-ups, submersibles, tender-assisted rigs, and drill barges).


*Minimum ambient source water surface elevation* means the mean low tidal water level for estuaries or oceans. The mean low tidal water level is the average height of the low water over at least 19 years.


*New offshore oil and gas extraction facility* means any building, structure, facility, or installation that: meets the definition of a “new facility” at 40 CFR 125.83; and is regulated by the Offshore or Coastal Subcategories of the Oil and Gas Extraction Point Source Category Effluent Guidelines in 40 CFR 435.10 or 40 CFR 435.40; but only if it commences construction after July 17, 2006.


*Offshore liquefied natural gas (LNG) import terminal* means any facility located in waters defined in 40 CFR 435.10 or 40 CFR 435.40 that liquefies, re-gasifies, transfers, or stores liquefied natural gas.


*Sea chest* means the underwater compartment or cavity within the facility or vessel hull or pontoon through which sea water is drawn in (for cooling and other purposes) or discharged.


*Seafood processing vessel* means any offshore or nearshore, floating, mobile, facility engaged in the processing of fresh, frozen, canned, smoked, salted or pickled seafood, seafood paste, mince, or meal.




