# ยง 310.515   Patient package inserts for estrogens.

(a) *Requirement for a patient package insert.* FDA concludes that the safe and effective use of drug products containing estrogens requires that patients be fully informed of the benefits and risks involved in the use of these drugs. Accordingly, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, each estrogen drug product restricted to prescription distribution, including products containing estrogens in fixed combinations with other drugs, shall be dispensed to patients with a patient package insert containing information concerning the drug's benefits and risks. An estrogen drug product that does not comply with the requirements of this section is misbranded under section 502(a) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.


(b) *Distribution requirements.* (1) For estrogen drug products, the manufacturer and distributor shall provide a patient package insert in or with each package of the drug product that the manufacturer or distributor intends to be dispensed to a patient.


(2) In the case of estrogen drug products in bulk packages intended for multiple dispensing, and in the case of injectables in multiple-dose vials, a sufficient number of patient labeling pieces shall be included in or with each package to assure that one piece can be included with each package or dose dispensed or administered to every patient. Each bulk package shall be labeled with instructions to the dispensor to include one patient labeling piece with each package dispensed or, in the case of injectables, with each dose administered to the patient. This section does not preclude the manufacturer or labeler from distributing additional patient labeling pieces to the dispensor.


(3) Patient package inserts for estrogens dispensed in acute-care hospitals or long-term care facilities will be considered to have been provided in accordance with this section if provided to the patient before administration of the first estrogen and every 30 days thereafter, as long as the therapy continues.


(c) *Patient package insert contents.* A patient package insert for an estrogen drug product is required to contain the following information:


(1) The name of the drug.


(2) The name and place of business of the manufacturer, packer, or distributor.


(3) A statement regarding the benefits and proper uses of estrogens.


(4) The contraindications to use, *i.e.*, when estrogens should not be used.


(5) A description of the most serious risks associated with the use of estrogens.


(6) A brief summary of other side effects of estrogens.


(7) Instructions on how a patient may reduce the risks of estrogen use.


(8) The date, identified as such, of the most recent revision of the patient package insert.


(d) *Guidance language.* The Food and Drug Administration issues informal labeling guidance texts under ยง 10.90(b)(9) of this chapter to provide assistance in meeting the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section. Requests for a copy of the guidance text should be directed to the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, Division of Reproductive and Urologic Products, Food and Drug Administration, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002.


(e) *Exemptions.* This section does not apply to estrogen-progestogen oral contraceptives. Labeling requirements for these products are set forth in ยง 310.501.


(f) *Requirement to supplement approved application.* Holders of approved applications for estrogen drug products that are subject to the requirements of this section must submit supplements under ยง 314.70(c) of this chapter to provide for the labeling required by paragraph (a) of this section. Such labeling may be put into use without advance approval by the Food and Drug Administration.



---

[N] [55 FR 18723, May 4, 1990, as amended at 74 FR 13113, Mar. 26, 2009] 




