# § 397.103   Requirements for State routing designations.

(a) The State routing agency, as defined in § 397.201(c), shall select routes to minimize radiological risk using “Guidelines for Selecting Preferred Highway Routes for Highway Route Controlled Quantity Shipments of Radioactive Materials,” or an equivalent routing analysis which adequately considers overall risk to the public. Designations must be preceded by substantive consultation with affected local jurisdictions and with any other affected States to ensure consideration of all impacts and continuity of designated routes.


(b) State routing agencies may designate preferred routes as an alternative to, or in addition to, one or more Interstate System highways, including interstate system bypasses, or Interstate System beltways.


(c) A State-designated route is effective when— 


(1) The State gives written notice to the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration:


(i) By email to *HMRouting@dot.gov;* or


(ii) By certified mail, return receipt requested, to the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Office of Enforcement and Compliance (MC-SE), 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE., Washington, DC 20590-0001. Attention: National Hazardous Materials Route Registry.


(2) Receipt thereof is acknowledged in writing by the FMCSA. 


(3) The route is published in the National Hazardous Materials Route Registry on FMCSA's website at *https://www.fmcsa.dot.gov/regulations/hazardous-materials/national-hazardous-materials-route-registry*.


(d) A list of State-designated preferred routes and a copy of the “Guidelines for Selecting Preferred Highway Routes for Highway Route Controlled Quantity Shipments of Radioactive Materials” are available upon request to Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Office of Enforcement and Compliance (MC-EC), 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE, Washington, DC 20590-0001, or by email to *HMRouting@dot.gov.*


---

[N] [57 FR 44131, Sept. 24, 1992, as amended at 66 FR 49874, Oct. 1, 2001; 72 FR 55703, Oct. 1, 2007; 79 FR 59458, Oct. 2, 2014; 81 FR 68359, Oct. 4, 2016; 83 FR 22881, May 17, 2018; 83 FR 48726, Sept. 27, 2018; 87 FR 59037, Sept. 29, 2022]




