# § 113.67   Commercial gauger and commercial laboratory bond conditions.

(a) *Commercial gauger bond conditions.* A commercial gauger's bond must contain the conditions listed in this section and must be a continuous bond.


(1) If the principal is a commercial gauger whose reports of gauging or whose samples are accepted for CBP purposes, the principal agrees to:


(i) Gauge or sample merchandise according to the standards and procedures set out in the CBP regulations;


(ii) Abide by the requirements set out in § 151.13(b) of this chapter; and


(iii) Submit properly any required report, proof, abstract, or sample to CBP.


(2)(i) If the principal defaults, the obligors (principal and surety) agree to pay liquidated damages equal to the value of the merchandise involved in the default or three times the value of the merchandise involved in the default if the merchandise is restricted or prohibited merchandise or alcoholic beverages or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation.


(ii) If the principal defaults on the agreements in these conditions and the default does not involve merchandise, the obligors agree to pay liquidated damages of $1,000 for each default or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation.


(iii) It is understood and agreed that whether the default involves merchandise is determined by CBP, that the amount to be collected under this condition will be based on the quantity and value of the merchandise as determined by CBP and that value as used in these provisions means value as determined under 19 U.S.C. 1401a.


(b) *Commercial laboratory bond conditions.* A commercial laboratory's bond must contain the conditions listed in this subsection and must be a continuous bond.


(1) If the principal is a commercial laboratory whose laboratory analysis reports are accepted for CBP purposes, the principal agrees to:


(i) Conduct laboratory analyses according to the standards and procedures set out in the CBP regulations;


(ii) Abide by the requirements set out in §§ 151.12(c) and 151.14 of this chapter; and


(iii) Submit properly any required report, proof, abstract, or sample to CBP.


(2)(i) If the principal defaults, the obligors (principal and surety, jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages equal to the value of the merchandise involved in the default or three times the value of the merchandise involved in the default if the merchandise is restricted or prohibited merchandise or alcoholic beverages or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation.


(ii) If the principal defaults on the agreements in these conditions and the default does not involve merchandise, the obligors agree to pay liquidated damages of $1,000 for each default or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation.


(iii) It is understood and agreed that whether the default involves merchandise is determined by CBP, that the amount to be collected under this condition shall be based on the quantity and value of the merchandise as determined by CBP and that value as used in these provisions means value as determined under 19 U.S.C. 1401a.



---

[N] [T.D. 87-39, 52 FR 9787, Mar. 26, 1987, as amended by T.D. 88-72, 53 FR 45902, Nov. 15, 1988; T.D. 99-67, 64 FR 48534, Sept. 7, 1999; T.D. 01-26, 66 FR 16854, Mar. 28, 2001; CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70169, Nov. 13, 2015]




