# § 13.25   Transfer of permits and scope of permit authorization.

(a) Except as otherwise provided for in this section, permits issued under this part are not transferable or assignable.


(b) Permits issued under the regulations in this subchapter in § 17.22(b) and (c), § 17.32(b) and (c), or 50 CFR part 22 may be transferred to a successor subject to our determination that the proposed transferee:


(1) Meets all of the qualifications under this part for holding a permit;


(2) Has provided adequate written assurances of sufficient funding for the conservation measures, conservation plan, or conservation benefit agreement, and will implement the relevant terms and conditions of the permit, including any outstanding minimization and mitigation requirements; and


(3) Has provided other information that we determine is relevant to the processing of the submission.


(c) In the case of the transfer of property subject to an agreement and permit issued under § 17.22(c) or § 17.32(c) of this subchapter, the Service will transfer the permit to the new owner if the new owner agrees in writing to become a party to the original agreement and permit.


(d) Except as otherwise stated on the face of the permit, any person who is under the direct control of the permittee, or who is employed by or under contract to the permittee for purposes authorized by the permit, may carry out the activity authorized by the permit.


(e) In the case of permits issued under § 17.22(b) and (c) or § 17.32(b) and (c) of this subchapter to a State, Tribal, or local government entity, a person is under the direct control of the permittee where:


(1) The person is under the jurisdiction of the permittee and the permit provides that such person(s) may carry out the authorized activity; or


(2) The person has been issued a permit by the governmental entity or has executed a written instrument with the governmental entity, pursuant to the terms of the implementing agreement.


(f) In the case of permits issued under part 22, subpart E, of this subchapter to a Federal, State, tribal, or local governmental entity, a person is under the direct control of the permittee if the person is under the jurisdiction of the permittee, provided the permittee has the regulatory authority to require the person to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit and the permit provides that such person(s) may carry out the authorized activity.



---

[N] [64 FR 32711, June 17, 1999, as amended at 64 FR 52676, Sept. 30, 1999; 69 FR 24092, May 3, 2004; 78 FR 73725, Dec. 9, 2013; 87 FR 880, Jan. 7, 2022; 89 FR 9957, Feb. 12, 2024; 89 FR 26093, Apr. 12, 2024]




