# § 745.14   Interest on lawyers trust accounts and other similar escrow accounts.

(a)(1) *Pass-through share insurance.* The deposits or shares of any interest on lawyers trust account (IOLTA) or other similar escrow account in an insured credit union are insured on a “pass-through” basis, in the amount of up to the SMSIA for each client and principal on whose behalf funds are held in such accounts by either the attorney administering the IOLTA or the escrow agent administering a similar escrow account, in accordance with the other share insurance provisions of this part.


(2) Pass-through coverage will only be available if the recordkeeping requirements of § 745.2(c)(1) and the relationship disclosure requirements of § 745.2(c)(2) are satisfied. In the event those requirements are satisfied, funds attributable to each client and principal will be insured on a pass-through basis in whatever right and capacity the client or principal owns the funds. For example, an IOLTA or other similar escrow account must be titled as such, and the underlying account records of the insured credit union must sufficiently indicate the existence of the relationship on which a claim for insurance is founded. The details of the relationship between the attorney or escrow agent and their clients and principals must be ascertainable from the records of the insured credit union or from records maintained, in good faith and in the regular course of business, by the attorney or the escrow agent administering the account, or by some person who or entity that has undertaken to maintain such records for the attorney or escrow agent. The NCUA will determine, in its sole discretion, the sufficiency of these records for an IOLTA or other similar escrow account.






(b) *Membership requirements and treatment of IOLTAs.* For share insurance purposes, IOLTAs are treated as escrow accounts. IOLTAs and other similar escrow accounts are considered member accounts and eligible for pass-through share insurance if the attorney administering the IOLTA or the escrow agent administering the escrow account is a member of the insured credit union in which the funds are held. In this circumstance, the membership status of the clients or the principals is irrelevant.


(c) *Definitions.* (1) For purposes of this section:


(i) *Interest on lawyers trust account and IOLTA* mean a system in which lawyers place certain client funds in interest-bearing or dividend-bearing accounts, with the interest or dividends then used to fund programs such as legal service organizations who provide services to clients in need.


(ii) *Other similar escrow account* means an account where a licensed professional or other individual serving in a fiduciary capacity holds funds for the benefit of a client or principal as part of a transaction or business relationship. Examples of such accounts include, but are not limited to, real estate escrow accounts and prepaid funeral accounts.


(iii) *Pass-through share insurance* means, with respect to IOLTAs and other similar escrow accounts, insurance coverage based on the interest of each person on whose behalf funds are held in such accounts by the attorney administering the IOLTA or the escrow agent administering a similar escrow account.


(2) The terms “interest on lawyers trust account”, “IOLTA”, and “pass-through share insurance” are given the same meaning in this section as in 12 U.S.C. 1787(k)(5).



---

[N] [80 FR 80642, Dec. 28, 2015; 89 FR 79415, Sept. 30, 2024]




