# § 37.1010   What substantive issues should my award document address?

You necessarily will design and negotiate a TIA individually to meet the specific requirements of the particular project, so the complete list of substantive issues that you will address in the award document may vary. Every award document must address:


(a) *Project scope.* The scope is an overall vision statement for the project, including a discussion of the project's purpose, objectives, and detailed military and commercial goals. It is a critical provision because it provides a context for resolving issues that may arise during post-award administration. In a fixed-support TIA, you also must clearly specify the well-defined outcomes that reliably indicate the amount of effort expended and serve as the basis for the level of the fixed support (*see* §§ 37.305 and 37.560(a)). 


(b) *Project management.* You should describe the nature of the relationship between the Federal Government and the recipient; the relationship among the participants, if the recipient is an unincorporated consortium; and the overall technical and administrative management of the project. TIAs are used to carry out collaborative relationships between the Federal Government and the recipient. Consequently, there must be substantial involvement of the DoD program official (*see* § 37.220) and usually the administrative agreements officer. The program official provides technical insight, which differs from the usual technical oversight of a project. The management provision also should discuss how you and the recipient will make any modifications to the TIA. 


(c) *Termination, enforcement, and disputes.* Your TIA must provide for termination, enforcement remedies, and disputes and appeals procedures, in accordance with § 37.925. 


(d) *Funding.* You must: 


(1) Show the total amount of the agreement and the total period of performance. 


(2) If the TIA is an expenditure-based award, state the Government's and recipient's agreed-upon cost shares. The award document should identify values for any in-kind contributions, determined in accordance with §§ 37.530 through 37.555, to preclude later disagreements about them. 


(3) Specify the amount of Federal funds obligated and the performance period for those obligated funds. 


(4) State, if the agreement is to be incrementally funded, that the Government's obligation for additional funding is contingent upon the availability of funds and that no legal obligation on the part of the Government exists until additional funds are made available and the agreement is amended. You also must include a prior approval requirement for changes in plans requiring additional Government funding, in accordance with § 37.825. 


(e) *Payment.* You must choose the payment method and tell the recipient how, when, and where to submit payment requests, as discussed in §§ 37.805 through 37.815. Your payment method must take into account sound cash management practices by avoiding unwarranted cash advances. For an expenditure-based TIA, your payment provision must require the return of interest should excess cash balances occur, in accordance with § 37.820. For any TIA using the milestone payment method described in § 37.805(c), you must include language notifying the recipient that post-award administrators may adjust amounts of future milestone payments if a project's expenditures fall too far below the projections that were the basis for setting the amounts (*see* § 37.575(c) and § 37.1105(c)). 


(f) *Records retention and access to records.* You must include the records retention requirement at § 37.910. You also must provide for access to for-profit and nonprofit participants' records, in accordance with § 37.915 and § 37.920. 


(g) *Patents and data rights.* In designing the patents and data rights provision, you must set forth the minimum required Federal Government rights in intellectual property generated under the award and address related matters, as provided in §§ 37.840 through 37.875. It is important to define all essential terms in the patent rights provision. 


(h) *Foreign access to technology.* You must include a provision, in accordance with § 37.875, concerning foreign access and domestic manufacture of products using technology generated under the award. 


(i) *Title to, management of, and disposition of tangible property.* Your property provisions for for-profit and nonprofit participants must be in accordance with §§ 37.685 through 37.700. 


(j) *Financial management systems.* For an expenditure-based award, you must specify the minimum standards for financial management systems of both for-profit and nonprofit participants, in accordance with §§ 37.615 and 37.620. 


(k) *Allowable costs.* If the TIA is an expenditure-based award, you must specify the standards that both for-profit and nonprofit participants are to use to determine which costs may be charged to the project, in accordance with §§ 37.625 through 37.635, as well as § 37.830. 


(l) *Audits.* If your TIA is an expenditure-based award, you must include an audit provision for both for-profit and nonprofit participants and subrecipients, in accordance with §§ 37.640 through 37.670. 


(m) *Purchasing system standards.* You should include a provision specifying the standards in §§ 37.705 and 37.710 for purchasing systems of for-profit and nonprofit participants, respectively. 


(n) *Program income.* You should specify requirements for program income, in accordance with § 37.835. 


(o) *Financial and programmatic reporting.* You must specify the reports that the recipient is required to submit and tell the recipient when and where to submit them, in accordance with §§ 37.880 through 37.905. 


(p) *Assurances for applicable national policy requirements.* You must incorporate assurances of compliance with applicable requirements in Federal statutes, Executive orders, or regulations (except for national policies that require certifications). Appendix D to this part contains a list of commonly applicable requirements that you need to augment with any specific requirements that apply in your particular circumstances (*e.g.,* general provisions in the appropriations act for the specific funds that you are obligating). 


(q) *Other routine matters.* The agreement should address any other issues that need clarification, including who in the Government will be responsible for post-award administration and the statutory authority or authorities for entering into the TIA (*see* appendix B to this part for a discussion of statutory authorities). In addition, the agreement must specify that it takes precedence over any inconsistent terms and conditions in collateral documents such as attachments to the TIA or the recipient's articles of collaboration.



---

[N] [68 FR 47160, Aug. 7, 2003, as amended at 85 FR 51246, Aug. 19, 2020] 




