# § 52.931   Significant deterioration of air quality.

(a) Regulations for preventing significant deterioration of air quality. The provisions of § 52.21 (b) through (w) are hereby incorporated and made a part of the applicable state plan for the State of Kentucky only as they apply to permits issued pursuant to § 52.21 prior to final approval of Kentucky's Regulation for Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD), Visibility Monitoring, and Visibility New Source Review in Attainment Areas. The provisions of § 52.21 (b) through (w) are rescinded for permits issued after final approval of Kentucky's Regulation for Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD), Visibility Monitoring, and Visibility New Source Review in Attainment Areas.


(b) The Commonwealth of Kentucky has committed to revising the state's regulations accordingly when EPA amends the federal vessel emissions provisions contained in 40 CFR 51.166. In a letter dated October 17, 1986, Kentucky stated:


(c) In a letter dated May 3, 1988, EPA informed Kentucky that the following caveat must be included in all potentially affected permits due to a decision of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (*NRDC* v. *Thomas,* 838 F.2d 1224):


Kentucky responded with a letter dated May 11, 1988, stating in part:


(d) All applications and other information required pursuant to § 52.21 from sources located in the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be submitted to the appropriate state or local agency for which the source is located, rather than to EPA's Region 4 office: Kentucky Department for Environmental Protection, Division for Air Quality, 300 Sower Boulevard, 2nd Floor, Frankfort, Kentucky 40601; or Louisville Metro Air Pollution Control District, 701 W. Ormsby Ave., Suite 303, Louisville, Kentucky 40203.



---

[N] [54 FR 36311, Sept. 1, 1989, as amended at 74 FR 55143, Oct. 27, 2009; 79 FR 30050, May 27, 2014; 82 FR 32645, July 17, 2017]




