# § 1.457-9   Effect on eligible plans when not administered in accordance with eligibility requirements.

(a) *Eligible governmental plans.* A plan of a State ceases to be an eligible governmental plan on the first day of the first plan year beginning more than 180 days after the date on which the Commissioner notifies the State in writing that the plan is being administered in a manner that is inconsistent with one or more of the requirements of §§ 1.457-3 through 1.457-8 or 1.447-10. However, the plan may correct the plan inconsistencies specified in the written notification before the first day of that plan year and continue to maintain plan eligibility. If a plan ceases to be an eligible governmental plan, amounts subsequently deferred by participants will be includible in income when deferred, or, if later, when the amounts deferred cease to be subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture, as provided at § 1.457-11. Amounts deferred before the date on which the plan ceases to be an eligible governmental plan, and any earnings thereon, will be treated as if the plan continues to be an eligible governmental plan and will not be includible in participant's or beneficiary's gross income until paid to the participant or beneficiary. 


(b) *Eligible plans of tax-exempt entities.* A plan of a tax-exempt entity ceases to be an eligible plan on the first day that the plan fails to satisfy one or more of the requirements of §§ 1.457-3 through 1.457-8, or § 1.457-10. *See* § 1.457-11 for rules regarding the treatment of an ineligible plan. 



---

[N] [T.D. 9075, 68 FR 41240, July 11, 2003; 68 FR 51447, Aug. 27, 2003]




