# § 19.31   Supplemental statement of the case.

(a) *Purpose and limitations.* A “Supplemental Statement of the Case,” so identified, is a document prepared by the agency of original jurisdiction to inform the appellant of any material changes in, or additions to, the information included in the Statement of the Case or any prior Supplemental Statement of the Case. The information furnished with the Supplemental Statement of the Case shall include a statement describing the available review options if the appellant elects review of the issue or issues on appeal in the modernized system. In no case will a Supplemental Statement of the Case be used to announce decisions by the agency of original jurisdiction on issues not previously addressed in the Statement of the Case, or to respond to a notice of disagreement on newly appealed issues that were not addressed in the Statement of the Case. The agency of original jurisdiction will respond to notices of disagreement on newly appealed issues not addressed in the Statement of the Case using the procedures in §§ 19.29 and 19.30 of this part (relating to statements of the case). 


(b) *When furnished.* The agency of original jurisdiction will furnish the appellant and his or her representative, if any, a Supplemental Statement of the Case if:


(1) The agency of original jurisdiction receives additional pertinent evidence after a Statement of the Case or the most recent Supplemental Statement of the Case has been issued and before the appeal is certified to the Board of Veterans' Appeals and the appellate record is transferred to the Board; 


(2) A material defect in the Statement of the Case or a prior Supplemental statement of the Case is discovered; or 


(3) For any other reason the Statement of the Case or a prior Supplemental Statement of the Case is inadequate. 


(c) *Pursuant to remand from the Board.* The agency of original jurisdiction will issue a Supplemental Statement of the Case if, pursuant to a remand by the Board, it develops the evidence or cures a procedural defect, unless: 


(1) The only purpose of the remand is to assemble records previously considered by the agency of original jurisdiction and properly discussed in a prior Statement of the Case or Supplemental Statement of the Case; or 


(2) The Board specifies in the remand that a Supplemental Statement of the Case is not required.


(d) *Exception.* Paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not apply in proceedings before the General Counsel conducted under part 14 of this chapter to cancel accreditation or to review fee agreements and expenses for reasonableness.



---

[N] [67 FR 3104, Jan. 23, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 29879, May 22, 2008; 84 FR 178, Jan. 18, 2019]




