# § 131.130   Evaporated milk.

(a) *Description.* Evaporated milk is the liquid food obtained by partial removal of water only from milk. It contains not less than 6.5 percent by weight of milkfat, not less than 16.5 percent by weight of milk solids not fat, and not less than 23 percent by weight of total milk solids. Evaporated milk contains added vitamin D as prescribed by paragraph (b) of this section. It is homogenized. It is sealed in a container and so processed by heat, either before or after sealing, as to prevent spoilage.


(b) *Vitamin addition.* (1) Vitamin D shall be present in such quantity that each fluid ounce of the food contains 25 International Units thereof within limits of good manufacturing practice.


(2) Addition of vitamin A is optional, If added, vitamin A shall be present in such quantity that each fluid ounce of the food contains not less than 125 International Units thereof within limits of good maufacturing practice.


(c) *Optional ingredients.* The following safe and suitable ingredients may be used:


(1) Carriers for vitamins A and D.


(2) Emulsifiers.


(3) Stabilizers, with or without dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate (when permitted by and complying with the provisions of § 172.810 of this chapter) as a solubilizing agent.


(4) Characterizing flavoring ingredients, with or without coloring and nutritive carbohydrate sweeteners, as follows:


(i) Fruit and fruit juice, including concentrated fruit and fruit juice.


(ii) Natural and artificial food flavoring.


(d) *Methods of analysis.* The following referenced methods of analysis are from “Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists,” 13th Ed. (1980), which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(1) Milkfat content—“Fat—Official Final Action,” section 16.172.


(2) Total milk solids—“Total Solids—Official Final Action,” section 16.169.


(3) Vitamin D content—“Vitamin D in Milk—Official Final Action,” sections 43.195-43.208.


(e) *Nomenclature.* The name of the food is “Evaporated milk.” The phrase “vitamin D” or “vitamin D added”, or “vitamins A and D” or “vitamins A and D added”, as is appropriate, shall immediately precede or follow the name of the food wherever it appears on the principal display panel or panels of the label in letters not less than one-half the height of the letters used in such name. The name of the food shall include a declaration of a the presence of any characterizing flavoring, as specified in § 101.22 of this chapter.


(f) *Label declaration.* Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter.



---

[N] [43 FR 21670, May 19, 1978, as amended at 47 FR 11823, Mar. 19, 1982; 49 FR 10091, Mar. 19, 1984; 54 FR 24892, June 12, 1989; 58 FR 2890, Jan. 6, 1993; 59 FR 17691, Apr. 14, 1994]




