# § 218.74   Mitigation requirements.

When conducting the activities identified in § 218.70(c), the mitigation measures contained in any LOAs issued under §§ 216.106 of this chapter and 218.76 must be implemented. These mitigation measures include, but are not limited to:


(a) *Procedural mitigation.* Procedural mitigation is mitigation that the Navy must implement whenever and wherever an applicable training or testing activity takes place within the HSTT Study Area for each applicable activity category or stressor category and includes acoustic stressors (*i.e.,* active sonar, air guns, pile driving, weapons firing noise), explosive stressors (*i.e.,* sonobuoys, torpedoes, medium-caliber and large-caliber projectiles, missiles and rockets, bombs, sinking exercises, mines, anti-swimmer grenades, and mat weave and obstacle loading), and physical disturbance and strike stressors *(i.e.,* vessel movement; towed in-water devices; small-, medium-, and large-caliber non-explosive practice munitions; non-explosive missiles and rockets; and non-explosive bombs and mine shapes).


(1) *Environmental awareness and education.* Navy personnel (including civilian personnel) involved in mitigation and training or testing activity reporting under the specified activities will complete one or more modules identified in their career path training plan, as specified in the LOAs.


(2) *Active sonar.* Active sonar includes low-frequency active sonar, mid-frequency active sonar, and high-frequency active sonar. For vessel-based activities, mitigation applies only to sources that are positively controlled and deployed from manned surface vessels (*e.g.,* sonar sources towed from manned surface platforms). For aircraft-based activities, mitigation applies only to sources that are positively controlled and deployed from manned aircraft that do not operate at high altitudes (*e.g.,* rotary-wing aircraft). Mitigation does not apply to active sonar sources deployed from unmanned aircraft or aircraft operating at high altitudes (*e.g.,* maritime patrol aircraft). For active sonar subject mitigation requirements:


(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform*—(A) *Hull-mounted sources.* One Lookout is required for hull-mounted sources for platforms with space or manning restrictions while underway (at the forward part of a small boat or ship) and for platforms using active sonar while moored or at anchor (including pierside). Two Lookouts are required for hull mounted-sources for platforms without space or manning restrictions while underway (at the forward part of the ship).


(B) *Sources that are not hull-mounted sources.* One Lookout is required on the ship or aircraft conducting the activity for sources that are not hull-mounted.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* During active sonar use, the following requirements apply:


(A) *Powerdown for marine mammals at 1,000 yards.* At 1,000 yards (yd) (914.4 m) from a marine mammal, Navy personnel must power down by 6 decibels (dB).


(B) *Powerdown for marine mammals at 500 yards.* At 500 yd (457.2 m) from a marine mammal, Navy personnel must power down by an additional 4 dB (for a total of 10 dB).


(C) *Shutdowns for marine mammals at 200 yards.* At 200 yd (182.9 m) from a marine mammal, Navy personnel must shut down low-frequency active sonar ≥200 dB and hull-mounted mid-frequency active sonar; or Navy personnel must shut down low-frequency active sonar <200 dB, mid-frequency active sonar sources that are not hull-mounted, and high-frequency active sonar.


(D) *Prior to activity.* Prior to the start of the active sonar activity (*e.g.,* when maneuvering on station), Navy personnel must observe the 1,000 yd (914.4 m) mitigation zone for floating vegetation; if floating vegetation is observed in the mitigation zone, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of active sonar transmission until the mitigation zone is clear. Navy personnel must also observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of active sonar transmission.


(E) *During the activity for low-frequency active sonar at or above 200 dB and hull-mounted mid-frequency active sonar.* When using low-frequency active sonar at or above 200 dB and hull-mounted mid-frequency active sonar, Navy personnel must observe the 1,000 yd (914.4 m) mitigation zone for marine mammals and power down active sonar transmission by 6 dB if marine mammals are observed within 1,000 yd (914.4 m) of the sonar source; power down by an additional 4 dB (for a total of 10 dB total) if marine mammals are observed within 500 yd (457.2 m) of the sonar source; and cease transmission if marine mammals are observed within 200 yd (182.9 m) of the sonar source.


(F) *During the activity for low-frequency active sonar below 200 dB, mid-frequency active sonar sources that are not hull mounted, and high-frequency active sonar.* During the activity for low-frequency active sonar below 200 dB, mid-frequency active sonar sources that are not hull mounted, and high-frequency active sonar, Navy personnel must observe the 1,000 yd (914.4 m) mitigation zone for marine mammals and cease active sonar transmission if marine mammals are observed within 200 yd (182.9 m) of the sonar source.


(G) *Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity.* Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone indicated in § 218.74(a)(2)(ii) prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing or powering up active sonar transmission) until one of the following conditions has been met:


(*1*) *Observed exiting.* The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone;


(*2*) *Thought to have exited.* The animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the sonar source;


(*3*) *Clear from additional sightings.* The mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 10 minutes (min) for aircraft-deployed sonar sources or 30 min for vessel-deployed sonar sources;


(*4*) *Sonar source transit.* For mobile activities, the active sonar source has transited a distance equal to double that of the mitigation zone size beyond the location of the last sighting; or


(*5*) *Bow-riding dolphins.* For activities using hull-mounted sonar where a dolphin(s) is observed in the mitigation zone, the Lookout concludes that the dolphin(s) are deliberately closing in on the ship to ride the ship's bow wave, and are therefore out of the main transmission axis of the sonar (and there are no other marine mammal sightings within the mitigation zone).


(3) *Air guns.* For activities using air guns:


(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* One Lookout must be positioned on a ship or pierside.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* The mitigation zone is 150 yd (137.2 m) around the air gun.


(A) *Prior to activity.* Prior to the initial start of the activity (*e.g.,* when maneuvering on station), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for floating vegetation; if floating vegetation is observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start until the mitigation zone is clear. Navy personnel must also observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of air gun use.


(B) *During activity.* During the activity, Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must cease air gun use.


(C) *Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity.* Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing air gun use) until one of the following conditions has been met:


(*1*) *Observed exiting.* The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone;


(*2*) *Thought to have exited.* The animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the air gun;


(*3*) *Clear from additional sightings.* The mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 30 min; or


(*4*) *Air gun transit.* For mobile activities, the air gun has transited a distance equal to double that of the mitigation zone size beyond the location of the last sighting.


(4) *Pile driving.* For pile driving and pile extraction sound during Elevated Causeway System training:


(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* One Lookout must be positioned on the shore, the elevated causeway, or a small boat.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* The mitigation zone is 100 yd (91.4 m) around the pile driver.


(A) *Prior to activity.* Prior to the initial start of the activity (for 30 min), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for floating vegetation; if floating vegetation is observed, Navy personnel must delay the start until the mitigation zone is clear. Navy personnel also must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must delay the start of pile driving or vibratory pile extraction.


(B) *During activity.* During the activity, Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must cease impact pile driving or vibratory pile extraction.


(C) *Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity.* Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing pile driving or pile extraction) until one of the following conditions has been met:


(*1*) *Observed exiting.* The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone;


(*2*) *Thought to have exited.* The animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the pile driving location; or


(*3*) *Clear from additional sightings.* The mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 30 minutes.


(5) *Weapons firing noise.* For weapons firing noise associated with large-caliber gunnery activities:


(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* One Lookout must be positioned on the ship conducting the firing. Depending on the activity, the Lookout could be the same as the one provided for under “Explosive medium-caliber and large-caliber projectiles” or under “Small-, medium-, and large-caliber non-explosive practice munitions” in paragraphs (a)(8)(i) and (a)(18)(i) of this section.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* The mitigation zone is 30 degrees on either side of the firing line out to 70 yd (64 m) from the muzzle of the weapon being fired.


(A) *Prior to activity.* Prior to the start of the activity, Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for floating vegetation; if floating vegetation is observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of weapons firing until the mitigation zone is clear. Navy personnel must also observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of weapons firing.


(B) *During activity.* During the activity, Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must cease weapons firing.


(C) *Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity.* Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing weapons firing) until one of the following conditions has been met:


(*1*) *Observed exiting.* The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone;


(*2*) *Thought to have exited.* The animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the firing ship;


(*3*) *Clear from additional sightings.* The mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 30 min; or


(*4*) *Firing ship transit.* For mobile activities, the firing ship has transited a distance equal to double that of the mitigation zone size beyond the location of the last sighting.


(6) *Explosive sonobuoys.* For explosive sonobuoys:


(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* One Lookout must be positioned in an aircraft or on a small boat. If additional platforms are participating in the activity, Navy personnel positioned in those assets (*e.g.,* safety observers, evaluators) must support observing the mitigation zone while performing their regular duties.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* The mitigation zone is 600 yd (548.6 m) around an explosive sonobuoy.


(A) *Prior to activity.* Prior to the initial start of the activity (*e.g.,* during deployment of a sonobuoy field, which typically lasts 20-30 min), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for floating vegetation; if floating vegetation is observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of sonobuoy or source/receiver pair detonations until the mitigation zone is clear. Navy personnel must conduct passive acoustic monitoring for marine mammals and use information from detections to assist visual observations. Navy personnel also must visually observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of sonobuoy or source/receiver pair detonations.


(B) *During activity.* During the activity, Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must cease sonobuoy or source/receiver pair detonations.


(C) *Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity.* Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing detonations) until one of the following conditions has been met:


(*1*) *Observed exiting.* The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone;


(*2*) *Thought to have exited.* The animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the sonobuoy; or


(*3*) *Clear from additional sightings.* The mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 10 min when the activity involves aircraft that have fuel constraints (*e.g.,* helicopter), or 30 min when the activity involves aircraft that are not typically fuel constrained.


(D) *After activity.* After completion of the activity (*e.g.,* prior to maneuvering off station), when practical (*e.g.,* when platforms are not constrained by fuel restrictions or mission-essential follow-on commitments), Navy personnel must observe for marine mammals in the vicinity of where detonations occurred; if any injured or dead marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must follow established incident reporting procedures. If additional platforms are supporting this activity (*e.g.,* providing range clearance), these Navy assets must assist in the visual observation of the area where detonations occurred.


(7) *Explosive torpedoes.* For explosive torpedoes:


(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* One Lookout must be positioned in an aircraft. If additional platforms are participating in the activity, Navy personnel positioned in those assets *(e.g.,* safety observers, evaluators) must support observing the mitigation zone while performing their regular duties.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* The mitigation zone is 2,100 yd (1,920.2 m) around the intended impact location.


(A) *Prior to activity.* Prior to the initial start of the activity (*e.g.,* during deployment of the target), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for floating vegetation and jellyfish aggregations; if floating vegetation or jellyfish aggregations are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of firing until the mitigation zone is clear. Navy personnel must conduct passive acoustic monitoring for marine mammals and use the information from detections to assist visual observations. Navy personnel also must visually observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of firing.


(B) *During activity.* During the activity, Navy personnel must observe for marine mammals and jellyfish aggregations; if marine mammals or jellyfish aggregations are observed, Navy personnel must cease firing.


(C) *Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity.* Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing firing) until one of the following conditions has been met:


(*1*) *Observed exiting.* The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone;


(*2*) *Thought to have exited.* The animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the intended impact location; or


(*3*) *Clear from additional sightings.* The mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 10 min when the activity involves aircraft that have fuel constraints, or 30 min when the activity involves aircraft that are not typically fuel constrained.


(D) *After activity.* After completion of the activity (*e.g.,* prior to maneuvering off station), Navy personnel must when practical *(e.g.,* when platforms are not constrained by fuel restrictions or mission-essential follow-on commitments), observe for marine mammals in the vicinity of where detonations occurred; if any injured or dead marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must follow established incident reporting procedures. If additional platforms are supporting this activity (*e.g.,* providing range clearance), these Navy assets must assist in the visual observation of the area where detonations occurred.


(8) *Explosive medium-caliber and large-caliber projectiles.* For gunnery activities using explosive medium-caliber and large-caliber projectiles, the following mitigation applies to activities using a surface target:


(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* One Lookout must be on the vessel or aircraft conducting the activity. For activities using explosive large-caliber projectiles, depending on the activity, the Lookout could be the same as the one described in “Weapons firing noise” in paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section. If additional platforms are participating in the activity, Navy personnel positioned in those assets (*e.g.,* safety observers, evaluators) must support observing the mitigation zone while performing their regular duties.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements*—(A) *Air-to-surface activities.* The mitigation zone is 200 yd (182.9 m) around the intended impact location for air-to-surface activities using explosive medium-caliber projectiles.


(B) *Surface-to-surface activities, medium-caliber.* The mitigation zone is 600 yd (548.6 m) around the intended impact location for surface-to-surface activities using explosive medium-caliber projectiles.


(C) *Surface-to-surface activities, large-caliber.* The mitigation zone is 1,000 yd (914.4 m) around the intended impact location for surface-to-surface activities using explosive large-caliber projectiles.


(D) *Prior to activity.* Prior to the start of the activity (*e.g.,* when maneuvering on station), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for floating vegetation; if floating vegetation is observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of firing until the mitigation zone is clear. Navy personnel also must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of firing.


(E) *During activity.* During the activity, Navy personnel must observe for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must cease firing.


(F) *Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity.* Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing firing) until one of the following conditions has been met:


(*1*) *Observed exiting.* The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone;


(*2*) *Thought to have exited.* The animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the intended impact location;


(*3*) *Clear from additional sightings.* The mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 10 min for aircraft-based firing or 30 min for vessel-based firing; or for activities using mobile targets, the intended impact location has transited a distance equal to double that of the mitigation zone size beyond the location of the last sighting.


(G) *After activity.* After completion of the activity (*e.g.,* prior to maneuvering off station), Navy personnel must, when practical (*e.g.,* when platforms are not constrained by fuel restrictions or mission-essential follow-on commitments), observe for marine mammals in the vicinity of where detonations occurred; if any injured or dead marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must follow established incident reporting procedures. If additional platforms are supporting this activity (*e.g.,* providing range clearance), these Navy assets must assist in the visual observation of the area where detonations occurred.


(9) *Explosive missiles and rockets.* For aircraft-deployed explosive missiles and rockets. Mitigation applies to activities using a surface target:


(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* One Lookout must be positioned in an aircraft. If additional platforms are participating in the activity, Navy personnel positioned in those assets (*e.g.,* safety observers, evaluators) must support observing the mitigation zone while performing their regular duties.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements*—(A) *Missiles or rockets with 0.6-20 lb net explosive weight.* The mitigation zone is 900 yd (823 m) around the intended impact location for missiles or rockets with 0.6-20 lb net explosive weight.


(B) *Missiles with 21-500 lb net explosive weight.* The mitigation zone is 2,000 yd (1,828.8 m) around the intended impact location for missiles with 21-500 lb net explosive weight.


(C) *Prior to activity.* Prior to the initial start of the activity (*e.g.,* during a fly-over of the mitigation zone), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for floating vegetation; if floating vegetation is observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of firing until the mitigation zone is clear. Navy personnel also must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of firing.


(D) *During activity.* During the activity, Navy personnel must observe for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must cease firing.


(E) *Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity.* Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing firing) until one of the following conditions has been met:


(*1*) *Observed exiting.* The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone;


(*2*) *Thought to have exited.* The animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the intended impact location; or


(*3*) *Clear from additional sightings.* The mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 10 min when the activity involves aircraft that have fuel constraints, or 30 min when the activity involves aircraft that are not typically fuel constrained.


(F) *After activity.* After completion of the activity (*e.g.,* prior to maneuvering off station), Navy personnel must, when practical (*e.g.,* when platforms are not constrained by fuel restrictions or mission-essential follow-on commitments), observe for marine mammals in the vicinity of where detonations occurred; if any injured or dead marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must follow established incident reporting procedures. If additional platforms are supporting this activity (*e.g.,* providing range clearance), these Navy assets will assist in the visual observation of the area where detonations occurred.


(10) *Explosive bombs.* For explosive bombs:


(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* One Lookout must be positioned in an aircraft conducting the activity. If additional platforms are participating in the activity, Navy personnel positioned in those assets (*e.g.,* safety observers, evaluators) must support observing the mitigation zone while performing their regular duties.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* The mitigation zone is 2,500 yd (2,286 m) around the intended target.


(A) *Prior to activity.* Prior to the initial start of the activity (*e.g.,* when arriving on station), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for floating vegetation; if floating vegetation is observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of bomb deployment until the mitigation zone is clear. Navy personnel also must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of bomb deployment.


(B) *During activity.* During the activity (*e.g.,* during target approach), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must cease bomb deployment.


(C) *Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity.* Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing bomb deployment) until one of the following conditions has been met:


(*1*) *Observed exiting.* The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone;


(*2*) *Thought to have exited.* The animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the intended target;


(*3*) *Clear from additional sightings.* The mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 10 min; or for activities using mobile targets, the intended target has transited a distance equal to double that of the mitigation zone size beyond the location of the last sighting.


(D) *After activity.* After completion of the activity (*e.g.,* prior to maneuvering off station), Navy personnel must, when practical (*e.g.,* when platforms are not constrained by fuel restrictions or mission-essential follow-on commitments), observe for marine mammals in the vicinity of where detonations occurred; if any injured or dead marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must follow established incident reporting procedures. If additional platforms are supporting this activity (*e.g.,* providing range clearance), these Navy assets must assist in the visual observation of the area where detonations occurred.


(11) *Sinking exercises.* For sinking exercises:


(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* Two Lookouts (one must be positioned in an aircraft and one must be positioned on a vessel). If additional platforms are participating in the activity, Navy personnel positioned in those assets (*e.g.,* safety observers, evaluators) must support observing the mitigation zone while performing their regular duties.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* The mitigation zone is 2.5 nautical miles (4.6 km) around the target ship hulk.


(A) *Prior to activity.* Prior to the initial start of the activity (90 min prior to the first firing), Navy personnel must conduct aerial observations of the mitigation zone for floating vegetation and jellyfish aggregations; if floating vegetation or jellyfish aggregations are observed, Navy personnel must delay the start of firing until the mitigation zone is clear. Navy personnel also must conduct aerial observations of the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must delay the start of firing.


(B) *During activity.* During the activity, Navy personnel must conduct passive acoustic monitoring for marine mammals and use the information from detections to assist visual observations. Navy personnel must visually observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals from the vessel; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must cease firing. Immediately after any planned or unplanned breaks in weapons firing of longer than 2 hours, Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals from the aircraft and vessel; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must delay recommencement of firing.


(C) *Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity.* Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing firing) until one of the following conditions has been met:


(*1*) *Observed exiting.* The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone;


(*2*) *Thought to have exited.* The animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the target ship hulk; or


(*3*) *Clear from additional sightings.* The mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 30 minutes.


(D) *After activity.* After completion of the activity (for 2 hours after sinking the vessel or until sunset, whichever comes first), Navy personnel must observe for marine mammals in the vicinity of where detonations occurred; if any injured or dead marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must follow established incident reporting procedures. If additional platforms are supporting this activity (*e.g.,* providing range clearance), these Navy assets will assist in the visual observation of the area where detonations occurred.


(12) *Explosive mine countermeasure and neutralization activities.* For explosive mine countermeasure and neutralization activities:


(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform*—(A) *Smaller mitigation zone.* One Lookout must be positioned on a vessel or in an aircraft when implementing the smaller mitigation zone.


(B) *Larger mitigation zone.* Two Lookouts (one must be positioned in an aircraft and one must be on a small boat) when implementing the larger mitigation zone.


(C) *Additional platforms.* If additional platforms are participating in the activity, Navy personnel positioned in those assets (*e.g.,* safety observers, evaluators) must support observing the mitigation zone while performing their regular duties.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements*—(A) *Activities using 0.1-5 lb net explosive weight.* The mitigation zone is 600 yd (548.6 m) around the detonation site for activities using 0.1-5 lb net explosive weight.


(B) *Activities using 6-650 lb net explosive weight.* The mitigation zone is 2,100 yd (1,920.2 m) around the detonation site for activities using 6-650 lb net explosive weight (including high explosive target mines).


(C) *Prior to activity.* Prior to the initial start of the activity (*e.g.,* when maneuvering on station; typically, 10 min when the activity involves aircraft that have fuel constraints, or 30 min when the activity involves aircraft that are not typically fuel constrained), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for floating vegetation; if floating vegetation is observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of detonations until the mitigation zone is clear. Navy personnel also must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of detonations.


(D) *During activity.* During the activity, Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals, concentrations of seabirds, and individual foraging seabirds; if marine mammals, concentrations of seabirds, or individual foraging seabirds are observed, Navy personnel must cease detonations.


(E) *Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity or a sighting of seabird concentrations or individual foraging seabirds during the activity.* Navy personnel must allow a sighted animal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing detonations) until one of the following conditions has been met:


(*1*) *Observed exiting.* The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone;


(*2*) *Thought to have exited.* The animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to detonation site; or


(*3*) *Clear from additional sightings.* The mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 10 min when the activity involves aircraft that have fuel constraints, or 30 min when the activity involves aircraft that are not typically fuel constrained.


(F) *After activity.* After completion of the activity (typically 10 min when the activity involves aircraft that have fuel constraints, or 30 min when the activity involves aircraft that are not typically fuel constrained), Navy personnel must observe for marine mammals in the vicinity of where detonations occurred; if any injured or dead marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must follow established incident reporting procedures. If additional platforms are supporting this activity (*e.g.,* providing range clearance), these Navy assets must assist in the visual observation of the area where detonations occurred.


(13) *Explosive mine neutralization activities involving Navy divers.* For explosive mine neutralization activities involving Navy divers:


(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform*—(A) *Smaller mitigation zone.* Two Lookouts (two small boats with one Lookout each, or one Lookout must be on a small boat and one must be in a rotary-wing aircraft) when implementing the smaller mitigation zone.


(B) *Larger mitigation zone.* Four Lookouts (two small boats with two Lookouts each), and a pilot or member of an aircrew must serve as an additional Lookout if aircraft are used during the activity, when implementing the larger mitigation zone.


(C) *Divers.* All divers placing the charges on mines will support the Lookouts while performing their regular duties and will report applicable sightings to their supporting small boat or Range Safety Officer.


(D) *Additional platforms.* If additional platforms are participating in the activity, Navy personnel positioned in those assets (*e.g.,* safety observers, evaluators) must support observing the mitigation zone while performing their regular duties.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements*—(A) *Activities under positive control using 0.1-20 lb net explosive weight.* The mitigation zone is 500 yd (457.2 m) around the detonation site during activities under positive control using 0.1-20 lb net explosive weight.


(B) *Activities under positive control using 21-60 lb net explosive weight charges.* The mitigation zone is 1,000 yd (914.4 m) around the detonation site during all activities using time-delay fuses (0.1-29 lb net explosive weight) and during activities under positive control using 21-60 lb net explosive weight charges.


(C) *Prior to activity.* Prior to the initial start of the activity (*e.g.,* when maneuvering on station for activities under positive control; 30 min for activities using time-delay firing devices), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for floating vegetation; if floating vegetation is observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of detonations or fuse initiation until the mitigation zone is clear. Navy personnel also must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of detonations or fuse initiation.


(D) *During activity.* During the activity, Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals, concentrations of seabirds, and individual foraging seabirds (in the water and not on shore); if marine mammals, concentrations of seabirds, or individual foraging seabirds are observed, Navy personnel must cease detonations or fuse initiation. To the maximum extent practicable depending on mission requirements, safety, and environmental conditions, Navy personnel must position boats near the mid-point of the mitigation zone radius (but outside of the detonation plume and human safety zone), must position themselves on opposite sides of the detonation location (when two boats are used), and must travel in a circular pattern around the detonation location with one Lookout observing inward toward the detonation site and the other observing outward toward the perimeter of the mitigation zone. If used, Navy aircraft must travel in a circular pattern around the detonation location to the maximum extent practicable. Navy personnel must not set time-delay firing devices (0.1-29 lb net explosive weight) to exceed 10 minutes.


(E) *Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity or a sighting of seabird concentrations or individual foraging seabirds during the activity.* Navy personnel must allow a sighted animal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing detonations) until one of the following conditions has been met:


(*1*) *Observed exiting.* The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone;


(*2*) *Thought to have exited.* The animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the detonation site; or


(*3*) *Clear from additional sightings.* The mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 10 min during activities under positive control with aircraft that have fuel constraints, or 30 min during activities under positive control with aircraft that are not typically fuel constrained and during activities using time-delay firing devices.


(F) *After activity.* After completion of an activity (for 30 min), the Navy must observe for marine mammals for 30 minutes. Navy personnel must observe for marine mammals in the vicinity of where detonations occurred; if any injured or dead marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must follow established incident reporting procedures. If additional platforms are supporting this activity (*e.g.,* providing range clearance), these Navy assets must assist in the visual observation of the area where detonations occurred.


(14) *Maritime security operations—anti-swimmer grenades*—(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* One Lookout must be positioned on the small boat conducting the activity. If additional platforms are participating in the activity, Navy personnel positioned in those assets (*e.g.,* safety observers, evaluators) must support observing the mitigation zone while performing their regular duties.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* 200 yd (182.9 m) around the intended detonation location.


(A) *Prior to activity.* Prior to the initial start of the activity (*e.g.,* when maneuvering on station), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for floating vegetation; if floating vegetation is observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of detonations until the mitigation zone is clear. Navy personnel also must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of detonations.


(B) *During activity.* During the activity, Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must cease detonations.


(C) *Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity.* Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing detonations) until one of the following conditions has been met:


(*1*) *Observed exiting.* The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone;


(*2*) *Thought to have exited.* The animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the intended detonation location;


(*3*) *Clear from additional sightings.* The mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 30 min; or


(*4*) *Detonation location transit.* The intended detonation location has transited a distance equal to double that of the mitigation zone size beyond the location of the last sighting.


(D) *After activity.* After completion of the activity (*e.g.,* prior to maneuvering off station), Navy personnel must, when practical (*e.g.,* when platforms are not constrained by fuel restrictions or mission-essential follow-on commitments), observe for marine mammals in the vicinity of where detonations occurred; if any injured or dead marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must follow established incident reporting procedures. If additional platforms are supporting this activity (*e.g.,* providing range clearance), these Navy assets will assist in the visual observation of the area where detonations occurred.


(15) *Underwater demolition multiple charge—mat weave and obstacle loading exercises.* For underwater demolition multiple charge—mat weave and obstacle loading exercises:


(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* Two Lookouts (one must be positioned on a small boat and one must be positioned on shore from an elevated platform). If additional platforms are participating in the activity, Navy personnel positioned in those assets (*e.g.,* safety observers, evaluators) must support observing the mitigation zone while performing their regular duties.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* The mitigation zone is 700 yd (640.1 m) around the intended detonation location.


(A) *Prior to activity.* Prior to the initial start of the activity, or 30 min prior to the first detonation, the Lookout positioned on a small boat must observe the mitigation zone for floating vegetation and marine mammals; if floating vegetation or marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must delay the start of detonations until the mitigation zone is clear. For 10 min prior to the first detonation, the Lookout positioned on shore must use binoculars to observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must delay the start of detonations.


(B) *During activity.* During the activity, Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must cease detonations.


(C) *Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity.* Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing detonations) until one of the following conditions has been met:


(*1*) *Observed exiting.* The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone;


(*2*) *Thought to have exited.* The animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the detonation location; or


(*3*) *Clear from additional sightings.* The mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 10 min (as determined by the Navy shore observer).


(D) *After activity.* After completion of the activity (for 30 min), the Lookout positioned on a small boat must observe for marine mammals in the vicinity of where detonations occurred; if any injured or dead marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must follow established incident reporting procedures. If additional platforms are supporting this activity (*e.g.,* providing range clearance), these Navy assets must assist in the visual observation of the area where detonations occurred.


(16) *Vessel movement.* The following requirements apply to vessel movement, except mitigation will not be applied if: the vessel's safety is threatened; the vessel is restricted in its ability to maneuver (*e.g.,* during launching and recovery of aircraft or landing craft, during towing activities, when mooring); the vessel is operated autonomously; or when impracticable based on mission requirements (*e.g.,* during Amphibious Assault—Battalion Landing exercise).


(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* One Lookout must be on the vessel that is underway.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements*—(A) *Whales.* The mitigation zone is 500 yd (457.2 m) around whales.


(B) *Marine mammals other than whales.* The mitigation zone is 200 yd (182.9 m) around all other marine mammals (except bow-riding dolphins and pinnipeds hauled out on man-made navigational structures, port structures, and vessels).


(iii) *During the activity.* When underway, Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must maneuver (which may include reducing speed as the mission or circumstances allow) to maintain distance.


(iv) *Incident reporting procedures.* If a marine mammal vessel strike occurs, Navy personnel must follow the established incident reporting procedures.


(v) *Post-strike alerts.* Navy personnel must send alerts to Navy vessels of increased risk of strike following any reported Navy vessel strike in the HSTT Study Area.


(vi) *Large whale aggregation alerts.* Navy personnel must issue real-time notifications to Navy vessels of large whale aggregations (four or more whales) within 1 nmi (1.9 km) of a Navy vessel in the area between 32-33 degrees North and 117.2-119.5 degrees West.


(17) *Towed in-water devices.* The following mitigation applies to devices that are towed from a manned surface platform or manned aircraft, except the mitigation will not be applied if the safety of the towing platform or in-water device is threatened:


(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* One Lookout must be positioned on a manned towing platform.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* The mitigation zone is 250 yd (228.6 m) around marine mammals.


(iii) *During the activity.* During the activity (*i.e.,* when towing an in-water device), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must maneuver to maintain distance.


(18) *Small-, medium-, and large-caliber non-explosive practice munitions.* For small-, medium-, and large-caliber non-explosive practice munitions, the following mitigation applies to activities using a surface target:


(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* One Lookout must be positioned on the platform conducting the activity. Depending on the activity, the Lookout could be the same as the one described for “Weapons firing noise” in paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* The mitigation zone is 200 yd (182.9 m) around the intended impact location.


(A) *Prior to activity.* Prior to the start of the activity (*e.g.,* when maneuvering on station), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for floating vegetation; if floating vegetation is observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of firing until the mitigation zone is clear. Navy personnel also must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of firing.


(B) *During activity.* During the activity, Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must cease firing.


(C) *Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity.* Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing firing) until one of the following conditions has been met:


(*1*) *Observed exiting.* The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone;


(*2*) *Thought to have exited.* The animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the intended impact location;


(*3*) *Clear from additional sightings.* The mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 10 min for aircraft-based firing or 30 min for vessel-based firing; or


(*4*) *Impact location transit.* For activities using a mobile target, the intended impact location has transited a distance equal to double that of the mitigation zone size beyond the location of the last sighting.


(19) *Non-explosive missiles and rockets.* For aircraft-deployed non-explosive missiles and rockets, the following mitigation applies to activities using a surface target.


(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* One Lookout must be positioned in an aircraft.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* The mitigation zone is 900 yd (823 m) around the intended impact location.


(A) *Prior to activity.* Prior to the initial start of the activity (*e.g.,* during a fly-over of the mitigation zone), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for floating vegetation; if floating vegetation is observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of firing until the mitigation zone is clear. Navy personnel also must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of firing.


(B) *During activity.* During the activity, Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must cease firing.


(C) *Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting prior to or during the activity.* Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing firing) until one of the following conditions has been met:


(*1*) *Observed exiting.* The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone;


(*2*) *Thought to have exited.* The animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the intended impact location; or


(*3*) *Clear from additional sightings.* The mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 10 min when the activity involves aircraft that have fuel constraints, or 30 min when the activity involves aircraft that are not typically fuel constrained.


(20) *Non-explosive bombs and mine shapes.* For non-explosive bombs and non-explosive mine shapes during mine laying activities:


(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* One Lookout must be positioned in an aircraft.


(ii) *Mitigation* z*one and requirements.* The mitigation zone is 1,000 yd (914.4 m) around the intended target.


(A) *Prior to activity.* Prior to the initial start of the activity (*e.g.,* when arriving on station), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for floating vegetation; if floating vegetation is observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of bomb deployment or mine laying until the mitigation zone is clear. Navy personnel also must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of bomb deployment or mine laying.


(B) *During activity.* During the activity (*e.g.,* during approach of the target or intended minefield location), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals and, if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must cease bomb deployment or mine laying.


(C) *Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting prior to or during the activity.* Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing bomb deployment or mine laying) until one of the following conditions has been met:


(*1*) *Observed exiting.* The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone;


(*2*) *Thought to have exited.* The animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the intended target or minefield location;


(*3*) *Clear from additional sightings.* The mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 10 min; or


(*4*) *Target transit.* For activities using mobile targets, the intended target has transited a distance equal to double that of the mitigation zone size beyond the location of the last sighting.


(b) *Mitigation areas.* In addition to procedural mitigation, Navy personnel must implement mitigation measures within mitigation areas to avoid or reduce potential impacts on marine mammals.


(1) *Mitigation areas for marine mammals in the Hawaii Range Complex for sonar, explosives, and vessel strikes*—(i) *Mitigation area requirements*—(A) *Hawaii Island Mitigation Area (year-round)*—(*1*) *MF1 surface ship hull-mounted mid-frequency active sonar, MF4 dipping sonar, or explosives.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A)(*2*) of this section, within the Hawaii Island Mitigation Area, Navy personnel must not conduct more than 300 hours of MF1 surface ship hull-mounted mid-frequency active sonar or 20 hours of MF4 dipping sonar annually, or use explosives that could potentially result in takes of marine mammals during training and testing.


(*2*) *National security exception.* Should national security require conduct of more than 300 hours of MF1 surface ship hull-mounted mid-frequency active sonar or 20 hours of MF4 dipping sonar, or use of explosives that could potentially result in the take of marine mammals during training or testing, Naval units must obtain permission from the appropriate designated Command authority prior to commencement of the activity. Navy personnel must provide NMFS with advance notification and include the information (*e.g.,* sonar hours or explosives usage) in its annual activity reports submitted to NMFS.


(B) *4-Islands Region Mitigation Area (November 15-April 15 for active sonar; year-round for explosives)*—(*1*) *MF1 surface ship hull-mounted mid-frequency active sonar or explosives.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(i)(B)(*2*) of this section, within the 4-Islands Region Mitigation Area, Navy personnel must not use MF1 surface ship hull-mounted mid-frequency active sonar from November 15-April 15 or explosives that could potentially result in takes of marine mammals at any time during training and testing.


(*2*) *National security exception.* Should national security require use of MF1 surface ship hull-mounted mid-frequency active sonar or explosives that could potentially result in the take of marine mammals during training or testing, Naval units must obtain permission from the appropriate designated Command authority prior to commencement of the activity. Navy personnel must provide NMFS with advance notification and include the information (*e.g.,* sonar hours or explosives usage) in its annual activity reports submitted to NMFS.


(C) *Humpback Whale Special Reporting Areas (December 15-April 15).* Navy personnel must report the total hours of surface ship hull-mounted mid-frequency active sonar used in the Humpback Whale Special Reporting Areas established from December 15-April 15 in its annual training and testing activity reports submitted to NMFS.


(D) *Humpback Whale Awareness Notification Message Area (November-April).* The following requirements apply in the Humpback Whale Awareness Notification Message Area established from November-April.


(*1*) *Seasonal awareness notification message.* Navy personnel must issue a seasonal awareness notification message to alert ships and aircraft operating in the area to the possible presence of concentrations of large whales, including humpback whales.


(*2*) *Vessel instruction.* To maintain safety of navigation and to avoid interactions with large whales during transits, Navy personnel must instruct vessels to remain vigilant to the presence of large whale species (including humpback whales).


(*3*) *Awareness notification message use.* Platforms must use the information from the awareness notification message to assist their visual observation of applicable mitigation zones during training and testing activities and to aid in the implementation of procedural mitigation.


(ii) [Reserved]


(2) *Mitigation areas for marine mammals in the southern California portion of the study area for sonar, explosives, and vessel strikes*—(i) *Mitigation area requirements*—(A) *San Diego Arc, San Nicolas Island, and Santa Monica/Long Beach Mitigation Areas (June 1-October 31)*—(*1*) *MF1 surface ship hull-mounted mid-frequency active sonar.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A)(*2*) of this section, within the San Diego Arc, San Nicolas Island, and Santa Monica/Long Beach Mitigation Areas from June 1-October 31, Navy personnel must not conduct more than a total of 200 hours of MF1 surface ship hull-mounted mid-frequency active sonar in the combined areas, excluding normal maintenance and systems checks, during training and testing.


(*2*) *National security exception.* Should national security require conduct of more than 200 hours of MF1 surface ship hull-mounted mid-frequency active sonar in the combined areas during training and testing (excluding normal maintenance and systems checks), Naval units must obtain permission from the appropriate designated Command authority prior to commencement of the activity. Navy personnel must provide NMFS with advance notification and include the information (*e.g.,* sonar hours) in its annual activity reports submitted to NMFS.


(*3*) *Explosives in San Diego Arc Mitigation Area.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A)(*4*) of this section, within the San Diego Arc Mitigation Area, Navy personnel must not use explosives that could potentially result in the take of marine mammals during large-caliber gunnery, torpedo, bombing, and missile (including 2.75-inch rockets) activities during training and testing.


(*4*) *National security exception.* Should national security require use of explosives that could potentially result in the take of marine mammals during large-caliber gunnery, torpedo, bombing, and missile (including 2.75-inch rockets) activities during training or testing within the San Diego Arc Mitigation Area, Naval units must obtain permission from the appropriate designated Command authority prior to commencement of the activity. Navy personnel must provide NMFS with advance notification and include the information (*e.g.,* explosives usage) in its annual activity reports submitted to NMFS.


(*5*) *Explosives in San Nicolas Island Mitigation Area.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A)(*6*) of this section, within the San Nicolas Island Mitigation Area, Navy personnel must not use explosives that could potentially result in the take of marine mammals during mine warfare, large-caliber gunnery, torpedo, bombing, and missile (including 2.75-inch rockets) activities during training.


(*6*) *National security exception.* Should national security require use of explosives that could potentially result in the take of marine mammals during mine warfare, large-caliber gunnery, torpedo, bombing, and missile (including 2.75-inch rockets) activities during training in the San Nicolas Island Mitigation Area, Naval units must obtain permission from the appropriate designated Command authority prior to commencement of the activity. Navy personnel must provide NMFS with advance notification and include the information (*e.g.,* explosives usage) in its annual activity reports submitted to NMFS.


(*7*) *Explosives in the Santa Monica/Long Beach Mitigation Area.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A)(*8*) of this section, within the Santa Monica/Long Beach Mitigation Area, Navy personnel must not use explosives that could potentially result in the take of marine mammals during mine warfare, large-caliber gunnery, torpedo, bombing, and missile (including 2.75-inch rockets) activities during training and testing.


(*8*) *National security exception.* Should national security require use of explosives that could potentially result in the take of marine mammals during mine warfare, large-caliber gunnery, torpedo, bombing, and missile (including 2.75-inch rockets) activities during training or testing in the Santa Monica/Long Beach Mitigation Area, Naval units must obtain permission from the appropriate designated Command authority prior to commencement of the activity. Navy personnel must provide NMFS with advance notification and include the information (*e.g.,* explosives usage) in its annual activity reports submitted to NMFS.


(B) *Santa Barbara Island Mitigation Area (year-round)*—(*1*) *MF1 surface ship hull-mounted mid-frequency active sonar or explosives.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B)(*2*) of this section, within the Santa Barbara Island Mitigation Area, Navy personnel must not use MF1 surface ship hull-mounted mid-frequency active sonar during training or testing, or explosives that could potentially result in the take of marine mammals during medium-caliber or large-caliber gunnery, torpedo, bombing, and missile (including 2.75-inch rockets) activities during training.


(*2*) *National security exception.* Should national security require use of MF1 surface ship hull-mounted mid-frequency active sonar during training or testing, or explosives that could potentially result in the take of marine mammals during medium-caliber or large-caliber gunnery, torpedo, bombing, and missile (including 2.75-inch rockets) activities during training, Naval units must obtain permission from the appropriate designated Command authority prior to commencement of the activity. Navy personnel must provide NMFS with advance notification and include the information (*e.g.,* sonar hours or explosives usage) in its annual activity reports submitted to NMFS.


(C) *Spring Large Whale Awareness Notification Message*—(*1*) *Awareness notification message.* Navy personnel must issue an awareness notification message during the spring to alert ships and aircraft within the eastern Pacific to the possible presence of concentrations of large whales, including blue whales, fin whales, and humpback whales.


(*2*) *Applicable period.* This message must apply to a period that is based on predicted oceanographic conditions for a given year.


(*3*) *Marine mammals and vessel transit.* To maintain safety of navigation and to avoid interactions with large whales during transits, Navy personnel must instruct personnel on vessels that when a marine mammal is spotted, this may be an indicator that additional marine mammals are present nearby, and increased vigilance and awareness of Navy personnel is warranted.


(*4*) *Platform use of message.* Platforms must use the information from the awareness notification messages to assist their visual observation of applicable mitigation zones during training and testing activities and to aid in the implementation of procedural mitigation.


(D) *Gray Whale (November-March) and Fin Whale (November-May) Awareness Notification Message Areas.* The following requirements apply in the Gray Whale Awareness Notification Areas from November-March and Fin Whale Awareness Notification Message Areas from November-May.


(*1*) *Seasonal awareness message.* Navy personnel must issue a seasonal awareness notification message to alert ships and aircraft operating in the area to the possible presence of concentrations of large whales, including gray whales, and fin whales.


(*2*) *Marine mammals and vessel transit.* To maintain safety of navigation and to avoid interactions with large whales during transits, Navy personnel must instruct personnel on vessels to remain vigilant to the presence of large whale species.


(*3*) *Platform use of message.* Platforms must use the information from the awareness notification messages to assist their visual observation of applicable mitigation zones during training and testing activities and to aid in the implementation of procedural mitigation.


(ii) [Reserved]






