# ยง 586.5   Definitions.

As used in this part: 


*CERCLA.* Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601 *et seq.*). 


*Communities in the vicinity of the installation.* The communities that constitute the political jurisdictions (other than the State in which the installation is located) that comprise the LRA for the installation. If no LRA is formed at the local level, and the State is serving in that capacity, the communities in the vicinity of the installation are deemed to be those political jurisdiction(s) (other than the State) in which the installation is located. 


*Consolidated Plan.* The plan prepared in accordance with the requirements of 24 CFR part 91. 


*Continuum of care system.*

(1) A comprehensive homeless assistance system that includes: 


(i) A system of outreach and assessment for determining the needs and condition of an individual or family who is homeless, or whether assistance is necessary to prevent an individual or family from becoming homeless; 


(ii) Emergency shelters with appropriate supportive services to help ensure that homeless individuals and families receive adequate emergency shelter and referral to necessary service providers or housing finders; 


(iii) Transitional housing with appropriate supportive services to help those homeless individuals and families who are not prepared to make the transition to independent living; 


(iv) Housing with or without supportive services that has no established limitation on the amount of time of residence to help meet long-term needs of homeless individuals and families; and 


(v) Any other activity that clearly meets an identified need of the homeless and fills a gap in the continuum of care. 


(2) Supportive services are services that enable homeless persons and families to move through the continuum of care toward independent living. These services include, but are not limited to, case management, housing counseling, job training and placement, primary health care, mental health services, substance abuse treatment, child care, transportation, emergency food and clothing, family violence services, education services, moving services, assistance in obtaining entitlements, and referral to veterans services and legal services. 


*Day.* One calendar day including weekends and holidays. 


*DoD.* Department of Defense. 


*HHS.* Department of Health and Human Services. 


*Homeless person.* (1) An individual or family who lacks a fixed, regular, and adequate nighttime residence; and 


(2) An individual or family who has a primary nighttime residence that is: 


(i) A supervised publicly or privately operated shelter designed to provide temporary living accommodations (including welfare hotels, congregate shelters and transitional housing for the mentally ill); 


(ii) An institution that provides a temporary residence for individuals intended to be institutionalized; or 


(iii) A public or private place not designed for, or ordinarily used as, a regular sleeping accommodation for human beings. 


(3) This term does not include any individual imprisoned or otherwise detained under an Act of the Congress or a State law. 


HUD. Department of Housing and Urban Development. 


*Installation.* A base, camp, post, station, yard, center, homeport facility for any ship or other activity under the jurisdiction of DoD, including any leased facility, that is approved for closure or realignment under the Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100-526), as amended, or the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-510), as amended (both at 10 U.S.C. 2687, *note*). 


*Local redevelopment authority (LRA).* Any authority or instrumentality established by State or local government and recognized by the Secretary of Defense, through the Office of Economic Adjustment, as the entity responsible for developing the redevelopment plan with respect to the installation or for directing implementation of the plan. 


*NEPA.* National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4320). 


*OEA.* Office of Economic Adjustment, Department of Defense. 


*Private nonprofit organization.* An organization, no part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor, or individual; that has a voluntary board; that has an accounting system or has designated an entity that will maintain a functioning accounting system for the organization in accordance with generally accepted accounting procedures; and that practices nondiscrimination in the provision of assistance. 


*Public benefit transfer.* The transfer of surplus military property for a specified public purpose at up to a 100 percent discount in accordance with 40 U.S.C. 471 *et seq.,* or 49 U.S.C. 47151-47153. 


*Redevelopment plan.* A plan that is agreed to by the LRA with respect to the installation and provides for the reuse or redevelopment of the real property and personal property of the installation that is available for such reuse and redevelopment as a result of the closure of the installation. 


*Representative(s) of the homeless.* A State or local government agency or private nonprofit organization, including a homeless assistance planning board, that provides or proposes to provide services to the homeless. 


*Substantially equivalent.* Property that is functionally suitable to substitute for property referred to in an approved Title V application. For example, if the representative of the homeless had an approved Title V application for a building that would accommodate 100 homeless persons in an emergency shelter, the replacement facility would also have to accommodate 100 at a comparable cost for renovation. 


*Substantially equivalent funding.* Sufficient funding to acquire a substantially equivalent facility. 


*Surplus property.* Any excess property not required for the needs and the discharge of the responsibilities of all Federal Agencies. Authority to make this determination, after screening with all Federal Agencies, rests with the Military Departments. 


*Title V.* Title V of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act of 1987 (42 U.S.C 11411) as amended by the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1994 (Pub. L. 103-160). 


*Urban county.* A county within a metropolitan area as defined at 24 CFR 570.3. 




