# ยง 165.1103   Security Zone; Naval Mine Anti Submarine Warfare Command; San Diego Bay, San Diego, CA.

(a) *Location.* (1) The following area is a security zone: The water adjacent to the Naval Mine Anti Submarine Warfare Command, bound by the following coordinates:


(2) The proposed security zone at the Naval Mine Anti Submarine Warfare Command would be established to provide for the 100 feet of standoff distance.


(b) *Regulations.* (1) The general regulations governing security zones found in 33 CFR 165.33 apply to the security zone described in paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) Entry into, or remaining in, the areas of either zone is prohibited unless authorized by the Captain of the Port San Diego; Commanding Officer, Naval Mine Anti Submarine Warfare Command; or Commander, Naval Region Southwest.


(3) Persons desiring to transit the area of the security zone may request permission from the Captain of the Port San Diego at telephone number (619) 278-7033 or on VHF channel 16 (156.8 MHz) or from either the Commanding Officer, Naval Mine Anti Submarine Warfare Command or the Commander, Navy Region Southwest by calling the Navy Port Operation Dispatch at telephone number (619) 556-1433 or on VHF-FM channels 16 or 12. If permission is granted, all persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the Captain of the Port San Diego or his or her designated representative.


(c) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section: Captain of the Port San Diego, means the Commanding Officer of the Coast Guard Sector San Diego; Commander, Navy Region Southwest, means Navy Region Commander responsible for the Southwest Region; Commanding Officer, Naval Mine Anti Submarine Warfare Command, means the Installation Commander of the naval base located on Point Loma, San Diego, California; Designated Representative, means any U.S. Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer who has been designated by the Captain of the Port San Diego to assist in the enforcement of the security zone described in paragraph (a) of this section.


(d) *Enforcement.* The U.S. Coast Guard may be assisted in the patrol and enforcement of the security zone described in paragraph (a) of this section by the U.S. Navy and local law enforcement agencies.



---

[N] [USCG-2013-0580, 78 FR 72028, Dec. 2, 2013]




