# ยง 152.6   Program administration.

(a) *General rule.* Section 1101(b)(1) of the Affordable Care Act requires that HHS carry out the Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan program directly or through contracts with eligible entities, which are States or nonprofit private entities.


(b) *Administration by State.* A State (or its designated non-profit private entity) may submit a proposal to enter into a contract with HHS to establish and administer a PCIP in accordance with section 1101 of the Affordable Care Act and this part.


(1) At the Secretary's discretion, a State may designate a nonprofit entity or entities to contract with HHS to administer a PCIP.


(2) As part of its administrative approach, a State or designated entity may subcontract with either a for-profit or nonprofit entity.


(c) *Administration by HHS.* If a State or its designated entity notifies HHS that it will not establish or continue to administer a PCIP, or does not submit an acceptable or timely proposal to do so, HHS will contract with a nonprofit private entity or entities to administer a PCIP in that State.


(d) *Transition in administration.* The Secretary may consider a request from a State to transition from administration by HHS to administration by a State or from administration by a State to administration by HHS. Such transitions shall be approved only if the Secretary determines that the transition is in the best interests of the PCIP enrollees and potential PCIP enrollees in that state, consistent with ยง 152.7(b) of this part.




