# § 63.118   Process vent provisions—periodic reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator using a control device to comply with § 63.113(a)(1), (2), or (5) shall keep the following records up-to-date and readily accessible:


(1) Continuous records of the equipment operating parameters specified to be monitored under § 63.114(a) to this subpart and listed in table 3 to this subpart or specified by the Administrator in accordance with § 63.114(c) and § 63.117(e). For flares, the hourly records and records of pilot flame outages specified in table 3 to this subpart shall be maintained in place of continuous records.


(2) Records of the daily average value of each continuously monitored parameter for each operating day determined according to the procedures specified in § 63.152(f). For flares complying with § 63.11(b), records of the times and duration of all periods during which all pilot flames are absent shall be kept rather than daily averages. For flares complying with § 63.108, the owner or operator must comply with the recordkeeping requirements specified therein.


(3) Hourly records of whether the flow indicator specified under § 63.114(d)(1) was operating and whether a diversion was detected at any time during the hour, as well as records of the times and durations of all periods when the gas stream is diverted to the atmosphere or the monitor is not operating.


(4) Where a seal mechanism is used to comply with § 63.114(d)(2), hourly records of flow are not required. In such cases, the owner or operator shall record that the monthly visual inspection of the seals or closure mechanism has been done, and shall record the duration of all periods when the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass line valve position has changed, or the key for a lock-and-key type lock has been checked out, and records of any car-seal that has broken.


(5) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), the owner or operator must comply with this paragraph in addition to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. For each flow event from a bypass line subject to the requirements in § 63.114(d), the owner or operator must maintain records sufficient to determine whether or not the detected flow included flow requiring control. For each flow event from a bypass line requiring control that is released either directly to the atmosphere or to a control device not meeting the requirements in this subpart, the owner or operator must include an estimate of the volume of gas, the concentration of organic HAP in the gas and the resulting emissions of organic HAP that bypassed the control device using process knowledge and engineering estimates.


(b) Except as specified in § 63.113(a)(4), each owner or operator using a recovery device or other means to achieve and maintain a TRE index value greater than 1.0 but less than 4.0 as specified in § 63.113(a)(3) or (d) shall keep the following records up-to-date and readily accessible:


(1) Continuous records of the equipment operating parameters specified to be monitored under § 63.114(b) to this subpart and listed in table 4 to this subpart or specified by the Administrator in accordance with § 63.114(c) and § 63.114(e) and


(2) Records of the daily average value of each continuously monitored parameter for each operating day determined according to the procedures specified in § 63.152(f). If carbon adsorber regeneration stream flow and carbon bed regeneration temperature are monitored, the records specified in table 4 to this subpart shall be kept instead of the daily averages.


(c) Except as specified in § 63.113(a)(4), each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart and who elects to demonstrate compliance with the TRE index value greater than 4.0 under § 63.113(e) or greater than 1.0 under § 63.113(a)(3) or (d) shall keep up-to-date, readily accessible records of:


(1) Any process changes as defined in § 63.115(e); and


(2) Any recalculation of the TRE index value pursuant to § 63.115(e).


(d) Except as specified in paragraph (n) of this section, each owner or operator who elects to comply by maintaining a flow rate less than 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute under § 63.113(f), shall keep up-to-date, readily accessible records of:


(1) Any process changes as defined in § 63.115(e) that increase the vent stream flow rate,


(2) Any recalculation or measurement of the flow rate pursuant to § 63.115(e), and


(3) Except as specified in § 63.113(a)(4), if the flow rate increases to 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute or greater as a result of the process change, the TRE determination performed according to the procedures of § 63.115(d).


(e) Except as specified in paragraph (n) of this section, each owner or operator who elects to comply by maintaining an organic HAP concentration less than 50 parts per million by volume organic HAP concentration under § 63.113(g) shall keep up-to-date, readily accessible records of:


(1) Any process changes as defined in § 63.115(e) that increase the organic HAP concentration of the vent stream,


(2) Any recalculation or measurement of the concentration pursuant to § 63.115(e), and


(3) Except as specified in § 63.113(a)(4), if the organic HAP concentration increases to 50 parts per million by volume or greater as a result of the process change, the TRE determination performed according to the procedures of § 63.115(d).


(f) Each owner or operator who elects to comply with the requirements of § 63.113 of this subpart shall submit to the Administrator Periodic Reports of the following recorded information according to the schedule in § 63.152.


(1) Reports of daily average values of monitored parameters for all operating days when the daily average values recorded under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section were outside the ranges established in the Notification of Compliance Status or operating permit, including the date that the parameter was outside the range.


(2) For Group 1 points, reports of the duration (in hours) of periods when monitoring data is not collected for each excursion caused by insufficient monitoring data as defined in § 63.152(c)(2)(ii)(A), including the start date of such periods.


(3) Reports of the times and durations of all periods recorded under paragraph (a)(3) of this section when the gas stream is diverted to the atmosphere through a bypass line and if applicable, the information in paragraph (f)(7) of this section. Include the start date, start time and duration in hours of each period.


(4) Reports of all periods recorded under paragraph (a)(4) of this section in which the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass line valve position has changed, or the key to unlock the bypass line valve was checked out and if applicable, the information in paragraph (f)(7) of this section. Include the start date, start time and duration in hours of each period.


(5) Except as specified in paragraph (a) of § 63.108, reports of the times and durations of all periods recorded under paragraph (a)(2) of this section in which all pilot flames of a flare were absent.


(6) Reports of all carbon bed regeneration cycles during which the parameters recorded under paragraph (b)(2)(v) of this section were outside the ranges established in the Notification of Compliance Status or operating permit. Include the identification of the carbon bed, the monitored parameter that was outside the established range, and the start date, start time and duration in hours of the regeneration cycle.


(7) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), the owner or operator must comply with this paragraph in addition to the requirements in paragraphs (f)(3) and (4) of this section. For bypass lines subject to the requirements in § 63.114(d), the Periodic Report must include the start date, start time, duration in hours, estimate of the volume of gas in standard cubic feet, the concentration of organic HAP in the gas in parts per million by volume and the resulting mass emissions of organic HAP in pounds that bypass a control device. For periods when the flow indicator is not operating, report the start date, start time, and duration in hours.


(8) For process vents in ethylene oxide service subject to the requirements of § 63.124, the Periodic Report must include the records for periods specified in paragraph (l)(2) of this section. Indicate the start date and time and end date and time for each period.


(9) For any maintenance vent release exceeding the applicable limits in § 63.113(k)(1), the compliance report must include the information specified in paragraphs (f)(9)(i) through (iv) of this section. For the purposes of this reporting requirement, if an owner or operator complies with § 63.113(k)(1)(iv) then the owner or operator must report each venting event conducted under those provisions and include an explanation for each event as to why utilization of this alternative was required.


(i) Identification of the maintenance vent and the equipment served by the maintenance vent.


(ii) The date and time the maintenance vent was opened to the atmosphere.


(iii) The LEL in percent, vessel pressure in psig, or mass in pounds of VOC in the equipment, as applicable, at the start of atmospheric venting. If the 5 psig vessel pressure option in § 63.113(k)(1)(ii) was used and active purging was initiated while the concentration of the vapor was 10 percent or greater of its LEL, also include the concentration of the vapors at the time active purging was initiated.


(iv) An estimate of the mass in pounds of organic HAP released during the entire atmospheric venting event.


(g) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e), is made that causes a Group 2 process vent to become a Group 1 process vent, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 calendar days after the process change as specified in § 63.151(j). The report shall include:


(1) A description of the process change;


(2) Except as specified in § 63.113(a)(4), the results of the recalculation of the flow rate, organic HAP concentration, and TRE index value required under § 63.115(e) and recorded under paragraph (c), (d), or (e) of this section; and


(3) A statement that the owner or operator will comply with the provisions of § 63.113 for Group 1 process vents by the dates specified in subpart F of this part.


(h) Except as specified in § 63.113(a)(4), whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e), is made that causes a Group 2 process vent with a TRE greater than 4.0 to become a Group 2 process vent with a TRE less than 4.0, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 calendar days after the process change. The report may be submitted as part of the next periodic report. The report shall include:


(1) A description of the process change,


(2) The results of the recalculation of the TRE index value required under § 63.115(e) and recorded under paragraph (c) of this section, and


(3) A statement that the owner or operator will comply with the requirements specified in § 63.113(d).


(i) Except as specified in § 63.113(a)(4), whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e), is made that causes a Group 2 process vent with a flow rate less than 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute to become a Group 2 process vent with a flow rate of 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute or greater and a TRE index value less than or equal to 4.0, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 calendar days after the process change. The report may be submitted as part of the next periodic report. The report shall include:


(1) A description of the process change,


(2) The results of the recalculation of the flow rate and the TRE determination required under § 63.115(e) and recorded under paragraph (d) of this section, and


(3) A statement that the owner or operator will comply with the requirements specified in § 63.113(d).


(j) Except as specified in § 63.113(a)(4), whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e), is made that causes a Group 2 process vent with an organic HAP concentration less than 50 parts per million by volume to become a Group 2 process vent with an organic HAP concentration of 50 parts per million by volume or greater and a TRE index value less than or equal to 4.0, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 calendar days after the process change. The report may be submitted as part of the next periodic report. The report shall include:


(1) A description of the process change,


(2) The results of the recalculation of the organic HAP concentration and the TRE determination required under § 63.115(e) and recorded under paragraph (e) of this section, and


(3) A statement that the owner or operator will comply with the requirements specified in § 63.113(d).


(k) The owner or operator is not required to submit a report of a process change if one of the conditions listed in paragraph (k)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section is met.


(1) The process change does not meet the definition of a process change in § 63.115(e), or


(2) The vent stream flow rate is recalculated according to § 63.115(e) and the recalculated value is less than 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute, or


(3) The organic HAP concentration of the vent stream is recalculated according to § 63.115(e) and the recalculated value is less than 50 parts per million by volume, or


(4) Except as specified in § 63.113(a)(4), the TRE index value is recalculated according to § 63.115(e) and the recalculated value is greater than 4.0.


(l) For process vents in ethylene oxide service subject to the requirements of § 63.124, owners and operators must keep the records specified in paragraphs (l)(1) and (2) of this section in addition to those records specified elsewhere in this section.


(1) For process vents, include all uncontrolled, undiluted ethylene oxide concentration measurements, and the calculations used to determine the total uncontrolled ethylene oxide mass emission rate for the sum of all vent gas streams.


(2) If emissions are vented through a closed-vent system to a non-flare control device, then the owner or operator must keep records of all periods during which operating values are outside of the applicable operating limits specified in § 63.124(b)(4) through (6) when regulated material is being routed to the non-flare control device. The record must specify the identification of the control device, the operating parameter, the applicable limit, and the highest (for maximum operating limits) or lowest (for minimum operating limits) value recorded during the period.(m) For each maintenance vent opening subject to the requirements of § 63.113(k), owners and operators must keep the applicable records specified in paragraphs (m)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) Owners and operators must maintain standard site procedures used to deinventory equipment for safety purposes (*e.g.,* hot work or vessel entry procedures) to document the procedures used to meet the requirements in § 63.113(k). The current copy of the procedures must be retained and available on-site at all times. Previous versions of the standard site procedures, as applicable, must be retained for 5 years.


(2) If complying with the requirements of § 63.113(k)(1)(i), and the concentration of the vapor at the time of the vessel opening exceeds 10 percent of its LEL, identification of the maintenance vent, the process units or equipment associated with the maintenance vent, the date of maintenance vent opening, and the concentration of the vapor at the time of the vessel opening.


(3) If complying with the requirements of § 63.113(k)(1)(ii), and either the vessel pressure at the time of the vessel opening exceeds 5 psig or the concentration of the vapor at the time of the active purging was initiated exceeds 10 percent of its LEL, identification of the maintenance vent, the process units or equipment associated with the maintenance vent, the date of maintenance vent opening, the pressure of the vessel or equipment at the time of discharge to the atmosphere and, if applicable, the concentration of the vapors in the equipment when active purging was initiated.


(4) If complying with the requirements of § 63.113(k)(1)(iii), records of the estimating procedures used to determine the total quantity of VOC in the equipment and the type and size limits of equipment that contain less than 50 pounds of VOC at the time of maintenance vent opening. For each maintenance vent opening that contains greater than 50 pounds of VOC for which the deinventory procedures specified in paragraph (m)(1) of this section are not followed or for which the equipment opened exceeds the type and size limits established in the records specified in this paragraph (m)(4), records that identify the maintenance vent, the process units or equipment associated with the maintenance vent, the date of maintenance vent opening, and records used to estimate the total quantity of VOC in the equipment at the time the maintenance vent was opened to the atmosphere.


(5) If complying with the requirements of § 63.113(k)(1)(iv), identification of the maintenance vent, the process units or equipment associated with the maintenance vent, records documenting actions taken to comply with other applicable alternatives and why utilization of this alternative was required, the date of maintenance vent opening, the equipment pressure and concentration of the vapors in the equipment at the time of discharge, an indication of whether active purging was performed and the pressure of the equipment during the installation or removal of the blind if active purging was used, the duration the maintenance vent was open during the blind installation or removal process, and records used to estimate the total quantity of VOC in the equipment at the time the maintenance vent was opened to the atmosphere for each applicable maintenance vent opening.


(n) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section no longer apply. Instead, each owner or operator demonstrating that a process vent is a Group 2 process vent based on total organic HAP mass flow rate less than 1.0 pound per hour under § 63.113(l), shall keep up-to-date, readily accessible records of:


(1) Any process changes that increase the vent stream mass flow rate, and


(2) Any recalculation or measurement of the mass flow rate pursuant to § 63.115(g).









---

[N] [89 FR 43185, May 16, 2024]








