# § 761.62   Disposal of PCB bulk product waste.

PCB bulk product waste shall be disposed of in accordance with paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section. Under some of these provisions, it may not be necessary to determine the PCB concentration or leaching characteristics of the PCB bulk product waste. When it is necessary to analyze the waste to make either of these determinations, use the applicable procedures in subpart R of this part to sample the waste for analysis, unless EPA approves another sampling plan under paragraph (c) of this section.


(a) *Performance-based disposal.* Any person disposing of PCB bulk product waste may do so as follows:


(1) In an incinerator approved under § 761.70.


(2) In a chemical waste landfill approved under § 761.75.


(3) In a hazardous waste landfill permitted by EPA under section 3004 of RCRA, or by a State authorized under section 3006 of RCRA.


(4) Under an alternate disposal approval under § 761.60(e).


(5) In accordance with the decontamination provisions of § 761.79.


(6) For metal surfaces in contact with PCBs, in accordance with the thermal decontamination provisions of § 761.79(c)(6).


(7) In accordance with a TSCA PCB Coordinated Approval issued under § 761.77.


(b) *Disposal in solid waste landfills.* (1) Any person may dispose of the following PCB bulk product waste in a facility permitted, licensed, or registered by a State as a municipal or non-municipal non-hazardous waste landfill:


(i) Plastics (such as plastic insulation from wire or cable; radio, television and computer casings; vehicle parts; or furniture laminates); preformed or molded rubber parts and components; applied dried paints, varnishes, waxes or other similar coatings or sealants; caulking; Galbestos; non-liquid building demolition debris; or non-liquid PCB bulk product waste from the shredding of automobiles or household appliances from which PCB small capacitors have been removed (shredder fluff).


(ii) Other PCB bulk product waste, sampled in accordance with the protocols set out in subpart R of this part, that leaches PCBs at <10 µg/L of water measured using a procedure used to simulate leachate generation.


(2) Any person may dispose of PCB bulk product waste other than those materials meeting the conditions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, (e.g., paper or felt gaskets contaminated by liquid PCBs in a facility that is permitted, licensed, or registered by a State to manage municipal solid waste subject to part 258 of this chapter or non-municipal non-hazardous waste subject to §§ 257.5 through 257.30 of this chapter, as applicable, if:


(i) The PCB bulk product waste is segregated from organic liquids disposed of in the landfill unit.


(ii) Leachate is collected from the landfill unit and monitored for PCBs.


(3) Any release of PCBs (including but not limited to leachate) from the landfill unit shall be cleaned up in accordance with § 761.61.


(4)(i) Any person disposing off-site of PCB bulk product waste regulated under paragraph (b)(1) of this section at a waste management facility not having a commercial PCB storage or disposal approval must provide written notice to the facility a minimum of 15 days in advance of the first shipment from the same disposal waste stream. The notice shall state that the PCB bulk product waste may include components containing PCBs at ≥50 ppm based on analysis of the waste in the shipment or application of a general knowledge of the waste stream (or similar material) which is known to contain PCBs at those levels, and that the PCB bulk product waste is known or presumed to leach <10 µg/L PCBs.


(ii) Any person disposing off-site of PCB bulk product waste regulated under paragraph (b)(2) of this section at a waste management facility not having a commercial PCB storage or disposal approval must provide written notice to the facility a minimum of 15 days in advance of the first shipment from the same disposal waste stream and with each shipment thereafter. The notice shall state that the PCB bulk product waste may include components containing PCBs at ≥50 ppm based on analysis of the waste in the shipment or application of a general knowledge of the waste stream (or similar material) which is known to contain PCBs at those levels, and that the PCB bulk product waste is known or presumed to leach ≥10 µg/L PCBs.


(5) Any person disposing of PCB bulk product waste must maintain a written record of all sampling and analysis of PCBs or notifications made under this paragraph for 3 years from the date of the waste's generation. The records must be made available to EPA upon request.


(6) Requirements in subparts C, J, and K of this part do not apply to waste disposed of under paragraph (b) of this section.














(c) *Risk-based disposal approval.* (1) Any person wishing to sample, extract, analyze, or dispose of PCB bulk product waste in a manner other than prescribed in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, or store PCB bulk product waste in a manner other than prescribed in § 761.65, must apply in writing to the Regional Administrator in the Region where the sampling, extraction, analysis, disposal, or storage site is located, for sampling, extraction, analysis, disposal, or storage occurring in a single EPA Region; or to the Director, Office of Resource Conservation and Recovery, for sampling, extraction, analysis, disposal, or storage occurring in more than one EPA Region. Each application must contain information indicating that, based on technical, environmental, or waste-specific characteristics or considerations, the proposed sampling, extraction, analysis, disposal, or storage methods or locations will not pose an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment. EPA may request other information that it believes necessary to evaluate the application. No person may conduct sampling, extraction, analysis, disposal, or storage activities under this paragraph prior to obtaining written approval by EPA.


(2) EPA will issue a written decision on each application for a risk-based sampling, disposal, or storage method for PCB bulk product wastes. EPA will approve such an application if it finds that the method will not pose an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment.


(d) *Disposal as daily landfill cover.* Bulk product waste described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be disposed of as daily landfill cover, as long as the daily cover remains in the landfill and is not released or dispersed by wind or other action.



---

[N] [63 FR 35451, June 29, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 33761, June 24, 1999; 72 FR 57239, Oct. 9, 2007; 74 FR 30232, June 25, 2009; 88 FR 59689, Aug. 29, 2023]




