# § 4003.3   PBGC assistance in obtaining information.

(a) *General.* A person may request PBGC's assistance in obtaining information if the person lacks information necessary—


(1) To file a request for review pursuant to subpart C or D of this part, or to decide whether to seek review; or


(2) To participate in an appeal pursuant to § 4003.57, or to decide whether to participate in an appeal.


(b) *Information not in PBGC's possession.* A person may request PBGC's assistance in obtaining information in the possession of a party other than PBGC. The request must—


(1) Be in writing;


(2) State or describe the missing information, the reason why the person needs the information, and the reason why the person needs the assistance of PBGC in obtaining the information; and


(3) Be submitted to the Appeals Board or the department that is responsible for reviewing the initial determination under this part. If the determination is subject to reconsideration, see § 4003.33 for information on where to submit the request for assistance. If the determination is subject to review by appeal, see § 4003.53 for information on where to submit the request.


(c) *Information in the possession of PBGC.* A person may request information in the possession of PBGC pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act and part 4901 of this chapter or the Privacy Act and part 4902 of this chapter, as applicable. See parts 4901 and 4902 of this chapter for additional information. Nothing in this paragraph (c) limits or amends the requirements under part 4901 or 4902 of this chapter.



---

[N] [85 FR 10283, Feb. 24, 2020]




