# § 32.35-15   Installation of air compressors on tank vessels contracted for on or after June 15, 1977—TB/ALL.

No tank vessel, except an oil pollution clean-up vessel, that carries petroleum products grades A thru D contracted for on or after June 15, 1977 may have an air compressor on an air compressor intake installed in any of the following cargo areas:


(a) A cargo handling room.


(b) An enclosed space containing cargo piping.


(c) A space in which cargo hose is stowed.


(d) A space adjacent to a cargo tank or cargo tank hold.


(e) A space within three meters of any of the following:


(1) A cargo tank opening.


(2) An outlet for cargo gas or vapor.


(3) A cargo pipe flange.


(4) A cargo valve.


(5) An entrance or ventilation opening to a cargo handling room.


(f) Except for tank barges, the cargo deck space. For the purpose of this paragraph, *cargo deck space* means the volume bounded by the open deck over the cargo tank block, including all ballast tanks within the cargo tank block, extending to the full width of the vessel, plus three meters (about 10 feet) fore and aft of the cargo tank block and up to a height of 2.4 meters (about 8 feet) above the deck.


(g) An enclosed space having an opening into a location described in paragraphs (a)-(f) of this section.


(h) A location similar to those described in paragraphs (a)-(g) of this section in which cargo vapors or gases may be present.



---

[N] [CGD 75-017, 42 FR 25735, May 19, 1977, as amended by CGD 75-017, 42 FR 45677, Sept. 12, 1977]




