# § 351.402   Calculation of export price and constructed export price; reimbursement of antidumping and countervailing duties.

(a) *Introduction.* In order to establish export price, constructed export price, and normal value, the Secretary must make certain adjustments to the price to the unaffiliated purchaser (often called the “starting price”) in both the United States and foreign markets. This regulation clarifies how the Secretary will make certain of the adjustments to the starting price in the United States that are required by section 772 of the Act.


(b) *Additional adjustments to constructed export price.* In establishing constructed export price under section 772(d) of the Act, the Secretary will make adjustments for expenses associated with commercial activities in the United States that relate to the sale to an unaffiliated purchaser, no matter where or when paid. The Secretary will not make an adjustment for any expense that is related solely to the sale to an affiliated importer in the United States, although the Secretary may make an adjustment to normal value for such expenses under section 773(a)(6)(C)(iii) of the Act.


(c) *Special rule for merchandise with value added after importation*—(1) *Merchandise imported by affiliated persons.* In applying section 772(e) of the Act, merchandise imported by and value added by a person affiliated with the exporter or producer includes merchandise imported and value added for the account of such an affiliated person.


(2) *Estimation of value added.* The Secretary normally will determine that the value added in the United States by the affiliated person is likely to exceed substantially the value of the subject merchandise if the Secretary estimates the value added to be at least 65 percent of the price charged to the first unaffiliated purchaser for the merchandise as sold in the United States. The Secretary normally will estimate the value added based on the difference between the price charged to the first unaffiliated purchaser for the merchandise as sold in the United States and the price paid for the subject merchandise by the affiliated person. The Secretary normally will base this determination on averages of the prices and the value added to the subject merchandise.


(3) *Determining dumping margins.* For purposes of determining dumping margins under paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 772(e) of the Act, the Secretary may use the weighted-average dumping margins calculated on sales of identical or other subject merchandise sold to unaffiliated persons.


(d) *Special rule for determining profit.* This paragraph sets forth rules for calculating profit in establishing constructed export price under section 772(f) of the Act.


(1) *Basis for total expenses and total actual profit.* In calculating total expenses and total actual profit, the Secretary normally will use the aggregate of expenses and profit for all subject merchandise sold in the United States and all foreign like products sold in the exporting country, including sales that have been disregarded as being below the cost of production. (*See* section 773(b) of the Act (sales at less than cost of production).)


(2) *Use of financial reports.* For purposes of determining profit under section 772(d)(3) of the Act, the Secretary may rely on any appropriate financial reports, including public, audited financial statements, or equivalent financial reports, and internal financial reports prepared in the ordinary course of business.


(3) *Voluntary reporting of costs of production.* The Secretary will not require the reporting of costs of production solely for purposes of determining the amount of profit to be deducted from the constructed export price. The Secretary will base the calculation of profit on costs of production if such costs are reported voluntarily by the date established by the Secretary, and provided that it is practicable to do so and the costs of production are verifiable.


(e) *Treatment of payments between affiliated persons.* Where a person affiliated with the exporter or producer incurs any of the expenses deducted from constructed export price under section 772(d) of the Act and is reimbursed for such expenses by the exporter, producer or other affiliate, the Secretary normally will make an adjustment based on the actual cost to the affiliated person. If the Secretary is satisfied that information regarding the actual cost to the affiliated person is unavailable to the exporter or producer, the Secretary may determine the amount of the adjustment on any other reasonable basis, including the amount of the reimbursement to the affiliated person if the Secretary is satisfied that such amount reflects the amount usually paid in the market under consideration.


(f) *Reimbursement of antidumping duties and countervailing duties*—(1) *In general.* (i) In calculating the export price (or the constructed export price), the Secretary will deduct the amount of any antidumping duty or countervailing duty which the exporter or producer:


(A) Paid directly on behalf of the importer; or


(B) Reimbursed to the importer.


(ii) The Secretary will not deduct the amount of any antidumping duty or countervailing duty paid or reimbursed if the exporter or producer granted to the importer before initiation of the antidumping investigation in question a warranty of nonapplicability of antidumping duties or countervailing duties with respect to subject merchandise which was:


(A) Sold before the date of publication of the Secretary's order applicable to the merchandise in question; and


(B) Exported before the date of publication of the Secretary's final antidumping determination.


(iii) Ordinarily, under paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, the Secretary will deduct the amount reimbursed only once in the calculation of the export price (or constructed export price).


(2) *Reimbursement certification.* (i) The importer must certify with U.S. Customs and Border Protection prior to liquidation (except as provided for in paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section) whether the importer has or has not been reimbursed or entered into any agreement or understanding for the payment or for the refunding to the importer by the manufacturer, producer, seller, or exporter for all or any part of the antidumping and countervailing duties, as appropriate. Such certifications should identify the commodity and country and contain the information necessary to link the certification to the relevant entry or entry line number(s).


(ii) The reimbursement certification may be filed either electronically or in paper in accordance with the U.S. Customs and Border Protection's requirements, as applicable.


(iii) If an importer does not provide its reimbursement certification prior to liquidation, U.S. Customs and Border Protection may accept the reimbursement certification in accordance with its protest procedures under 19 U.S.C. 1514, unless otherwise directed.


(iv) Reimbursement certifications are required for entries of the relevant commodity that have been imported on or after the date of publication of the antidumping notice in the _Federal Register_ that first suspended liquidation in that proceeding.


(3) *Presumption.* The Secretary may presume from an importer's failure to file the certificate required in paragraph (f)(2) of this section that the exporter or producer paid or reimbursed the antidumping duties or countervailing duties.



---

[N] [62 FR 27379, May 19, 1997, as amended at 86 FR 52384, Sept. 20, 2021; 89 FR 20837, Mar. 25, 2024]






