# ยง 1231.4   Indemnification payments.

(a) *Prohibited indemnification payments.* Except as permitted in paragraph (b) of this section, a regulated entity or the OF may not make indemnification payments with respect to an administrative proceeding or civil action that has been initiated by FHFA.


(b) *Permissible indemnification payments.* A regulated entity or the OF may pay:


(1) Premiums for any commercial insurance policy or fidelity bonds for directors and officers, to the extent that the insurance or fidelity bond covers expenses and restitution, but not a judgment in favor of FHFA or a civil money penalty imposed by FHFA.


(2) Expenses of defending an action, subject to the affiliated party's agreement to repay those expenses if the affiliated party either:


(i) When the proceeding results in a final and non-reviewable order, is found culpable for violating a law or regulation that is the basis for the charges to which the expenses specifically relate; or


(ii) Enters into a settlement of those charges in which the affiliated party admits culpability with respect to them; or


(iii) Is subject to a final and non-reviewable prohibition order under 12 U.S.C. 4636a.


(3) Amounts due under an indemnification agreement entered into with a named affiliated party on or prior to September 20, 2016.


(c) *Process; factors.* With respect to payments under paragraph (b)(2) of this section:


(1) The board of directors of the regulated entity or the OF must conduct a due investigation and make a written determination in good faith that:


(i) The affiliated party acted in good faith and in a manner that he or she reasonably believed to be in the best interests of the regulated entity or the OF; and


(ii) Such payments will not materially adversely affect the safety and soundness of the regulated entity or the OF.


(2) The affiliated party may not participate in the board's deliberations or decision.


(3) If a majority of the board are respondents in the action, the remaining board members may approve payment after obtaining a written opinion of outside counsel that the conditions of this regulation have been met.


(4) If all of the board members are respondents, they may approve payment after obtaining a written opinion of outside counsel that the conditions of this regulation have been met.


(d) *Scope.* This section does not apply to a regulated entity operating in conservatorship or receivership or to a limited-life regulated entity.



---

[N] [83 FR 49993, Oct. 4, 2018]




