# ยง 3.12   Answer.

(a) *Time for filing.* A respondent shall file an answer within 14 days after being served with the complaint.


(b) *Content of answer.* An answer shall conform to the following:


(1) *If allegations of complaint are contested.* An answer in which the allegations of a complaint are contested shall contain:


(i) A concise statement of the facts constituting each ground of defense;


(ii) Specific admission, denial, or explanation of each fact alleged in the complaint or, if the respondent is without knowledge thereof, a statement to that effect. Allegations of a complaint not thus answered shall be deemed to have been admitted.


(2) *If allegations of complaint are admitted.* If the respondent elects not to contest the allegations of fact set forth in the complaint, the answer shall consist of a statement that the respondent admits all of the material allegations to be true. Such an answer shall constitute a waiver of hearings as to the facts alleged in the complaint, and together with the complaint will provide a record basis on which the Commission shall issue a final decision containing appropriate findings and conclusions and a final order disposing of the proceeding. In such an answer, the respondent may, however, reserve the right to submit proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law under ยง 3.46.


(c) *Default.* Failure of the respondent to file an answer within the time provided shall be deemed to constitute a waiver of the respondent's right to appear and contest the allegations of the complaint and to authorize the Commission, without further notice to the respondent, to find the facts to be as alleged in the complaint and to enter a final decision containing appropriate findings and conclusions and a final order disposing of the proceeding.



---

[N] [74 FR 1820, Jan. 13, 2009]




