# § 880.607   Termination of tenancy and modification of lease.

(a) *Applicability.* The provisions of this section apply to all decisions by an owner to terminate the tenancy of a family residing in a unit under Contract during or at the end of the family's lease term. 


(b) *Entitlement of Families to occupancy*—(1) *Grounds.* The owner may not terminate any tenancy except upon the following grounds:


(i) Material noncompliance with the lease;


(ii) Material failure to carry out obligations under any State landlord and tenant act; 


(iii) Criminal activity by a covered person in accordance with sections 5.858 and 5.859, or alcohol abuse by a covered person in accordance with section 5.860. If necessary, criminal records can be obtained for lease enforcement purposes under section 5.903(d)(3). 


(iv) Other good cause, which may include the refusal of a family to accept an approved modified lease form (see paragraph (d) of this section). No termination by an owner will be valid to the extent it is based upon a lease or a provisions of State law permitting termination of a tenancy solely because of expiration of an initial or subsequent renewal term. All terminations must also be in accordance with the provisions of any State and local landlord tenant law and paragraph (c) of this section.


(2) *Notice of good cause.* The conduct of a tenant cannot be deemed “other good cause” under paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section unless the owner has given the family prior notice that the grounds constitute a basis for termination of tenancy. The notice must be served on the family in the same manner as that provided for termination notices under paragraph (c) of this section and State and local law. 


(3) *Material noncompliance.* (i) Material noncompliance with the lease includes: 


(A) One or more substantial violations of the lease; or 


(B) Repeated minor violations of the lease that disrupt the livability of the building; adversely affect the health or safety of any person or the right of any tenant to the quiet enjoyment of the leased premises and related facilities; interfere with the management of the building or have an adverse financial effect on the building.


(ii) Failure of the family to timely submit all required information on family income and composition, including failure to submit required evidence of citizenship or eligible immigration status (as provided by 24 CFR part 5), failure to disclose and verify Social Security Numbers (as provided by 24 CFR part 5), failure to sign and submit consent forms (as provided by 24 CFR part 5), or knowingly providing incomplete or inaccurate information, shall constitute a substantial violation of the lease.


(c) *Termination notice.* (1) The owner must give the family a written notice of any proposed termination of tenancy, stating the grounds and that the tenancy is terminated on a specified date and advising the family that it has an opportunity to respond to the owner. 


(2) When a termination notice is issued for other good cause (paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section), the notice will be effective, and it will so state, at the end of a term and in accordance with the termination provisions of the lease, but in no case earlier than 30 days after receipt by the family of the notice. Where the termination notice is based on material noncompliance with the lease or material failure to carry out obligations under a State landlord and tenant act pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (b)(1)(ii) of this section, the time of service must be in accord with the lease and State law. 


(3) In any judicial action instituted to evict the family, the owner may not rely on any grounds which are different from the reasons set forth in the notice. 


(4) See 24 CFR part 5 for provisions related to termination of assistance because of failure to establish citizenship or eligible immigration status, including informal hearing procedures and also for provisions concerning certain assistance for mixed families (families whose members include those with eligible immigration status, and those without eligible immigration status) in lieu of termination of assistance, and for provisions concerning deferral of termination of assistance.


(5) In actions or potential actions to terminate tenancy, the owner shall follow 24 CFR part 5, subpart L (Protection for Victims of Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking).


(6) In the case of failure to pay rent, the termination notice shall be effective no earlier than 30 days after receipt by the tenant. All termination notices in cases of failure to pay rent must include the following:


(i) Instructions on how the tenant can cure the nonpayment of rent violation, including an itemized amount separated by month of alleged rent owed by the tenant, any other arrearages allowed by HUD and included in the lease separated by month, and the date by which the tenant must pay the amount of rent owed before an eviction for nonpayment of rent can be filed;


(ii) Information on how the tenant can recertify their income and apply for a hardship exemption pursuant to 24 CFR 5.630(b); and


(iii) In the event of a Presidential declaration of a national emergency, such information as required by the Secretary.


(7) An owner must not provide tenants with a termination notice prior to the day after the rent is due according to the lease. An owner must not proceed with filing a formal judicial eviction if the tenant pays the alleged amount of rent owed within the 30-day notification period.








(d) *Modification of Lease form.* The owner, with the prior approval of HUD or, for a 24 CFR part 883 project, the Agency, may modify the terms and conditions of the lease form effective at the end of the initial term or a successive term, by serving an appropriate notice on the family, together with the offer of a revised lease or an addendum revising the existing lease. This notice and offer must be received by the family at least 30 days prior to the last date on which the family has the right to terminate the tenancy without being bound by the modified terms and conditions. The family may accept the modified terms and conditions by executing the offered revised lease or addendum, or may reject the modified terms and conditions by giving the owner written notice in accordance with the lease that the family intends to terminate the tenancy. Any increase in rent must in all cases be governed by § 880.609 and other applicable HUD regulations.



---

[N] [44 FR 59410, Oct. 15, 1979, as amended at 51 FR 11225, Apr. 1, 1986; 53 FR 846, Jan. 13, 1988; 53 FR 6601, Mar. 2, 1988; 54 FR 39703, Sept. 27, 1989; 56 FR 7537, Feb. 22, 1991; 60 FR 14842, Mar. 20, 1995; 61 FR 13590, Mar. 27, 1996; 61 FR 47382, Sept. 6, 1996; 66 FR 28797, May 24, 2001; 73 FR 72342, Nov. 28, 2008; 75 FR 66260, Oct. 27, 2010; 81 FR 80811, Nov. 16, 2016; 86 FR 55701, Oct. 7, 2021; 89 FR 101303, Dec. 13, 2024]




