# ยง 206.2   Definitions.

(a) *General.* The following definitions have general applicability throughout this part:


(1) *The Stafford Act:* The Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, Public Law 93-288, as amended.


(2) *Applicant:* Individuals, families, States and local governments, or private nonprofit organizations who apply for assistance as a result of a declaration of a major disaster or emergency.


(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Concurrent, multiple major disasters:* In considering a request for an advance, the term concurrent multiple major disasters means major disasters which occur within a 12-month period immediately preceding the major disaster for which an advance of the non-Federal share is requested pursuant to section 319 of the Stafford Act.


(5) *Contractor:* Any individual, partnership, corporation, agency, or other entity (other than an organization engaged in the business of insurance) performing work by contract for the Federal Government or a State or local agency.


(6) *Designated area:* Any emergency or major disaster-affected portion of a State which has been determined eligible for Federal assistance.


(7) *Administrator:* The Administrator, FEMA.


(8) *Disaster Recovery Manager (DRM):* The person appointed to exercise the authority of a Regional Administrator for a particular emergency or major disaster.


(9) *Emergency:* Any occasion or instance for which, in the determination of the President, Federal assistance is needed to supplement State and local efforts and capabilities to save lives and to protect property and public health and safety, or to lessen or avert the threat of a catastrophe in any part of the United States.


(10) *Federal agency:* Any department, independent establishment, Government corporation, or other agency of the executive branch of the Federal Government, including the United States Postal Service, but shall not include the American National Red Cross.


(11) *Federal Coordinating Officer (FCO):* The person appointed by the Administrator, or in his absence, the Deputy Administrator, to coordinate Federal assistance in an emergency or a major disaster.


(12) *Governor:* The chief executive of any State or the Acting Governor.


(13) *Governor's Authorized Representative (GAR):* The person empowered by the Governor to execute, on behalf of the State, all necessary documents for disaster assistance.


(14) *Hazard mitigation:* Any cost effective measure which will reduce the potential for damage to a facility from a disaster event.


(15) *Individual assistance:* Supplementary Federal assistance provided under the Stafford Act to individuals and families adversely affected by a major disaster or an emergency. Such assistance may be provided directly by the Federal Government or through State or local governments or disaster relief organizations. For further information, see subparts D, E, and F of these regulations.


(16) *Local government:*

(i) A county, municipality, city, town, township, local public authority, school district, special district, intrastate district, council of governments (regardless of whether the council of governments is incorporated as a nonprofit corporation under State law), regional or interstate government entity, or agency or instrumentality of a local government; 


(ii) An Indian tribe or authorized tribal organization, or Alaska Native village or organization; and 


(iii) A rural community, unincorporated town or village, or other public entity, for which an application for assistance is made by a State or political subdivision of a State.


(17) *Major disaster:* Any natural catastrophe (including any hurricane, tornado, storm, high water, winddriven water, tidal wave, tsunami, earthquake, volcanic eruption, landslide, mudslide, snowstorm, or drought), or, regardless of cause, any fire, flood, or explosion, in any part of the United States, which in the determination of the President causes damage of sufficient severity and magnitude to warrant major disaster assistance under this Act to supplement the efforts and available resources of States, local governments, and disaster relief organizations in alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering caused thereby.


(18) *Mission assignment:* Work order issued to a Federal agency by the Regional Administrator, Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Operations Directorate, or Administrator, directing completion by that agency of a specified task and citing funding, other managerial controls, and guidance.


(19) *Private nonprofit organization:* Any nongovernmental agency or entity that currently has:


(i) An effective ruling letter from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service granting tax exemption under section 501 (c), (d), or (e) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954; or


(ii) Satisfactory evidence from the State that the organization or entity is a nonprofit one organized or doing business under State law.


(20) *Public Assistance:* Supplementary Federal assistance provided under the Stafford Act to State and local governments or certain private, nonprofit organizations other than assistance for the direct benefit of individuals and families. For further information, see subparts G and H of this part. Fire Management Assistance Grants under section 420 of the Stafford Act are also considered Public Assistance. See subpart K of this part and part 204 of this chapter. 


(21) *Regional Administrator:* An administrator of a regional office of FEMA, or his/her designated representative. As used in these regulations, Regional Administrator also means the Disaster Recovery Manager who has been appointed to exercise the authority of the Regional Administrator for a particular emergency or major disaster.


(22) *State:* Any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.


(23) *State Coordinating Officer (SCO):* The person appointed by the Governor to act in cooperation with the Federal Coordinating Officer to administer disaster recovery efforts.


(24) *State emergency plan:* As used in section 401 or section 501 of the Stafford Act means that State plan which is designated specifically for State-level response to emergencies or major disasters and which sets forth actions to be taken by the State and local governments, including those for implementing Federal disaster assistance.


(25) *Temporary housing:* Temporary accommodations provided by the Federal Government to individuals or families whose homes are made unlivable by an emergency or a major disaster.


(26) *United States:* The 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.


(27) *Voluntary organization:* Any chartered or otherwise duly recognized tax-exempt local, State, or national organization or group which has provided or may provide needed services to the States, local governments, or individuals in coping with an emergency or a major disaster.


(b) *Additional definitions.* Definitions which apply to individual subparts are found in those subparts.



---

[N] [54 FR 11615, Mar. 21, 1989, as amended at 63 FR 17110, Apr. 8, 1998; 66 FR 57352, 57353, Nov. 14, 2001; 69 FR 24083, May 3, 2004; 74 FR 15346, Apr. 3, 2009]




