# ยง 630.6   Funding Corporation committees.

(a) *System Audit Committee.* The Funding Corporation must establish and maintain a System Audit Committee (SAC) by adopting a written charter describing the committee's composition, authorities, and responsibilities in accordance with this section. The SAC must maintain records of meetings, including attendance, for at least 3 fiscal years.


(1) *Composition.* All SAC members should be knowledgeable in at least one of the following: Public and corporate finance, financial reporting and disclosure, or accounting procedures.


(i) At least one-third of the SAC members must be representatives from the Farm Credit System.


(ii) The SAC may not consist of less than three members and at least one member must be a financial expert. A financial expert is one who either has experience with internal controls and procedures for financial reporting or experience in preparing or auditing financial statements.


(iii) The chair of the SAC must be a financial expert.


(2) *Independence.* Every audit committee member must be free from any relationship that, in the opinion of the Funding Corporation board, would interfere with the exercise of independent judgment as a committee member.


(3) *Resources.* The Funding Corporation must provide the SAC monetary and nonmonetary resources the SAC determines necessary to enable it to perform the duties listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. The Funding Corporation must permit the SAC to contract, for reasons directly related to the duties listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the services of external auditors, independent legal counsel, and outside advisors. The SAC must only use the resources of the Funding Corporation in a manner that complies with laws and regulations and for the purpose of preserving and promoting the safety and soundness of the System. The SAC must provide the Funding Corporation board of directors a quarterly accounting of expenditures made pursuant to this section.


(4) *Duties.* The SAC reports only to the Funding Corporation board of directors. In its capacity as a committee of the board, the SAC is responsible for the following:


(i) *Financial reports.* The SAC must oversee the Funding Corporation's preparation of the report to stockholders and investors; review the impact of any significant accounting and auditing developments; review accounting policy changes relating to preparation of the System-wide combined financial statements; and review annual and quarterly reports prior to release. After the SAC reviews a financial policy, procedure, or report, it must record in its minutes its agreement or disagreement with the item(s) under review.


(ii) *External auditors.* The external auditor must report directly to the SAC. The SAC must:


(A) Determine, with the agreement of the Funding Corporation board of directors, the appointment, compensation, and retention of the external auditors issuing System-wide audit reports;


(B) Review the external auditor's work;


(C) Give prior approval for any non-audit services performed by the external auditor, except the audit committee may not approve those non-audit services specifically prohibited by FCA regulation; and


(D) Comply with the auditor independence provisions of part 621 of this chapter.


(iii) *Internal controls.* The SAC must oversee the Funding Corporation's system of internal controls relating to preparation of financial reports, including controls relating to the Farm Credit System's compliance with applicable laws and regulations.


(b) *Compensation committee.* The Funding Corporation must establish and maintain a compensation committee by adopting a written charter describing the committee's composition, authorities, and responsibilities in accordance with this section. The compensation committee must report only to the board of directors. The compensation committee is required to maintain records of meetings, including attendance, for at least 3 fiscal years.


(1) *Composition.* The committee must consist of at least three members and all members must be members of the Funding Corporation's board of directors. Every compensation committee member must be free from any relationship that, in the opinion of the board, would interfere with the exercise of independent judgment as a committee member.


(2) *Responsibilities.* It is the responsibility of the compensation committee to review the compensation policies and plans for senior officers and employees and to approve the overall compensation program for senior officers. In fulfilling its responsibilities, the compensation committee must document that it determined the:


(i) Funding Corporation's projected long-term compensation and retirement benefit obligations are appropriate to the services performed and not excessive;


(ii) Incentive-based compensation programs and payments are reasonable and proportionate to the services performed and structured so the payout schedule considers the potential for future losses or undue risks to the Funding Corporation; and


(iii) Senior officer compensation, incentive, and benefit programs support the Funding Corporation's long-term business strategy and mission, as well as promote safe and sound business practices.


(3) *Resources.* The Funding Corporation must provide monetary and nonmonetary resources to enable its compensation committee to perform its duties.



---

[N] [71 FR 5767, Feb. 2, 2006, as amended at 71 FR 76122, Dec. 20, 2006; 77 FR 59052, Sept. 26, 2012; 77 FR 60602, Oct. 3, 2012]




