# ยง 250.880   Production safety system testing.

(a) *Notification.* You must:


(1) Notify the District Manager at least 72 hours before you commence initial production on a facility as required in ยง 250.800(a)(2), in order for BSEE to conduct the preproduction inspection of the integrated safety system.


(2) Notify the District Manager upon commencement of production so that BSEE may conduct a complete inspection.


(3) Notify the District Manager and receive BSEE approval before you perform any subsea intervention that modifies the existing subsea infrastructure in a way that may affect the casing monitoring capabilities and testing frequencies specified in the table set forth in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.


(b) *Testing methodologies.* You must:


(1) Test safety valves and other equipment at the intervals specified in the tables set forth in paragraph (c) of this section or more frequently if operating conditions warrant; and


(2) Perform testing and inspections in accordance with API RP 14C, Appendix D (incorporated by reference as specified in ยง 250.198), and the additional requirements specified in the tables of this section or as approved in the DWOP for your subsea system.


(c) *Testing frequencies.* You must:


(1) Comply with the following testing requirements for subsurface safety devices on dry tree wells:


(2) Comply with the following testing requirements for surface valves:


(3) Comply with the following testing requirements for surface safety systems and devices:


(4) Comply with the following testing requirements for subsurface safety devices and associated systems on subsea tree wells:


(d) *Subsea wells.* (1) Any subsea well that is completed and disconnected from monitoring capability may not be disconnected for more than 24 months, unless authorized by BSEE.


(2) Any subsea well that is completed and disconnected from monitoring capability for more than 6 months must meet the following testing and other requirements:


(i) Each well must have 3 pressure barriers:


(A) A closed and tested surface-controlled SSSV,


(B) A closed and tested USV, and


(C) One additional closed and tested tree valve.


(ii) For new completed wells, prior to the rig leaving the well, the pressure barriers must be tested as follows:


(A) The surface-controlled SSSV must be tested for leakage in accordance with ยง 250.828(c);


(B) The USV and other pressure barrier must be tested to confirm zero leakage rate.


(iii) A sealing pressure cap must be installed on the flowline connection hub until the flowline is installed and connected. The pressure cap must be designed to accommodate monitoring for pressure between the production wing valve and cap. The pressure cap must also be designed so that a remotely operated vehicle can bleed pressure off, monitor for buildup, and confirm barrier integrity.


(iv) Pressure monitoring at the sealing pressure cap on the flowline connection hub must be performed in each well at intervals not to exceed 12 months from the time of initial testing of the pressure barrier (prior to demobilizing the rig from the field).


(v) You must have a drilling vessel capable of intervention into the disconnected well in the field or readily accessible for use until the wells are brought on line.



---

[N] [81 FR 60918, Sept. 7, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 49262, Sept. 28, 2018]




