# § 690.61   Submission process and deadline for a Student Aid Report or Institutional Student Information Record.

(a) *Submission process.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, an institution must disburse a Federal Pell Grant to an eligible student who is otherwise qualified to receive that disbursement and electronically transmit Federal Pell Grant disbursement data to the Secretary for that student if—


(i) The student submits a valid SAR to the institution; or


(ii) The institution obtains a valid ISIR for the student.


(2) In determining a student's eligibility to receive his or her Federal Pell Grant, an institution is entitled to assume that SAR information or ISIR information is accurate and complete except under the conditions set forth in 34 CFR 668.16(f) and 668.60.


(b) *Valid Student Aid Report or Valid Institutional Student Information Record deadline.* Except as provided in the verification provisions of § 668.60 and the late disbursement provisions of § 668.164(g) of this chapter, for a student to receive a Federal Pell Grant for an award year, the student must submit the relevant parts of the valid SAR to his or her institution or the institution must obtain a valid ISIR by the earlier of—


(1) The last date that the student is still enrolled and eligible for payment at that institution; or 


(2) By the deadline date established by the Secretary through publication of a notice in the _Federal Register._


---

[N] [59 FR 54732, Nov. 1, 1994, as amended at 61 FR 60397, Nov. 27, 1996; 67 FR 67083, Nov. 1, 2002; 69 FR 12277, Mar. 16, 2004; 75 FR 66968, Oct. 29, 2010]




