# § 721.11511   N-Alkyl heteromonocyclic diphenolamide, polymer with bisphenol A, haloaryl-substituted sulfone, compd. with cyclic sulfonate ester, polyaryl alcohol terminated (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance generically identified as N-Alkyl heteromonocyclic diphenolamide, polymer with bisphenol A, haloaryl-substituted sulfone, compd. with cyclic sulfonate ester, polyaryl alcohol terminated (PMN P-20-15) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(s). It is a significant new use to use the PMN substance other than as a polymer in the manufacture of hollow fiber membrane products.


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.



---

[N] [86 FR 30200, June 7, 2021]




