# § 63.847   Compliance provisions.

(a) *Compliance dates.* The owner operator of a primary aluminum reduction plant must comply with the requirements of this subpart by the applicable compliance date in paragraph (a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(4) of this section:


(1) Except as noted in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the compliance date for an owner or operator of an existing plant or source subject to the provisions of this subpart is October 7, 1999.


(2) The compliance dates for existing plants and sources are:


(i) October 15, 2015 for the malfunction provisions of § 63.850(d)(2) and (e)(4)(xvi) and (xvii) and the electronic reporting provisions of § 63.850(b), (c) and (f) which became effective October 15, 2015.


(ii) October 17, 2016 for potline work practice standards in § 63.854 and COS emission limit provisions of § 63.843(e); for anode bake furnace startup practices in § 63.847(l) and PM emission limits in § 63.843(c)(3); for Soderberg potline PM and PCB emission limits in § 63.843(a)(3)(v) and (a)(6); and for paste production plant startup practices in § 63.847(m) and PM emission limits in § 63.843(b)(4) which became effective October 15, 2015.


(iii) October 16, 2017 for prebake potline POM emission limits in § 63.843(a)(2)(iv) through (vii); for Soderberg potline POM, As and Ni emission limits in §§ 63.843(a)(2)(iii), (a)(4) and (5); for prebake potline PM emission limits in § 63.843(a)(3); for anode bake furnace Hg emission limits in § 63.843(c)(4); and for the pitch storage tank POM limit provisions of § 63.843(d) which became effective October 15, 2015.


(3) [Reserved]


(4) Upon startup, for an owner or operator of a new or reconstructed source.


(5) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(6) and (7) of this section, a new affected source is one for which construction or reconstruction commenced after September 26, 1996.


(6) For the purposes of compliance with the emission standards for PM, a new affected potline, anode bake furnace or paste production plant is one for which construction or reconstruction commenced after December 8, 2014.


(7) For the purposes of compliance with the emission standards for POM and COS, a new affected prebake potline is one for which construction or reconstruction commenced after December 8, 2014.


(8) For the purposes of compliance with the emission standards for As, Ni and POM, a new affected Soderberg potline is one for which construction or reconstruction commenced after December 8, 2014.


(9) For the purposes of compliance with the emission standards for Hg, a new affected anode bake furnace is one for which construction or reconstruction commenced after December 8, 2014.


(b) *Test plan.* The owner or operator shall prepare a site-specific test plan prior to the initial performance test according to the requirements of § 63.7(c) of this part. The test plan must include procedures for conducting the initial performance test and for subsequent performance tests required in § 63.848 for emission monitoring. In addition to the information required by § 63.7, the test plan shall include:


(1) Procedures to ensure a minimum of three runs are performed annually for the primary control system for each source;


(2) For a source with a single control device exhausted through multiple stacks, procedures to ensure that at least three runs are performed annually by a representative sample of the stacks satisfactory to the applicable regulatory authority;


(3) For multiple control devices on a single source, procedures to ensure that at least one run is performed annually for each control device by a representative sample of the stacks satisfactory to the applicable regulatory authority;


(4) Procedures for sampling single stacks associated with multiple anode bake furnaces;


(5) For plants with roof scrubbers, procedures for rotating sampling among the scrubbers or other procedures to obtain representative samples as approved by the applicable regulatory authority;


(6) [Reserved]


(7) For a SWPB potline, procedures to ensure that the average of the sampling results for two fans (or two scrubbers) per potline is used for each run; and


(8) Procedures for establishing the frequency of testing to ensure that at least one run is performed before the 15th of the month, at least one run is performed after the 15th of the month, and that there are at least 6 days between two of the runs during the month, or that secondary emissions are measured according to an alternate schedule satisfactory to the applicable regulatory authority.


(c) Following approval of the site-specific test plan, the owner or operator must conduct a performance test to demonstrate initial compliance according to the procedures in paragraph (d) of this section. If a performance test has been conducted on the primary control system for potlines, the anode bake furnace, the paste production plant, or (if applicable) the pitch storage tank control device within the 12 months prior to the compliance date, the results of that performance test may be used to demonstrate initial compliance. The owner or operator must conduct the performance test:


(1) During the first month following the compliance date for an existing potline (or potroom group), anode bake furnace, paste production plant or pitch storage tank.


(2) By the date determined according to the requirements in paragraph (c)(2)(i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this section for a new or reconstructed potline, anode bake furnace, or pitch storage tank (for which the owner or operator elects to conduct an initial performance test):


(i) By the 180th day following startup for a potline or potroom group. The 180-day period starts when the first pot in a potline or potroom group is energized.


(ii) By the 45th day from the start of the second anode bake cycle (but no later than the 180th day from the startup of the anode bake furnace).


(iii) By the 30th day following startup for a pitch storage tank. The 30-day period starts when the tank is first used to store pitch.


(iv) By the 30th day following startup of a paste production plant. The 30-day period starts when the paste production plant produces green anodes.


(3) By the date determined according to the requirements in paragraph (c)(3)(i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) of this section for an existing potline, anode bake furnace, paste production plant, or pitch storage tank that was shut down at the time compliance would have otherwise been required and is subsequently restarted:


(i) By the 180th day following startup for a potline or potroom group. The 180-day period starts when the first pot in a potline or potroom group is energized.


(ii) By the 45th day from the start of the second anode bake cycle (but no later than the 180th day from the startup of the anode bake furnace).


(iii) By the 30th day following startup of a paste production plant. The 30-day period starts when the paste production plant produces green anodes.


(iv) By the 30th day following startup for a pitch storage tank. The 30-day period starts when the tank is first used to store pitch.


(d) *Performance test requirements.* The initial performance test and all subsequent performance tests must be conducted in accordance with the applicable requirements of the general provisions in subpart A of this part, the approved test plan and the procedures in this section. Performance tests must be conducted under such conditions as the Administrator specifies to the owner or operator based on representative performance of the affected source for the period being tested. Upon request, the owner or operator must make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.


(1) *TF, POM and PM emissions from potlines.* For each potline, the owner or operator shall measure and record the emission rates of TF, POM and PM exiting the outlet of the primary control system and the rate of secondary emissions exiting through each roof monitor, or for a plant with roof scrubbers, exiting through the scrubbers. Using the equation in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the owner or operator shall compute and record the average of at least three runs semiannually for secondary emissions and at least three runs each year for the primary control system to determine compliance with the applicable emission limit. Compliance is demonstrated when the emission rates of TF, POM, and PM are equal to or less than the applicable emission limits in § 63.843, § 63.844, or § 63.846.


(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Previous control device tests.* If the owner or operator has performed more than one test of primary emission control device(s) for a potline or for a bake furnace during the previous consecutive 12 months, the average of all runs performed in the previous 12-month period shall be used to determine the contribution from the primary emission control system.


(4) *TF, POM, PM and Hg emissions from anode bake furnaces.* For each anode bake furnace, the owner or operator shall measure and record the emission rate of TF, POM, PM and Hg exiting the exhaust stacks(s) of the primary emission control system. In accordance with paragraphs (e)(3) and (4) of this section, the owner or operator shall compute and record the average of at least three runs each year to determine compliance with the applicable emission limits for TF, POM, PM and Hg. Compliance is demonstrated when the emission rates of TF, POM, PM and Hg are equal to or less than the applicable TF, POM, PM and Hg emission limits in § 63.843, § 63.844 or § 63.846.


(5) *Nickel emissions from VSS2 Potlines and new Soderberg potlines.* (i) For each VSS2 potline, and for each new Soderberg potline, the owner or operator must measure and record the emission rate of nickel exiting the primary emission control system and the rate of secondary emissions of nickel exiting through each roof monitor, or for a plant with roof scrubbers, exiting through the scrubbers. Using the equation in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the owner or operator must compute and record the average of at least three runs each year for secondary emissions and at least three runs each year for primary emissions.


(ii) Compliance is demonstrated when the emissions of nickel are equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in § 63.843(a)(4) or § 63.844(a)(4).


(6) *Arsenic emissions from VSS2 Potlines and from new Soderberg potlines.* (i) For each VSS2 potline, and for each new Soderberg potline, the owner or operator must measure and record the emission rate of arsenic exiting the primary emission control system and the rate of secondary emissions of arsenic exiting through each roof monitor, or for a plant with roof scrubbers, exiting through the scrubbers. Using the equation in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the owner or operator must compute and record the average of at least three runs each year for secondary emissions and at least three runs each year for primary emissions.


(ii) Compliance is demonstrated when the emissions of arsenic are equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in § 63.843(a)(5) or § 63.844(a)(5).


(7) *PCB emissions from VSS2 Potlines and from new Soderberg potlines.* (i) For each VSS2 potline, and for each new Soderberg potline, the owner or operator must measure and record the emission rate of PCB exiting the primary emission control system and the rate of secondary emissions of PCB exiting through each roof monitor, or for a plant with roof scrubbers, exiting through the scrubbers. Using the equation in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the owner or operator must compute and record the average of at least three runs each year for secondary emissions and at least three runs each year for primary emissions.


(ii) Compliance is demonstrated when the emissions of PCB are equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in § 63.843(a)(6) or § 63.844(a)(6).


(e) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the applicable TF, POM, PM, nickel, arsenic or PCB emission limits using the following equations and procedures:


(1) Compute the emission rate (E_p_) of TF, POM, PM, nickel, arsenic or PCB from each potline using Equation 1:




(2) [Reserved]


(3) Compute the emission rate (E_b_) of TF, POM or PM from each anode bake furnace using Equation 2,




(4) Compliance with the anode bake furnace Hg emission standard is demonstrated if the Hg concentration of the exhaust from the anode bake furnace control device is equal to or less than the applicable concentration standard in § 63.843(c)(4) or § 63.844(c)(4).


(5) Determine the weight of the aluminum tapped from the potline and the weight of the green anode material placed in the anode bake furnace using the monitoring devices required in § 63.848(j).


(6) Determine the aluminum production rate (P) by dividing the number of hours in the calendar month into the weight of aluminum tapped from the potline during the calendar month that includes the three runs of a performance test.


(7) Determine the rate of green anode material introduced into the furnace by dividing the number of operating hours in the calendar month into the weight of green anode material used during the calendar month in which the performance test was conducted.


(8) Compute the emission rate (E_PMpp_) of PM from each paste production plant using Equation 3,




(f) *Paste production plants.* (1) Initial compliance with the POM standards for existing and new paste production plants in §§ 63.843(b) and 63.844(b) will be demonstrated through site inspection(s) and review of site records by the applicable regulatory authority.


(2) For each paste production plant, the owner or operator shall measure and record the emission rate of PM exiting the exhaust stacks(s) of the primary emission control system. Using the equation in paragraph (e)(8) of this section, the owner or operator shall compute and record the average of at least three runs each year to determine compliance with the applicable emission limits for PM. Compliance with the PM standards for existing and new paste production plants is demonstrated when the PM emission rates are less than or equal to the applicable PM emission limits in §§ 63.843(b)(4) and 63.844(b)(2).


(g) *Pitch storage tanks.* The owner or operator must demonstrate initial compliance with the standard for pitch storage tanks in §§ 63.843(d) and 63.844(d) by preparing a design evaluation or by conducting a performance test. The owner or operator must submit for approval by the regulatory authority the information specified in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, along with the information specified in paragraph (g)(2) of this section where a design evaluation is performed or the information specified in paragraph (g)(3) of this section where a performance test is conducted.


(1) A description of the parameters to be monitored to ensure that the control device is being properly operated and maintained, an explanation of the criteria used for selection of that parameter (or parameters), and the frequency with which monitoring will be performed; and


(2) Where a design evaluation is performed, documentation demonstrating that the control device used achieves the required control efficiency during reasonably expected maximum filling rate. The documentation shall include a description of the gas stream that enters the control device, including flow and POM content under varying liquid level conditions, and the information specified in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (g)(2)(vi) of this section, as applicable.


(i) If the control device receives vapors, gases, or liquids, other than fuels, from emission points other than pitch storage tanks, the efficiency demonstration is to include consideration of all vapors, gases, and liquids, other than fuels, received by the control device;


(ii) If an enclosed combustion device with a minimum residence time of 0.5 seconds and a minimum temperature of 760 degrees C (1,400 degrees F) is used to meet the emission reduction requirement specified in § 63.843(d) and § 63.844(d), documentation that those conditions exist is sufficient to meet the requirements of § 63.843(d) and § 63.844(d);


(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section, for thermal incinerators, the design evaluation shall include the autoignition temperature of the organic HAP, the flow rate of the organic HAP emission stream, the combustion temperature, and the residence time at the combustion temperature;


(iv) If the pitch storage tank is vented to the emission control system installed for control of emissions from the paste production plant pursuant to § 63.843(b) or § 63.844(b)(1), documentation of compliance with the requirements of § 63.843(b) is sufficient to meet the requirements of § 63.843(d) or § 63.844(d);


(v) For carbon adsorbers, the design evaluation shall include the affinity of the organic vapors for carbon, the amount of carbon in each bed, the number of beds, the humidity of the feed gases, the temperature of the feed gases, the flow rate of the organic HAP emission stream, and if applicable, the desorption schedule, the regeneration stream pressure or temperature, and the flow rate of the regeneration stream. For vacuum desorption, the pressure drop shall be included; and


(vi) For condensers, the design evaluation shall include the final temperature of the organic HAP vapors, the type of condenser, and the design flow rate of the organic HAP emission stream.


(3) If a performance test is conducted, the owner or operator shall determine the control efficiency for POM during tank loading using Method 315 in appendix A to this part. The owner or operator shall include the following information:


(i) Identification of the pitch storage tank and control device for which the performance test will be submitted; and


(ii) Identification of the emission point(s) that share the control device with the pitch storage tank and for which the performance test will be conducted.


(h) *Selection of monitoring parameters.* The owner or operator shall determine the operating limits and monitoring frequency for each control device that is to be monitored as required in § 63.848(f).


(1) For potlines and anode bake furnaces, the owner or operator shall determine upper and/or lower operating limits, as appropriate, for each monitoring device for the emission control system from the values recorded during each of the runs performed during the initial performance test and from historical data from previous performance tests conducted by the methods specified in this subpart.


(2) For a paste production plant, the owner or operator shall specify and provide the basis or rationale for selecting parameters to be monitored and the associated operating limits for the emission control device.


(3) The owner or operator may redetermine the upper and/or lower operating limits, as appropriate, based on historical data or other information and submit an application to the applicable regulatory authority to change the applicable limit(s). The redetermined limits shall become effective upon approval by the applicable regulatory authority.


(i) [Reserved]


(j) *Carbonyl sulfide (COS) emissions.* The owner operator must calculate, for each potline, the emission rate of COS for each calendar month of operation using Equation 4:




Compliance is demonstrated if the calculated value of E_COS_ is less than the applicable standard for COS emissions in §§ 63.843(e) and 63.844(e).


(k) *Startup of potlines.* The owner or operator must develop a written startup plan as described in § 63.854(b) that contains specific procedures to be followed during startup periods of potline(s). Compliance with the applicable standards in § 63.854(b) will be demonstrated through site inspection(s) and review of site records by the regulatory authority.


(l) *Startup of anode bake furnaces.* The owner or operator must develop a written startup plan as described in paragraphs (l)(1) through (4) of this section, to be followed during startup periods of bake furnaces. Compliance with the startup plan will be demonstrated through site inspection(s) and review of site records by the regulatory authority. The written startup plan must contain specific procedures to be followed during startup periods of anode bake furnaces, including the following:


(1) A requirement to develop an anode bake furnace startup schedule.


(2) Records of time, date, duration of anode bake furnace startup and any nonroutine actions taken during startup of the furnaces.


(3) A requirement that the associated emission control system be operating within normal parametric limits prior to startup of the anode bake furnace.


(4) A requirement to take immediate actions to stop the startup process as soon as practicable and continue to comply with § 63.843(f) or § 63.844(f) if the associated emission control system is off line at any time during startup. The anode bake furnace restart may resume once the associated emission control system is back on line and operating within normal parametric limits.


(m) *Startup of paste production plants.* The owner or operator must develop a written startup plan as described in paragraphs (m)(1) through (3) of this section, to be followed during startup periods for paste production plants. Compliance with the startup plan will be demonstrated through site inspection(s) and review of site records by the regulatory authority. The written startup plan must contain specific procedures to be followed during startup periods of paste production plants, including the following:


(1) Records of time, date, duration of paste production plant startup and any nonroutine actions taken during startup of the paste production plants.


(2) A requirement that the associated emission control system be operating within normal parametric limits prior to startup of the paste production plant.


(3) A requirement to take immediate actions to stop the startup process as soon as practicable and continue to comply with § 63.843(f) or § 63.844(f) if the associated emission control system is off line at any time during startup. The paste production plant restart may resume once the associated emission control system is back on line and operating within normal parametric limits.



---

[N] [62 FR 52407, Oct. 7, 1997, as amended at 70 FR 66284, Nov. 2, 2005; 80 FR 62417, Oct. 15, 2015]




