# ยง 404.1519o   When a properly signed consultative examination report has not been received.

If a consultative examination report is received unsigned or improperly signed we will take the following action.


(a) *When we will make determinations and decisions without a properly signed report.* We will make a determination or decision in the circumstances specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section without waiting for a properly signed consultative examination report. After we have made the determination or decision, we will obtain a properly signed report and include it in the file unless the medical source who performed the original consultative examination has died: 


(1) Continuous period of disability allowance with an onset date as alleged or earlier than alleged; or


(2) Continuance of disability.


(b) *When we will not make determinations and decisions without a properly signed report.* We will not use an unsigned or improperly signed consultative examination report to make the determinations or decisions specified in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), and (b)(4) of this section. When we need a properly signed consultative examination report to make these determinations or decisions, we must obtain such a report. If the signature of the medical source who performed the original examination cannot be obtained because the medical source is out of the country for an extended period of time, or on an extended vacation, seriously ill, deceased, or for any other reason, the consultative examination will be rescheduled with another medical source: 


(1) Denial; or


(2) Cessation; or


(3) Allowance of a period of disability which has ended; or


(4) Allowance with an onset date later than alleged.



---

[N] [56 FR 36958, Aug. 1, 1991, as amended at 65 FR 11877, Mar. 7, 2000]




