# § 721.10459   Amino-substituted carbopolycycle (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as amino-substituted carbopolycycle (PMN P-03-282) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4) (respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor of at least 50), (a)(6), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). Best's Viton model 878, Best's Butyl model 878, Barrier Laminated Film, and PVA Supported Polyvinyl Alcohol have been demonstrated to satisfy the requirements of § 721.63(a)(3)(i). Other demonstrated impervious gloves that satisfy § 721.63(a)(3)(i) are permissible. The following respirators meet the minimum requirements of § 721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting, half-face respirator equipment with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters; NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters; NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filters; NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA filters; or NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(vii), and (g)(2).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(f) and (j).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.



---

[N] [77 FR 58695, Sept. 21, 2012]




