# § 301.38-2   Regulated articles.

(a) *Rust-resistant regulated articles.* The Administrator has determined that certain *Berberis *, *Mahoberberis,* and *Mahonia* species and varieties are rust-resistant. A list of all such articles is located at *www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/plant-pest-and-disease-programs/pests-and-diseases/barberry/ct_barberry.*

(b) *Berberis, Mahoberberis, and Mahonia.* All plants, seeds, fruits, and other plant parts capable of propagation from rust-susceptible species and varieties of the genera Berberis, Mahoberberis, and Mahonia, except Mahonia cuttings for decorative purposes, are regulated articles.


(c) *Process for adding rust-resistant regulated articles*—(1) *Normal process.* (i) If the Administrator determines that an article not already listed at *www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/plant-pest-and-disease-programs/pests-and-diseases/barberry/ct_barberry* meets the definition of *rust-resistant plants* found in this subpart, APHIS will publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ proposing to designate the article as a rust-resistant regulated article for black stem rust. The notice will provide the basis for this determination, and will request public comment.


(ii) If no comments are received on the notice, or if the comments do not change the Administrator's determination, APHIS will publish a second notice in the _Federal Register_ designating the article as a rust-resistant regulated article for black stem rust and listing it.


(2) *Requested process.* A person may request that an additional rust-resistant variety be added to the list at *www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/plant-pest-and-disease-programs/pests-and-diseases/barberry/ct_barberry.* The person requesting that a rust-resistant variety be added to the list must provide APHIS with a description of the variety, including a written description and color pictures that can be used by an inspector to clearly identify the variety and distinguish it from other varieties. If APHIS determines the variety should be added to the list, APHIS will propose to add it to the list pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(d) *Immediate designation of regulated articles.* Any other product or article not listed at *www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/plant-pest-and-disease-programs/pests-and-diseases/barberry/ct_barberry* is a regulated article if an inspector determines it presents a risk of spread of black stem rust. The inspector must notify the person in possession of the product or article that it is subject to the provisions of this subpart.



---

[N] [87 FR 80004, Dec. 29, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 23501, Apr. 4, 2024]






