# ยง 86.431-78   Data submission.

(a) Data from all tests (including voided tests) performed by a manufacturer with total projected sales in excess of 10,000 vehicles shall be included in the application.


(b) The manufacturer shall furnish to the Administrator explanation for voiding any test. The Administrator will determine if voiding the test was appropriate based upon the explanation given by the manufacturer. If the Administrator determines that voiding the test was not appropriate, the Administrator may require that the data from that test be used in the calculation of the deterioration factor for emissions.


(c) When unscheduled or anticipated maintenance is performed, a complete record of all pertinent maintenance, including the malfunction diagnosis made, the corrective action taken, and the test data obtained shall be included in the application.


(d) A complete record of all maintenance shall be supplied.


(e) Measure CO_2_, N_2_O, and CH_4_ as described in this paragraph (e) with each zero kilometer certification test (if one is conducted) and with each test conducted at the applicable minimum test distance as defined in ยง 86.427-78. Use the analytical equipment and procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1065 as needed to measure N_2_O and CH_4_. Report these values in your application for certification. The requirements of this paragraph (e) apply starting with model year 2011 for CO_2_ and 2012 for CH_4_. The requirements of this paragraph (e) related to N_2_O emissions apply for engine families that depend on NO_X_ aftertreatment to meet emission standards starting with model year 2013. Small-volume manufacturers (as defined in ยง 86.410-2006(e)) may omit measurement of N_2_O and CH_4_; other manufacturers may provide appropriate data and/or information and omit measurement of N_2_O and CH_4_ as described in 40 CFR 1065.5. Use the same measurement methods as for your other results to report a single value for CO_2_, N_2_O, and CH_4_. Round the final values as follows:


(1) Round CO_2_ to the nearest 1 g/km.


(2) Round N_2_O to the nearest 0.001 g/km.


(3) Round CH_4_ to the nearest 0.001 g/km.



---

[N] [42 FR 1126, Jan. 5, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 48139, Dec. 10, 1984; 74 FR 56373, Oct. 30, 2009]




