# ยง 876.5280   Implanted mechanical/hydraulic urinary continence device.

(a) *Identification.* An implanted mechanical/hydraulic urinary continence device is a device used to treat urinary incontinence by the application of continuous or intermittent pressure to occlude the urethra. The totally implanted device may consist of a static pressure pad, or a system with a container of radiopaque fluid in the abdomen and a manual pump and valve under the skin surface that is connected by tubing to an adjustable pressure pad or to a cuff around the urethra. The fluid is pumped as needed from the container to inflate the pad or cuff to pass on the urethra.


(b) *Classification.* Class III (premarket approval).


(c) *Date PMA or notice of completion of a PDP is required.* A PMA or a notice of completion of a PDP is required to be filed with the Food and Drug Administration on or before December 26, 2000, for any implanted mechanical/hydraulic urinary continence device that was in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976, or that has, on or before December 26, 2000, been found to be substantially equivalent to an implanted mechanical/hydraulic urinary continence device that was in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976. Any other implanted mechanical/hydraulic urinary continence device shall have an approved PMA or a declared completed PDP in effect before being placed in commercial distribution.



---

[N] [48 FR 53023, Nov. 23, 1983, as amended at 52 FR 17738, May 11, 1987; 65 FR 57731, Sept. 26, 2000]




