# § 64.6000   Definitions.

As used in this subpart:


*Alternate Pricing Plan* or *Plan* means the offering of Incarcerated People's Communications Services to Consumers using a pricing structure other than per-minute pricing.


*Ancillary Service Charge* means any charge to Consumers associated with the provision or use of Incarcerated People's Communications Services that is not:


(1) Included in the per-minute charges assessed, in accordance with §§ 64.6010 and 64.6030, for individual Incarcerated People's Communications Services;


(2) Included in the charges assessed, in accordance with § 64.6140, in connection with an Alternate Pricing Plan; or


(3) An Authorized Fee, a Mandatory Fee, or a Mandatory Tax.


*Authorized Fee* means a government authorized, but discretionary, fee which a Provider must remit to a federal, state, or local government, and which a Provider is permitted, but not required, to pass through to Consumers for or in connection with intrastate, interstate, or international Incarcerated People's Communications Services. An Authorized Fee may not include a markup, unless the markup is specifically authorized by a federal, state, or local statute, rule, or regulation.


*Average Daily Population* or *ADP* means the sum of all Incarcerated People in a Correctional Facility for each day of the preceding calendar year divided by the number of days in that year, calculated each year on or before April 30.


*Billing Statement* or *Statement of Account* means the vehicle by which IPCS Account information is provided to the Consumer on a monthly basis, regardless of IPCS Account type, including: (a) the amount of any deposits in the IPCS Account; (b) the duration of any call(s) or communication(s) for which a charge is assessed; and (c) the balance remaining in the IPCS Account after deduction of those charges.


*Breakeven Point* means, for purposes of an Alternate Pricing Plan, the usage amount:


(1) Below which a Consumer would pay more under the Alternate Pricing Plan than the Consumer would have paid under the Provider's per-minute rates, and


(2) At or above which the cost of the Alternate Pricing Plan would be less than or equal to what the Consumer would pay under the Provider's per-minute rates.


*Collect Calling* means an arrangement whereby the called party takes affirmative action clearly indicating that it will pay the charges associated with a communication originating from an Incarcerated Person's Communications Device.


*Consumer* means the party paying a Provider of Incarcerated People's Communications Services.


*Controlling Judicial* or *Administrative Mandate* means:


(1) A final court order requiring an Incarcerated Person to pay restitution;


(2) A fine imposed as part of a criminal sentence;


(3) A fee imposed in connection with a criminal conviction; or


(4) A final court or administrative agency order adjudicating a valid contract between the Provider and the IPCS Account holder, entered into prior to July 22, 2024 that allows or requires that a Provider of Incarcerated People's Communications Services act in a manner that would otherwise violate § 64.6130.


*Correctional Facility, Facility,* or *Correctional Institution* means a Jail or a Prison.


*Debit Calling* means a presubscription or comparable service which allows an Incarcerated Person, or someone acting on an Incarcerated Person's behalf, to fund an IPCS Account set up through a Provider that can be used to pay for Incarcerated People's Communications Services originated by the Incarcerated Person.


*Facility-Related Rate Component* means either the Legally Mandated Facility Rate Component or the Contractually Prescribed Facility Rate Component identified in § 64.6030(d).


*Incarcerated Person* or *Incarcerated People* means a person or persons detained at a Jail or Prison, regardless of the duration of the detention.


*Incarcerated People's Communications Service* or *IPCS* means the provision of telephone service; interconnected VoIP service; non-interconnected VoIP service; interoperable video conferencing service; and any audio or video communications service used by Incarcerated People for the purpose of communicating with individuals outside the Facility where the Incarcerated Person is held, regardless of the technology used and regardless of interstate, intrastate or international jurisdiction.


*Incarcerated People's Communications Service Account* or *IPCS Account* means any type of account administered, or directly or indirectly controlled by a Provider or an affiliate of a Provider that can be used to pay IPCS rates and charges, including accounts where the Incarcerated Person is the account holder.


*Incarcerated Person's Communications Device* means a telephone instrument or other device capable of initiating communications, set aside by authorities of a Correctional Facility for use by one or more Incarcerated People.


*Interconnected Voice over Internet Protocol or Interconnected VoIP* means a service that:


(1) Enables real-time, two-way voice communications;


(2) Requires a broadband connection from the user's location;


(3) Requires internet protocol-compatible customer premises equipment; and


(4) permits users generally to receive calls that originate on the public switched telephone network and to terminate calls to the public switched telephone network.


*Interoperable Video Conferencing Service* means a service that provides real-time video communications, including audio, to enable users to share information of the user's choosing.


*International Communications* means communications that originate in the United States and terminate outside the United States.


*International Destination* means the rate zone in which an International Communication terminates. For countries that have a single rate zone, International Destination means the country in which an International Communication terminates.


*Inmate* means a person detained at a Jail or Prison, regardless of the duration of the detention;


*Inmate Calling Service* means a service that allows Inmates to make calls to individuals outside the Correctional Facility where the Inmate is being held, regardless of the technology used to deliver the service;


*Inmate Telephone* means a telephone instrument, or other device capable of initiating calls, set aside by authorities of a Correctional Facility for use by Inmates;


*Jail* means a Facility of a local, state, or federal law enforcement agency that is used to primarily hold individuals who are:


(1) Awaiting adjudication of criminal charges;


(2) Post-conviction and committed to confinement sentences of one year or less; or


(3) Post-conviction and awaiting transfer to another Facility. The term also includes city, county, or regional facilities that have contracted with a private company to manage day-to-day operations; privately owned and operated Facilities primarily engaged in housing city, county or regional Incarcerated People; immigration detention facilities operated by, or pursuant to contracts with, federal, state, city, county, or regional agencies; juvenile detention centers; and secure mental health facilities.


*Jurisdiction* means:


(1) The state, city, county, or territory where a law enforcement authority is operating or contracting for the operation of a Correctional Facility; or


(2) The United States for a Correctional Facility operated by or under the contracting authority of a Federal law enforcement agency.


*Jurisdictionally Mixed Charge* means any charge Consumers may be assessed for use of Incarcerated People's Communications Services that is not included in the per-minute charges assessed for individual communications and that are assessed for, or in connection with, uses of Incarcerated People's Communications Service to make such communications that have interstate or international and intrastate components that are unable to be segregated at the time the charge is incurred.


*Mandatory Tax* or *Mandatory Fee* means a fee that a Provider is required to collect directly from Consumers, and remit to federal, state, or local governments. A Mandatory Tax or Mandatory Fee that is passed through to a Consumer for, or in connection with, Incarcerated People's Communications Services may not include a markup, unless the markup is specifically authorized by a federal, state, or local statute, rule, or regulation.


*Non-interconnected VoIP* means a service, other than an Interconnected VoIP service, that enables real-time voice communications that originate from, or terminate to, the end-user's location using Internet Protocol or any successor protocol and that requires Internet Protocol compatible customer premises equipment.


*Per-Call, Per-Connection,* or *Per-Communication Charge* means a one-time fee charged to a Consumer of IPCS at call or communication initiation.


*Prepaid Calling* means a presubscription or comparable service in which a Consumer, other than an Incarcerated Person, funds an account set up through a Provider of Incarcerated People's Communications Services. Funds from the account can then be used to pay for Incarcerated People's Communications Services that originate with the same Incarcerated Person.


*Prepaid Collect Calling* means a calling arrangement that allows an Incarcerated Person to initiate an Incarcerated People's Communications Services communication without having a pre-established billing arrangement and also provides a means, within that communication, for the called party to establish an arrangement to be billed directly by the Provider of Incarcerated People's Communications Services for future communications from the same Incarcerated Person.


*Prison* means a Facility operated by a territorial, state, or Federal agency that is used primarily to confine individuals convicted of felonies and sentenced to terms in excess of one year. The term also includes public and private facilities that provide outsource housing to other agencies such as the State Departments of Correction and the Federal Bureau of Prisons; and facilities that would otherwise fall under the definition of a Jail but in which the majority of Incarcerated People are post-conviction and are committed to confinement for sentences of longer than one year.


*Provider of Incarcerated People's Communications Services* or *Provider* means any communications service provider that provides Incarcerated People's Communications Services, regardless of the technology used.


*Provider-Related Rate Component* means the interim per-minute rate specified in either § 64.6030(b) or (c) that Providers at Jails with Average Daily Populations of 1,000 or more Incarcerated People and all Prisons may charge for interstate Collect Calling, Debit Calling, Prepaid Calling, or Prepaid Collect Calling.


*Site Commission* means any form of monetary payment, in-kind payment, gift, exchange of services or goods, fee, technology allowance, or product that a Provider of Incarcerated People's Communications Services or affiliate of a Provider of Incarcerated People's Communications Services may pay, give, donate, or otherwise provide to an entity that operates a Correctional Institution, an entity with which the Provider of Incarcerated People's Communications Services enter into an agreement to provide Incarcerated People's Communications Services, a governmental agency that oversees a Correctional Facility, the city, county, or state where a Facility is located, or an agent of any such Facility.



---

[N] [89 FR 77362, Sept. 20, 2024]






