# § 1.752-1   Treatment of partnership liabilities.

(a) *Definitions.* For purposes of section 752, the following definitions apply:


(1) *Recourse liability defined.* A partnership liability is a recourse liability to the extent that any partner or related person bears the economic risk of loss for that liability under § 1.752-2.


(2) *Nonrecourse liability defined.* A partnership liability is a nonrecourse liability to the extent that no partner or related person bears the economic risk of loss for that liability under § 1.752-2.


(3) *Related person.* Related person means a person having a relationship to a partner that is described in § 1.752-4(b).


(4) *Liability defined*—(i) *In general.* An obligation is a liability for purposes of section 752 and the regulations thereunder (§ 1.752-1 liability), only if, when, and to the extent that incurring the obligation—


(A) Creates or increases the basis of any of the obligor's assets (including cash);


(B) Gives rise to an immediate deduction to the obligor; or


(C) Gives rise to an expense that is not deductible in computing the obligor's taxable income and is not properly chargeable to capital.


(ii) *Obligation.* For purposes of this paragraph and § 1.752-7, an obligation is any fixed or contingent obligation to make payment without regard to whether the obligation is otherwise taken into account for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code. Obligations include, but are not limited to, debt obligations, environmental obligations, tort obligations, contract obligations, pension obligations, obligations under a short sale, and obligations under derivative financial instruments such as options, forward contracts, futures contracts, and swaps.


(iii) *Other liabilities.* For obligations that are not § 1.752-1 liabilities, see §§ 1.752-6 and 1.752-7.


(iv) *Effective date.* Except as otherwise provided in § 1.752-7(k), this paragraph (a)(4) applies to liabilities that are incurred or assumed by a partnership on or after June 24, 2003.


(b) *Increase in partner's share of liabilities.* Any increase in a partner's share of partnership liabilities, or any increase in a partner's individual liabilities by reason of the partner's assumption of partnership liabilities, is treated as a contribution of money by that partner to the partnership.


(c) *Decrease in partner's share of liabilities.* Any decrease in a partner's share of partnership liabilities, or any decrease in a partner's individual liabilities by reason of the partnership's assumption of the individual liabilities of the partner, is treated as a distribution of money by the partnership to that partner.


(d) *Assumption of liability.*-(1) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (e) of this section, a person is considered to assume a liability only to the extent that:


(i) The assuming person is personally obligated to pay the liability; and


(ii) If a partner or related person assumes a partnership liability, the person to whom the liability is owed knows of the assumption and can directly enforce the partner's or related person's obligation for the liability, and no other partner or person that is a related person to another partner would bear the economic risk of loss for the liability under § 1.752-2 immediately after the assumption.


(2) *Applicability date.* Paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section applies to liabilities incurred or assumed by a partnership on or after October 9, 2019. The rules applicable to liabilities incurred or assumed prior to October 9, 2019, are contained in § 1.752-1 in effect prior to October 9, 2019, (see 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2019).


(e) *Property subject to a liability.* If property is contributed by a partner to the partnership or distributed by the partnership to a partner and the property is subject to a liability of the transferor, the transferee is treated as having assumed the liability, to the extent that the amount of the liability does not exceed the fair market value of the property at the time of the contribution or distribution.


(f) *Netting of increases and decreases in liabilities resulting from same transaction.* If, as a result of a single transaction, a partner incurs both an increase in the partner's share of the partnership liabilities (or the partner's individual liabilities) and a decrease in the partner's share of the partnership liabilities (or the partner's individual liabilities), only the net decrease is treated as a distribution from the partnership and only the net increase is treated as a contribution of money to the partnership. Generally, the contribution to or distribution from a partnership of property subject to a liability or the termination of the partnership under section 708(b) will require that increases and decreases in liabilities associated with the transaction be netted to determine if a partner will be deemed to have made a contribution or received a distribution as a result of the transaction. When two or more partnerships merge or consolidate under section 708(b)(2)(A), as described in § 1.708-1(c)(3)(i), increases and decreases in partnership liabilities associated with the merger or consolidation are netted by the partners in the terminating partnership and the resulting partnership to determine the effect of the merger under section 752. 


(g) *Example.* The following example illustrates the principles of paragraphs (b), (c), (e), and (f) of this section.


(h) *Sale or exchange of a partnership interest.* If a partnership interest is sold or exchanged, the reduction in the transferor partner's share of partnership liabilities is treated as an amount realized under section 1001 and the regulations thereunder. For example, if a partner sells an interest in a partnership for $750 cash and transfers to the purchaser the partner's share of partnership liabilities in the amount of $250, the seller realizes $1,000 on the transaction.


(i) *Bifurcation of partnership liabilities.* If one or more partners bears the economic risk of loss as to part, but not all, of a partnership liability represented by a single contractual obligation, that liability is treated as two or more separate liabilities for purposes of section 752. The portion of the liability as to which one or more partners bear the economic risk of loss is a recourse liability and the remainder of the liability, if any, is a nonrecourse liability.



---

[N] [T.D. 8380, 56 FR 66351, Dec. 23, 1991, as amended by T.D. 8925, 66 FR 723, Jan. 4, 2001; T.D. 9207, 70 FR 30343, May 26, 2005; T.D. 9877, 84 FR 54022, Oct. 9, 2019]




