# § 52.1190   Original Identification of plan section.

(a) This section identifies the original “Air Implementation Plan for the State of Michigan” and all revisions submitted by Michigan that were federally approved prior to August 1, 2006.


(b) The plan was officially submitted on February 3, 1972.


(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.


(1) Re-evaluation of control strategies for Berrien and Ingham Counties were submitted on March 3, 1972, by the State Air Pollution Office.


(2) Amendments to the Michigan air pollution rules for the control of SO_2_ emissions (Part 3) and the prevention of air pollution episodes (Part 6) submitted by the Governor on March 30, 1972.


(3) An amendment to the Grand Rapids air pollution ordinance (section 9.35 and section 9.36) was submitted on May 4, 1972, by the Grand Rapids Department of Environmental Protection.


(4) Reasons and justifications concerning general requirements of control strategy for nitrogen dioxide, compliance schedules, and review of new sources and modifications submitted on July 12, 1972, by the Governor.


(5) A letter from the State Department of Public Health submitted on July 24, 1972, described how emissions data would be made available to the public.


(6) Compliance schedules were submitted by the State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources on February 16, 1973.


(7) Compliance schedules were submitted by the State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources on May 4, 1973.


(8) Compliance schedules were submitted by the State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources on September 19, 1973.


(9) Compliance schedules were submitted by the State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources on October 23, 1973.


(10) Compliance schedules were submitted by the State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources on December 13, 1973.


(11) Air Quality Maintenance Area identifications were submitted on June 27, 1974, by the State of Michigan Department of Natural Resources.


(12) Air Quality Maintenance Area identifications were submitted on October 18, 1974, by the State of Michigan Department of Natural Resources.


(13) Provisions to disapprove an installation permit if the applicant source would interfere with the attainment or maintenance of national air quality standards were submitted by the Governor on January 25, 1974.


(14) Order extending the final compliance dates for meeting the sulfur dioxide emission limitation was submitted by the Michigan Department of Natural Resources for the Karn, Weadock and Cobb Plant Units of the Consumers Power Co.


(15) Order extending compliance date for meeting the sulfur dioxide emission limitation was submitted by the State of Michigan Department of Natural Resources for the Detroit Edison Company, Monroe County Plant on December 12, 1977.


(16) On April 25, 1979, the State submitted its nonattainment area plan for areas designated nonattainment as of March 3, 1978 and as revised on October 5, 1978. This submittal contained Michigan's Part D attainment plans for particulate matter, carbon monoxide, sulfur dioxide, transportation and new source review, plus a copy of Michigan's existing and proposed regulations. USEPA is not taking action at this time to include in the federally approved SIP certain portions of the submittal: Provisions in R 336.1310 concerning open burning; 336.1331, insofar as it may pertain to process sources in the iron and steel category and site specific revisions; 1349, 1350, 1351, 1352, 1353, 1354, 1355, 1356 and 1357 as they pertain to specific iron and steel source operations; Part 5, Extension of Sulfur Dioxide Compliance Date for Power Plants Past January 1, 1980; Part 7, Emission Limitations and Prohibitions—New Sources of Volatile Organic Compound Emissions; R336.1701-1710 controlling minor sources of volatile organic compounds; Part 11, Continuous Emission Monitoring; Part 13, Air Pollution Episodes; Part 16, Organization and Procedures; and Part 17, Hearings.


(17) On October 12, 1979, the State submitted comments and commitments in response to USEPA's notice of proposed rulemaking.


(18) On January 9, 1980, the State submitted a copy of the finally adopted rules of the Commission. These rules became fully effective on January 18, 1980. These finally adopted rules are identical to the rules submitted on April 25, 1979, as part of Michigan's Part D nonattainment area plan except for a modification in the numbering system. Paragraph (c)(16) of this subpart identifies those rules on which USEPA has not taken action.


(19) On February 6, 1980, the State submitted the visible emission test method for stationary sources referenced in Rule 336.1303 as being on file with the Michigan Air Pollution Control Commission. On March 7, 1980, the State submitted clarifications to the visible emissions test method.


(20) On March 31, 1980, the State submitted revisions to the conditional approval schedules for total suspended particulates.


(21) On July 25, 1979, the State submitted the official ozone attainment plan as part of the State Implementation Plan.


(22) On October 26, 1979, the State submitted comments and revisions to the transportation plans and vehicle inspection/maintenance portions of the State Implementation Plan for ozone in response to USEPA's notice of proposed rulemaking (45 FR 47350).


(23) On November 8, 1979, the State submitted revisions to the ozone attainment plan.


(24) On December 26, 1979, the State submitted comments and additional information from the lead local agencies on the transportation control plans for the Flint, Lansing, Grand Rapids and Detroit urban areas.


(25) On May 12, 1980, the State submitted corrections and comments in response to USEPA's notice of proposed rulemaking (45 FR 25087).


(26) On March 20, 1980, the State submitted commitments and additional revisions to the Inspection/Maintenance program for the Detroit urban area.


(27) On February 23, 1979, compliance schedules were submitted by the State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources to USEPA for the Detroit Edison, St. Clair Power Plant. Additional material concerning the Final Order issued to the Detroit Edison, St. Clair Power Plant was submitted on June 17, 1979 and August 14, 1979.


(28) On August 22, 1979, the State of Michigan submitted to USEPA an Administrative Order, for the Lansing Board of Water and Light (Order No. 4-1979, adopted May 23, 1979). In letters dated February 13, 1980 and April 1, 1980, the State of Michigan withdrew certain paragraphs (sections A, B, C1, D, E, F, and G) of the Order from consideration by USEPA.


(29) Compliance schedules were submitted by the State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources to USEPA on October 26, 1979, for the Dundee Cement Company, Monroe County (Michigan Final Order, APC No. 08-1979, adopted October 17, 1979).


(30) On July 26, 1979, the State of Michigan submitted to USEPA a revision to Rule 336.49 for the Consumers Power Company's J. H. Campbell Plant. The revision is a Final Order (No. 05-1979) extending the compliance date until January 1, 1985 for the Campbell Plant to meet the sulfur dioxide emission limitations in Rule 336.49. On February 14, 1980, the State of Michigan submitted to USEPA an amendment to Order No. 05-1979.


(31) Compliance schedules were submitted by the State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources to USEPA on November 13, 1979, for the S. D. Warren Company, Muskegon County (Michigan Final Order, No. 09-1979, adopted October 31, 1979).


(32) On December 19, 1979, the State of Michigan submitted a revision to provide for modification of the existing air quality surveillance network.


(33) On December 10, 1979, the State of Michigan submitted to USEPA a Final Order (APC No. 6-1979) issued by the Michigan Air Pollution Control Commission to the Consumers Power Company B.C. Cobb Plant. The Order requires the source to utilize 2.5% sulfur on an annual basis until January 1, 1985 when the company must meet the sulfur dioxide (SO_2_) emission limitation in Michigan Rule 336.1401.


(34) On January 8, 1980, the State of Michigan submitted to USEPA a Final Order (APC No. 14-1979) requested of the Michigan Air Pollution Control Commission (MAPCC) by the Union Camp Corporation in Monroe County, Michigan. The Order permitted the Union Camp Corporation to burn 2.7% sulfur fuel on an annual average and 4.0% sulfur fuel on a daily average between January 1, 1980 and July 1, 1980. Beginning July 1, 1980 until July 1, 1982 the Company is permitted to burn 2.5% sulfur fuel on an annual average and 4.0% sulfur fuel daily average. Beginning July 1, 1982 until January 1, 1985, the Company is allowed to burn 2.2% sulfur fuel annual average and 3.5% sulfur fuel daily average. After January 1, 1985; the Company has agreed to comply with the SO_2_ emission limitations of 1.5% sulfur fuel required in Michigan Rule 336.1401.


(35) On August 4, 1980 and August 8, 1980, the State of Michigan submitted to EPA additional information on the transportation control plan for the Niles, Michigan urbanized area.


(36) On January 10, 1980, the State of Michigan submitted to USEPA a Final Order (APC No. 16-1979) issued by the Michigan Air Pollution Control Commission to the Northern Michigan Electric Cooperative Advance Steam Plant. The Order allows the source to continue burning 2.0% sulfur coal (maximum daily average) until January 1, 1985 when the Company must meet the sulfur dioxide (S02) emission limitations in Michigan Rule 336.1401.


(37) On November 26, 1980, the State submitted a schedule to correct plan deficiencies cited by USEPA in its September 9, 1980 notice of proposed rulemaking on a portion of Michigan's Part D TSP control strategy pertaining to iron and steel sources. On April 1, 1981, the State submitted a revised schedule. USEPA has not taken action on the schedule submitted by the State.


(38) On April 10, 1981 the Governor of Michigan committed to annually administer and submit the questionnaire developed for the purposes of section 128.


(39) On July 28, 1980, the State of Michigan submitted to EPA, as revisions to the Michigan SIP, amendments to Rules 283 and 610 of the Michigan Air Pollution Control Commission.


(40) Revised compliance schedules were submitted by the State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources (MDNR) to EPA on January 14, 1981, for the Dundee Cement Company, Monroe County (Michigan Final Order, APC No. 16—1980, adopted November 19, 1980). The revised Order provides an earlier final compliance date of December 31, 1980 for reducing the particulate matter emissions to 0.20 pounds per 1,000 pounds of exhaust gases and December 31, 1981 for visible emission reductions from the Company's cement kilns.


(41) On April 25, 1979, the State submitted materials which satisfy the intergovernmental consultation process.


(42) On July 28, 1980, the State submitted an amendment to Michigan Air Pollution Control Commission Rule 221 which exempts minor sources of particulate matter and sulfur dioxide from the offset requirements.


(43) On August 25, 1981, the State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources (MDNR), submitted to EPA Consent Order No. 16-1981 for the Marathon Oil Company in Muskegon County. Consent Order No. 16-1981 satisfies USEPA's conditional approval of R336.1603 by providing detailed compliance schedules containing the increments of progress required by 40 CFR 51.15.


(44) On September 1, 1981, the State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources (MDNR) submitted to USEPA a revision to its R336.1220 requiring offsets in ozone nonattainment areas to exempt the same compounds listed in EPA's _Federal Register_ of July 22, 1980 (45 FR 48941). The revised R336.1220 also allows offsets of emissions for new sources in any of the seven counties in the southeastern Michigan ozone nonattainment area to be obtained from any of those counties, not just the county in which the new source is locating (Wayne, Oakland, Macomb, St. Clair, Washtenaw, Livingston, and Monroe).


(45) On May 24, 1980, the State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources (MDNR) submitted Consent Order APC No. 10-1979 for the Buick Motor Division Complex (BMDC) of the Buick Motors Division, General Motors Corporation. The BMDC is located in the City of Flint, Genesee County, a primary nonattainment area. On December 2, 1980, supplementary information was submitted by MDNR. The Consent Order contains enforceable emission limitations and control measures for the attainment of the primary TSP standards in Genesee County by December 31, 1982.


(46) On July 17, 1980, the State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources (MDNR) submitted Consent Order APC No. 01-1980 for the Grey Iron Casting Plant and the Nodular Iron Casting Plant, of the Chevrolet Motor Division, General Motors Corporation. The two plants are located in Saginaw County, a primary nonattainment area. On September 5, 1980 and February 6, 1981, supplementary information was submitted by MDNR. The Consent Order contains enforceable emission limitations and control measures for the attainment of the primary TSP standards in Saginaw County by December 31, 1982.


(47) On March 4, 1981, the State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources (MDNR) submitted Consent Order APC No. 12-1980 for the New Haven Foundry located in Macomb County, a secondary nonattainment area. The Consent Order contains enforceable emission reductions to achieve the secondary TSP standards by June 30, 1985.


(48) On May 1, 1981, the State of Michigan, through the Department of Natural Resources, submitted Consent Order 07-1981 for the Detroit Edison Company, Boulevard Heating Plant located in the City of Detroit, Wayne County. Under Michigan Rule 336.1331(1)(a), the plant was restricted to a particulate emission limit of 0.45 pounds of particulate per 1000 pounds flue gas or an equivalent of 410 tons per year. The Consent Order, pursuant to Michigan Rule 333.1331(1)(d), establishes a new limitation for the Boulevard Plant of 0.65 pounds per 1000 pounds of flue gas with a daily limit of 0.9 tons per day and 10 tons per year.


(49) On March 7, 1980 and April 21, 1981 the State of Michigan submitted particulate studies for the Detroit area. These studies satisfy EPA's conditional approval and the State's commitment.


(50) On October 22, 1981, the State of Michigan submitted as a SIP revision Consent Order No. 17-1981, between Conoco, Inc., and the Michigan Air Pollution Control Commission. The Consent Order establishes a compliance schedule for Conoco, Inc. to achieve the Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) limitations in R336.1609 by December 31, 1982.


(51) On December 27, 1979, the State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources (MDNR), submitted to EPA a revision to the State Implementation Plan (SIP) for Lead. On February 9, 1981, the State of Michigan submitted a letter clarifying provisions of its Lead SIP. The SIP provides for the implementation of measures for controlling lead emissions for the attainment and maintenance of the national ambient air quality standards for lead in Michigan by October 31, 1982.


(52) On June 26, 1981, the State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources, submitted to EPA Consent Order No. 12-1981 for controlling particulate emissions from the liquid waste incinerator in Building 830 at the Dow Chemical Company's Midland plant. The Consent Order provides a schedule which establishes a final particulate emissions compliance date of October 1, 1982.


(53) On August 24, 1981, the State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources, submitted to EPA Consent Order APC No. 19-1981 for controlling particulate emissions from Dow's West Side and South Side powerplants. On October 16, 1981, the State of Michigan submitted a letter to EPA clarifying specific sections intended for EPA's rulemaking action. All particulate emission sources at Dow must comply with various parts of Michigan's SIP by December 31, 1985. The Consent Order does not interfere with the attainment of the primary particulate NAAQS standard by December 31, 1982 or the secondary particulate NAAQS by October 1, 1984.


(54) On December 16, 1981, the State of Michigan submitted to EPA Consent Order APC No. 21-1981 for the Monitor Sugar Company. Consent Order APC No. 21-1981 provides for additional controls on its coal-fired boilers, 1, 2, 3, and 4 and establishes a final compliance date of October 15, 1982 for attaining the primary National Ambient Air Quality Standards.


(55) On January 7, 1982, the State of Michigan submitted to EPA Consent Order APC No. 23-1981 for the Traverse City Board of Light and Power. Consent Order APC No. 23-1981 limits the company's operation of its No. 1 and No. 2 coal-fired boilers after December 31, 1982; provides for additional controls on its No. 4 coal-fired boiler; and establishes a final compliance date of December 31, 1982.


(56) On September 2, 1981, the State of Michigan submitted a revision to the ozone plan consisting of RACT requirements for the control of volatile organic compound emissions from stationary industrial sources (Group II) referenced in Rules R336.1101-3, 5-9, 14-16, 18-21, 23; R336.1601, 3-4, 10, 19-27; and R336.2005.


(57) On March 3, 1982, the State of Michigan submitted a modification to its schedule for submitting by December 31, 1982 regulations developed to correct the State's deficiencies in its Part D State Implementation Plan for the attainment of the total suspended particulate air quality standards in its nonattainment areas containing iron and steel sources.


(58) On December 16, 1981, the State of Michigan submitted as a SIP revision consent order APC No. 18-1981 between General Motors Warehousing and Distribution Division and the Michigan Air Pollution Control Commission. On March 16, 1982, Michigan submitted an amendment to consent order APC No. 18-1981. The Consent Order provides a one year extension from October 15, 1982 until October 15, 1983 for the Company's No. 1 and No. 2 boilers and establishes a compliance date of October 15, 1981, for boilers 3 and 4. The Consent Order contains a schedule for compliance which specifies emission limits of 0.45 pounds of particulate per 1,000 pounds of gas as required in Michigan's rule 336.1331(c) Table 31.


(59) [Reserved]


(60) On April 5, 1982, the State of Michigan submitted Consent Order APC No. 02-1980 along with alterations to Section 5(D) of the Consent Order for the Hayes-Albion foundry in Calhoun County. The Consent Order contains control measures beyond the present requirements of Michigan's R336.1301 and R336.1331 for Total Suspended Particulate (TSP) emissions and evaluation methods for determining significant particulate emission sources from the foundry. On June 18, 1982, the State of Michigan also submitted a Fugitive Dust Control Plan and a Malfunction Abatement Plan for the Hayes-Albion foundry. On September 21, 1982, the State of Michigan formally submitted Permits 314-79 and 375-79 for the American Colloid Plant.


(61) On March 6, 1981, the State of Michigan submitted as a SIP revision general rules for fugitive dust control. These rules were approved by the Michigan Air Pollution Control Commission on January 20, 1981, and became effective at the State level on February 17, 1981. On January 25, 1982, May 3, 1982, and August 24, 1982, Michigan submitted additional information and commitments. The submittal of March 6, 1981, along with the additional information and commitments satisfies the State's commitment to submit industrial fugitive dust regulations that represent reasonably available control techniques for industrial fugitive dust sources.


(62) On July 28, 1982, the State of Michigan submitted Consent Order No. 06-1981 for the Clark Oil and Refining Corporation for volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions. This revision is a detailed compliance schedule containing increments of progress with a final compliance date of December 31, 1982 and an emission limitation of 0.7 pound of organic vapor per 1000 gallons of organic compound load.


(63) On September 8, 1982, the State of Michigan submitted as a SIP revision Consent Order No. 03-1982, between the Hydra-Matic Division, General Motors Corporation and the Michigan Air Pollution Control Commission. The Consent Order establishes a compliance schedule containing increments of progress dates and a final date of November 1, 1982 for Boiler No. 5 to comply with Michigan's R336.331.


(64) On September 21, 1982, the State of Michigan submitted as a SIP revision Consent Order No. 13-1982, between the Diamond Crystal Salt and the Michigan Air Pollution Control Commission, the Consent Order establishes a compliance schedule containing increments of progress dates and a final date of December 18, 1982 for Boiler No. 5 to comply with Michigan's R336.331.


(65) [Reserved]


(66) On September 8, 1982, the State of Michigan submitted as a State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision consent order No. 08-1982, between the General Motors, Buick Motor Division and the Michigan Air Pollution Control Commission. The Consent Order establishes a Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) emissions compliance schedule as required under Michigan's Rule 336.1603 and 336.1610, and extends the final compliance date for surface coating operations until December 31, 1987. On November 29, 1982, and March 10, 1983, the State submitted additional information.


(67) On September 8, 1982, the State of Michigan submitted Consent Order No. 09-1982, between the General Motors, Fisher Body Division and the Michigan Air Pollution Control Commission as a State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision. The Consent Order establishes a Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) emission compliance schedule as required under Michigan's Rule 336.1603 and 336.1610, and extends the compliance date for surface coating operations until December 31, 1987. On November 29, 1982, and March 10, 1983, the State submitted additional information.


(68) On September 8, 1982, the State of Michigan submitted as a State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision Consent Order No. 10-1982, between Chevrolet Truck Assembly and the Michigan Air Pollution Control Commission. The Consent Order establishes a Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) emission compliance schedule as required under Michigan's Rule 336.1603 and 336.1610, and extends the compliance date for surface coating operations until December 31, 1987. On November 29, 1982, and March 10, 1983, the State submitted additional information.


(69) On September 8, 1982, the State of Michigan submitted as a State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision Consent Order No. 11-1982, between the General Motors Fisher Body Division, Fleetwood Plant and the Michigan Air Pollution Control Commission. On March 10, 1983, the State submitted additional information for this SIP revision. The Consent Order establishes a Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) emissions compliance schedule as required under Michigan's Rules 336.1603 and 336.1610, and extends the final compliance date for surface coating operations until December 31, 1987.


(70) On September 8, 1982, the State of Michigan submitted as a State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision Consent Order No. 12-1982, between the General Motors, Cadillac Motors Car Division and the Michigan Air Pollution Control Commission. On March 10, 1983, the State submitted additional information for this SIP revision. The Consent Order establishes a Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) emission compliance schedule as required under Michigan's Rule 336.1603 and R336.1610, and extends the compliance date for surface coating operations until December 31, 1987.


(71) On September 1, 1982, the State of Michigan submitted a request to reduce the size of the ozone demonstration area for Southeast Michigan from the seven-county area of Wayne, Oakland, Macomb, Livingston, Monroe, St. Clair and Washtenaw to a three-county area consisting of Wayne, Oakland, and Macomb Counties.


(72) On November 18, 1982, the State of Michigan submitted Consent Order APC No. 06-1980, along with alterations for the General Motors Corporation (GMC) Central Foundry Division, Saginaw Malleable Iron Plant in the City of Saginaw, County of Saginaw as a revision to the Michigan SIP. Consent Order No. 06-1980, as amended, reflects an interim and final particulate emission limit more stringent than Michigan's rule 336.1331; extends the final date of compliance with Michigan's Rule 336.1301 for opacity on the oil quench facilities from December 31, 1982, to December 15, 1983, which is as expeditiously as practicable and before the July 31, 1985, attainment date for the secondary TSP NAAQS in Michigan.


(73) On June 30, 1983, the State of Michigan submitted as a State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision. Consent Order No. 4-1983 between the General Motors Corporation's Oldsmobile Division and the Michigan Air Pollution Control Commission. The Consent Order establishes a Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) emissions compliance schedule as required under Michigan's Rule 336.1603 and 336.1610, and extends the final compliance dates for prime, primer-surfacer, topcoat, and final repair operations until December 31, 1987.


(74) On June 30, 1983, the State of Michigan submitted as a State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision. Consent Order No. 5-1983, between the General Motors Corporation's Assembly Division and the Michigan Air Pollution Control Commission. The Consent Order established a Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) emission compliance schedule as required under Michigan's Rule 336.1603 and R336.1610, and provides interim compliance limits to be achieved by December 31, 1984, and extends the final compliance dates for topcoating and final repair coating operations until December 31, 1987.


(75) On October 4, 1983, the State of Michigan submitted: (1) A revised Consent Order APC No. 12-1979 between CWC Castings Division of Textron and the Michigan Air Pollution Control Commission and (2) Article 14, Section J of the Muskegon County APC Rules. Consent Order APC No. 12-1979 requires reductions of point source emissions and fugitive emissions and extends the installation schedule of specified control devices to December 31, 1984. Article 14, Section J, provides a ban on open residential and leaf burning in Muskegon County. EPA approves the additional control measures contained in Consent Order APC No. 12-1979 and the open burning ban. EPA takes no action on the overall approval of Michigan's Part D secondary nonattainment area for Muskegon County.


(76) On August 24, 1983, the State of Michigan submitted a State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision request for an extension of the compliance date for Boiler No. 2 for the General Motors Corporation Warehousing and Distribution Division, in Swartz Creek County. Consent Order No. 18-1981 extends the compliance date until October 15, 1985 for GMC to install mechanical collectors on Boiler No. 2.


(77) On March 8, 1984, the State of Michigan submitted a report which demonstrated that Rule 336.1606 contains emission limits equivalent to Reasonable Available Control Technology (RACT) for Wayne, Oakland and Macomb Counties. Therefore, USEPA remove its conditional approval of Rule 336.1606 and fully approves the State's rule.


(78) On September 6, 1984, the State of Michigan submitted a revision to the Michigan State Implementation Plan for the General Motors Corporation Buick Motor Division in the form of an Alteration of Stipulation for Entry of Consent Order and Final Order, No. 8-1982. The original Consent Order No. 8-1982 was federally approved on July 6, 1983. This alteration revises Consent Order No. 8-1982, in that it accelerates the final compliance dates for prime and prime-surfacer operations and extends an interim compliance date for topcoat operations.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) State of Michigan, Air Pollution Control Commission, Alteration of Stipulation for Entry Consent Order and Final Order SIP No. 8-1983, which was approved by the Air Pollution Control Commission on April 2, 1984.


(B) Letter of September 6, 1984, from the State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources, to EPA.


(79) On December 2, 1983, USEPA proposed to withdraw its approval of Michigan's fugitive dust regulations. On April 25, 1985, the State of Michigan submitted revised Rule 336.1371, existing Rule 336.1372, and new Rule 336.1373. However, they did not meet the requirements of Part D of section 172(b); and USEPA, therefore, withdrew its approval of these submittals, disapproved these submittals, and instituted new source restrictions for major sources in the Michigan primary Total Suspended Particulate (TSP) nonattainment areas on August 20, 1985. USEPA incorporates revised Rule 336.1371 and newly submitted Rule 336.1373 into the Michigan State Implementation Plan because they provide a framework for the development of fugitive dust control programs at the State level in Michigan. USEPA retains Rule 336.1372, which is already incorporated into the Michigan SIP, insofar as it applies to sources in TSP attainment areas. This paragraph supersedes paragraph (C)(61) of this section.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Michigan Department of Natural Resources Rules 336.1371 and 336.1373 (Fugitive Dust Regulations), as adopted on April 23, 1985.


(80) On July 27, 1983, the State of Michigan submitted Consent Order No. 08-1983 for the General Motors Corporation Central Foundry Division's Saginaw Malleable Iron Plant, as a revision to the Michigan State Implementation Plan for Total Suspended Particulates. Consent Order No. 08-1983 amends control strategy provisions of federally approved (November 18, 1982 and August 15, 1983) Consent Order No. 06-1980 and its alteration.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Stipulation for Entry of Consent Order and Final Order No. 08-1983 for the General Motors Corporation Central Foundry Division's Saginaw Malleable Iron Plant amending Control Strategy Provisions issued June 9, 1983.


(81) On October 1, 1984, the State of Michigan submitted the Stipulation for Entry of Consent Order and Final Order, SIP No. 12-1984, between the Consumer Power Company's J.H. Campbell and the Michigan Air Pollution Control Commission as a revision to the Michigan SO_2_ SIP. Consent Order No. 12-1984 provides a 3-year compliance date extension (January 1, 1985, to December 31, 1987) for the J.H. Campbell Units 1 and 2 to emit SO_2_ at an allowable rate on a daily basis of 4.88 lbs/MMBTU in 1985, 4.78 lbs/MMBTU in 1986, and 4.68 lbs/MMBTU in 1987.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) October 1, 1984, Stipulation for Entry of Consent Order and Final Order, SIP No. 12-1984, establishing interim daily average SO_2_ emission limitations and quarterly average limits on percent sulfur is fuel fired.


(82) The State of Michigan submitted negative declarations for several volatile organic compound source categories, as follows:


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Letters dated October 10, 1983, May 17, 1985, and June 12, 1985, from Robert P. Miller, Chief, Air Quality Division, Michigan Department of Natural Resources. The letter dated June 12, 1985, includes pages 2-119 and 2-120 from the revised 1982 Air Quality Implementation Plan for Ozone and Carbon Monoxide in Southeast Michigan.


(83) On September 16, 1985, the State of Michigan submitted a SIP revision requesting alternate opacity limits for the Packaging Corporation of America (PCA) bark boiler. The request is in the form of a Stipulation for Entry of Consent Order and Final Order (No. 23-1984). The Consent Order contains an extended schedule for the PCA's bark boiler to comply with Michigan's Rule 336.1301.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Stipulation for Entry of Consent Order and Final Order No. 23-1984 for the Packaging Corporation of America, approved on July 8, 1985.


(84) On April 29, 1986, the State of Michigan submitted a revision to the Michigan State Implementation Plan (SIP) for total suspended particulates (TSP). The revision, in the form of Air Pollution Control Act (APCA) No. 65, revises the State's 1965 APCA No. 348 contained in the TSP portion of the Michigan SIP with respect to: car ferries having the capacity to carry more than 110 motor vehicles; and coal-fired trains used in connection with tourism.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Act No. 65 of the Public Acts of 1986, as approved by the Governor of Michigan on March 30, 1986.


(85) On April 25, 1979, the State of Michigan submitted as revisions to the Air Quality Implementation Plan, Michigan Department of Natural Resources Air Pollution Control Commission General Rules for Open Burning; Continuous Emission Monitoring; Air Pollution Episodes; Organization, Operation and Procedures; and Hearings.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) R 336.1310, Open Burning, effective January 18, 1980.


(B) R 336.2101-3, R 336.2150-5, R 336.336-2159, R 336.2170, R336.2175-6, R 336.2189-90, and R 336.2199; Continuous Emission Monitoring, effective January 18, 1980.


(C) R 336.2301-8, Air Pollution Episodes, effective January 18, 1980.


(D) R 336.2601-8, Organization, Operating, and Procedures, effective January 18, 1980.


(E) R 336.2701-6, Hearings, effective January 18, 1980.


(86) On May 25, 1988, the State of Michigan submitted an SIP revision in the form of an addendum to the State's Rule 336.1122, effective at the State level on May 20, 1988. The amendment will allow coating companies to exclude methyl chloroform from the VOC emission calculation when it is not technically or economically reasonable. This exemption applies only to the surface coating operations that are subject to Part 6 (Emission Limitations and Prohibitions—Existing Sources of VOC Emissions) or Part 7 (Emission Limitations and Prohibitions—New Sources of VOC Emissions) of the State's regulations.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) R336.1122, Methyl Chloroform; effective at the State level on May 20, 1988.


(87)-(89) [Reserved]


(90) On December 17, 1987, the State of Michigan submitted to USEPA a revision to the Michigan State Implementation Plan for the Continental Fiber Drum, Inc., which limits volatile organic compound emissions from the surface coating operations at the facility.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) State of Michigan, Air Pollution Control Commission, Stipulation for Entry of Consent Order and Final Order No. 14-1987, which was adopted by the State on December 9, 1987.


(B) Letter of December 17, 1987, from the State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources to USEPA.


(91) On May 17, 1985, the State submitted revised rules for the control of particulate matter from iron and steel sources and from other sources in Michigan. These rules were submitted to fulfill conditions of USEPA's May 22, 1981, approval (46 FR 27923 of the State's part D total suspended particulates (TSP) State Implementation Plan (SIP). USEPA is approving these revised rules in the Michigan submittal except for the following provisions: The quench tower limit in rule 336.1331, Table 31, Section C.8, because allowing water quality limits to apply only to makeup water is a relaxation; the deletion of the limit in rule 336.1331 for coke oven coal preheater equipment, because it is a relaxation, and rule 336.1355, because it provides an unlimited exemption for emissions from emergency relief valves in coke oven gas collector mains.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Revision to parts 1, 3, and 10 of Michigan's administrative rules for air pollution control (Act 348 of 1967, as amended) as adopted by the Michigan Air Pollution Control Commission on December 18, 1984. These rules became effective in Michigan on February 22, 1985.


(92) On October 10, 1986, the State of Michigan supported portions of the revised Wayne County Air Pollution Control Division Air Pollution Control Ordinance as approved by Wayne County on September 19, 1985, as a revision to the Michigan State Implementation Plan. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Chapters 1, 2, 3, 5 (except for the portions of Chapter 5, section 501, of the Wayne County Ordinance which incorporate by reference the following parts of the State rules: The quench tower limit in Rule 336.1331, Table 31, Section C.8; the deletion of the limit in Rule 336.1331 for coke oven coal preheater equipment; and Rule 336.1355), 8 (except section 802), 9, 11, 12, 13 and appendices A and D of the Wayne County Air Pollution Control Division (WCAPCD) Air Pollution Control Ordinance as approved by WCAPCD on September 19, 1985.


(93) On November 16, 1992, the Michigan Department of Natural Resources submitted Natural Resources Commission Rule 336.202 (Rule 2), Sections 5 and 14a of the 1965 Air Pollution Act 348, and the 1991 Michigan Air Pollution Reporting Forms, Reference Tables, and General Instructions as the States emission statement program. Natural Resources Commission Rule 336.202 (Rule 2) became effective November 11, 1986. Section 5 and 14a of the 1965 Air Pollution Act 348 became effective July 23, 1965. 


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Natural Resources Commission Rule 336.202 (Rule 2) became effective November 11, 1986. Section 5 and 14a of the 1965 Air Pollution Act 348 became effective July 23, 1965. 


(94) On November 13, 1992, January 8, 1993, and November 12, 1993, the State of Michigan submitted a Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental Assistance Program for incorporation in the Michigan State Implementation Plan as required by section 507 of the Clean Air Act. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Small Business Clean Air Assistance Act, Act No. 12, Public Acts of 1993, approved by the Governor on April 1, 1993, and effective upon approval. 


(95) On November 15, 1993, the State of Michigan requested revision to the Michigan State Implementation Plan (SIP) to incorporate miscellaneous technical rule changes that the State had made effective April 20, 1989.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Michigan Air Pollution Control Rules: R 336.1107 (except paragraph (c)); R 336.1121, R 336.1403. R 336.1606, R 336.1607, R 336.1608, R 336.1609, R 336.1616, R 336.1626 (deleted), and R 336.1705, effective April 20, 1989. 


(96) Revisions to the Michigan Regulations submitted on June 12, 1993 and November 12, 1993 by the Michigan Department of Natural Resources: 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Revisions to the following provisions of the Michigan Air Pollution Control Commission General Rules filed with the Secretary of State on April 12, 1993 and effective on April 27, 1993: 


(*1*) R 336.1101 Definitions; A—Revised definitions of the following terms: actual emissions, air-dried coating, air quality standard, allowable emissions and alternate opacity. 


(*2*) R 336.1103 Definitions; C—Added definition of coating category. Revised definitions of the following terms: calendar day, class II hardboard paneling finish, coating line, coating of automobiles and light-duty trucks coating of fabric, coating of large appliances, coating of paper, coating of vinyl, component, component in field gas service, component in gaseous volatile organic compound service, component in heavy liquid service, component in light liquid service, component in liquid volatile organic compound service, condenser, conveyorized vapor degreaser, and creditable. 


(*3*) R 336.1105 Definitions; E—Added definition of the term extreme environmental conditions. Revised definitions of the following terms: electrostatic prep coat, equivalent method and extreme performance coating. 


(*4*) R 336.1116 Definitions; P—Revised definitions of the following terms: packaging rotogravure printing, printed interior panel, process unit turnaround, publication rotogravure printing and pushside. Deleted definition of the term pneumatic rubber tire manufacturing. 


(*5*) R 336.1122 Definitions; V—Added definition of the term vapor collection system. Revised definitions of the following terms: very large precipitator and volatile organic compound. 


(*6*) R 336.1602 General provisions for existing sources of volatile organic compound emissions (entire rule). 


(*7*) R 336.1610 Existing coating lines; emission of volatile organic compounds from exiting automobile, light-duty truck, and other product and material coating lines (entire rule). 


(*8*) R 336.1611 Existing cold cleaners (entire rule). 


(*9*) R 336.1619 Perchloroethylene; emission from existing dry cleaning equipment (entire rule). 


(*10*) R 336.1620 Emission of volatile organic compounds from existing flat wood paneling coating lines (entire rule). 


(*11*) R 336.1621 Emission of volatile organic compounds from existing metallic surface coating lines (entire rule). 


(*12*) R 336.1622 Emission of volatile organic compounds from existing components of petroleum refineries; refinery monitoring program (entire rule). 


(*13*) R 336.1623 Storage of petroleum liquids having a true vapor pressure of more than 1.0 psia, but less than 11.0 psia, in existing external floating roof stationary vessels of more than 40,000-gallon capacity (entire rule). 


(*14*) R 336.1625 Emission of volatile organic compounds from existing equipment utilized in manufacturing synthesized pharmaceutical products (entire rule). 


(*15*) R 336.1627 Delivery vessels; vapor collection systems (entire rule).


(*16*) R 336.1630 Emission of volatile organic compounds from existing paint manufacturing processes (entire rule). 


(*17*) R 336.1631 Emission of volatile organic compounds from existing process equipment utilized in manufacture of polystyrene or other organic resins (entire rule). 


(*18*) R 336.1632 Emission of volatile organic compounds from existing automobile, truck, and business machine plastic part coating lines (entire rule). 


(*19*) R 336.1702 General provisions of new sources of volatile organic compound emissions (entire rule). 


(*20*) R 336.2004 Appendix A; reference test methods; adoption of federal reference test methods (entire rule). 


(*21*) R 336.2006 Reference test method serving as alternate version of federal reference test method 25 by incorporating Byron analysis (entire rule). 


(*22*) R 336.2007 Alternate version of procedure L, referenced in R 336.2040(10) (entire rule). 


(*23*) R 336.2040 Method for determination of volatile organic compound emissions from coating lines and graphic arts lines (except R 336.2040(9) and R 336.2040(10)). 


(*24*) R 336.2041 Recordkeeping requirements for coating lines and graphic arts lines (entire rule). 


(B) Revisions to the following provisions of the Michigan Air Pollution Control Commission General Rules filed with the Secretary of State on November 3, 1993 and effective on November 18, 1993: 


(*1*) R 336.1601 Definitions—Added definition of the term person responsible. 


(*2*) R 336.1602 General provisions for existing sources of volatile organic compound emissions—Addition of provisions requiring submittal of site-specific SIP revisions to EPA for the use of equivalent control methods allowed under rules 336.1628(1) and 336.1629(1). 


(*3*) R 336.1624 Emission of volatile organic compounds from existing graphic arts lines (entire rule). 


(*4*) R 336.1628 Emission of volatile organic compounds from components of existing process equipment used in manufacturing synthetic organic chemicals and polymers; monitoring program (entire rule). 


(*5*) R 336.1629 Emission of volatile organic compounds from components of existing process equipment used in processing natural gas; monitoring program (entire rule). 


(C) Senate Bill No. 726 of the State of Michigan 87th Legislature for Stage I controls signed and effective on November 13, 1993. 


(D) State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources, Stipulation for Entry of Consent Order and Final Order No. 39-1993 which was adopted by the State on November 12, 1993. 


(E) State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources, Stipulation for Entry of Consent Order and Final Order No. 40-1993 which was adopted by the State on November 12, 1993. 


(F) State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources, Stipulation for Entry of Consent Order and Final Order No. 3-1993 which was adopted by the State on June 21, 1993. 


(97) On November 12, 1993, the State of Michigan submitted a revision to the State Implementation Plan (SIP) for the implementation of a motor vehicle inspection and maintenance (I/M) program in the Grand Rapids and Muskegon ozone nonattainment areas. This revision included House Bill No. 4165 which establishes an I/M program in Western Michigan, SIP narrative, and the State's Request for Proposal (RFP) for implementation of the program. House Bill No. 4165 was signed and effective on November 13, 1993.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) House Bill No. 4165; signed and effective November 13, 1993.


(ii) Additional materials.


(A) SIP narrative plan titled “Motor Vehicle Emissions Inspection and Maintenance Program for Southeast Michigan, Grand Rapids MSA, and Muskegon MSA Moderate Nonattainment Areas,” submitted to the EPA on November 12, 1993.


(B) RFP, submitted along with the SIP narrative on November 12, 1993.


(C) Supplemental materials, submitted on July 19, 1994, in a letter to EPA.


(98) [Reserved]


(99) On July 13, 1994, the State of Michigan requested a revision to the Michigan State Implementation Plan (SIP). The State requested that a consent order for the Eagle-Ottawa Leather Company of Grand Haven be included in the SIP. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources, Stipulation for Entry of Consent Order and Final Order No. 7-1994 which was adopted on July 13, 1994. 


(100) On June 11, 1993 the Michigan Department of Natural Resources (MDNR) submitted a plan, with revisions submitted on April 7, 1994 and October 14, 1994 for the purpose of bringing about the attainment of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter less than or equal to a nominal 10 micrometers (PM) in the Wayne County moderate PM nonattainment area. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Consent Order 4-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Allied Signal, Inc., Detroit Tar Plant. 


(B) Consent Order 5-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Asphalt Products Company, Plant 5A. 


(C) Consent Order 6-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Clawson Concrete Company, Plant #1. 


(D) Consent Order 7-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Cummings-Moore Graphite Company. 


(E) Consent Order 8-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Delray Connecting Railroad Company. 


(F) Consent Order 9-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Detroit Edison Company, River Rouge Plant. 


(G) Consent Order 10-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Detroit Edison Company, Sibley Quarry. 


(H) Consent Order 11-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the city of Detroit, Detroit Water and Sewage Department, Wastewater Treatment Plant. 


(I) Consent Order 12-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Ferrous Processing and Trading Company. 


(J) Consent Order 13-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Ford Motor Company, Rouge Industrial Complex. 


(K) Consent Order 14-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Ford Motor Company, Vulcan Forge. 


(L) Consent Order 15-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Edward C. Levy Company, Detroit Lime Company. 


(M) Consent Order 16-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Edward C. Levy Company, Plant #1. 


(N) Consent Order 17-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Edward C. Levy Company, Plant #3. 


(O) Consent Order 18-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Edward C. Levy Company, Plant #6. 


(P) Consent Order 19-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Edward C. Levy Company, Plant 4 and 5. 


(Q) Consent Order 20-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Edward C. Levy Company, Plant Scrap Up-Grade Facility. 


(R) Consent Order 21-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Marblehead Lime, Brennan Avenue Plant. 


(S) Consent Order 22-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Marblehead Lime, River Rouge Plant. 


(T) Consent Order 23-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the McLouth Steel Company, Trenton Plant. 


(U) Consent Order 24-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Michigan Foundation Company, Cement Plant. 


(V) Consent Order 25-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Michigan Foundation Company, Sibley Quarry. 


(W) Consent Order 26-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Morton International, Inc., Morton Salt Division. 


(X) Consent Order 27-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the National Steel Corporation, Great Lakes Division. 


(Y) Consent Order 28-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the National Steel Corporation, Transportation and Materials Handling Division. 


(Z) Consent Order 29-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Peerless Metals Powders, Incorporated. 


(AA) Consent Order 30-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Rouge Steel Company. 


(BB) Consent Order 31-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Keywell Corporation. 


(CC) Consent Order 32-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the St. Marys Cement Company. 


(DD) Consent Order 33-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the United States Gypsum Company. 


(EE) Consent Order 34-1993 effective October 12, 1994 issued by the MDNR. This Order limits the PM emissions for the Wyandotte Municipal Power Plant. 


(101) On November 15, 1993, the State of Michigan submitted as a revision to the Michigan State Implementation Plan for ozone a State Implementation Plan for a motor vehicle inspection and maintenance program for the Detroit-Ann Arbor area. Michigan submitted House Bill No. 5016, signed by Governor John Engler on November 13, 1993. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) State of Michigan House Bill No. 5016 signed by the Governor and effective on November 13, 1993. 


(102) On November 12, 1993, the State of Michigan submitted as a revision to the Michigan State Implementation Plan for ozone a State Implementation Plan for a section 175A maintenance plan for the Detroit-Ann Arbor area as part of Michigan's request to redesignate the area from moderate nonattainment to attainment for ozone. Elements of the section 175A maintenance plan include a base year (1993 attainment year) emission inventory for NO_X_ and VOC, a demonstration of maintenance of the ozone NAAQS with projected emission inventories (including interim years) to the year 2005 for NO_X_ and VOC, a plan to verify continued attainment, a contingency plan, and an obligation to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision in 8 years as required by the Clean Air Act. If the area records a violation of the ozone NAAQS (which must be confirmed by the State), Michigan will implement one or more appropriate contingency measure(s) which are contained in the contingency plan. Appropriateness of a contingency measure will be determined by an urban airshed modeling analysis. The Governor or his designee will select the contingency measure(s) to be implemented based on the analysis and the MDNR's recommendation. The menu of contingency measures includes basic motor vehicle inspection and maintenance program upgrades, Stage I vapor recovery expansion, Stage II vapor recovery, intensified RACT for degreasing operations, NO_X_ RACT, and RVP reduction to 7.8 psi. Michigan submitted legislation or rules for basic I/M in House Bill No 5016, signed by Governor John Engler on November 13, 1993; Stage I and Stage II in Senate Bill 726 signed by Governor John Engler on November 13, 1993; and RVP reduction to 7.8 psi in House Bill 4898 signed by Governor John Engler on November 13, 1993. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) State of Michigan House Bill No. 5016 signed by the Governor and effective on November 13, 1993. 


(B) State of Michigan Senate Bill 726 signed by the Governor and effective on November 13, 1993. 


(C) State of Michigan House Bill No. 4898 signed by the Governor and effective on November 13, 1993. 


(103) On August 26, 1994 Michigan submitted a site-specific SIP revision in the form of a consent order for incorporation into the federally enforceable ozone SIP. This consent order determines Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT) specifically for the Enamalum Corporation Novi, Michigan facility for the emission of volatile organic compounds (VOCs). 


(i) Incorporation by reference. The following Michigan Stipulation for Entry of Final Order By Consent. 


(A) State of Michigan, Department of Natural Resources, Stipulation for Entry of Final Order By Consent No. 6-1994 which was adopted by the State on June 27, 1994.


(104) On July 13, 1995, the Michigan Department of Natural Resources (MDNR) submitted a contingency measures plan for the Wayne County particulate matter nonattainment area. 


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) State of Michigan Administrative Rule 374 (R 336.1374), effective July 26, 1995. 


(105) [Reserved]


(106) On March 9, 1995, the State of Michigan submitted as a revision to the Michigan State Implementation Plan for ozone a State Implementation Plan for a section 175A maintenance plan for the Grand Rapids area as part of Michigan's request to redesignate the area from moderate nonattainment to attainment for ozone. Elements of the section 175A maintenance plan include an attainment emission inventory for NO_X_ and VOC, a demonstration of maintenance of the ozone NAAQS with projected emission inventories to the year 2007 for NO_X_ and VOC, a plan to verify continued attainment, a contingency plan, and a commitment to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision in 8 years as required by the Clean Air Act. If a violation of the ozone NAAQS, determined not to be attributable to transport from upwind areas, is monitored, Michigan will implement one or more appropriate contingency measure(s) contained in the contingency plan. Once a violation of the ozone NAAQS is recorded, the State will notify EPA, review the data for quality assurance, and conduct a technical analysis, including an analysis of meteorological conditions leading up to and during the exceedances contributing to the violation, to determine local culpability. This preliminary analysis will be submitted to EPA and subjected to public review and comment. The State will solicit and consider EPA's technical advice and analysis before making a final determination on the cause of the violation. The Governor or his designee will select the contingency measure(s) to be implemented within six months of a monitored violation attributable to ozone and ozone precursors from the Grand Rapids area. The menu of contingency measures includes a motor vehicle inspection and maintenance program, Stage II vapor recovery, gasoline RVP reduction to 7.8 psi, RACT on major non-CTG VOC sources in the categories of coating of plastics, coating of wood furniture, and industrial cleaning solvents. Michigan submitted legislation or rules for I/M in House Bill No 4165, signed by Governor John Engler on November 13, 1993; Stage II in Senate Bill 726 signed by Governor John Engler on November 13, 1993; and RVP reduction to 7.8 psi in House Bill 4898 signed by Governor John Engler on November 13, 1993. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) State of Michigan House Bill No. 4165 signed by the Governor and effective on November 13, 1993. 


(B) State of Michigan Senate Bill 726 signed by the Governor and effective on November 13, 1993. 


(C) State of Michigan House Bill No. 4898 signed by the Governor and effective on November 13, 1993. 


(107) [Reserved]


(108) On May 16, 1996, the State of Michigan submitted a revision to the Michigan State Implementation Plan (SIP). This revision is for the purpose of establishing a gasoline Reid vapor pressure (RVP) limit of 7.8 pounds per square inch (psi) for gasoline sold in Wayne, Oakland, Macomb, Washtenaw, Livingston, St. Clair, and Monroe counties in Michigan.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) House Bill No. 4898; signed and effective November 13, 1993.


(B) Michigan Complied Laws, Motor Fuels Quality Act, Chapter 290, Sections 642, 643, 645, 646, 647, and 649; all effective November 13, 1993.


(C) Michigan Complied Laws, Weights and Measures Act of 1964, Chapter 290, Sections 613, 615; all effective August 28, 1964.


(ii) Additional materials.


(A) Letter from Michigan Governor John Engler to Regional Administrator Valdas Adamkus, dated January 5, 1996.


(B) Letter from Michigan Director of Environmental Quality Russell Harding to Regional Administrator Valdas Adamkus, dated May 14, 1996.


(C) State report titled “Evaluation of Air Quality Contingency Measures for Implementation in Southeast Michigan,” submitted to the EPA on May 14, 1996.


(109) On December 13, 1994 and January 19, 1996, Michigan submitted correspondence and Executive Orders 1991-31 and 1995-18 which indicated that the executive branch of government had been reorganized. As a result of the reorganization, delegation of the Governor's authority under the Clean Air Act was revised. The Environmental Protection Agency's approval of these Executive Orders is limited to those provisions affecting air pollution control. The Air Pollution Control Commission was abolished and its authority was initially transferred to the Director of the Michigan Department of Natural Resources (DNR). Subsequently, the Michigan Department of Natural Resources of Environmental Quality (DEQ) was created by elevating eight program divisions and two program offices previously located within the DNR. The authority then earlier vested to the Director of the Michigan DNR was then transferred to the Director of the Michigan DEQ with the exception of some administrative appeals decisions.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) State of Michigan Executive Order 1991-31 Commission of Natural Resources, Department of Natural Resources, Michigan Department of Natural Resources Executive Reorganization. Introductory and concluding words of issuance and Title I: General; Part A: Sections 1, 2, 4 and 5, Part B. Title III: Environmental Protection; Part A: Sections 1 and 2, Part B. Title IV: Miscellaneous; Parts A and B, Part C: Sections 1, 2, 4, Part D. Signed by John Engler, Governor, November 8, 1991. Filed with the Secretary of State November 8, 1991. Effective January 7, 1992.


(B) State of Michigan Executive Order No. 1995-18 Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, Michigan Department of Natural Resources Executive Reorganization. Introductory and concluding words of issuance. Paragraphs 1, 2, 3(a) and (g), 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17, 18. Signed by John Engler, Governor, July 31, 1995. Filed with the Secretary of State on August 1, 1995. Effective September 30, 1995.


(110) A revision to Michigan's State Implementation Plan (SIP), containing part of Michigan's Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, was submitted by the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) on May 16, 1996, and supplemented on September 23, 1997. On December 30, 1997, MDEQ withdrew much of the original submittal. The revision incorporated below contains control requirements and applicable definitions for fugitive dust sources.


(i) Incorporation by reference. The following sections of Part 55 of Act 451 of 1994, the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act are incorporated by reference.


(A) 324.5524 Fugitive dust sources or emissions, effective March 30, 1995.


(B) 324.5525 Definitions, effective March 30, 1995.


(111) On March 18, 1999, the State of Michigan submitted a revision to the Michigan State Implementation Plan for carbon monoxide containing a section 175A maintenance plan for the Detroit area as part of Michigan's request to redesignate the area from nonattainment to attainment for carbon monoxide. Elements of the section 175A maintenance plan include a base year (1996 attainment year) emission inventory for CO, a demonstration of maintenance of the ozone NAAQS with projected emission inventories to the year 2010, a plan to verify continued attainment, a contingency plan, and an obligation to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision in 8 years as required by the Clean Air Act. If the area records a violation of the CO NAAQS (which must be confirmed by the State), Michigan will implement one or more appropriate contingency measure(s) which are in the contingency plan. The menu of contingency measures includes enforceable emission limitations for stationary sources, transportation control measures, or a vehicle inspection and maintenance program.


(112) The Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) submitted a revision to Michigan's State Implementation Plan (SIP) on August 20, 1998, and supplemented it on November 3, 1998. The revision removed from the SIP the following rules, which the State rescinded effective May 28, 1997: R 336.91 Purpose; R 336.92 Suspension of enforcement; requests by local agencies; R 336.93 Local agency requirements prior to suspension of enforcement; R 336.94 Commission public hearings on applications; R 336.95 Suspension of enforcement; procedures and public notice; R 336.96 Suspension of enforcement; conditions; R 336.97 Commission review of local agency programs; renewal of suspended enforcement; R 336.601 Affected counties and areas; R 336.602 Attainment of national ambient air quality standards; exemption from inspection and maintenance program requirements; R 336.603 Ozone and carbon monoxide attainment status determination; R 336.1373 Fugitive dust control requirements; areas listed in table 36; R 336.1501 Emission limits; extension of compliance date past January 1, 1980, generally; R 336.1502 Application; copies; R 336.1503 Application; contents; R 336.1504 Denial of request for extension past January 1, 1980; R 336.1505 Grant of extension past January 1, 1980; R 336.1506 Receipt of full and complete application; public notice; inspection; public hearing; R 336.1507 Modification or revocation of order granting extension; immediate effect; R 336.1603 Compliance program; R 336.2010 Reference test method 5A; R 336.2199(c); R 336.2601 Organization; R 336.2602 Offices and meetings; R 336.2603 Documents available for inspection and copying; R 336.2604 Document inspection and copying procedures; tape recording transcriptions; R 336.2605 Functions; R 336.2608 Hearings and informal conferences; R 336.2301 Definition of air pollution episode; R 336.2302 Definition of air pollution forecast; R 336.2303 Definition of air pollution alert; R 336.2304 Definition of air pollution warning; R 336.2305 Definition of air pollution emergency; R 336.2306 Declaration of air pollution episodes; R 336.2307 Episode emission abatement programs; and R 336.2308 Episode orders. The rules incorporated below contain revisions to degreasing, perchloroethylene dry cleaning, petroleum refinery, synthetic organic chemical manufacturing, and delivery vessel loading rules.


(i) Incorporation by reference. The following sections of the Michigan Administrative Code are incorporated by reference.


(A) R 336.1611 Existing cold cleaners, effective June 13, 1997.


(B) R336.1612 Existing open top vapor degreasers, effective June 13, 1997.


(C) R 336.1613 Existing conveyorized cold cleaners, effective June 13, 1997.


(D) R 336.1614 Existing conveyorized vapor degreasers, effective June 13, 1997.


(E) R 336.1619 Standards for perchloroethylene dry cleaning equipment, effective June 13, 1997.


(F) R 336.1622 Emission of volatile organic compounds from existing components of petroleum refineries; refinery monitoring program, effective June 13, 1997.


(G) R 336.1628 Emission of volatile organic compounds from components of existing process equipment used in manufacturing synthetic organic chemicals and polymers; monitoring program, effective June 13, 1997.


(H) R 336.1651 Standards for Degreasers, effective June 13, 1997.


(I) R 336.1706 Loading delivery vessels with organic compounds having a true vapor pressure of more than 1.5 psia at new loading facilities handling 5,000,000 or more gallons of such compounds per year, effective June 13, 1997.


(J) R 336.1707 New cold cleaners, effective June 13, 1997.


(K) R 336.1708 New open top vapor degreasers, effective June 13, 1997.


(L) R 336.1709 New conveyorized cold cleaners, effective June 13, 1997.


(M) R 336.1710 New conveyorized vapor degreasers, effective June 13, 1997.


(113) On March 9, 1995, the State of Michigan submitted a revision to the Michigan State Implementation Plan for ozone containing a section 175A maintenance plan for the Muskegon County area as part of Michigan's request to redesignate the area from nonattainment to attainment for ozone. Elements of the section 175A maintenance plan include a contingency plan, and an obligation to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision in 8 years as required by the Clean Air Act. If the area records a violation of the 1-hour ozone NAAQS, determined not to be attributable to transport from upwind areas, Michigan will implement one or more appropriate contingency measure(s) which are in the contingency plan. The menu of contingency measures includes a motor vehicle inspection and maintenance program, stage II vapor recovery, a low Reid vapor pressure gasoline program, and rules for industrial cleanup solvents, plastic parts coating, and wood furniture coating. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) State of Michigan House Bill No. 4165 signed by the Governor and effective on November 13, 1993. 


(B) State of Michigan House Bill No. 726 signed by the Governor and effective on November 13, 1993. 


(C) State of Michigan House Bill No. 4898 signed by the Governor and effective on November 13, 1993.


(114)-(115) [Reserved]


(116) The Michigan Department of Environmental Quality submitted revisions to Michigan's State Implementation Plan (SIP) on July 7, 2000 and supplemented them with letters dated January 29, 2001, and February 6, 2002. They include revisions to definitions, open burning rules, general volatile organic compound provisions, and administrative procedures. The revision removed from the SIP rules R 336.1320 and R 336.2703, which the State rescinded effective April 10, 2000. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. The following sections of the Michigan Administrative Code are incorporated by reference. 


(A) R 336.1104 Definitions; D, effective April 10, 2000. 


(B) R 336.1310, Open burning, effective February 3, 1999. 


(C) R 336.1602 General provisions for existing sources of volatile organic compound emissions, effective April 10, 2000. 


(D) R 336.2701 Petitions for review and for contested case hearings; hearing procedure; “duly authorized agent” defined, effective April 10, 2000. 


(E) R 336.2702 Appearances, effective April 10, 2000.


(117) [Reserved]


(118) The Michigan Department of Environmental Quality submitted revisions to Michigan's State Implementation Plan (SIP) on September 23, 2002. They include rules to address excess emissions occurring during startup, shutdown or malfunction as well as revisions to definitions. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. The following sections of the Michigan Administrative Code are incorporated by reference. 


(A) R 336.1102 Definitions; B, effective May 27, 2002. 


(B) R 336.1104 Definitions; D, effective May 27, 2002. 


(C) R 336.1105 Definitions; E, effective May 27, 2002. 


(D) R 336.1107 Definitions; G, effective May 27, 2002. 


(E) R 336.1108 Definitions; H, effective May 27, 2002. 


(F) R 336.1113 Definitions; M, effective May 27, 2002. 


(G) R 336.1118 Definitions; R, effective May 27, 2002. 


(H) R 336.1120 Definitions; T, effective May 27, 2002. 


(I) R 336.1915 Enforcement discretion in instances of excess emissions resulting from malfunction, start-up, or shutdown, effective May 27, 2002. 


(J) R 336.1916 Affirmative defense for excess emissions during start-up or shutdown, effective May 27, 2002. 


(119) The Michigan Department of Environmental Quality submitted a revision to Michigan's State Implementation Plan for ozone on April 25, 2003. This submittal contained a revised definition of volatile organic compound. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) R 336.1122 Definitions; V, effective March 13, 2003.


(120) [Reserved]


(121) On April 3, 2003, the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) submitted regulations restricting emissions of oxides of nitrogen (NO_X_) to address the Phase I NO_X_ SIP Call requirements. EPA conditionally approved Michigan's April 3, 2003, SIP revision on April 16, 2004. On May 27, 2004 and August 5, 2004, Michigan subsequently submitted for EPA approval SIP revisions to address the requirements found in EPA's conditional approval. These additional submittals, in combination with the original SIP revision, fulfill the Phase I NO_X_ SIP Call requirements.


(i) Incorporation by reference. The following sections of the Michigan Administrative Code are incorporated by reference.


(A) R336.1802 Applicability under oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective May 20, 2004.


(B) R336.1803 Definitions for oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective December 4, 2002.


(C) R336.1804 Retired unit exemption from oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective May 20, 2004.


(D) R336.1805 Standard requirements of oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective December 4, 2002.


(E) R336.1806 Computation of time under oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective December 4, 2002.


(F) R336.1807 Authorized account representative under oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective December 4, 2002.


(G) R336.1808 Permit requirements under oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective December 4, 2002.


(H) R336.1809 Compliance certification under oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective December 4, 2002.


(I) R336.1810 Allowance allocations under oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective December 4, 2002.


(J) R336.1811 New source set-aside under oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective May 20, 2004.


(K) R336.1812 Allowance tracking system and transfers under oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective December 4, 2002.


(L) R336.1813 Monitoring and reporting requirements under oxides of nitrogen budget trading, effective December 4, 2002.


(M) R336.1814 Individual opt-ins under oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective December 4, 2002.


(N) R336.1815 Allowance banking under oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective December 4, 2002.


(O) R336.1816 Compliance supplement pool under oxides of nitrogen budget trading program, effective December 4, 2002.


(P) R336.1817 Emission limitations and restrictions for Portland cement kilns, effective December 4, 2002.


(122) On April 3, 2003, May 28, 2003, September 17, 2004, October 25, 2004 and June 8, 2005, Michigan submitted revisions to the State Implementation Plan which affect the following sections of the Michigan Administrative Code: Part 3: Emission Limitations and Prohibitions—Particulate Matter; Part 4: Emission Limitations and Prohibitions—Sulfur-bearing Compounds; Part 6: Emission Limitations and Prohibitions—Existing Sources of Volatile Organic Compound Emissions; Part 7: Emission Limitations and Prohibitions—New Sources of Volatile Organic Compound Emissions; Part 9: Emission Limitations and Prohibitions—Miscellaneous; Part 10: Intermittent Testing and Sampling; and Part 11: Continuous Emission Monitoring.


(i) Incorporation by reference. The following sections of the Michigan Administrative Code are incorporated by reference.


(A) Revisions to the following provisions of the Michigan Administrative Code, effective April 30, 1998:


(*1*) R 336.1358 Roof monitor visible emissions at steel manufacturing facilities from electric arc furnaces and blast furnaces.


(*2*) R 336.1361 Visible emissions from blast furnace casthouse operations at steel manufacturing facilities.


(*3*) R 336.1362 Visible emissions from electric arc furnace operations at steel manufacturing facilities.


(*4*) R 336.1363 Visible emissions from argon-oxygen decarburization operations at steel manufacturing facilities.


(B) R 336.1625 Emission of volatile organic compound from existing equipment utilized in manufacturing synthesized pharmaceutical products, filed with the Secretary of State on November 14, 2000 and effective November 30, 2000.


(C) Revisions to the following provisions of the Michigan Administrative Code, filed with the Secretary of State March 11, 2002 and effective March 19, 2002:


(*1*) R 336.1301 Standards for density of emissions.


(*2*) R 336.1303 Grading visible emissions.


(*3*) R 336.1330 Electrostatic precipitator control systems.


(*4*) R 336.1331 Emission of particulate matter, except C8 of Table 31.


(*5*) R 336.1371 Fugitive dust control programs other than areas listed in table 36.


(*6*) R 336.1372 Fugitive dust control program; required activities; typical control methods.


(*7*) R 336.1374 Particulate matter contingency measures; area listed in table 37.


(*8*) R 336.1401 Emission of sulfur dioxide from power plants.


(*9*) R 336.1403 Oil- and natural gas-producing or transporting facilities and natural gas-processing facilities; emissions; operation.


(*10*) R 336.1601 Definitions.


(*11*) R 336.1604 Storage of organic compounds having true vapor pressure of more than 1.5 psia, but less than 11 psia, in existing fixed roof stationary vessels of more than 40,000-gallon capacity.


(*12*) R 336.1605 Storage of organic compounds having true vapor pressure of 11 or more psia in existing stationary vessels of more than 40,000-gallon capacity.


(*13*) R 336.1606 Loading gasoline into existing stationary vessels of more than 2,000-gallon capacity at dispensing facilities handling 250,000 or more gallons per year.


(*14*) R 336.1607 Loading gasoline into existing stationary vessels of more than 2,000-gallon capacity at loading facilities.


(*15*) R 336.1608 Loading gasoline into delivery vessels at existing loading facilities handling less than 5,000,000 gallons per year.


(*16*) R 336.1615 Existing vacuum-producing systems at petroleum refineries.


(*17*) R 336.1616 Process unit turnarounds at petroleum refineries.


(*18*) R 336.1617 Existing organic compound-water separators at petroleum refineries.


(*19*) R 336.1618 Use of cutback paving asphalt.


(*20*) R 336.1619 Standards for perchloroethylene dry cleaning equipment; adoption of standards by reference.


(*21*) R 336.1622 Emission of volatile organic compounds from existing components of petroleum refineries; refinery monitoring program.


(*22*) R 336.1623 Storage of petroleum liquids having a true vapor pressure of more than 1.0 psia, but less than 11.0 psia, in existing external floating roof stationary vessels of more than 40,000-gallon capacity.


(*23*) R 336.1627 Delivery vessels; vapor collection systems.


(*24*) R 336.1628 Emission of volatile organic compounds from components of existing process equipment used in manufacturing synthetic organic chemicals and polymers; monitoring program.


(*25*) R 336.1629 Emission of volatile organic compounds from components of existing process equipment used in processing natural gas; monitoring program.


(*26*) R 336.1630 Emission of volatile organic compounds from existing paint manufacturing processes.


(*27*) R 336.1631 Emission of volatile organic compounds from existing process equipment utilized in manufacture of polystyrene or other organic resins.


(*28*) R 336.1702 New sources of volatile organic compound emissions generally.


(*29*) R 336.1705 Loading gasoline into delivery vessels at new loading facilities handling less than 5,000,000 gallons per year.


(*30*) R 336.1906 Diluting and concealing emissions.


(*31*) R 336.1911 Malfunction abatement plans.


(*32*) R 336.1930 Emission of carbon monoxide from ferrous cupola operations.


(*33*) R 336.2001 Performance tests by owner.


(*34*) R 336.2002 Performance tests by department.


(*35*) R 336.2003 Performance test criteria.


(*36*) R 336.2004 Appendix A; reference test methods; adoption of Federal reference test methods.


(*37*) R 336.2005 Reference test methods for delivery vessels.


(*38*) R 336.2007 Alternate version of procedure L, referenced in R 336.2040(10).


(*39*) R 336.2013 Reference test method 5D.


(*40*) R 336.2021 Figures.


(*41*) R 336.2040 Method for determination of volatile organic compound emissions from coating lines and graphic arts lines, except subrules (9) and (10).


(*42*) R 336.2101 Continuous emission monitoring, fossil fuel-fired steam generators.


(*43*) R 336.2150 Performance specifications for continuous emission monitoring systems.


(*44*) R 336.2155 Monitor location for continuous emission monitoring systems.


(*45*) R 336.2159 Alternative continuous emission monitoring systems.


(*46*) R 336.2170 Monitoring data reporting and recordkeeping.


(*47*) R 336.2189 Alternative data reporting or reduction procedures.


(*48*) R 336.2190 Monitoring system malfunctions.


(D) Revisions to the following provisions of the Michigan Administrative Code, effective October 15, 2004:


(*1*) R 336.2012 Reference test method 5C.


(*2*) R 336.2014 Reference test method 5E.


(*3*) R 336.2175 Data reduction procedures for fossil fuel-fired steam generators.


(E) R 336.2011 Reference test method 5B, filed with the Secretary of State on April 21, 2005 and effective April 29, 2005.



---

[N] [37 FR 10873, May 31, 1972. Redesignated at 71 FR 52469, Sept. 6, 2006]


