# ยง 25.282   Beer lost by fire, theft, casualty, or act of God.

(a) *General.* The tax paid by any brewer on beer produced in the United States may be adjusted (without interest) on the excise tax return, may be refunded or credited (without interest) or, if the tax has not been paid, the brewer may be relieved of liability for the tax if, before transfer of title to the beer to any other person, the beer is lost, whether by theft or otherwise, or is destroyed or otherwise rendered unmerchantable by fire, casualty, or act of God. The tax liability on excessive losses of beer from transfer between breweries of the same ownership may be remitted as provided in ยง 25.286.


(b) *Unmerchantable beer.* When beer is rendered unmerchantable by fire, casualty, or act of God, refund, credit or adjustment of tax, or relief from liability of tax will not be allowed unless the brewer proves to the satisfaction of the appropriate TTB officer that the beer cannot be salvaged and returned to the market for consumption or sale.


(c) *Beer lost or destroyed.* When beer is lost or destroyed, whether by theft or otherwise, the appropriate TTB officer may require the brewer to file a claim for relief from the tax and to submit proof as to the cause of the loss.


(d) *Beer lost by theft.* When it appears that beer was lost by theft, the tax shall be collected unless the brewer proves to the satisfaction of the appropriate TTB officer that the theft occurred before removal from the brewery and occurred without connivance, collusion, fraud, or negligence on the part of the brewer, consignor, consignee, bailee, or carrier, or the employees or agents of any of them.


(e) *Notification of appropriate TTB officer.* (1) A brewer who sustains a loss of beer before transfer of title of the beer to another person and who desires to adjust the tax on the excise tax return or to file a claim for refund or for relief from liability of tax, must, on learning of the loss of beer, immediately notify in writing the appropriate TTB officer of the nature, cause, and extent of the loss, and the place where the loss occurred. Statements of witnesses or other supporting documents must be furnished if available.


(2) A brewer possessing unmerchantable beer and who desires to adjust the tax on the excise tax return or to file a claim for refund or for relief from liability must notify in writing the appropriate TTB officer, of the circumstances by which the beer became unmerchantable, and must state why the beer cannot be salvaged and returned to the market for consumption or sale.


(f) *Additional information.* The appropriate TTB officer may require the brewer to submit additional evidence necessary to verify the tax adjustment or for use in connection with a claim.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-224, 51 FR 7673, Mar. 5, 1986, as amended by T.D. ATF-437, 66 FR 5480, Jan. 19, 2001]




