# Section 1   Definitions.

As used in this part or any other part of this chapter XIX the term:


(a) *National Shipping Authority (NSA),* means the emergency shipping operations activity of the Maritime Administration established by the Secretary of Transportation, when specifically activated during an emergency affecting national security in accordance with existing statutory authority.


(b) *Person* means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, joint stock company, business trust, or other organized group of persons, or any trustee, receiver, assignee, or personal representative, and includes any department, agency, or corporation of the United States, any State, or any political, governmental, or legal entity.


(c) *Federal Port Controller* means a person designated as such in accordance with part 1902 of this chapter XIX, under a standard form of service agreement to exercise delegated authorities of the Director, NSA, in the control of operations of a designated port or group of ports upon deployment of the Armed Forces of the United States, or other requirements of the nation's defense.


(d) *Port* or *port area* includes any zone contiguous to or a part of the traffic network of an ocean or Great Lakes port, or outport location, including beach loading sites, within which facilities exist for transshipment of persons and property between domestic carriers and carriers engaged in coastal, intercoastal and overseas transportation.


(e) *Port facility* means a specific location in a port where passengers or commodities are transferred between land and water carriers or between two water carriers, specifically including: wharves, piers, sheds, warehouses, yards, and docks.


(f) *Port equipment* means mechanical and other devices used for loading and unloading passengers and commodities, including fork lifts, towmotors, jitneys, straddle carriers, floating cranes, etc.


(g) *Transfer* means to sell, lease, trade, lend, give, relinquish title or possession to, or to physically transfer in any other way.



---

[N] [44 FR 9381, Feb. 13, 1979. Redesignated at 45 FR 44587, July 1, 1980, and amended at 60 FR 38736, July 28, 1995]




