# § 1340.7   Observation procedures.

(a) *Data collection dates.* All survey data shall be collected through direct observation completely within the calendar year for which the Statewide seat belt use rate will be reported. Except as provided in § 1340.5(c), the survey shall be conducted in accordance to the schedule determined in § 1340.6.


(b) *Roadway and direction(s) of observation*—(1) *Intersections.* If an observation site is located at an intersection of road segments, the data shall be collected from the sampled road segment, not the intersecting road segment(s).


(2) *Roads with two-way traffic.* If an observation site is located on a road with traffic traveling in two directions, one or both directions of traffic may be observed, provided that—


(i) If only one direction of traffic is observed, that direction shall be chosen randomly;


(ii) If both directions of traffic are observed at the same time, States shall assign at least one person to observe each direction of traffic.


(c) *Vehicle coverage.* Data shall be collected by direct observation from all passenger motor vehicles, including but not limited to passenger motor vehicles used for commercial purposes, passenger motor vehicles exempt from the State's seat belt use law and passenger motor vehicles bearing out-of-State license plates.


(d) *Occupant coverage.* Data shall be collected by direct observation of all drivers and right front passengers, including right front passengers in booster seats, but excluding right front passengers in child safety seats. Observers shall record a person as—


(1) Belted if the shoulder belt is in front of the person's shoulder;


(2) Unbelted if the shoulder belt is not in front of the person's shoulder;


(3) Unknown if it cannot reasonably be determined whether the driver or right front passenger is belted.


(e) *Survey data.* At a minimum, the seat belt use data to be collected by direct observation shall include—


(1) Seat belt status of driver;


(2) Presence of right front passenger; and


(3) Seat belt status of right front passenger, if present.


(f) *Data collection environment.* When collecting seat belt survey data—


(1) Observers shall not wear law enforcement uniforms;


(2) Police vehicles and persons in law enforcement uniforms shall not be positioned at observation sites;


(3) Communications by signage or any other means that a seat belt survey is being or will be conducted shall not be present in the vicinity of the observation site.




