# ยง 12.9   Commemorative monuments.

(a) *Application.* (1) A person requesting authorization to erect a commemorative monument shall submit such a request to the Director. The Director's approval should be obtained prior to fabrication of the commemorative marker since approval for installation is conditioned upon compliance with other specifications found in this section and all applicable provisions of this part.


(2) An applicant for authorization to erect a commemorative monument shall include the following information in the application:


(i) A list of the persons to be memorialized and the other data desired to be inscribed on the commemorative monument; and


(ii) A scale plan depicting the details of the design, materials, finish, carving, lettering and the arrangement of the inscription proposed for the commemorative monument. 


(b) *Specifications.* (1) The Director may only authorize a commemorative monument that conforms to the type, size, materials, design, and specifications prescribed for the historic design of the individual cemetery section in which it is proposed for installation. 


(2) The Director may not approve a commemorative monument that bears an inscription that includes the name of the person(s) responsible for its purchase or installation. 


(c) *Expense.* A commemorative monument approved by the Director may be installed only under the conditions that there be no expense or liability incurred by the National Park Service in connection with its purchase, fabrication, transportation, delivery and erection. 


(d) Title to a commemorative monument vests in the National Park Service upon its acceptance by an official representative of the Director.




