# ยง 13.28   Permit revocation.

(a) *Criteria for revocation.* A permit may be revoked for any of the following reasons:


(1) The permittee willfully violates any Federal or State statute or regulation, or any Indian tribal law or regulation, or any law or regulation of any foreign country, which involves a violation of the conditions of the permit or of the laws or regulations governing the permitted activity; or


(2) The permittee fails within 60 days to correct deficiencies that were the cause of a permit suspension; or


(3) The permittee becomes disqualified under ยง 13.21(c) of this part; or


(4) A change occurs in the statute or regulation authorizing the permit that prohibits the continuation of a permit issued by the Service; or


(5) Except for permits issued under ยง 17.22(b) and (c) or ยง 17.32(b) and (c) of this subchapter, the population(s) of the wildlife or plant that is the subject of the permit declines to the extent that continuation of the permitted activity would be detrimental to maintenance or recovery of the affected population.


(b) *Procedure for revocation.* (1) When the issuing officer believes there are valid grounds for revoking a permit, the permittee shall be notified in writing of the proposed revocation by certified or registered mail. This notice shall identify the permit to be revoked, the reason(s) for such revocation, the proposed disposition of the wildlife, if any, and inform the permittee of the right to object to the proposed revocation. The issuing officer may amend any notice of revocation at any time.


(2) Upon receipt of a notice of proposed revocation the permittee may file a written objection to the proposed action. Such objection must be in writing, must be filed within 45 calendar days of the date of the notice of proposal, must state the reasons why the permittee objects to the proposed revocation, and may include supporting documentation.


(3) A decision on the revocation shall be made within 45 days after the end of the objection period. The issuing officer shall notify the permittee in writing of the Service's decision and the reasons therefore, together with the information concerning the right to request and the procedures for requesting reconsideration.


(4) Unless a permittee files a timely request for reconsideration, any wildlife held under authority of a permit that is revoked must be disposed of in accordance with instructions of the issuing officer. If a permittee files a timely request for reconsideration of a proposed revocation, such permittee may retain possession of any wildlife held under authority of the permit until final disposition of the appeal process.



---

[N] [54 FR 38149, Sept. 14, 1989, as amended at 64 FR 32711, June 17, 1999; 89 FR 26094, Apr. 12, 2024]




