# § 195.432   Inspection of in-service breakout tanks.

(a) Except for breakout tanks inspected under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, each operator shall, at intervals not exceeding 15 months, but at least once each calendar year, inspect each in-service breakout tank.


(b) Each operator must inspect the physical integrity of in-service atmospheric and low-pressure steel above-ground breakout tanks according to API Std 653 (except section 6.4.3, *Alternative Internal Inspection Interval*) (incorporated by reference, *see* § 195.3). However, if structural conditions prevent access to the tank bottom, its integrity may be assessed according to a plan included in the operations and maintenance manual under § 195.402(c)(3). The risk-based internal inspection procedures in API Std 653, section 6.4.3 cannot be used to determine the internal inspection interval.


(1) Operators who established internal inspection intervals based on risk-based inspection procedures prior to March 6, 2015 must re-establish internal inspection intervals based on API Std 653, section 6.4.2 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 195.3).


(i) If the internal inspection interval was determined by the prior risk-based inspection procedure using API Std 653, section 6.4.3 and the resulting calculation exceeded 20 years, and it has been more than 20 years since an internal inspection was performed, the operator must complete a new internal inspection in accordance with § 195.432(b)(1) by January 5, 2017.


(ii) If the internal inspection interval was determined by the prior risk-based inspection procedure using API Std 653, section 6.4.3 and the resulting calculation was less than or equal to 20 years, and the time since the most recent internal inspection exceeds the re-established inspection interval in accordance with § 195.432(b)(1), the operator must complete a new internal inspection by January 5, 2017.


(iii) If the internal inspection interval was not based upon current engineering and operational information (*i.e.,* actual corrosion rate of floor plates, actual remaining thickness of the floor plates, etc.), the operator must complete a new internal inspection by January 5, 2017 and re-establish a new internal inspection interval in accordance with § 195.432(b)(1).


(2) [Reserved]


(c) Each operator must inspect the physical integrity of in-service steel aboveground breakout tanks built to API Std 2510 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 195.3) according to section 6 of API Std 510 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 195.3).


(d) The intervals of inspection specified by documents referenced in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section begin on May 3, 1999, or on the operator's last recorded date of the inspection, whichever is earlier. 



---

[N] [Amdt. 195-66, 64 FR 15936, Apr. 2, 1999, as amended by Amdt. 195-94, 75 FR 48607, Aug. 11, 2010, Amdt. 195-99, 80 FR 187, Jan. 5, 2015; 80 FR 46848, Aug. 6, 2015]




