# § 2002.16   Accessing and disseminating.

(a) *General policy*—(1) *Access.* Agencies should disseminate and permit access to CUI, provided such access or dissemination:


(i) Abides by the laws, regulations, or Government-wide policies that established the CUI category or subcategory;


(ii) Furthers a lawful Government purpose;


(iii) Is not restricted by an authorized limited dissemination control established by the CUI EA; and,


(iv) Is not otherwise prohibited by law.


(2) *Dissemination controls.* (i) Agencies must impose dissemination controls judiciously and should do so only to apply necessary restrictions on access to CUI, including those required by law, regulation, or Government-wide policy.


(ii) Agencies may not impose controls that unlawfully or improperly restrict access to CUI.


(3) *Marking.* Prior to disseminating CUI, authorized holders must label CUI according to marking guidance issued by the CUI EA, and must include any specific markings required by law, regulation, or Government-wide policy.


(4) *Reasonable expectation.* To disseminate CUI to a non-executive branch entity, authorized holders must reasonably expect that all intended recipients are authorized to receive the CUI and have a basic understanding of how to handle it.


(5) *Agreements.* Agencies should enter into agreements with any non-executive branch or foreign entity with which the agency shares or intends to share CUI, as follows (except as provided in paragraph (a)(7) of this section):


(i) *Information-sharing agreements.* When agencies intend to share CUI with a non-executive branch entity, they should enter into a formal agreement (see § 2004.4(c) for more information on agreements), whenever feasible. Such an agreement may take any form the agency head approves, but when established, it must include a requirement to comply with Executive Order 13556, Controlled Unclassified Information, November 4, 2010 (3 CFR, 2011 Comp., p. 267) or any successor order (the Order), this part, and the CUI Registry.


(ii) *Sharing CUI without a formal agreement.* When an agency cannot enter into agreements under paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section, but the agency's mission requires it to disseminate CUI to non-executive branch entities, the agency must communicate to the recipient that the Government strongly encourages the non-executive branch entity to protect CUI in accordance with the Order, this part, and the CUI Registry, and that such protections should accompany the CUI if the entity disseminates it further.


(iii) *Foreign entity sharing.* When entering into agreements or arrangements with a foreign entity, agencies should encourage that entity to protect CUI in accordance with the Order, this part, and the CUI Registry to the extent possible, but agencies may use their judgment as to what and how much to communicate, keeping in mind the ultimate goal of safeguarding CUI. If such agreements or arrangements include safeguarding or dissemination controls on unclassified information, the agency must not establish a parallel protection regime to the CUI Program: For example, the agency must use CUI markings rather than alternative ones (*e.g.,* such as SBU) for safeguarding or dissemination controls on CUI received from or sent to foreign entities, must abide by any requirements set by the CUI category or subcategory's governing laws, regulations, or Government-wide policies, etc.


(iv) *Pre-existing agreements.* When an agency entered into an information-sharing agreement prior to November 14, 2016, the agency should modify any terms in that agreement that conflict with the requirements in the Order, this part, and the CUI Registry, when feasible.


(6) *Agreement content.* At a minimum, agreements with non-executive branch entities must include provisions that state:


(i) Non-executive branch entities must handle CUI in accordance with the Order, this part, and the CUI Registry;


(ii) Misuse of CUI is subject to penalties established in applicable laws, regulations, or Government-wide policies; and


(iii) The non-executive branch entity must report any non-compliance with handling requirements to the disseminating agency using methods approved by that agency's SAO. When the disseminating agency is not the designating agency, the disseminating agency must notify the designating agency.


(7) *Exceptions to agreements.* Agencies need not enter a written agreement when they share CUI with the following entities:


(i) Congress, including any committee, subcommittee, joint committee, joint subcommittee, or office thereof;


(ii) A court of competent jurisdiction, or any individual or entity when directed by an order of a court of competent jurisdiction or a Federal administrative law judge (ALJ) appointed under 5 U.S.C. 3501;


(iii) The Comptroller General, in the course of performing duties of the Government Accountability Office; or


(iv) Individuals or entities, when the agency releases information to them pursuant to a FOIA or Privacy Act request.


(b) *Controls on accessing and disseminating CUI*—(1) *CUI Basic.* Authorized holders should disseminate and encourage access to CUI Basic for any recipient when the access meets the requirements set out in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(2) *CUI Specified.* Authorized holders disseminate and allow access to CUI Specified as required or permitted by the authorizing laws, regulations, or Government-wide policies that established that CUI Specified.


(i) The CUI Registry annotates CUI that requires or permits Specified controls based on law, regulation, and Government-wide policy.


(ii) In the absence of specific dissemination restrictions in the authorizing law, regulation, or Government-wide policy, agencies may disseminate CUI Specified as they would CUI Basic.


(3) *Receipt of CUI.* Non-executive branch entities may receive CUI directly from members of the executive branch or as sub-recipients from other non-executive branch entities.


(4) *Limited dissemination.* (i) Agencies may place additional limits on disseminating CUI only through use of the limited dissemination controls approved by the CUI EA and published in the CUI Registry. These limited dissemination controls are separate from any controls that a CUI Specified authority requires or permits.


(ii) Using limited dissemination controls to unnecessarily restrict access to CUI is contrary to the goals of the CUI Program. Agencies may therefore use these controls only when it furthers a lawful Government purpose, or laws, regulations, or Government-wide policies require or permit an agency to do so. If an authorized holder has significant doubt about whether it is appropriate to use a limited dissemination control, the authorized holder should consult with and follow the designating agency's policy. If, after consulting the policy, significant doubt still remains, the authorized holder should not apply the limited dissemination control.


(iii) Only the designating agency may apply limited dissemination controls to CUI. Other entities that receive CUI and seek to apply additional controls must request permission to do so from the designating agency.


(iv) Authorized holders may apply limited dissemination controls to any CUI for which they are required or permitted to restrict access by or to certain entities.


(v) Designating entities may combine approved limited dissemination controls listed in the CUI Registry to accommodate necessary practices.


(c) *Methods of disseminating CUI.* (1) Before disseminating CUI, authorized holders must reasonably expect that all intended recipients have a lawful Government purpose to receive the CUI. Authorized holders may then disseminate the CUI by any method that meets the safeguarding requirements of this part and the CUI Registry and ensures receipt in a timely manner, unless the laws, regulations, or Government-wide policies that govern that CUI require otherwise.


(2) To disseminate CUI using systems or components that are subject to NIST guidelines and publications (*e.g.,* email applications, text messaging, facsimile, or voicemail), agencies must do so in accordance with the no-less-than-moderate confidentiality impact value set out in FIPS PUB 199, FIPS PUB 200, NIST SP 800-53 (incorporated by reference, see § 2002.2).




