# § 63.567   Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.

(a) The owner or operator of an affected source shall fulfill all reporting and recordkeeping requirements in §§ 63.9 and 63.10 of subpart A of this part in accordance with the provisions for applicability of subpart A to this subpart in Table 1 of § 63.560 and fulfill all reporting and recordkeeping requirements in this section. These reports will be made to the Administrator at the appropriate address identified in § 63.13 of subpart A of this part.


(1) Reports required by subpart A and this section may be sent by U.S. mail, facsimile (fax), or by another courier.


(i) Submittals sent by U.S. mail shall be postmarked on or before the specified date.


(ii) Submittals sent by other methods shall be received by the Administrator on or before the specified date.


(2) If acceptable to both the Administrator and the owner or operator of a source, reports may be submitted on electronic media.


(b) *Notification requirements.* The owner or operator of an affected source shall fulfill all notification requirements in § 63.9 of subpart A of this part in accordance with the provisions for applicability of that section to this subpart in Table 1 of § 63.560 and the notification requirements in this paragraph.


(1) *Applicability.* If a source that otherwise would not be subject to the emissions standards subsequently increases its HAP emissions calculated on a 24-month annual average basis after September 19, 1997 or increases its annual HAP emissions after September 20, 1999 or subsequently increases its gasoline or crude loading throughput calculated on a 24-month annual average basis after September 19, 1996 or increases its gasoline or crude loading annual throughput after September 21, 1998 such that the source becomes subject to the emissions standards, such source shall be subject to the notification requirements of § 63.9 of subpart A of this part and the notification requirements of this paragraph.


(2) *Initial notification for sources with startup before the effective date.* The owner or operator of a source with initial startup before the effective date shall notify the Administrator in writing that the source is subject to the relevant standard. The notification shall be submitted not later than 365 days after the effective date of the emissions standards or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later, and shall provide the following information:


(i) The name and address of the owner or operator;


(ii) The address (i.e., physical location) of the source;


(iii) An identification of this emissions standard that is the basis of the notification and the source's compliance date; 


(iv) A brief description of the nature, size, design, and method of operation of the source;


(v) A statement that the source is a major source.


(3) *Initial notification for sources with startup after the effective date.* The owner or operator of a new or reconstructed source or a source that has been reconstructed such that it is subject to the emissions standards that has an initial startup after the effective date but before the compliance date, and for which an application for approval of construction or reconstruction is not required under § 63.5(d) of subpart A of this part and § 63.566 of this subpart, or a sources which reclassifies to major source status after the effective date, shall notify the Administrator in writing that the source is subject to the standard no later than 365 days, 120 days after initial startup, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever occurs before notification of the initial performance test in § 63.9(e) of subpart A of this part. The notification shall provide all the information required in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, delivered or postmarked with the notification required in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.


(4) *Initial notification requirements for constructed/reconstructed sources.* After the effective date of these standards, whether or not an approved permit program is effective in the State in which a source subject to these standards is (or would be) located, an owner or operator subject to the notification requirements of § 63.5 of subpart A of this part and § 63.566 of this subpart who intends to construct a new source subject to these standards, reconstruct a source subject to these standards, or reconstruct a source such that it becomes subject to these standards, shall comply with paragraphs (b)(4)(i), (ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section.


(i) *Notify the Administrator in writing of the intended construction or reconstruction.* The notification shall be submitted as soon as practicable before the construction or reconstruction is planned to commence. The notification shall include all the information required for an application for approval of construction or reconstruction as specified in § 63.5 of subpart A of this part. The application for approval of construction or reconstruction may be used to fulfill the requirements of this paragraph.


(ii) Submit a notification of the date when construction or reconstruction was commenced, delivered or postmarked not later than 30 days after such date, if construction was commenced after the effective date.


(iii) Submit a notification of the anticipated date of startup of the source, delivered or postmarked not more than 60 days nor less than 30 days before such date;


(iv) Submit a notification of the actual date of startup of the source, delivered or postmarked within 15 calendar days after that date.


(5) *Additional initial notification requirements.* (i) The owner or operator of sources subject to § 63.562(b)(2), (3), and (4), MACT standards, shall also include in the initial notification report required by paragraph (b)(2) and (3) the 24-month annual average or the annual actual HAP emissions from marine tank vessel loading operations, as appropriate, at all loading berths, as calculated according to the procedures in § 63.565(l). Emissions will be reported by commodity and type of marine tank vessel (barge or tanker) loaded.


(ii) As an alternative to reporting the information in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section, the source may submit documentation showing that all HAP-containing marine tank vessel loading operations, not exempt by § 63.560(d), occurred using vapor tight vessels that comply with the procedures of § 63.563(a) and that the emissions were routed to control devices meeting the requirements specified in § 63.563(b).


(c) *Request for extension of compliance.* If the owner or operator has installed BACT or technology to meet LAER consistent with § 63.6(i)(5) of subpart A of this part, he/she may submit to the Administrator (or State with an approved permit program) a request for an extension of compliance as specified in § 63.6(i)(4)(i)(B), (i)(5), and (i)(6) of subpart A of this part.


(d) *Reporting for performance testing of flares.* The owner or operator of a source required to conduct an opacity performance test shall report the opacity results and other information required by § 63.565(e) and § 63.11 of subpart A of this part with the notification of compliance status.


(e) *Summary reports and excess emissions and monitoring system performance reports*—(1) *Schedule for summary report and excess emissions and monitoring system performance reports.* Excess emissions and parameter monitoring exceedances are defined in § 63.563(b). The owner or operator of a source subject to these emissions standards that is required to install a CMS shall submit an excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report and/or a summary report to the Administrator once each year, except, when the source experiences excess emissions, the source shall comply with a semi-annual reporting format until a request to reduce reporting frequency under paragraph (e)(2) of this section is approved.


(2) *Request to reduce frequency of excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance reports.* An owner or operator who is required to submit excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance and summary reports on a semi-annual basis may reduce the frequency of reporting to annual if the following conditions are met:


(i) For 1 full year the sources's excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance reports continually demonstrate that the source is in compliance; and


(ii) The owner or operator continues to comply with all recordkeeping and monitoring requirements specified in this subpart and subpart A of this part.


(3) The frequency of reporting of excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance and summary reports required may be reduced only after the owner or operator notifies the Administrator in writing of his or her intention to make such a change and the Administrator does not object to the intended change. In deciding whether to approve a reduced frequency of reporting, the Administrator may review information concerning the source's entire previous performance history during the 5-year recordkeeping prior to the intended change, including performance test results, monitoring data, and evaluations of an owner or operator's conformance with operation maintenance requirements. Such information may be used by the Administrator to make a judgement about the source's potential for noncompliance in the future. If the Administrator will notify the owner or operator in writing within 45 days after receiving notice of the owner or operator's intention. The notification from the Administrator to the owner or operator will specify the grounds on which the disapproval is based. In the absence of a notice of disapproval within 45 days, approval is automatically granted.


(4) *Content and submittal dates for excess emissions and monitoring system performance reports.* All excess emissions and monitoring system performance reports and all summary reports, if required per paragraph (e)(5) and (6) of this section, shall be delivered or postmarked within 30 days following the end of each calendar year, or within 30 days following the end of each six month period, if appropriate. Written reports of excess emissions or exceedances of process or control system parameters shall include all information required in § 63.10(c)(5) through (13) of subpart A of this part as applicable in Table 1 of § 63.560 and information from any calibration tests in which the monitoring equipment is not in compliance with PS 8 or other methods used for accuracy testing of temperature, pressure, or flow monitoring devices. The written report shall also include the name, title, and signature of the responsible official who is certifying the accuracy of the report. When no excess emissions or exceedances have occurred or monitoring equipment has not been inoperative, repaired, or adjusted, such information shall be stated in the report. This information will be kept for a minimum of 5 years and made readily available to the Administrator or delegated State authority upon request.


(5) If the total duration of excess emissions or control system parameter exceedances for the reporting period is less than 5 percent of the total operating time for the reporting period, and CMS downtime for the reporting period is less than 10 percent of the total operating time for the reporting period, only the summary report of § 63.10(e)(3)(vi) of subpart A of this part shall be submitted, and the full excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report of paragraph (e)(4) of this section need not be submitted unless required by the Administrator.


(6) If the total duration of excess emissions or process or control system parameter exceedances for the reporting period is 5 percent or greater of the total operating time for the reporting period, or the total CMS downtime for the reporting period is 10 percent or greater of the total operating time for the reporting period, both the summary report of § 63.10(e)(3)(vi) of subpart A of this part and the excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report of paragraph (e)(4) of this section shall be submitted.


(f) *Vapor collection system of the terminal.* Each owner or operator of an affected source shall submit with the initial performance test and maintain in an accessible location on site an engineering report describing in detail the vent system, or vapor collection system, used to vent each vent stream to a control device. This report shall include all valves and vent pipes that could vent the stream to the atmosphere, thereby bypassing the control device, and identify which valves are car-sealed opened and which valves are car-sealed closed.


(g) If a vent system, or vapor collection system, containing valves that could divert the emission stream away from the control device is used, each owner or operator of an affected source shall keep for at least 5 years up-to-date, readily accessible continuous records of:


(1) All periods when flow bypassing the control device is indicated if flow indicators are installed under § 63.563(a)(1) and § 63.564(b), and


(2) All times when maintenance is performed on car-sealed valves, when the car-seal is broken, and when the valve position is changed (i.e., from open to closed for valves in the vent piping to the control device and from closed to open for valves that vent the stream directly or indirectly to the atmosphere bypassing the control device) if valves are monitored under § 63.564(b).


(h) The owner or operator of an affected source shall keep the vapor-tightness documentation required under § 63.563(a)(4) on file at the source in a permanent form available for inspection.


(i) *Vapor tightness test documentation for marine tank vessels.* The owner or operator of an affected source shall maintain a documentation file for each marine tank vessel loaded at that source to reflect current test results as determined by the appropriate method in § 63.565(c)(1) and (2). Updates to this documentation file shall be made at least once per year. The owner or operator shall include, as a minimum, the following information in this documentation:


(1) Test title;


(2) Marine vessel owner and address;


(3) Marine vessel identification number;


(4) Loading time, according to § 63.563(a)(4)(ii) or (iii), if appropriate;


(5) Testing location;


(6) Date of test;


(7) Tester name and signature;


(8) Test results from § 63.565(c)(1) or (2), as appropriate;


(9) Documentation provided under § 63.563(a)(4)(ii) and (iii)(B) showing that the repair of leaking components attributed to a failure of a vapor-tightness test is technically infeasible without dry-docking the vessel; and


(10) Documentation that a marine tank vessel failing a pressure test or leak test has been repaired.


(j) *Emission estimation reporting and recordkeeping procedures.* The owner or operator of each source complying with the emission limits specified in § 63.562(b)(2), (3), and (4) shall comply with the following provisions:


(1) Maintain records of all measurements, calculations, and other documentation used to identify commodities exempted under § 63.560(d);


(2) Keep readily accessible records of the emission estimation calculations performed in § 63.565(l) for 5 years; and


(3) Submit an annual report of the source's HAP control efficiency calculated using the procedures specified in § 63.565(l), based on the source's actual throughput.


(4) Owners or operators of marine tank vessel loading operations specified in § 63.560(a)(3) shall retain records of the emissions estimates determined in § 65.565(l) and records of their actual throughputs by commodity, for 5 years.


(k) *Leak detection and repair of vapor collection systems and control devices.* When each leak of the vapor collection system, or vapor collection system, and control device is detected and repaired as specified in § 63.563(c) the following information required shall be maintained for 5 years:


(1) Date of inspection;


(2) Findings (location, nature, and severity of each leak);


(3) Leak determination method;


(4) Corrective action (date each leak repaired, reasons for repair interval); and


(5) Inspector name and signature.


(l) The owner or operator of the VMT source required by § 63.562(d)(2)(iv) to develop a program, shall submit annual reports on or before January 31 of each year to the Administrator certifying the annual average daily loading rate for the previous calendar year. Beginning on January 31, 1996, for the reported year 1995, the annual report shall specify the annual average daily loading rate over all loading berths. Beginning on January 31, 1999, for the reported year 1998, the annual report shall specify the annual average daily loading rate over all loading berths, over each loading berth equipped with a vapor collection system and control device, and over each loading berth not equipped with a vapor collection system and control device. The annual average daily loading rate under this section is calculated as the total amount of crude oil loaded during the calendar year divided by 365 days or 366 days, as appropriate.


(m) The number, duration, and a brief description for each type of malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded shall be stated in a semiannual report. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.562(e), including actions taken to correct a malfunction. The report, to be certified by the owner or operator or other responsible official, shall be submitted semiannually and delivered or postmarked by the 30th day following the end of each calendar half.


(n)(1) As of January 1, 2012 and within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test, as defined in § 63.2, and as required in this subpart, you must submit performance test data, except opacity data, electronically to EPA's Central Data Exchange by using the ERT (see *http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/ert tool.html/*) or other compatible electronic spreadsheet. Only data collected using test methods compatible with ERT are subject to this requirement to be submitted electronically into EPA's WebFIRE database.


(2) All reports required by this subpart not subject to the requirements in paragraph (n)(1) of this section must be sent to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13. If acceptable to both the Administrator and the owner or operator of a source, these reports may be submitted on electronic media. The Administrator retains the right to require submittal of reports subject to paragraph (n)(1) of this section in paper format.



---

[N] [60 FR 48399, Sept. 19, 1995, as amended at 68 FR 37350, June 23, 2003; 76 FR 22597, Apr. 21, 2011; 85 FR 73892, Nov. 19, 2020]




