# § 721.9965   Fatty acids, C

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as fatty acids, C_10-13_ - branched, vinyl esters (PMN P-97-482; CAS No. 184785-38-4) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(ii) (if data on Cartridge Service Life Testing has been reviewed and approved in writing by EPA). The following respirators may be used as specified in § 721.63 (a)(5)(xii), (a)(5)(xiii), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iv), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose to follow the NCEL provisions listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 1 ppm.


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(v), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q).


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(4) and (b)(4) (N = 6).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [65 FR 374, Jan. 5, 2000]




