# ยง 176.194   Stowage of Class 1 (explosive) materials on magazine vessels.

(a) *General.* The requirements of this section are applicable to magazine vessels and are in addition to any other requirements in this subchapter.


(b) *Type vessel authorized.* A single deck vessel with or without a house on deck is the only type vessel that may be used as a magazine vessel. A magazine vessel may not be moved while Class 1 (explosive) materials are on board.


(c) *Location of explosives.* Division 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3 (explosive) materials, in excess of 2268 kg (5000 pounds), stored in any magazine vessel must be stowed below deck. No Class 1 (explosive) materials may be stowed on deck unless the vessel is fitted with a deck house having a stowage area which meets the requirements in this subpart for the stowage of Class 1 (explosive) materials. Detonators, detonator assemblies and boosters with detonators, Division 1.1 (explosive) may not be stored on the same magazine vessel with other Division 1.1, 1.2. and 1.3 (explosive) materials.


(d) *Class 1 (explosive) materials storage spaces.* Any compartment on a magazine vessel used for the stowage of Class 1 (explosive) materials must be completely sealed with wood so as to provide a smooth interior surface. Each metal stanchion in the compartment must be boxed in the same manner. An overhead ceiling is not required when the overdeck is weather tight. All nail and bolt heads must be countersunk and any exposed metal must be covered with wood.


(e) *Initiating explosives, detonators and boosters with detonators.* No explosive substance in Division 1.1, compatibility group A may be stowed in the same compartment with any other Class 1 (explosive) materials when there are explosive substances in Division 1.1 or 1.2 (explosive) on the same magazine vessel. Detonators, detonator assemblies and boosters with detonators must be stowed at least 8 m (26 feet) from any bulkhead forming a boundary of a compartment containing any other Class 1 (explosive) materials.


(f) *Dry storage spaces.* A magazine vessel having a dry storage space capable of being used for any purpose whatsoever must have a cofferdam at least 61 cm (24 inches) wide fitted between the dry storage space and each adjacent compartment containing Class 1 (explosive) materials. The cofferdam must be constructed of wood or steel, formed by two tight athwartship bulkheads extending from the skin of the vessel to the overdeck. If the cofferdam extends to the weather deck, a watertight hatch must be fitted in the deck to provide access to the cofferdam.


(g) *Lighting.* Non-sparking, battery-powered, self-contained electric lanterns or non-sparking hand flashlights are the only means of artificial light authorized.


(h) *Living quarters.* Living quarters must be fitted on the inside with a non-combustible material approved by the Commandant, USCG. Bracketed ship's lamps are the only lighting fixtures authorized to be used in the living quarters. Any stove used for heating or cooking must be securely fastened and may not be mounted closer than 15 cm (5.9 inches) to the deck or sides of the house. Any smoke pipe for the stove which passes through the roof of the house must be kept at least 8 cm (3 inches) away from any woodwork. Each smoke pipe must be protected by a layer of non-combustible material approved by the Commandant, USCG, an air space of at least 2.54 cm (1 inch), and a metal collar of at least 1.5 mm (0.059 inch) sheet secured only on the weather side of the roof. There may be no opening from any living quarters into any stowage compartment.


(i) *Storage of other hazardous materials.* Magazine vessels having Class 1 (explosive) materials on board may not be used for the storage of any other hazardous material.


(j) *Magazine vessel's stores.* Hazardous materials used as stores on board any magazine vessel must comply with the requirements of 46 CFR part 147.


(k) *Matches.* Safety matches requiring a prepared surface for ignition are the only type of matches authorized to be possessed or used on board a magazine vessel. They must be kept in a metal box or can with a metal cover and stored in the custodian's living quarters.


(l) *Firearms.* Firearms and ammunition (other than cargo) are not permitted on board a magazine vessel.


(m) *Fire extinguishing equipment.* No Class 1 (explosive) materials may be loaded or stowed in, unloaded from, or handled on any magazine vessel unless four fire extinguishers that meet the requirements for Type A Size II or Type B Size III in 46 CFR part 95, subpart 95.50 are near and accessible to the magazines.


(n) *Supervision.* A magazine vessel containing Class 1 (explosive) materials must be continuously attended by a custodian employed for that purpose by the vessel's owner.


(o) *Unauthorized persons on magazine vessels.* The custodian of a magazine vessel shall prevent unauthorized persons from coming on board unless it is necessary to abate a hazard to human life or a substantial hazard to property.


(p) *Repacking of Class 1 (explosive) materials on board.* No Class 1 (explosive) materials may be repacked on board a magazine vessel. Broken or damaged packages must be handled in accordance with the requirements of ยง 176.156. Packages requiring an emergency response must be handled in accordance with the emergency response information required under ยง 172.602 of this subchapter.


(q) *Work boat.* Each magazine vessel must be equipped with a work boat.


(r) *Life preservers.* One approved personal flotation device must be available for each person employed on a magazine vessel.


(s) *Fenders.* Each magazine vessel must be fitted with fenders in sufficient number and size to prevent any vessel tieing up alongside from coming in contact with the hull.



---

[N] [Amdt. 176-30, 55 FR 52696, Dec. 21, 1990, as amended by Amdt. 176-41, 61 FR 51339, Oct. 1, 1996; 66 FR 45185, 45384, 45385, Aug. 28, 2001]




