# ยง 972.218   Conversion assessment components.

The conversion assessment contains five elements, as described below:


(a) *Cost analysis.* A PHA must conduct a cost analysis comparing the cost of providing Section 8 tenant-based assistance with the cost of continuing to operate the development as public housing for the remainder of its useful life. The cost methodology necessary to conduct the cost comparisons for voluntary conversions has not yet been finalized. PHAs may not undertake conversions under this subpart until the effective date of the cost methodology, which will be announced in the _Federal Register._ Once effective, the cost methodology will be codified as an appendix to this part.


(b) *Analysis of the market value.* (1) A PHA must have an independent appraisal conducted to compare the market value of the development before and after rehabilitation. In both cases, the market value must be based on the use of the development as public housing.


(2) In addition, the appraisal must compare:


(i) The market value of the development before rehabilitation, based on the use of the development as public housing, with the market value of the development after conversion; with


(ii) The market value of the development after rehabilitation, based on the use of the development as public housing, with the market value of the development after conversion.


(3) A copy of the appraisal findings and the analysis of market value of the development in the conversion assessment must be provided in the conversion assessment.


(c) *Analysis of rental market conditions.* (1) A PHA must conduct an analysis of the likely success of using tenant-based assistance for the residents of the public housing development. This analysis must include an assessment of the availability of decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling units rented at or below the applicable Section 8 payment standard established for the jurisdiction or designated part of the FMR area in which the development is located.


(2) In conducting this assessment, a PHA must take into account:


(i) Its overall use of rental vouchers under lease and the success rates of using Section 8 tenant-based assistance in the community for the appropriate bedroom sizes, including recent success rates for units renting at or below the established payment standard; and 


(ii) Any particular characteristics of the specific residents of the public housing which may affect their ability to be housed (such as large household size or the presence of an elderly or disabled family member).


(d) *Impact analysis.* A PHA must describe the likely impact of conversion of the public housing development on the neighborhood in which the public housing is located. This must include:


(1) The impact on the availability of affordable housing in the neighborhood;


(2) The impact on the concentration of poverty in the neighborhood; and


(3) Other substantial impacts on the neighborhood.


(e) *Conversion implementation.* If a PHA intends to convert the development (or a portion of it) to tenant-based assistance, the conversion assessment must include a description of any actions the PHA plans to take in converting the development. This must include a general description of the planned future uses of the development, and the means and timetable for accomplishing such uses.



---

[N] [68 FR 54619, Sept. 17, 2003, as amended at 89 FR 38293, May 7, 2024]








