# ยง 3550.63   Maximum loan amount.

Total secured indebtedness must not exceed the area loan limit or market value limitations specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, whichever is lower. Any loan amount for the RHS appraisal, tax monitoring fee, and the charge to establish an escrow account for taxes and insurance will not be subject to the limitations specified below. This section does not apply to loans on NP terms. 


(a) *Area loan limit.* 

(1) The area loan limit is the maximum value of the property RHS will finance in a given locality. This limit is based on a percentage(s) of the applicable local HUD section 203(b) limit. The percentage(s) will be determined by the Agency and published in the program handbook. The area loan limits will be reviewed at least annually and posted to the Agency website.


(2) The maximum loan limit calculated under paragraph (a)(1) will be reduced in the following situations: 


(i) When the applicant owns the site or is purchasing the site at a sales price below market value, the market value of the lot will be deducted from the maximum loan limit, and 


(ii) When an applicant is receiving a housing grant or other form of affordable housing assistance for purposes other than closing costs, the amount(s) of such grants and affordable housing assistance will be deducted from the maximum loan limit. 


(3) The maximum loan limit for self-help housing will be calculated by adding the total of the market value of the lot (including reasonable and typical costs of site development), the cost of construction, and the value of sweat equity. The total of these three factors cannot exceed the limit established in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(b) *Market value limitation.* (1) The market value limitation is 100 percent of market value for existing housing and for new dwellings for which RHS will receive adequate documentation of construction quality and the source of such documentation is acceptable to RHS. 


(2) The market value limitation is 90 percent of market value for new dwellings for which adequate documentation of construction quality is not available. 


(3) The market value limitation can be increased by: 


(i) Up to one percent, if RHS makes a subsequent loan for closing costs only, in conjunction with the sale of an REO property or an assumption. 


(ii) The amount necessary to make a subsequent loan for repairs necessary to protect the Government's interest, and reasonable closing costs. 


(iii) The amount necessary to refinance an existing borrower's RHS loans, plus closing costs associated with the new loan. 



---

[N] [61 FR 59779, Nov. 22, 1996; 61 FR 65266, Dec. 11, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 78330, Dec. 24, 2002; 84 FR 29038, June 21, 2019]




