# § 1.7704-3   Qualifying income.

(a) *Certain investment income*—(1) *In general.* For purposes of section 7704(d)(1), qualifying income includes capital gain from the sale of stock, income from holding annuities, income from notional principal contracts (as defined in § 1.446-3), and other substantially similar income from ordinary and routine investments to the extent determined by the Commissioner. Income from a notional principal contract is included in qualifying income only if the property, income, or cash flow that measures the amounts to which the partnership is entitled under the contract would give rise to qualifying income if held or received directly by the partnership.


(2) *Limitations.* Qualifying income described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not include income derived in the ordinary course of a trade or business. For purposes of the preceding sentence, income derived from an asset with respect to which the partnership is a broker, market maker, or dealer is income derived in the ordinary course of a trade or business; income derived from an asset with respect to which the taxpayer is a trader or investor is not income derived in the ordinary course of a trade or business.


(b) *Calculation of gross income and qualifying income*—(1) *Treatment of losses.* Except as otherwise provided in this section, in computing the gross income and qualifying income of a partnership for purposes of section 7704(c)(2) and this section, losses do not enter into the computation.


(2) *Certain positions that are marked to market.* Gain recognized with respect to a position that is marked to market (for example, under section 475(f), 1256, 1259, or 1296) shall not fail to be qualifying income solely because there is no sale or disposition of the position.


(3) *Certain items of ordinary income.* Gain recognized with respect to a capital asset shall not fail to be qualifying income solely because it is characterized as ordinary income under section 475(f), 988, 1258, or 1296.


(4) *Straddles.* In computing the gross income and qualifying income of a partnership for purposes of section 7704(c)(2) and this section, a straddle (as defined in section 1092(c)) shall be treated as set forth in this paragraph (b)(4). For purposes of the preceding sentence, two or more straddles that are part of a larger straddle shall be treated as a single straddle. The amount of the gain from any straddle to be taken into account shall be computed as follows:


(i) *Straddles other than mixed straddle accounts.* With respect to each straddle (whether or not a straddle during the taxable year) other than a mixed straddle account, the amount of gain taken into account shall be the excess, if any, of gain recognized during the taxable year with respect to property that was at any time a position in that straddle over any loss recognized during the taxable year with respect to property that was at any time a position in that straddle (including loss realized in an earlier taxable year).


(ii) *Mixed straddle accounts.* With respect to each mixed straddle account (as defined in § 1.1092(b)-4T(b)), the amount of gain taken into account shall be the annual account gain for that mixed straddle account, computed pursuant to § 1.1092(b)-4T(c)(2).


(5) *Certain transactions similar to straddles.* In computing the gross income and qualifying income of a partnership for purposes of section 7704(c)(2) and this section, related interests in property (whether or not personal property as defined in section 1092(d)(1)) that produce a substantial diminution of the partnership's risk of loss similar to that of a straddle (as defined in section 1092(c)) shall be combined so that the amount of gain taken into account by the partnership in computing its gross income shall be the excess, if any, of gain recognized during the taxable year with respect to such interests over any loss recognized during the taxable year with respect to such interests.


(6) *Wash sale rule*—(i) *Gain not taken into account.* Solely for purposes of section 7704(c)(2) and this section, if a partnership recognizes gain in a section 7704 wash sale transaction with respect to one or more positions in either a straddle (as defined in section 1092(c)) or an arrangement described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, then the gain shall not be taken into account to the extent of the amount of unrecognized loss (as of the close of the taxable year) in one or more offsetting positions of the straddle or arrangement described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.


(ii) *Section 7704 wash sale transaction.* For purposes of this paragraph (b)(6), a section 7704 wash sale transaction is a transaction in which—


(A) A partnership disposes of one or more positions of a straddle (as defined in section 1092(c)) or one or more related positions described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section; and


(B) The partnership acquires a substantially similar position or positions within a period beginning 30 days before the date of the disposition and ending 30 days after such date.


(c) *Effective date.* This section applies to taxable years of a partnership beginning on or after December 17, 1998. However, a partnership may apply this section in its entirety for all of the partnership's open taxable years beginning after any earlier date selected by the partnership.



---

[N] [T.D. 8799, 63 FR 69553, Dec. 17, 1998]




