# ยง 52.2526   Control strategy: Particulate matter.

(a) EPA approves West Virginia's November 15, 1991 SIP submittal for fulfilling the PM_10_-specific requirement of part D for contingency measures required under section 172(c)(9) of the Clean Air Act applicable to the Follansbee, West Virginia PM_10_ nonattainment area.


(b) *Determinations of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of November 20, 2009, the Martinsburg-Hagerstown, WV-MD, the Parkersburg-Marietta, WV-OH and the Wheeling, WV-OH PM_2.5_ nonattainment areas have attained the 1997 PM_2.5_ NAAQS. These determinations, in accordance with 40 CFR 52.1004(c), suspend the requirements for these areas to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as these areas continue to meet the 1997 PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(c) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of September 7, 2011, that based upon 2007-2009 air quality data, the Huntington-Ashland, West Virginia-Kentucky-Ohio, nonattainment Area has attained the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 52.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this Area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this Area continues to meet the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(d) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of September 14, 2011, that based on 2007 to 2009 ambient air quality data, the Steubenville-Weirton nonattainment area has attained the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 52.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(e) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of October 11, 2011, that based on 2007 to 2009 ambient air quality data, the Charleston nonattainment area has attained the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 52.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(f) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of November 18, 2011, that based on 2007 to 2009 ambient air quality data, the Charleston nonattainment area has attained the 24-hour 2006 PM_2.5_ NAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 51.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 24-hour 2006 PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(g) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of *May 14, 2012,* that based on 2008 to 2010 ambient air quality data, the Steubenville-Weirton nonattainment area has attained the 24-hour 2006 PM_2.5_ NAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 52.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 24-hour 2006 PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(h) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the West Virginia portion of the Parkersburg-Marietta, WV-OH 1997 PM_2.5_ Nonattainment Area (Wood County and a portion of Pleasants County). The maintenance plan establishes a determination of insignificance for PM_2.5_, NO_X_ and SO_2_ for transportation conformity purposes.


(i) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the West Virginia portion of the Wheeling, WV-OH 1997 PM_2.5_ Nonattainment Area (Marshall and Ohio Counties). The maintenance plan establishes a determination of insignificance for PM_2.5_, NO_X_ and SO_2_ for transportation conformity purposes.


(j) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Charleston PM_2.5_ Nonattainment Area (Kanawha and Putnam Counties). The maintenance plan establishes a determination of insignificance for PM_2.5_ and NO_X_ for transportation conformity purposes.


(k) EPA approves the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ maintenance plan for the West Virginia portion of the Martinsburg WV-Hagerstown, MD Nonattainment Area (Berkeley County). The maintenance plan includes the 2017 and 2025 PM_2.5_ and NO_X_ mobile vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) for Berkeley County for transportation conformity purposes.



---

[N] [68 FR 51464, Aug. 27, 2003, as amended at 74 FR 60203, Nov. 20, 2009; 76 FR 55544, Sept. 7, 2011; 76 FR 56643, Sept. 14, 2011; 76 FR 62641, Oct. 11, 2011; 76 FR 71541, Nov. 18, 2011; 77 FR 28265, May 11, 2012; 78 FR 56170, Sept. 12, 2013; 78 FR 58943, Sept. 30, 2013; 79 FR 17886, Mar. 31, 2014; 79 FR 70102, Nov. 25, 2014]




