# § 144.103   Definitions.

For purposes of parts 146 (group market), 147 (group and individual market), 148 (individual market), 149 (surprise billing and transparency), and 150 (enforcement) of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless otherwise provided:


*Affiliation period* means a period of time that must expire before health insurance coverage provided by an HMO becomes effective, and during which the HMO is not required to provide benefits.


*Applicable State authority* means, with respect to a health insurance issuer in a State, the State insurance commissioner or official or officials designated by the State to enforce the requirements of 45 CFR parts 146 and 148 for the State involved with respect to the issuer.


*Beneficiary* has the meaning given the term under section 3(8) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), which states, “a person designated by a participant, or by the terms of an employee benefit plan, who is or may become entitled to a benefit” under the plan.


*Bona fide association* means, with respect to health insurance coverage offered in a State, an association that meets the following conditions:


(1) Has been actively in existence for at least 5 years.


(2) Has been formed and maintained in good faith for purposes other than obtaining insurance.


(3) Does not condition membership in the association on any health status-related factor relating to an individual (including an employee of an employer or a dependent of any employee).


(4) Makes health insurance coverage offered through the association available to all members regardless of any health status-related factor relating to the members (or individuals eligible for coverage through a member).


(5) Does not make health insurance coverage offered through the association available other than in connection with a member of the association.


(6) Meets any additional requirements that may be imposed under State law.


*Church plan* means a Church plan within the meaning of section 3(33) of ERISA.


*COBRA* definitions:


(1) *COBRA* means Title *X* of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended.


(2) *COBRA continuation coverage* means coverage, under a group health plan, that satisfies an applicable COBRA continuation provision.


(3) *COBRA continuation provision* means sections 601-608 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, section 4980B of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (other than paragraph (f)(1) of such section 4980B insofar as it relates to pediatric vaccines), or Title XXII of the PHS Act.


(4) *Continuation coverage* means coverage under a COBRA continuation provision or a similar State program. Coverage provided by a plan that is subject to a COBRA continuation provision or similar State program, but that does not satisfy all the requirements of that provision or program, will be deemed to be continuation coverage if it allows an individual to elect to continue coverage for a period of at least 18 months. Continuation coverage does not include coverage under a conversion policy required to be offered to an individual upon exhaustion of continuation coverage, nor does it include continuation coverage under the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program.


(5) *Exhaustion of COBRA continuation coverage* means that an individual's COBRA continuation coverage ceases for any reason other than either failure of the individual to pay premiums on a timely basis, or for cause (such as making a fraudulent claim or an intentional misrepresentation of a material fact in connection with the plan). An individual is considered to have exhausted COBRA continuation coverage if such coverage ceases—


(i) Due to the failure of the employer or other responsible entity to remit premiums on a timely basis;


(ii) When the individual no longer resides, lives, or works in the service area of an HMO or similar program (whether or not within the choice of the individual) and there is no other COBRA continuation coverage available to the individual; or


(iii) When the individual incurs a claim that would meet or exceed a lifetime limit on all benefits and there is no other COBRA continuation coverage available to the individual.


(6) *Exhaustion of continuation coverage* means that an individual's continuation coverage ceases for any reason other than either failure of the individual to pay premiums on a timely basis, or for cause (such as making a fraudulent claim or an intentional misrepresentation of a material fact in connection with the plan). An individual is considered to have exhausted continuation coverage if—


(i) Coverage ceases due to the failure of the employer or other responsible entity to remit premiums on a timely basis;


(ii) When the individual no longer resides, lives or works in a service area of an HMO or similar program (whether or not within the choice of the individual) and there is no other continuation coverage available to the individual; or


(iii) When the individual incurs a claim that would meet or exceed a lifetime limit on all benefits and there is no other continuation coverage available to the individual.


*Condition* means a *medical condition.*

*Creditable coverage* has the meaning given the term in 45 CFR 146.113(a).


*Dependent* means any individual who is or may become eligible for coverage under the terms of a group health plan because of a relationship to a participant.


*Eligible individual,* for purposes of—


(1) The group market provisions in 45 CFR part 146, subpart E, is defined in 45 CFR 146.150(b); and


(2) The individual market provisions in 45 CFR part 148, is defined in 45 CFR 148.103.


*Employee* has the meaning given the term under section 3(6) of ERISA, which states, “any individual employed by an employer.”


*Employer* has the meaning given the term under section 3(5) of ERISA, which states, “any person acting directly as an employer, or indirectly in the interest of an employer, in relation to an employee benefit plan; and includes a group or association of employers acting for an employer in such capacity.”


*Enroll* means to become covered for benefits under a group health plan (that is, when coverage becomes effective), without regard to when the individual may have completed or filed any forms that are required in order to become covered under the plan. For this purpose, an individual who has health coverage under a group health plan is enrolled in the plan regardless of whether the individual elects coverage, the individual is a dependent who becomes covered as a result of an election by a participant, or the individual becomes covered without an election.


*Enrollment date* means the first day of coverage or, if there is a waiting period, the first day of the waiting period. If an individual receiving benefits under a group health plan changes benefit packages, or if the plan changes group health insurance issuers, the individual's enrollment date does not change.


*ERISA* stands for the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (29 U.S.C. 1001 *et seq.*).


*Excepted benefits,* consistent for purposes of the—


(1) Group market provisions in 45 CFR part 146, subpart D, is defined in 45 CFR 146.145(b); and


(2) Individual market provisions in 45 CFR part 148, is defined in 45 CFR 148.220.


*Federal governmental plan* means a governmental plan established or maintained for its employees by the Government of the United States or by any agency or instrumentality of such Government.


*First day of coverage* means, in the case of an individual covered for benefits under a group health plan, the first day of coverage under the plan and, in the case of an individual covered by health insurance coverage in the individual market, the first day of coverage under the policy or contract.


*Genetic information* has the meaning specified in § 146.122(a) of this subchapter.


*Governmental plan* means a governmental plan within the meaning of section 3(32) of ERISA.


*Group health insurance coverage* means health insurance coverage offered in connection with a group health plan. Individual health insurance coverage reimbursed by the arrangements described in 29 CFR 2510.3-1(l) is not offered in connection with a group health plan, and is not group health insurance coverage, provided all the conditions in 29 CFR 2510.3-1(l) are satisfied.


*Group health plan* or *plan* means a group health plan within the meaning of 45 CFR 146.145(a).


*Group market* means the market for health insurance coverage offered in connection with a group health plan.


*Health insurance coverage* means benefits consisting of medical care (provided directly, through insurance or reimbursement, or otherwise) under any hospital or medical service policy or certificate, hospital or medical service plan contract, or HMO contract offered by a health insurance issuer. Health insurance coverage includes group health insurance coverage, individual health insurance coverage, and short-term, limited-duration insurance.


*Health insurance issuer* or *issuer* means an insurance company, insurance service, or insurance organization (including an HMO) that is required to be licensed to engage in the business of insurance in a State and that is subject to State law that regulates insurance (within the meaning of section 514(b)(2) of ERISA). This term does not include a group health plan.


*Health maintenance organization* or *HMO* means—


(1) A Federally qualified health maintenance organization (as defined in section 1301(a) of the PHS Act);


(2) An organization recognized under State law as a health maintenance organization; or


(3) A similar organization regulated under State law for solvency in the same manner and to the same extent as such a health maintenance organization.


*Health status-related factor* is any factor identified as a health factor in 45 CFR 146.121(a).


*Individual health insurance coverage* means health insurance coverage offered to individuals in the individual market, but does not include short-term, limited-duration insurance. Individual health insurance coverage can include dependent coverage.


*Individual market* means the market for health insurance coverage offered to individuals other than in connection with a group health plan, or other than coverage offered pursuant to a contract between the health insurance issuer with the Medicaid, Children's Health Insurance Program, or Basic Health programs.


*Internal Revenue Code* means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Title 26, United States Code).


*Issuer* means a *health insurance issuer.*

*Large employer* means, in connection with a group health plan with respect to a calendar year and a plan year, an employer who employed an average of at least 51 employees on business days during the preceding calendar year and who employs at least 1 employee on the first day of the plan year. A State may elect to define large employer by substituting “101 employees” for “51 employees.” In the case of an employer that was not in existence throughout the preceding calendar year, the determination of whether the employer is a large employer is based on the average number of employees that it is reasonably expected the employer will employ on business days in the current calendar year.


*Large group market* means the health insurance market under which individuals obtain health insurance coverage (directly or through any arrangement) on behalf of themselves (and their dependents) through a group health plan maintained by a large employer.


*Late enrollee* means an individual whose enrollment in a plan is a late enrollment.


*Late enrollment* means enrollment of an individual under a group health plan other than on the earliest date on which coverage can become effective for the individual under the terms of the plan; or through special enrollment. (For rules relating to special enrollment and limited open enrollment, see §§ 146.117 and 147.104 of this subchapter.) If an individual ceases to be eligible for coverage under a plan, and then subsequently becomes eligible for coverage under the plan, only the individual's most recent period of eligibility is taken into account in determining whether the individual is a late enrollee under the plan with respect to the most recent period of coverage. Similar rules apply if an individual again becomes eligible for coverage following a suspension of coverage that applied generally under the plan.


*Medical care* means amounts paid for—


(1) The diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease, or amounts paid for the purpose of affecting any structure or function of the body;


(2) Transportation primarily for and essential to medical care referred to in paragraph (1) of this definition; and


(3) Insurance covering medical care referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this definition.


*Medical condition* or *condition* means any condition, whether physical or mental, including, but not limited to, any condition resulting from illness, injury (whether or not the injury is accidental), pregnancy, or congenital malformation. However, genetic information is not a condition.


*Network plan* means health insurance coverage of a health insurance issuer under which the financing and delivery of medical care (including items and services paid for as medical care) are provided, in whole or in part, through a defined set of providers under contract with the issuer.


*Non-Federal governmental plan* means a governmental plan that is not a Federal governmental plan.


*Participant* has the meaning given the term under section 3(7) of ERISA, which States, “any employee or former employee of an employer, or any member or former member of an employee organization, who is or may become eligible to receive a benefit of any type from an employee benefit plan which covers employees of such employer or members of such organization, or whose beneficiaries may be eligible to receive any such benefit.”


*PHS Act* stands for the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 201 *et seq.*).


*Placement, or being placed, for adoption* means the assumption and retention of a legal obligation for total or partial support of a child by a person with whom the child has been placed in anticipation of the child's adoption. The child's placement for adoption with such person ends upon the termination of such legal obligation.


*Plan* means, with respect to a product, the pairing of the health insurance coverage benefits under the product with a particular cost-sharing structure, provider network, and service area. The product comprises all plans offered with those characteristics and the combination of the service areas for all plans offered within a product constitutes the total service area of the product. With respect to a plan that has been modified at the time of coverage renewal consistent with § 147.106 of this subchapter—


(1) The plan will be considered to be the same plan if it:


(i) Has the same cost-sharing structure as before the modification, or any variation in cost sharing is solely related to changes in cost or utilization of medical care, or is to maintain the same metal tier level described in sections 1302(d) and (e) of the Affordable Care Act;


(ii) Continues to cover a majority of the same service area; and


(iii) Continues to cover a majority of the same provider network. For this purpose, the plan's provider network on the first day of the plan year is compared with the plan's provider network on the first day of the preceding plan year (as applicable).


(2) The plan will not fail to be treated as the same plan to the extent the modification(s) are made uniformly and solely pursuant to applicable Federal and State requirements if—


(i) The modification is made within a reasonable time period after the imposition or modification of the Federal or State requirement;


(ii) The modification is directly related to the imposition or modification of the Federal or State requirement.


(3) A State may permit greater changes to the cost-sharing structure, or designate a lower threshold for maintenance of the same provider network or service area for a plan to still be considered the same plan.


*Plan sponsor* has the meaning given the term under section 3(16)(B) of ERISA, which states, “(i) the employer in the case of an employee benefit plan established or maintained by a single employer, (ii) the employee organization in the case of a plan established or maintained by an employee organization, or (iii) in the case of a plan established or maintained by two or more employers or jointly by one or more employers and one or more employee organizations, the association, committee, joint board of trustees, or other similar group of representatives of the parties who establish or maintain the plan.”


*Plan year* means the year that is designated as the plan year in the plan document of a group health plan, except that if the plan document does not designate a plan year or if there is no plan document, the plan year is—


(1) The deductible or limit year used under the plan;


(2) If the plan does not impose deductibles or limits on a yearly basis, then the plan year is the policy year;


(3) If the plan does not impose deductibles or limits on a yearly basis, and either the plan is not insured or the insurance policy is not renewed on an annual basis, then the plan year is the employer's taxable year; or


(4) In any other case, the plan year is the calendar year.


*Policy year* means, with respect to—


(1) A grandfathered health plan offered in the individual health insurance market and student health insurance coverage, the 12-month period that is designated as the policy year in the policy documents of the health insurance coverage. If there is no designation of a policy year in the policy document (or no such policy document is available), then the policy year is the deductible or limit year used under the coverage. If deductibles or other limits are not imposed on a yearly basis, the policy year is the calendar year.


(2) A non-grandfathered health plan offered in the individual health insurance market, or in a market in which the State has merged the individual and small group risk pools, for coverage issued or renewed beginning January 1, 2014, a calendar year for which health insurance coverage provides coverage for health benefits.


*Preexisting condition exclusion* means a limitation or exclusion of benefits (including a denial of coverage) based on the fact that the condition was present before the effective date of coverage (or if coverage is denied, the date of the denial) under a group health plan or group or individual health insurance coverage (or other coverage provided to Federally eligible individuals pursuant to 45 CFR part 148), whether or not any medical advice, diagnosis, care, or treatment was recommended or received before that day. A preexisting condition exclusion includes any limitation or exclusion of benefits (including a denial of coverage) applicable to an individual as a result of information relating to an individual's health status before the individual's effective date of coverage (or if coverage is denied, the date of the denial) under a group health plan, or group or individual health insurance coverage (or other coverage provided to Federally eligible individuals pursuant to 45 CFR part 148), such as a condition identified as a result of a pre-enrollment questionnaire or physical examination given to the individual, or review of medical records relating to the pre-enrollment period.


*Product* means a discrete package of health insurance coverage benefits that are offered using a particular product network type (such as health maintenance organization, preferred provider organization, exclusive provider organization, point of service, or indemnity) within a service area. In the case of a product that has been modified, transferred, or replaced, the resulting new product will be considered to be the same as the modified, transferred, or replaced product if the changes to the modified, transferred, or replaced product meet the standards of § 146.152(f), § 147.106(e), or § 148.122(g) of this subchapter (relating to uniform modification of coverage), as applicable.


*Public health plan* has the meaning given the term in 45 CFR 146.113(a)(1)(ix).


*Short-term, limited-duration insurance* means health insurance coverage provided pursuant to a policy, certificate, or contract of insurance with an issuer that meets the conditions of paragraph (1) of this definition.


(1) *Short-term, limited-duration insurance* means health insurance coverage provided pursuant to a policy, certificate, or contract of insurance with an issuer that:


(i) Has an expiration date specified in the policy, certificate, or contract of insurance that is no more than 3 months after the original effective date of the policy, certificate, or contract of insurance, and taking into account any renewals or extensions, has a duration no longer than 4 months in total. For purposes of this paragraph (1)(i), a renewal or extension includes the term of a new short-term, limited-duration insurance policy, certificate, or contract of insurance issued by the same issuer, or if the issuer is a member of a controlled group, any other issuer that is a member of such controlled group, to the same policyholder within the 12-month period beginning on the original effective date of the initial policy, certificate, or contract of insurance; and


(ii) Displays prominently on the first page (in either paper or electronic form, including on a website) of the policy, certificate, or contract of insurance, and in any marketing, application, and enrollment materials (including reenrollment materials) provided to individuals at or before the time an individual has the opportunity to enroll (or reenroll) in the coverage, in at least 14-point font, the language in the following notice:


(2) For purposes of paragraph (1)(i) of this definition, the term “controlled group” means any group treated as a single employer under section 52(a), 52(b), 414(m), or 414(o) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.


(3) If any provision of this definition is held to be invalid or unenforceable by its terms, or as applied to any entity or circumstance, or stayed pending further agency action, the provision shall be construed so as to continue to give the maximum effect to the provision permitted by law, along with other provisions not found invalid or unenforceable, including as applied to entities not similarly situated or to dissimilar circumstances, unless such holding is that the provision is invalid and unenforceable in all circumstances, in which event the provision shall be severable from the remainder of the definition and shall not affect the remainder thereof.


*Significant break in coverage* has the meaning given the term in 45 CFR 146.113(b)(2)(iii).


*Small employer* means, in connection with a group health plan with respect to a calendar year and a plan year, an employer who employed an average of at least 1 but not more than 50 employees on business days during the preceding calendar year and who employs at least 1 employee on the first day of the plan year. A State may elect to define small employer by substituting “100 employees” for “50 employees.” In the case of an employer that was not in existence throughout the preceding calendar year, the determination of whether the employer is a small employer is based on the average number of employees that it is reasonably expected the employer will employ on business days in the current calendar year.


*Small group market* means the health insurance market under which individuals obtain health insurance coverage (directly or through any arrangement) on behalf of themselves (and their dependents) through a group health plan maintained by a small employer.


*Special enrollment* means enrollment in a group health plan or group health insurance coverage under the rights described in 45 CFR 146.117.


*State* means each of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Northern Mariana Islands; except that for purposes of part 147, the term does not include Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Northern Mariana Islands.


*State health benefits risk pool* has the meaning given the term in 45 CFR § 146.113(a)(1)(vii).


*Student health insurance coverage* has the meaning given the term in § 147.145.


*Travel insurance* means insurance coverage for personal risks incident to planned travel, which may include, but is not limited to, interruption or cancellation of trip or event, loss of baggage or personal effects, damages to accommodations or rental vehicles, and sickness, accident, disability, or death occurring during travel, provided that the health benefits are not offered on a stand-alone basis and are incidental to other coverage. For this purpose, the term travel insurance does not include major medical plans that provide comprehensive medical protection for travelers with trips lasting 6 months or longer, including, for example, those working overseas as an expatriate or military personnel being deployed.


*Waiting period* has the meaning given the term in 45 CFR 147.116(b).



---

[N] [69 FR 78781, Dec. 30, 2004]




