# § 176.45   Disposal of buildings and property.

(a) *Public benefit transfer screening.* Not later than the LRA's submission of its redevelopment plan to DoD and HUD, the Military Development will conduct an official public benefit transfer screening in accordance with the Federal Property Management Regulations (41 CFR 101-47.303-2) based upon the uses identified in the redevelopment plan. Federal sponsoring agencies shall notify eligible applicants that any request for property must be consistent with the uses identified in the redevelopment plan. At the request of the LRA, the Military Department may conduct the official State and local public benefit screening at any time after the publication of available property described at § 176.20(b).


(b) *Environmental analysis.* Prior to disposal of any real property, the Military Department shall, consistent with NEPA and section 2905 of the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990, as amended (10 U.S.C. 2687 note), complete an environmental impact analysis of all reasonable disposal alternatives. The Military Department shall consult with the LRA throughout the environmental impact analysis process to ensure both that the LRA is provided the most current environmental information available concerning the installation, and that the Military Department receives the most current information available concerning the LRA's redevelopment plans for the installation.


(c) *Disposal.* Upon receipt of a notice of approval of an application from HUD under § 176.35(c)(1) or § 176.35(d)(2), DoD shall dispose of buildings and property in accordance with the record of decision or other decision document prepared under § 176.45(b). Disposal of buildings and property to be used as homeless assistance facilities shall be to either the LRA or directly to the representative(s) of the homeless and shall be without consideration. Upon receipt of a notice from HUD under § 176.40(b), DoD will dispose of the buildings and property at the installation in consultation with HUD and the LRA.


(d) *LRA's responsibility.* The LRA shall be responsible for the implementation of and compliance with legally binding agreements under the application.


(e) *Reversions to the LRA.* If a building or property reverts to the LRA under a legally binding agreement under the application, the LRA shall take appropriate actions to secure, to the maximum extent practicable, the utilization of the building or property by other homeless representatives to assist the homeless. An LRA may not be required to utilize the building or property to assist the homeless.




