# § 635.6   Registration of sex offenders on Army installations (inside and outside the Continental United States).

(a) *Sex Offenders on US Army Installations.* Garrison Commander's responsibilities: Garrison Commanders will ensure that sex offenders, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section that reside or are employed on an Army Installation register with the installation PM/DES. This includes service members, civilian employees, accompanying dependent family members, and contractors subject to the incorporation of the sex offender registration requirement into the contract.


(b) Sex offender is defined as:


(1) Any person, including but not limited to a Service member, Service member's family member, Civilian employee, Civilian employee's family member, or contractor, who either is registered or required to register as a sex offender by any law, regulation or policy of the United States, the Department of Defense, the Army, a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, America Samoa, The Northern Mariana Islands, the United States Virgin Islands, or a Federally recognized Indian tribe. This definition is not limited to persons convicted for felony sex offenses but includes all persons who are registered or required to register as a sex offender regardless of the classification of their offenses, including felonies, misdemeanors, and offenses not classified as a felony or misdemeanor.


(2) The persons who are sex offenders as defined in paragraph (b)(1) include those convicted by a foreign government of an offense equivalent or closely analogous to a covered offense under the Uniform Code of Military Justice as provided in AR 27-10, Military Justice (available at *http://www.apd.army.mil/pdffiles/r27_10.pdf*), Chapter 24.” See 42 U.S.C. 16911(5)(B) and U.S. Department of Justice, Office of the Attorney General, The National Guidelines for Sex Offender Registration and Notification, Final Guidelines, 73 FR 38030, 38050-1 (July 2, 2008) for guidelines and standards. Contact the servicing Office of the Staff Judge Advocate for assistance in interpreting or applying this provision.


(c) Sex Offender Registration Requirements. Sex offenders, as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must register with the installation PMO/DES within three working days of first arriving on an installation. Sex offenders must provide the installation PMO/DES with evidence of the qualifying conviction. The PMO/DES will enter the registering sex offender's conviction information on a Raw Data File as an information entry into the Army's Law Enforcement Reporting and Tracking System (ALERTS) with the state the sex offender was convicted, date of conviction, and results of conviction, to include length of time required to register and any specific court ordered restrictions. Registration with the PMO/DES does not relieve sex offenders of their legal obligation to comply with applicable state and local registration requirements for the state in which they reside, work, or attend school (see, AR 190-47 (available at *http://www.apd.army.mil/pdffiles/r190_47.pdf*), chapter 14 and AR 27-10 (available at *http://www.apd.army.mil/pdffiles/r27_10.pdf*), chapter 24). Registration with the state is also required under the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (SORNA), 42 U.S.C. 16901 *et seq.,* and implemented by AR 27-10 (Available at *http://www.apd.army.mil/pdffiles/r27_10.pdf*), Military Justice, and DoDI 1325.7 (Available at *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/132507p.pdf*). In addition, upon assignment, reassignment, or change of address, sex offenders will inform the installation PM/DES within three working days. Failure to comply with registration requirements is punishable under Federal or State law and/or under the UCMJ. “State” in this paragraph includes any jurisdiction listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section in which a sex offender is required to register.


(d) Installation PMOs and DESs will maintain and update a monthly roster of current sex offenders names and provide it to the Sexual Assault Review Board; the Army Command PM and DES and the garrison commander.


(e) Installation PMs and DESs will complete the following procedures for all other sex offenders required to register on the installation—


(1) Complete a Raw Data File as an information entry into ALERTS.


(2) Ensure the sex offender produces either evidence of the qualifying conviction or the sex offender registration paperwork in order to complete the narrative with the state in which the sex offender was convicted, date of conviction, and results of conviction, to include length of time required to register and any specific court ordered restrictions.


(f) DoD civilians, contractors, and family members that fail to register at the installation PMO/DES are subject to a range of administrative sanctions, including but not limited to a complete or limited bar to the installation and removal from military housing.



---

[N] [80 FR 28549, May 19, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 17386, Mar. 29, 2016; 81 FR 78912, Nov. 10, 2016]




