# § 556.902   General requirements for bonds or other financial assurance.

(a) Any surety bond or other financial assurance that you, as record title owner, operating rights owner, grant holder, or operator, provide under this part, or under part 550 of this subchapter, must:


(1) Be payable upon demand to the Regional Director;


(2) Guarantee compliance with all your obligations under the lease or grant, the regulations in chapters II and XII of this title, and all BOEM and BSEE orders; and


(3) Except as stated in § 556.905(b), guarantee compliance with the obligations of all record title owners, operating rights owners, and operators on the lease, and all grant-holders on a grant.


(b) All bonds and pledges you furnish under this part must be on a form or in a form approved by the Director. Surety bonds must be issued by a surety that the Treasury certifies as an acceptable surety on Federal bonds and that is listed in the current Treasury Circular No. 570. You may obtain a copy of the current Treasury Circular No. 570 from the Surety Bond Branch, Financial Management Service, Department of the Treasury, East-West Highway, Hyattsville, MD 20782.


(c) You and a qualified surety must execute your bond. When either party is a corporation, an authorized official for the party must sign the bond and attest to it by an imprint of the corporate seal.


(d) Bonds must be non-cancellable, except as provided in § 556.906 of this part. Bonds must continue in full force and effect even though an event occurs that could diminish, terminate, or cancel a surety obligation under State surety law.


(e) Lease bonds must be:


(1) A surety bond;


(2) A pledge of Treasury securities, as provided in § 556.900(f);


(3) Another form of security approved by the Regional Director; or


(4) A combination of these security methods.


(f) You may submit a bond to the Regional Director executed on a form approved under paragraph (b) of this section that you have reproduced or generated by use of a computer. If you do, and if the document omits terms or conditions contained on the form approved by the Director, the bond you submit will be deemed to contain the omitted terms and conditions.


(g) If you believe that BOEM's supplemental financial assurance demand is unjustified, you may request an informal resolution of your dispute in accordance with the requirements of § 590.6 of this chapter. Your request for an informal resolution will not affect your right to request to meet your supplemental financial assurance requirement in a phased manner under § 556.901(h).


(h) You may file an appeal of a supplemental financial assurance demand with the Interior Board of Land Appeals (IBLA) pursuant to the regulations in part 590 of this chapter. However, if you request that the IBLA stay the demand pending a final ruling on your appeal, you must post an appeal surety bond equal to the amount of the demand that you seek to stay before any such stay is effective.



---

[N] [81 FR 18152, Mar. 30, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 31595, Apr. 24, 2024]








