# ยง 4279.223   Sale or assignment of guaranteed loan.

The Lender may Participate or sell all or part of the guaranteed portion of the loan or retain the entire loan. The Lender must fully disburse and properly close a loan prior to sale of any portion of the Promissory Note(s). The Lender cannot Participate or sell any amount of the guaranteed or unguaranteed portion of the loan to the Borrower or its parent, subsidiary or Affiliate or to officers, directors, stockholders, other owners, or members of their Immediate Families. The Lender cannot share any premium received from the sale of a guaranteed loan in the secondary market with a Loan Packager or other Loan Service Provider. The participating Lenders and Holders and the Borrower can have no rights or obligations to one another. If the Lender desires to market all or part of the guaranteed portion of the loan at or subsequent to loan closing, such loan must not be in Default. Lenders may use either the single Promissory Note or multi-note system as outlined in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.


(a) *Single note system.* The entire loan is evidenced by one Promissory Note, and one Loan Note Guarantee is issued. When the loan is evidenced by one Promissory Note, the Lender may not at a later date cause any additional notes to be issued.


(1) The Lender may assign all or part of the guaranteed portion of the loan to one or more Holders by using the Assignment Guarantee Agreement. The Lender must retain title to the Promissory Note. The Lender must complete and execute the Assignment Guarantee Agreement and return it to the Agency for execution prior to Holder execution.


(2) A Holder, upon written notice to the Lender and the Agency, may reassign the unpaid guaranteed portion of the loan, in full, sold under the Assignment Guarantee Agreement. Holders may only reassign the guaranteed portion in the complete block they have received and cannot subdivide or further split the guaranteed portion of a loan or retain an Interest strip.


(3) Upon notification and completion of the assignment through the use of the Assignment Guarantee Agreement, the assignee shall succeed to all rights and obligations of the Holder thereunder. Subsequent assignments require notice to the Lender and Agency using any format, including that used by the Bond Market Association, together with the transfer of the original Assignment Guarantee Agreement.


(4) The Agency will neither execute a new Assignment Guarantee Agreement to effect a subsequent reassignment nor reissue a duplicate Assignment Guarantee Agreement unless:


(i) The original was lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated, or defaced; and


(ii) The reissue is in accordance with ยง 4279.226.


(5) The Assignment Guarantee Agreement clearly states the percentage and corresponding amount of the guaranteed portion it represents and the Lender's servicing fee. A servicing fee may be charged by the Lender to a Holder and is calculated as a percentage per annum of the unpaid balance of the guaranteed portion of the loan assigned by the Assignment Guarantee Agreement. The Agency is not and will not be a party to any contract between the Lender and another party where the Lender sells its servicing fee in an Arm's Length Transaction. The Agency will not acknowledge, approve, or have any liability to any of the parties of such contract.


(b) *Multi-note system.* Under this option, the Lender may provide multiple Promissory Notes for the unguaranteed and the guaranteed portions of the loan. All Promissory Notes must reflect the same payment terms. When the Lender selects this option, the Holder will receive one of the Borrower's executed notes and a Loan Note Guarantee. The Agency will issue a Loan Note Guarantee for each Promissory Note, including the unguaranteed Promissory Note(s), to be attached to the Promissory Note(s). An Assignment Guarantee Agreement will not be used when the multi-note option is utilized.




