# § 250.713   What must I provide if I plan to use a mobile offshore drilling unit (MODU) for well operations?

If you plan to use a MODU for well operations, you must provide:


(a) *Fitness requirements.* Information and data to demonstrate the MODU's capability to perform at the proposed location. This information must include the maximum environmental and operational conditions that the MODU is designed to withstand, including the minimum air gap necessary for both hurricane and non-hurricane seasons. If sufficient environmental information and data are not available at the time you submit your APD or APM, the District Manager may approve your APD or APM, but require you to collect and report this information during operations. Under this circumstance, the District Manager may revoke the approval of the APD or APM if information collected during operations shows that the MODU is not capable of performing at the proposed location.


(b) *Foundation requirements.* Information to show that site-specific soil and oceanographic conditions are capable of supporting the proposed bottom-founded MODU. If you provided sufficient site-specific information in your EP, DPP, or DOCD submitted to BOEM for that well location and conditions, you may reference that information. The District Manager may require you to conduct additional surveys and soil borings before approving the APD or APM if additional information is needed to make a determination that the conditions are capable of supporting the MODU, or equipment installed on a subsea wellhead. For a moored rig, you must submit a plat of the rig's anchor pattern approved in your EP, DPP, or DOCD in your APD or APM.


(c) *For frontier areas.* (1) If the design of the MODU you plan to use in a frontier area is unique or has not been proven for use in the proposed environment, the District Manager may require you to submit a third-party review of the MODU design. If required, you must obtain a third-party review of your MODU similar to the process outlined in §§ 250.915 through 250.918. You may submit this information before submitting an APD or APM.


(2) If you plan to conduct operations in a frontier area, you must have a contingency plan that addresses design and operating limitations of the MODU. Your plan must identify the actions necessary to maintain safety and prevent damage to the environment. Actions must include the suspension, curtailment, or modification of operations to remedy various operational or environmental situations (e.g., vessel motion, riser offset, anchor tensions, wind speed, wave height, currents, icing or ice-loading, settling, tilt or lateral movement, resupply capability).


(d) *Additional documentation.* You must provide the current Certificate of Inspection (for U.S.-flag vessels) or Certificate of Compliance (for foreign-flag vessels) from the USCG and Certificate of Classification. You must also provide current documentation of any operational limitations imposed by an appropriate classification society.


(e) *Dynamically positioned MODU.* If you use a dynamically positioned MODU, you must include in your APD or APM your contingency plan for moving off location in an emergency situation. At a minimum, your plan must address emergency events caused by storms, currents, station-keeping failures, power failures, and losses of well control. The District Manager may require your plan to include additional events that may require movement of the MODU and other information needed to clarify or further address how the MODU will respond to emergencies or other events.


(f) *Inspection of MODU.* The MODU must be available for inspection by the District Manager before commencing operations and at any time during operations.


(g) *Current monitoring.* For water depths greater than 400 meters (1,312 feet), you must include in your APD or APM:


(1) A description of the specific current speeds that will cause you to implement rig shutdown, move-off procedures, or both; and


(2) A discussion of the specific measures you will take to curtail rig operations and move off location when such currents are encountered. You may use criteria, such as current velocities, riser angles, watch circles, and remaining rig power to describe when these procedures or measures will be implemented.



---

[N] [81 FR 26022, Apr. 29, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 36150, June 6, 2016]




