# ยง 232.2   General instructions.

(a) *Use of generally accepted accounting principles.* All contractors shall conform their accounting policies to generally accepted accounting principles (promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants).


(b) *Need to conform accounting information.* All contractors may continue to use their current accounting system, if the system provides a basis for the preparation of reports in the prescribed formats and is consistent with generally accepted accounting principles.


(c) *Reconciliation of financial reports.* When a program participant issues certified financial statements following accounting policies different from those followed for the financial statement filed with the Maritime Administration (such as reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, public service commissions or other regulatory agencies, or reports using other acceptable accounting methods differing from methods used for this regulation's purposes), the program participant shall clearly set forth the nature and amount of each adjustment necessary to reconcile the published statements with those filed with the Maritime Administration.


(d) *Submission of questions.* (1) A contractor may submit in writing, or by electronic options (such as facsimile and Internet), if practicable, any question involving the interpretation of any provision of this part for consideration and decision to the Director, Office of Financial and Rate Approvals, for the Maritime Security Program, or Director, Office of Ship Financing, for the Maritime Loan Guarantee Program (Title XI), Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590. Appeals from such interpretation will be in accordance with the interpretation letter.


(2) A contractor who has a question of financial accounting or reporting procedure pending before the Maritime Administration at the time a financial report is due shall file the report in accordance with established scheduled dates. The contractor shall include in the report a footnote disclosure that adequately describes the question pending, the manner of presentation in the report, and the relative impact on the balance sheet and income statement, respectively. 


(e) *Effective Date.* This regulation is effective as of December 27, 1993 and its requirements are mandatory for financial reports for accounting periods ending on or after December 31, 1993.



---

[N] [48 FR 30122, June 30, 1983, as amended at 58 FR 62043, Nov. 24, 1993; 68 FR 62537, Nov. 5, 2003; 69 FR 61449, Oct. 19, 2004]




