# ยง 842.105   Delegations of authority.

(a) *Settlement authority.* The following individuals have delegated authority to settle, compromise, or waive MCRP claims for $300,000 or less and to accept full payment on any claim:


(1) The Judge Advocate General.


(2) The Deputy Judge Advocate General.


(3) The Director of Civil Law.


(4) Chief, Claims and Tort Litigation Staff and the Chief, MCRP.


(b) *Redelegation of authority.* The individuals described in paragraph (a) of this section may re-delegate a portion or all of their authority to subordinates, subject to the following limitations:


(1) SJAs, when given Medical Cost Reimbursement (MCR) claims jurisdiction, are granted authority to waive, compromise, or settle claims in amounts of $25,000 or less. This authority may be re-delegated in writing with authority to re-delegate to subordinates.


(2) SJAs of numbered Air Forces, when given MCR claims jurisdiction, are granted authority to waive, compromise, or settle claims in amounts of $40,000 or less. This authority may be re-delegated in writing with authority to re-delegate to subordinates.


(3) SJAs of single base GCMs, the SJAs of GCMs in PACAF and USAFE, and the SJAs of each Air Force base, station, or fixed installation have delegated authority to compromise or waive claims for $15,000 or less and to accept full payment on any claim.


(c) *Authority to assert a claim.* Each settlement authority has authority to assert a claim in any amount for the reasonable value of medical care.


(d) *Authority to reduce, withdraw, and restore settlement authority.* Any superior settlement authority may reduce, withdraw, or restore delegated authority.


(e) *Settlement negotiations.* A settlement authority may settle a claim filed for an amount within the delegated settlement authority. Claims in excess of the delegated authority must be approved by the next higher settlement authority. Unsuccessful negotiations at one level do not bind higher authority.


(f) *Special exceptions.* Only the Department of Justice (DOJ) may approve claims involving:


(1) Compromise or waiver of a claim for more than $300,000.


(2) Settlement previously referred to DOJ.


(3) Settlement where a third party files suit against the U.S. or the injured party arising out of the same incident.



---

[N] [81 FR 83698, Nov. 22, 2016]




