# § 622.408   Bag/possession limits.

(a) *EEZ off the southern Atlantic states, other than Florida.* The daily bag or possession limit for spiny lobster in or from the EEZ off the southern Atlantic states, other than Florida, is two per person for commercial and recreational fishing, year-round.


(b) *EEZ off Florida and off the Gulf states, other than Florida*—(1) *Commercial and recreational fishing season.* Except as specified in paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section, during the commercial and recreational fishing season specified in § 622.403(b)(1), the daily bag or possession limit of spiny lobster in or from the EEZ off Florida and off the Gulf states, other than Florida, is six per person.


(2) *Special recreational fishing seasons.* During the special recreational fishing seasons specified in § 622.403(b)(2), the daily bag or possession limit of spiny lobster—


(i) In or from the EEZ off the Gulf states, other than Florida, is six per person;


(ii) In or from the EEZ off Florida other than off Monroe County, Florida, is twelve per person; and


(iii) In or from the EEZ off Monroe County, Florida, is six per person.


(3) *Exemption from the bag/possession limit.* During the commercial and recreational fishing season specified in § 622.403(b)(1), a person is exempt from the bag and possession limit specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, provided—


(i) The harvest of spiny lobsters is by diving, or by the use of a bully net, hoop net, or spiny lobster trap; and


(ii) The vessel from which the person is operating has on board the required licenses, certificates, or permits, as specified in § 622.400(a)(1).


(4) *Harvest by net or trawl.* During the commercial and recreational fishing season specified in § 622.403(b)(1), aboard a vessel with the required licenses, certificates, or permits specified in § 622.400(a)(1) that harvests spiny lobster by net or trawl or has on board a net or trawl, the possession of spiny lobster in or from the EEZ off Florida and off the Gulf states, other than Florida, may not exceed at any time 5 percent, whole weight, of the total whole weight of all fish lawfully in possession on board such vessel. If such vessel lawfully possesses a separated spiny lobster tail, the possession of spiny lobster in or from the EEZ may not exceed at any time 1.6 percent, by weight of the spiny lobster or parts thereof, of the total whole weight of all fish lawfully in possession on board such vessel. For the purposes of this paragraph (b)(4), the term “net or trawl” does not include a hand-held net, a loading or dip net, a bully net, or a hoop net.


(5) *Harvest by diving.* (i) The commercial daily harvest and possession limit of spiny lobster harvested by diving in or from the EEZ off Broward, Miami-Dade, Monroe, Collier, and Lee Counties, Florida, is 250 spiny lobster per vessel.


(ii) *Diving at night.* The provisions of paragraph (b)(3) of this section notwithstanding, a person who harvests spiny lobster in the EEZ by diving at night, that is, from 1 hour after official sunset to 1 hour before official sunrise, is limited to the bag limit specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, whether or not a Federal vessel permit specified in § 622.400(a)(1) has been issued to and is on board the vessel from which the diver is operating.


(6) *Harvest by bully nets in the EEZ off Florida.* The commercial daily harvest and possession limit of spiny lobster harvested by bully net in the EEZ off Florida is 250 spiny lobsters per vessel.


(c) *Combination of bag/possession limits.* A person who fishes for or possesses spiny lobster in or from the EEZ under a bag or possession limit specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section may not combine the bag or possession limits of those paragraphs or combine such bag or possession limit with a bag or possession limit applicable to state waters.


(d) *Responsibility for bag/possession limits.* The operator of a vessel that fishes for or possesses spiny lobster in or from the EEZ is responsible for the cumulative bag or possession limit specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section applicable to that vessel, based on the number of persons aboard.


(e) *Transfer at sea.* A person who fishes for or possesses spiny lobster in or from the EEZ under a bag or possession limit specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section may not transfer a spiny lobster at sea from a fishing vessel to any other vessel, and no person may receive at sea such spiny lobster.



---

[N] [78 FR 22952, Apr. 17, 2013, as amended at 84 FR 37152, July 31, 2019]




