# § 1608.7   Affirmative action plans or programs under State or local law.

Affirmative action plans or programs executed by agreement with State or local government agencies, or by order of State or local government agencies, whether entered by consent or after contested proceedings, under statutes or ordinances described in title VII, will be reviewed by the Commission in light of the similar purposes of title VII and such statutes and ordinances. Accordingly, the Commission will process title VII complaints involving such affirmative action plans or programs under this section.


(a) *Procedures for review of plans or programs.* If adherence to an affirmative action plan or program executed pursuant to a State statute or local ordinance described in title VII is the basis of a complaint filed under title VII or is alleged to be the justification for an action which is challenged under Title VII, the Commission will investigate to determine:


(1) Whether the affirmative action plan or program was executed by an employer, labor organization, or person subject to the statute or ordinance,


(2) Whether the agreement was approved by an appropriate official of the State or local government, and


(3) Whether adherence to the plan or program was the basis of the complaint or justification.


(1) *Previously approved plans or programs.* If the Commission finds the facts described in paragraph (a) of this section, the Commission will, in accordance with the “substantial weight” provisions of section 706 of the Act, find no reasonable cause where appropriate.


(2) *Plans or programs not previously approved.* If the plan or program has not been approved by an appropriate official of the State or local government, the Commission will follow the procedure of § 1608.10 of these Guidelines. If the Commission finds that the plan or program does conform to these Guidelines, the Commission will make a determination of no reasonable cause as set forth in § 1608.10(a).


(b) *Reliance on these guidelines.* In addition, if the affirmative action plan or program has been adopted in good faith reliance on these Guidelines, the provisions of section 713(b)(1) and § 1608.10(b), of this part, may be asserted by the respondent.




