# § 1090.265   Gasoline additive standards.

(a) Any gasoline additive that is added to, intended for adding to, used in, or offered for use in gasoline at any downstream location must meet all the following requirements:


(1) *Registration.* The gasoline additive must be registered by a gasoline additive manufacturer under 40 CFR part 79.


(2) *Sulfur content.* The gasoline additive must contribute less than or equal to 3 ppm on a per-gallon basis to the sulfur content of gasoline when used at the maximum recommended concentration.


(3) *Treatment rate.* Except for oxygenates, the gasoline additive(s) must be used at a maximum treatment rate less than or equal to a combined total of 1.0 volume percent.


(b) Any fuel additive blender that is not otherwise subject to any other requirement in this part and only blends a gasoline additive that meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section into gasoline is not subject to any requirement in this part solely due to this gasoline additive blending, except the downstream sulfur per-gallon standard in § 1090.205(c), if all the following conditions are met:


(1) The fuel additive blender blends gasoline additives into gasoline at a concentration less than or equal to a combined total of 1.0 volume percent.


(2) The fuel additive blender does not add any other blendstock into the gasoline except for oxygenates that meet the requirements in § 1090.270.


(c) Any person who blends any fuel additive that does not meet the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section is a gasoline manufacturer and must comply with all requirements applicable to a gasoline manufacturer under this part.


(d) Any gasoline additive used or intended for use to comply with the gasoline deposit control requirement in § 1090.260(a) must meet the gasoline deposit control standards under § 1090.260(b).




