# § 73.34   Recordation in accounts.

(a) After a compliance account is established under § 73.31(a) or (b), the Administrator will record in the compliance account any allowance allocated to any affected unit at the source for 30 years starting with the later of 1995 or the year in which the compliance account is established and any allowance allocated for 30 years starting with the later of 1995 or the year in which the compliance account is established and transferred to the source with the transfer submitted in accordance with § 73.50. In 1996 and each year thereafter, after Administrator has completed the deductions pursuant to § 73.35(b), the Administrator will record in the compliance account any allowance allocated to any affected unit at the source for the new 30th year (*i.e.*, the year that is 30 years after the calendar year for which such deductions are made) and any allowance allocated for the new 30th year and transferred to the source with the transfer submitted in accordance with § 73.50.


(b) After a general account is established under § 73.31(c), the Administrator will record in the general account any allowance allocated for 30 years starting with the later of 1995 or the year in which the general account is established and transferred to the general account with the transfer submitted in accordance with § 73.50. In 1996 and each year thereafter, after the Administrator has completed the deductions pursuant to § 73.35(b), the Administrator will record in the general account any allowance allocated for the new 30th year (*i.e.*, the year that is 30 years after the calendar year for which such deductions are made) and transferred to the general account with the transfer submitted in accordance with § 73.50.


(c) Allowances in each compliance account and general account subaccounts will reflect:


(1) All allowances allocated or deducted for the unit for the year pursuant to subpart B of this part;


(2) All allowances allocated or deducted pursuant to §§ 72.41, 72.42, 72.43, and 72.44 and part 74 of this chapter;


(3) All allowances allocated pursuant to subparts F and G of this part;


(4) All allowances recorded as a result of purchases or returns from the annual auctions;


(5) All allowances recorded or deducted as a result of allowance transfers recorded pursuant to subpart D of this part; and


(6) All allowances deducted or returned pursuant to §§ 73.35(d), 72.91 and 72.92, part 74, and part 77 of this chapter.


(d) *Serial numbers for allocated allowances.* Upon the allocation of allowances to an account, including allowances contained in reserves as provided in subpart B of this part, the Administrator will assign each allowance a unique identification number that will include digits identifying the allowance's compliance use date.



---

[N] [58 FR 3691, Jan. 11, 1993, as amended at 60 FR 17114, Apr. 4, 1995; 63 FR 68404, Dec. 11, 1998; 70 FR 25335, May 12, 2005]




