# § 11.92   Post-assessment phase—restoration account.

(a) *Disposition of recoveries.* (1) All sums (damage claim and assessment costs) recovered pursuant to section 107(f) of CERCLA or sections 311(f)(4) and (5) of the CWA by the Federal government acting as trustee shall be retained by the trustee, without further appropriation, in a separate account in the U.S. Treasury.


(2) All sums (damage claim and assessment costs) recovered pursuant to section 107(f) of CERCLA, or sections 311(f)(4) and (5) of the CWA by a State government acting as trustee shall either:


(i) Be placed in a separate account in the State treasury; or


(ii) Be placed by the responsible party or parties in an interest bearing account payable in trust to the State agency acting as trustee.


(3) All sums (damage claim and assessment costs) recovered pursuant to section 107(f) of CERCLA or sections 311(f)(4) and (5) of the CWA by an Indian tribe shall either:


(i) Be placed in an account in the tribal treasury; or


(ii) Be placed by the responsible party or parties in an interest bearing account payable in trust to the Indian tribe.


(b) *Adjustments.* (1) In establishing the account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the calculation of the expected present value of the damage amount should be adjusted, as appropriate, whenever monies are to be placed in a non-interest bearing account. This adjustment should correct for the anticipated effects of inflation over the time estimated to complete expenditures for the restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources.


(2) In order to make the adjustment in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the authorized official should adjust the damage amount by the rate payable on notes or bonds issued by the United States Treasury with a maturity date that approximates the length of time estimated to complete expenditures for the restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources.


(c) *Payments from the account.* Monies that constitute the damage claim amount shall be paid out of the account established pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section only for those actions described in the Restoration Plan required by § 11.93 of this part.



---

[N] [53 FR 5176, Feb. 22, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 14287, Mar. 25, 1994]




