# § 510.400   Quality measures and reporting.

(a) *Reporting of quality measures.* The following quality measures are used for public reporting, for determining whether a participant hospital is eligible for reconciliation payments under § 510.305(g), and whether a participant hospital is eligible for quality incentive payments under § 510.315(f) in the performance year or performance year subset:


(1) Hospital-level risk-standardized complication rate following elective primary total hip arthroplasty and/or total knee arthroplasty.


(2) Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems Survey.


(b) *Requirements for successful voluntary data submission of patient-reported outcomes and limited risk variable data.* To be eligible to receive the additional points added to the composite quality score for successful voluntary data submission of patient-reported outcomes and limited risk variable data, as described in § 510.315(b)(4), participant hospitals must submit the THA/TKA patient-reported outcome and limited risk variable data requested by CMS related to the pre- and post-operative periods for elective primary total hip and/or total knee arthroplasty procedures. The data must be submitted within 60 days of the end of the most recent performance period and be accompanied by the patient-reported outcomes and limited risk variable data (eleven elements finalized) as outlined in § 510.315(b)(4).


(1) For each eligible procedure all eleven risk variable data elements are required to be submitted. The eleven risk variables are as follows:


(i) Date of birth.


(ii) Race.


(iii) Ethnicity.


(iv) Date of admission to anchor hospitalization.


(v) Date of eligible THA/TKA procedure.


(vi) Medicare Health Insurance Claim Number.


(vii) Body mass index.


(viii) Use of chronic (≥90 day) narcotics.


(ix) Total painful joint count.


(x) Quantified spinal pain.


(xi) Single Item Health Literacy Screening (SILS2) questionnaire.


(2) Hospitals must also submit the amount of requested THA/TKA patient-reported outcomes data required for each performance year or performance year subset of the model in order to be considered successful in submitting voluntary data.


(i) The amount of requested THA/TKA patient-reported outcomes data to submit, in order to be considered successful will increase each subsequent year of the model over the first 5 years of the model (with the exception of performance year subset 5.2, for which CMS will request the same amount of THA/TKA patient-reported outcomes data as performance year subset 5.1, updated to reflect the timeframe applicable to performance year subset 5.2).


(ii) A phase-in approach that determines the amount of requested THA/TKA patient-reported outcomes data to submit over performance years 1 through 4 and performance year subset 5.1 (with the exception of performance year subset 5.2, for which CMS will request the same amount of THA/TKA patient-reported outcomes as performance year subset 5.1, updated to reflect the timeframe applicable to performance year subset 5.2) of the model will be applied so that in year 1 successful submission of data would mean CMS received all requested THA/TKA patient-reported outcomes and limited risk variable data on both of the following:


(A) Greater than or equal to 50 percent of eligible procedures or greater than or equal to 50 eligible patients during the data collection period.


(B) Submission of requested THA/TKA PRO and limited risk variable data is completed within 60 days of the most recent performance period.


(3) For years 1 through 5 of the model an increasing amount of data is requested by CMS for each performance period as follows:


(i) Year 1 (2016). Submit pre-operative data on primary elective THA/TKA procedures for ≥50% or ≥50 eligible procedures performed between July 1, 2016 and August 31, 2016, unless CMS requests a more limited data set, in which case, submit all requested data elements.


(ii) Year 2 (2017). Submit—


(A) Post-operative data on primary elective THA/TKA procedures for ≥50% or ≥50 eligible procedures performed between July 1, 2016 through August 31, 2016; and


(B) Pre-operative data on primary elective THA/TKA procedures for ≥60% or ≥75 procedures performed between September 1, 2016 through June 30, 2017, unless CMS requests a more limited data set, in which case, submit all requested data elements.


(iii) Year 3 (2018). Submit—


(A) POST-operative data on primary elective THA/TKA procedures for ≥60% or ≥75 procedures performed between September 1, 2016 and June 30, 2017; and


(B) Pre-operative data on primary elective THA/TKA procedures for ≥70% or ≥100 procedures performed between July 1, 2017 and June 30, 2018, unless CMS requests a more limited data set, in which case, submit all requested data elements.


(iv) Year 4 (2019). Submit—


(A) Post-operative data on primary elective THA/TKA procedures for ≥70% or ≥100 procedures performed between July 1, 2017 and June 30, 2018; and


(B) Pre-operative data on primary elective THA/TKA procedures for ≥80% or ≥200 procedures performed between July 1, 2018 and June 30, 2019, unless CMS requests a more limited data set, in which case, submit all requested data elements.


(v) Year 5 (subset 5.1, January 1, 2020-December 31, 2020). Submit—


(A) Post-operative data on primary elective THA/TKA procedures for ≥80% or ≥200 procedures performed between July 1, 2018 and June 30, 2019 and


(B) Pre-operative data on primary elective THA/TKA procedures for ≥80% or ≥200 procedures performed between July 1, 2019 and June 30, 2020, unless CMS requests a more limited data set, in which case, submit all requested data elements.


(vi) Year 5 (subset 5.2, January 1, 2021-September 30, 2021). Submit—


(A) Post-operative data on primary elective THA/TKA procedures for ≥80% or ≥200 procedures performed between July 1, 2019 and June 30, 2020; and


(B) Pre-operative data on primary elective THA/TKA procedures for ≥80% or ≥200 procedures performed between July 1, 2020 and June 30, 2021, unless CMS requests a more limited data set, in which case, submit all requested data elements.


(4) For years 6 through 8 of the model the following data are requested by CMS for each performance period as follows:


(i) Year 6 (October 1, 2021 to December 31, 2022). Submit—


(A) Post-operative data on primary elective THA/TKA procedures for ≥80% or ≥200 procedures performed between July 1, 2019 and June 30, 2020; and


(B) Pre-operative data on primary elective THA/TKA procedures for ≥80% or ≥300 procedures performed between July 1, 2021 and June 30, 2022.


(ii) Year 7 (2023). Submit—


(A) Post-operative data on primary elective THA/TKA procedures for ≥80% or ≥300 procedures performed between July 1, 2021 and June 30, 2022; and


(B) Pre-operative data on primary elective THA/TKA procedures for ≥85% or ≥400 procedures performed between July 1, 2022 and June 30, 2023.


(iii) Year 8 (2024). Submit—


(A) Post-operative data on primary elective THA/TKA procedures for ≥85% or ≥400 procedures performed between July 1, 2022 and June 30, 2023; and


(B) Pre-operative data on primary elective THA/TKA procedures for ≥90% or ≥500 procedures performed between July 1, 2023 and June 30, 2024.


(c) *Public reporting.* CMS—


(1) Makes the quality measurement results calculated for the complication and patient survey quality measures described in paragraph (a) of this section for each participant hospital in each performance year publicly available on the CMS Web site in a form and manner as determined by CMS;


(2) Shares each participant hospital's quality metrics with the hospital prior to display on the Web site; and


(3) Does not publicly report the voluntary patient-reported outcomes and limited risk variable data during this model, but indicates whether a hospital has successfully submitted such data in accordance with § 510.400(b).



---

[N] [80 FR 73540, Nov. 24, 2015, as amended at 82 FR 615, Jan. 3, 2017; 85 FR 71201, Nov. 6, 2020; 86 FR 23574, May 3, 2021; 86 FR 36229, July 9, 2021]




