# ยง 280.2   Definitions used in this subpart.

In addition to the definitions provided in 15 U.S.C. 5402, the following definitions are applicable to this part: 


*Abandonment of the Application.* The application for registration of a trademark on the Principal Register is no longer pending at the United States Patent and Trademark Office. 


*Act.* The Fastener Quality Act (15 U.S.C. 5401 *et seq.,* as amended by Pub. L. 104-113, Pub. L. 105-234, and Public Law 106-34). 


*Administrative law judge (ALJ).* The person authorized to conduct hearings in administrative enforcement proceedings brought under the Act. 


*Assistant Secretary.* The Assistant Secretary for Export Enforcement, Bureau of Export Administration. 


*Department.* The United States Department of Commerce, specifically, the Bureau of Export Administration, NIST and the Patent and Trademark Office. 


*Director, NIST.* The Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology. 


*Director, USPTO.* The Under Secretary for Intellectual Property and Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office. 


*Fastener Insignia Register.* The register of recorded fastener insignias maintained by the Director. 


*Final decision.* A decision or order assessing a civil penalty or otherwise disposing of or dismissing a case, which is not subject to further review under this part, but which is subject to collection proceedings or judicial review in an appropriate Federal district court as authorized by law. 


*Initial decision.* A decision of the administrative law judge which is subject to review by the Under Secretary for Export Administration, but which becomes the final decision of the Department in the absence of such an appeal. 


*Party.* The Department and any person named as a respondent under this part. 


*Principal Register.* The register of trademarks established under 15 U.S.C. 1051. 


*Respondent.* Any person named as the subject of a charging letter, proposed charging letter, or other order proposed or issued under this part. 


*Revisions* includes changes made to existing ISO/IEC Guides or other documents, and redesignations of those Guides or documents.


*Under Secretary.* The Under Secretary for Export Administration, United States Department of Commerce. 



---

[N] [61 FR 50558, Sept. 26, 1996. Redesignated and amended at 65 FR 39801, June 28, 2000]




