# ยง 800.801   Obligation of parties or other persons to provide information.

(a) This paragraph (a) sets forth requirements for parties to a transaction or other persons to provide information to the Staff Chairperson or requesting lead agency in the circumstances specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section.


(1) Parties to a transaction that is notified or declared under subpart D or E of this part shall provide information to the Staff Chairperson that will enable the Committee to conduct a full assessment, review, and/or investigation of the transaction.


(2) For a transaction for which no voluntary notice or declaration has been submitted and for which the Staff Chairperson has requested information as provided for in ยง 800.501(b), parties to the transaction or other persons shall provide information to the Staff Chairperson that will enable the Committee to determine:


(i) Whether the transaction is a covered transaction;


(ii) Whether the transaction may raise national security considerations; or


(iii) As appropriate, whether the transaction is a transaction for which a submission is or was required under ยง 800.401.


(3) Independent of any obligations under an agreement, condition, or order authorized under section 721(*l*), parties shall provide information to the Staff Chairperson or the requesting lead agency so as to enable the Committee to assess compliance with section 721 and the regulations in this part or to monitor compliance with, enforce or modify the terms of, or decide to terminate any agreement entered into, condition imposed, or order issued.


(4) Any person that has submitted information to the Committee shall respond to requests from the Staff Chairperson for information to enable the Committee to determine whether the person made any material misstatement or omitted material information from any such submission.


(5) Parties to a transaction that have filed information with the Committee shall promptly advise the Staff Chairperson of any material changes to such information.


(6) If deemed appropriate by the Committee, the Staff Chairperson may obtain information from parties to a transaction or other persons through subpoena or otherwise, under the Defense Production Act, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4555(a)).




(b) Documentary materials or information required or requested to be filed with the Committee under this part shall be submitted in English. Supplementary materials, such as annual reports, written in a foreign language shall be submitted in certified English translation.


(c) Any information filed with the Committee in connection with any action for which a report is required under section 721(l)(6)(B) with respect to the implementation of a mitigation agreement or condition described in section 721(l)(3)(A) shall be accompanied by a certification that complies with the requirements of section 721(n) and ยง 800.204. A sample certification may be found at the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.



---

[N] [85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 93184, Nov. 26, 2024]




