# ยง 1.21   Definitions.

(a) The term *agency* means agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(e).


(b) The term *individual* means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.


(c) The term *maintain* includes maintain, collect, use, or disseminate.


(d) The term *record* means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by the Treasury or its components. This includes, but is not limited to, the individual's education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history and that contains the name, or an identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as a finger or voice print or a photograph.


(e) The term *system of records* means a group of any records under the control of the Treasury or any component from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual.


(f) The term *statistical record* means a record in a system of records maintained for statistical research or reporting purposes only and not used in whole or part in making any determination about an identifiable individual, except as provided by 13 U.S.C. 8.


(g) The term *routine use* means the disclosure of a record that is compatible with the purpose for which the record was collected.


(h) The term *component* means a Treasury bureau or office as set forth in ยง 1.20 and in the appendices to this subpart. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(a).)


(i) The term *request for access* means a request made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1).


(j) The term *request for amendment* means a request made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(2).


(k) The term *request for accounting* means a request made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3).


(l) The term *Privacy Act* means the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a).






