# § 165.559   Safety Zone, Schuylkill River; Philadelphia, PA

(a) *Location.* The following area is a safety zone: All waters of the Schuylkill River in Philadelphia, PA, inside a boundary described as originating from 39°54′50″ N., 075°12′12″ W.; then West to 39°54′50″ N., 075°12′15″ W.; then Northeast to 39°55′10″ N., 075°12′05″ W.; the East to 39°55′10″ N., 075°12′04″ W.; then back to 39°54′50″ N., 075°12′12″ W.


(b) *Enforcement period.* (1) This regulation is enforced during times when a barge having a beam (width) of up to 80 feet is moored at the Deloach dock of Philadelphia Energy Solutions near Point Breeze.


(2) Prior to commencing enforcement of this regulation, the COTP or designated on-scene patrol personnel will notify the public whenever the regulation is being enforced, to include dates and times. The means of notification may include, but are not limited to, Broadcast Notice to Mariners, Local Notice to Mariners, Marine Safety Information Bulletins, or other appropriate means.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) All persons are required to comply with the general regulations governing safety zones in 33 CFR 165.23.


(2) All persons and vessels transiting through the Safety Zone must be authorized by the Captain of the Port or his representative.


(3) All persons or vessels wishing to transit through the Safety Zone must request authorization to do so from the Captain of the Port or his representative 30 minutes prior to the intended time of transit.


(4) Vessels granted permission to transit must do so in accordance with the directions provided by the Captain of the Port or his representative to the vessel.


(5) To seek permission to transit the Safety Zone, the Captain of the Port or his representative can be contacted via Sector Delaware Bay Command Center (215) 271-4940.


(6) This section applies to all vessels wishing to transit through the Safety Zone except vessels that are engaged in the following operations:


(i) Enforcing laws;


(ii) Servicing aids to navigation; and


(iii) Emergency response vessels.


(7) No person or vessel may enter or remain in a safety zone without the permission of the Captain of the Port;


(8) Each person and vessel in a safety zone shall obey any direction or order of the Captain of the Port;


(9) No person may board, or take or place any article or thing on board, any vessel in a safety zone without the permission of the Captain of the Port; and


(10) No person may take or place any article or thing upon any waterfront facility in a safety zone without the permission of the Captain of the Port.


(d) *Definitions.* The Captain of the Port means the Commander of Sector Delaware Bay or any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer who has been authorized by the Captain of the Port to act on his behalf.


(e) *Enforcement.* The U.S. Coast Guard may be assisted in the patrol and enforcement of the Safety Zone by Federal, State, and local agencies.



---

[N] [USCG-2015-0094, 80 FR 52626, Sept. 1, 2015. Redesignated as § 165.559 by USCG-2020-0304,

85 FR 58281, Sept. 18, 2020]




