# § 155.227   Authorized representatives.

(a) *General rule.* (1) The Exchange must permit an applicant or enrollee in the individual or small group market, subject to applicable privacy and security requirements, to designate an individual person or organization to act on his or her behalf in applying for an eligibility determination or redetermination, under subpart D, G, or H of this part, and in carrying out other ongoing communications with the Exchange.


(2) Designation of an authorized representative must be in a written document signed by the applicant or enrollee, or through another legally binding format subject to applicable authentication and data security standards. If submitted, legal documentation of authority to act on behalf of an applicant or enrollee under State law, such as a court order establishing legal guardianship or a power of attorney, shall serve in the place of the applicant's or enrollee's signature.


(3) The Exchange must ensure that the authorized representative agrees to maintain, or be legally bound to maintain, the confidentiality of any information regarding the applicant or enrollee provided by the Exchange.


(4) The Exchange must ensure that the authorized representative is responsible for fulfilling all responsibilities encompassed within the scope of the authorized representation, as described in this section, to the same extent as the applicant or enrollee he or she represents.


(5) The Exchange must provide information both to the applicant or enrollee, and to the authorized representative, regarding the powers and duties of authorized representatives.


(b) *Timing of designation.* The Exchange must permit an applicant or enrollee to designate an authorized representative:


(1) At the time of application; and


(2) At other times and through methods as described in § 155.405(c)(2).


(c) *Duties.* (1) The Exchange must permit an applicant or enrollee to authorize his or her representative to:


(i) Sign an application on the applicant or enrollee's behalf;


(ii) Submit an update or respond to a redetermination for the applicant or enrollee in accordance with § 155.330 or § 155.335;


(iii) Receive copies of the applicant's or enrollee's notices and other communications from the Exchange; and


(iv) Act on behalf of the applicant or enrollee in all other matters with the Exchange.


(2) The Exchange may permit an applicant or enrollee to authorize a representative to perform fewer than all of the activities described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, provided that the Exchange tracks the specific permissions for each authorized representative.


(d) *Duration.* The Exchange must consider the designation of an authorized representative valid until:


(1) The applicant or enrollee notifies the Exchange that the representative is no longer authorized to act on his or her behalf using one of the methods available for the submission of an application, as described in § 155.405(c). The Exchange must notify the authorized representative of such change; or


(2) The authorized representative informs the Exchange and the applicant or enrollee that he or she no longer is acting in such capacity. An authorized representative must notify the Exchange and the applicant or enrollee on whose behalf he or she is acting when the authorized representative no longer has legal authority to act on behalf of the applicant or enrollee.


(e) *Compliance with State and Federal law.* The Exchange must require an authorized representative to comply with applicable state and federal laws concerning conflicts of interest and confidentiality of information.


(f) *Signature.* For purposes of this section, designation of an authorized representative must be through a written document signed by the applicant or enrollee, or through another legally binding format, as described in § 155.227(a)(2), and must be accepted through all of the modalities described in § 155.405(c).



---

[N] [78 FR 42313, July 15, 2013]




