# ยง 57.313   Loan cancellation for full-time employment as a registered nurse.

(a) *For loans made after November 18, 1971, and before September 29, 1979.* A person who: (1) Received one or more nursing student loans after November 18, 1971, and before September 29, 1979; (2) is in compliance with the requirements of title VIII of the Act and these regulations; and (3) engages in full-time employment as a registered nurse (including teaching in any of the fields of nurse training or service as an administrator, supervisor, or consultant in any of the fields of nursing) in any public or nonprofit private agency, institution, or organization (including neighborhood health centers) is entitled to have a portion of these nursing student loans canceled as follows: 15 percent of the total amount of the loans plus accrued interest on the loan which is unpaid on the first day of his or her service, for each of the first, second, and third year of service; and 20 percent of the total amount of the loan plus accrued interest on the loan for each complete fourth and fifth year of service thereafter, up to 85 percent of the total of the loans, plus accrued interest.


(b) *Continuation of provisions for cancellation of loans made prior to November 18, 1971.* A person who received one or more nursing student loans prior to November 18, 1971, may still receive cancellation of these loans for service under section 836(h) of the Act. The regulations set forth in 42 CFR 57.316 (a) and (b)(6) (1976), as adopted on February 4, 1974, remain applicable to cancellation on this basis. The provisions can be found at 39 FR 16473 (May 9, 1974) and a copy can be obtained by writing to the Division of Student Assistance, Bureau of Health Professions, Room 8-34, Parklawn Building, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857.


(c) The determination of whether a person is entitled to have any portion of his or her nursing student loan canceled for full-time employment as a registered nurse will be made by the institution to whose fund his or her loan is payable, upon receipt and evaluation of an application for cancellation from that person.



---

[N] [50 FR 34434, Aug. 23, 1985, as amended at 56 FR 13772, Apr. 4, 1991; 57 FR 45735, Oct. 5, 1992; 61 FR 6123, Feb. 16, 1996]




