# § 184.1742   Sodium carbonate.

(a) Sodium carbonate (Na_2_CO_3_, CAS Reg. No. 497-19-8) is produced (1) from purified trona ore that has been calcined to soda ash; (2) from trona ore calcined to impure soda ash and then purified; or (3) synthesized from limestone by the Solvay process.


(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), p. 280, which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) In accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) as a direct human food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:


(1) The ingredient is used in food as an antioxidant as defined in § 170.3(o)(3) of this chapter; curing and pickling agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(5) of this chapter; flavoring agent and adjuvant as defined in § 170.3(o)(12) of this chapter; pH control agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(23) of this chapter; and processing aid as defined in § 170.3(o)(24) of this chapter.


(2) The ingredient is used in food at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice.


(d) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.



---

[N] [48 FR 52442, Nov. 18, 1983, as amended at 50 FR 49536, Dec. 3, 1985]




