# § 63.2366   What are my monitoring installation, operation, and maintenance requirements?

(a) You must install, operate, and maintain a continuous monitoring system (CMS) on each control device required in order to comply with this subpart. If you use a continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) (as defined in § 63.981), you must comply with § 63.2346(l) and the applicable requirements for CPMS in subpart SS of this part and § 63.671, for the control device being used. If you use a CEMS, you must install, operate, and maintain the CEMS according to the requirements in § 63.8 and paragraph (d) of this section, except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) For nonflare control devices controlling storage tanks and low throughput transfer racks, you must submit a monitoring plan according to the requirements in subpart SS of this part, for monitoring plans. You must also comply with the requirements specified in § 63.2346(l).


(c) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), you must keep the written procedures required by § 63.8(d)(2) on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan is revised, you must keep previous (*i.e.,* superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. The program of corrective action should be included in the plan required under § 63.8(d)(2). In addition to the information required in § 63.8(d)(2), your written procedures for CEMS must include the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section:


(1) Description of CEMS installation location.


(2) Description of the monitoring equipment, including the manufacturer and model number for all monitoring equipment components and the span of the analyzer.


(3) Routine quality control and assurance procedures.


(4) Conditions that would trigger a CEMS performance evaluation, which must include, at a minimum, a newly installed CEMS; a process change that is expected to affect the performance of the CEMS; and the Administrator's request for a performance evaluation under section 114 of the Clean Air Act.


(5) Ongoing operation and maintenance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(c)(1) and (3), (c)(4)(ii), and (c)(7) and (8);


(6) Ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.10(c) and (e)(1).


(d) For each CEMS, you must locate the sampling probe or other interface at a measurement location such that you obtain representative measurements of emissions from the regulated source and comply with the applicable requirements specified in § 63.2354(d).



---

[N] [85 FR 40765, July 7, 2020]




