# § 1.6050Y-2   Information reporting by acquirers for reportable policy sale payments.

(a) *Requirement of reporting.* Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, every person that is an acquirer in a reportable policy sale during any calendar year must file a separate information return with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in the form and manner as required by the IRS for each reportable policy sale payment recipient, including any seller that is a reportable policy sale payment recipient. Each return must include the following information with respect to the seller or other reportable policy sale payment recipient to which the return relates:


(1) The name, address, and taxpayer identification number (TIN) of the acquirer;


(2) The name, address, and TIN of the seller or other reportable policy sale payment recipient to which the return relates;


(3) The date of the reportable policy sale;


(4) The name of the 6050Y(a) issuer of the life insurance contract acquired and the policy number of the life insurance contract;


(5) The aggregate amount of reportable policy sale payments made, or to be made, to the seller or other reportable policy sale payment recipient to which the return relates with respect to the reportable policy sale; and


(6) Any other information that is required by the form or its instructions.


(b) *Unified reporting.* The information reporting requirement of paragraph (a) of this section applies to each acquirer in a series of prearranged transfers of an interest in a life insurance contract, as well as each acquirer in a simultaneous transfer of different interests in a single life insurance contract. In either case, an acquirer's reporting obligation is deemed satisfied if the information required by paragraph (a) of this section with respect to that acquirer is timely reported on behalf of that acquirer in a manner that is consistent with forms, instructions, and other IRS guidance by one or more other acquirers or by a third party information reporting contractor.


(c) *Time and place for filing.* Returns required to be made under paragraph (a) of this section must be filed with the Internal Revenue Service Center designated on the prescribed form or in its instructions on or before February 28 (March 31 if filed electronically) of the year following the calendar year in which the reportable policy sale occurred. However, see § 1.6050Y-1(b)(5) for transition rules.


(d) *Requirement of and time for furnishing statements*—(1) *Statements to reportable policy sale payment recipients*—(i) *Requirement of furnishing statement.* Every person required to file an information return under paragraph (a) of this section with respect to a reportable policy sale payment recipient must furnish in the form and manner prescribed by the IRS to the reportable policy sale payment recipient whose name is set forth in that return a written statement showing the information required by paragraph (a) of this section with respect to the reportable policy sale payment recipient and the name, address, and phone number of the information contact of the person furnishing the written statement. The contact information of the person furnishing the written statement must provide direct access to a person that can answer questions about the statement. The statement is not required to include information with respect to any other reportable policy sale payment recipient in the reportable policy sale or information about reportable policy sale payments to any other reportable policy sale payment recipient.


(ii) *Time for furnishing statement.* Each statement required by paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section to be furnished to any reportable policy sale payment recipient must be furnished on or before February 15 of the year following the calendar year in which the reportable policy sale occurred. However, see § 1.6050Y-1(b)(2) for transition rules.


(2) *Statements to 6050Y(a) issuers*—(i) *Requirement of furnishing RPSS*—(A) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(i)(B) of this section, every person required to file a return under paragraph (a) of this section must furnish in the form and manner prescribed by the IRS to the 6050Y(a) issuer whose name is required to be set forth in the return an RPSS with respect to each reportable policy sale payment recipient that is also a seller. Each RPSS must show the information required by paragraph (a) of this section with respect to the seller named therein, except that the RPSS is not required to set forth the amount of any reportable policy sale payment. Each RPSS must also show the name, address, and phone number of the information contact of the person furnishing the RPSS. This contact information must provide direct access to a person that can answer questions about the RPSS.


(B) *Exception from reporting.* An RPSS is not required to be furnished to the 6050Y(a) issuer by an acquirer acquiring an interest in a life insurance contract in an indirect acquisition.


(ii) *Time for furnishing RPSS.* Except as provided in this paragraph (d)(2)(ii), each RPSS required by paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section to be furnished to a 6050Y(a) issuer must be furnished by the later of 20 calendar days after the reportable policy sale, or 5 calendar days after the end of the applicable state law rescission period. However, if the later date is after January 15 of the year following the calendar year in which the reportable policy sale occurred, the RPSS must be furnished by January 15 of the year following the calendar year in which the reportable policy sale occurred. However, see § 1.6050Y-1(b)(1) for transition rules.


(3) *Unified reporting.* The information reporting requirements of paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (d)(2)(i) of this section apply to each acquirer in a series of prearranged transfers of an interest in a life insurance contract, as well as each acquirer in a simultaneous transfer of different interests in a single life insurance contract, as described in paragraph (b) of this section. In either case, an acquirer's obligation to furnish statements is deemed satisfied if the information required by paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (d)(2)(i) of this section with respect to that acquirer is timely reported on behalf of that acquirer consistent with forms, instructions, and other IRS guidance by one or more other acquirers or by a third party information reporting contractor.


(e) *Notice of rescission of a reportable policy sale.* Any person that has filed a return required by section 6050Y(a)(1) and this section with respect to a reportable policy sale must file a corrected return within 15 calendar days of the receipt of notice of the rescission of the reportable policy sale. Any person that has furnished a written statement under section 6050Y(a)(2) and this section with respect to the reportable policy sale must furnish the recipient of that statement with a corrected statement within 15 calendar days of the receipt of notice of the rescission of the reportable policy sale.


(f) *Exceptions to requirement to file*—(1) An acquirer that is a foreign person is not required to file an information return under paragraph (a) of this section with respect to a reportable policy sale unless—


(i) The life insurance contract (or interest therein) transferred in the sale is on the life of an insured who is a United States person at the time of the sale; or


(ii) The sale is subject to the laws of one or more States of the United States that pertain to acquisitions or sales of life insurance contracts (or interests therein).


(2) An acquirer is not required to file an information return under paragraph (a) of this section with respect to a reportable policy sale payment to a reportable policy sale payment recipient other than the seller if the reportable policy sale payment is reported by the acquirer under section 6041 or 6041A.


(3) An acquirer is not required to file an information return under paragraph (a) of this section with respect to the issuance of a life insurance contract in an exchange pursuant to section 1035. However, the acquirer is required to furnish the 6050Y(a) issuer with the statement required under paragraph (d)(2) of this section as if the acquirer were required to file an information return under paragraph (a) of this section.


(g) *Cross-reference to penalty provisions*—(1) *Failure to file correct information return.* For provisions relating to the penalty provided for failure to file timely a correct information return required under section 6050Y(a)(1) and this section, see section 6721 and § 301.6721-1 of this chapter. See section 6724(a) and § 301.6724-1 of this chapter for the waiver of a penalty if the failure is due to reasonable cause and is not due to willful neglect.


(2) *Failure to furnish correct statement.* For provisions relating to the penalty provided for failure to furnish timely a correct statement to identified persons under section 6050Y(a)(2) and this section, see section 6722 and § 301.6722-1 of this chapter. See section 6724(a) and § 301.6724-1 of this chapter for the waiver of a penalty if the failure is due to reasonable cause and is not due to willful neglect.



---

[N] [T.D. 9879, 84 FR 58486, Oct. 31, 2019]








