# § 145.170   Canned peaches.

(a) *Identity*—(1) *Ingredients.* Canned peaches is the food prepared from one of the fresh, frozen, or previously canned optional peach ingredients *Prunus persica* L., of commercial canning varieties, but excluding nectarine varieties, specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, which may be packed as a solid pack or in one of the optional packing media specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. Such food may also contain one, or any combination of two or more, of the following safe and suitable optional ingredients:


(i) Natural and artificial flavors.


(ii) Spice.


(iii) Vinegar, lemon juice, or organic acids.


(iv) Peach pits, except in the cases of peeled whole peaches, in a quantity not more than 1 peach pit to each 227 grams (8 ounces) of finished canned peaches.


(v) Peach kernels, except in the cases of peeled whole peaches and except when the optional ingredient in paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section is used.


(vi) Ascorbic acid in an amount no greater than necessary to preserve color. Such food is sealed in a container and before or after sealing is so processed by heat as to prevent spoilage.


(2) *Varietal types and styles.* The optional peach ingredients referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are prepared from mature peaches of the following optional varietal and color types and styles of peach ingredients; namely:


(i) *The optional varietal types.* (*a*) Freestone is the distinct varietal type where the pit separates readily from the flesh.


(*b*) Clingstone is the distinct varietal type where the pit adheres to the flesh.


(ii) *The optional color types*—(*a*) *Yellow*—the varietal types in which the predominant color ranges from pale yellow to rich red orange.


(*b*) *White*—the varietal types in which the predominant color ranges from white to yellow-white.


(*c*) *Red*—the varietal types in which the predominant color ranges from pale yellow to orange red and with variegated red coloring other than that associated with the pit cavity.


(*d*) *Green*—varietal types in which the flesh has a green tint even when mature.


(iii) *The optional styles of the peach ingredients—(a*) *Whole*—consisting of whole peeled unpitted peaches.


(*b*) *Halves*—consisting of peeled pitted peaches cut into two approximately equal parts.


(*c*) *Halves and pieces*—consisting of a mixture in which the peeled pitted peach halves are more than 50 percent by weight.


(*d*) *Quarters*—consisting of peeled pitted peaches cut into four approximately equal parts.


(*e*) *Slices*—consisting of peeled pitted peaches cut into wedge-shaped sectors.


(*f*) *Dice*—consisting of peeled pitted peaches cut into cube-like parts.


(*g*) *Chunky*—consisting of peeled pitted peaches cut into parts 13 millimeters (0.5 inch) or greater in the smallest dimension and 44 millimeters (1.75 inches) or less in the largest dimension.


(*h*) *Pieces or irregular pieces*—consisting of peeled pitted peaches cut into parts of irregular shapes and sizes.


(3) *Packing media.* (i) The optional packing media referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, as defined in § 145.3 are:


(*a*) Water.


(*b*) Fruit juice(s) and water.


(*c*) Fruit juice(s).


(ii) When a sweetener is added as a part of any such liquid packing medium, the density range of the resulting packing medium, expressed as percent by weight of sucrose (degrees Brix) as determined by the procedure prescribed in § 145.3(m), shall be designated by the appropriate name for the respective density ranges, namely:


(*a*) When the density of the solution is 10 percent or more but less than 14 percent, the medium shall be designated as “slightly sweetened water”; or “extra light sirup”; “slightly sweetened fruit juice(s) and water”; or “slightly sweetened fruit juice(s)”, as the case may be.


(*b*) When the density of the solution is 14 percent or more but less than 18 percent, the medium shall be designated as “light sirup”; “lightly sweetened fruit juice(s) and water”; or “lightly sweetened fruit juice(s)”, as the case may be.


(*c*) When the density of the solution is 18 percent or more but less than 22 percent, the medium shall be designated as “heavy sirup”; “heavily sweetened fruit juice(s) and water”; or “heavily sweetened fruit juice(s)”, as the case may be.


(*d*) When the density of the solution is 22 percent or more but not more than 35 percent, the medium shall be designated as “extra heavy sirup”; “extra heavily sweetened fruit juice(s) and water”; or “extra heavily sweetened fruit juice(s)” as the case may be.


(4) *Labeling requirements.* (i) The name of the food is “peaches”. The optional varietal type as set forth in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section shall be a part of the name. The name of the food shall also include a declaration of any flavoring that characterizes the product as specified in § 101.22 of this chapter and a declaration of any spice or seasoning that characterizes the product; for example, “Spice added”, or in lieu of the word “Spice”, the common name of the spice, “Seasoned with vinegar” or “Seasoned with peach kernels”. When two or more of the optional ingredients specified in paragraphs (a)(1) (ii) through (v) of this section are used, such words may be combined as for example, “Seasoned with cider vinegar, cloves, cinnamon oil and peach kernels”. 


(ii) The color type and style of the peach ingredient as provided for in paragraphs (a)(2) (ii) and (iii) of this section and the name of the packing medium specified in paragraphs (a)(3) (i) and (ii) of this section, preceded by “In” or “Packed in” or the words “Solid pack”, where applicable, shall be included as part of the name or in close proximity to the name of the food, except that “Halves” may be alternately designated as “Halved”, “Halves and pieces” as “Halved and pieces”, “Quarters” as “Quartered”, “Slices” as “Sliced”, and “Dice” as “Diced”. Pieces or irregular pieces shall be designated “Pieces”, “Irregular pieces”, or “Mixed pieces of irregular sizes and shapes”. “Chunky” may be designated as “Chunks”. The terms “Cling” and “Free” may be used as optional designations for “Clingstone” and “Freestone”, respectively. When the packing medium is prepared with a sweetener(s) which imparts a taste, flavor, or other characteristic to the finished food in addition to sweetness, the name of the packing medium shall be accompanied by the name of such sweetener(s); as for example in the case of a mixture of brown sugar and honey, an appropriate statement would be “______ sirup of brown sugar and honey” the blank to be filled in with the word “light”, “heavy”, or “extra heavy” as the case may be. When the liquid portion of the packing media provided for in paragraphs (a)(3) (i) and (ii) of this section consists of fruit juices(s), such juice(s) shall be designated in the name of the packing medium as:


(*a*) In the case of a single fruit juice, the name of the juice shall be used in lieu of the word “fruit”;


(*b*) In the case of a combination of two or more fruit juices, the names of the juices in the order of predominance by weight shall either be used in lieu of the word “fruit” in the name of the packing medium, or be declared on the label as specified in paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section; and


(*c*) In the case of a single fruit juice or a combination of two or more fruit juices any of which are made from concentrate(s), the words “from concentrate(s)” shall follow the word “juices(s)” in the name of the packing medium and in the name(s) of such juice(s) when declared as specified in paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section.


(iii) Whenever the names of the fruit juices used do not appear in the name of the packing medium as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(ii)(*b*) of this section, such names and the words “from concentrate”, as specified in paragraph (a)(4)(ii)(*c*) of this section, shall appear in an ingredient statement pursuant to the requirements of § 101.3(d) of this chapter.


(iv) *Label declaration.* Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter.


(b) *Quality.* (1) The standard of quality for canned peaches is as follows:


(i) *Maturity.* All units tested in accordance with the method prescribed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section are pierced by weight of not more than 300 grams (10.6 ounces).


(ii) *Minimum size.* In the case of halves and quarters styles, the weight of each unit is not less than 17 grams (0.6 ounce) and 8.5 grams (0.3 ounce), respectively.


(iii) *Uniformity of size*—(*a*) *Whole, halves, and quarters.* In the case of whole, halves, and quarters styles, the diameter (width) of the largest unit is not more than 1.5 centimeters (0.6 inch) greater than the diameter (width) of the smallest unit. In containers with more than 20 units, 2 units may be disregarded in making the determination. Where a unit has broken in the container, the combined broken pieces are to be reassembled to approximate a single unit of the appropriate style.


(*b*) *Chunky.* In the case of chunky style, not more than 25 percent of the drained weight of the contents of the container consists of units that will pass through an opening 13 millimeters (0.5 inch) wide or that are more than 44 millimeters (1.75 inches) along the longest cut edge.


(iv) *Peel.* Not more than 15 square centimeters aggregate area of peel per 1,000 grams (1.05 square inches per 16 ounces) of net weight. Include any peel adhering to the peach or loose in the container.


(v) *Blemished units.* Not more than 20 percent by count of the units in the container are blemished, e.g., with scab, hail injury, discoloration, or other abnormalities. Blemished units are units which contain surface discolorations that definitely contrast with the overall color and may penetrate into the flesh.


(vi) *Trimmed units.* In the case of whole, halves, quarters, and slices styles, all units are untrimmed or are so trimmed as to preserve normal shape of the units.


(vii) *Crushed or broken units.* In the case of whole, halves, halves and pieces, quarters, slices, dice and chunky styles, not more than 5 percent by count of the units in containers of 20 or more units and not more than 1 unit in containers of fewer than 20 units are crushed or broken. A unit that has lost its normal shape because of ripeness and bears no mark of crushing shall not be considered crushed or broken.


(viii) *Pits and pieces of pit.* In the case of all styles, except whole peaches and when whole peach pits or peach kernels are used as seasoning ingredients, there is not more than one loose pit or one loose large hard piece of pit (10 millimeters (
3/8 inch) or larger) or one unit of peach (e.g., peach half or peach slice) to which one or more large hard pieces of pit are attached per 5.67 kilograms (200 ounces) net weight. In addition, there is not more than three of any one or any combination of two or more, per 2.83 kilograms (100 ounces) net weight of the following: (*a*) A unit to which one or more small hard pieces of pit less than 10 millimeters (
3/8 inch) but not less than 1.6 millimeters (
1/16 inch) are attached, (*b*) a unit to which three or more small pieces of pit less than 1.6 millimeters (
1/16 inch) are attached, or (*c*) a loose small hard piece of pit less than 10 millimeters (
3/8 inch).


(2) Canned peaches shall be tested by the following method to determine whether or not they meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section: So trim a test piece from the unit as to fit, with peel surface up, into a supporting receptacle. If the unit is of different firmness in different parts of its peel surface, trim the piece from the firmest part. If the piece is unpeeled, remove the peel. The top of the receptacle is circular in shape, of 29 millimeters (1.125 inches) inside diameter, with vertical sides; or rectangular in shape, 19 millimeters (0.75 inch) by 25 millimeters (1 inch) inside measurements, with ends vertical and sides sloping downward and joining at the center at a vertical depth of 19 millimeters (0.75 inch). Use the circular receptacle for testing units of such size that a test piece can be trimmed therefrom to fit it. Use the rectangular receptacle for testing other units. Test no unit from which a test piece with a rectangular peel surface at least 13 millimeters (0.51 inch) by 25 millimeters (1 inch) cannot be trimmed. Test the piece by means of a round metal rod 4 millimeters (0.16 inch) in diameter. To the upper end of the rod is affixed a device to which weight can be added. The rod is held vertically by a support through which it can freely move upward or downward. The lower end of the rod is a plane surface to which the vertical axis of the rod is perpendicular. Adjust the combined weight of the rod and device to 100 grams (3.53 ounces). Set the receptacle so that the surface of test piece is held horizontally. Lower the end of the rod to the approximate center of such surface, and add weight to the device at a uniform, continuous rate of 12 grams (0.45 ounce) per second until the rod pierces the test piece. Weigh the rod and weighted device. Test all units in containers of 50 units or less, except those units too small for testing or too soft for trimming. Test at least 50 units, taken at random, in containers of more than 50 units; but if less than 50 units are of sufficient size and firmness for testing, test those which are of sufficient size and firmness.


(3) Determine compliance as specified in § 145.3(o) except that a lot shall be deemed to be in compliance for peel, pits, and pieces of pit based on the average of all samples analyzed according to the sampling plans set out in § 145.3(p).


(4) If the quality of canned peaches falls below the standard prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the label shall bear the general statement of substandard quality defined in § 130.14(a) of this chapter, in the manner and form therein specified; however, if the quality of the canned peaches falls below standard with respect to only one of the factors of quality specified in paragraph (b)(1) (i) through (viii) of this section, there may be substituted for the second line of such general statement of substandard quality (“Good Food—Not High Grade”) a new line, as specified after the corresponding designation of paragraph (b)(1) of this section which the canned peaches fail to meet, as follows: (i) “Not tender”; (ii) “Small halves” or “Small quarters” as the case may be; (iii) (*a*) “Mixed sizes”; (*b*) “Undersized and/or oversized pieces”, (iv) “Excess peel”; (v) “Blemished”; (vi) “Unevenly trimmed”; (vii) “Partly crushed or broken”; (viii) “Contains pits or pit fragments”. Such alternative statement shall immediately and conspicuously precede or follow, without intervening written, printed, or graphic matter, the name “peaches” and any words and statements required or authorized to appear with such name by paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(c) *Fill of container.* (1) The standard of fill of container for canned peaches is the maximum quantity of the optional peach ingredient that can be sealed in the container and processed by heat to prevent spoilage, without crushing or breaking such ingredient.


(2) If canned peaches fall below the standard of fill of container prescribed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the label shall bear the general statement of substandard fill specified in § 130.14(b) of this chapter, in the manner and form therein specified.



---

[N] [42 FR 14414, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 33028, June 26, 1981; 50 FR 34677, Aug. 27, 1985; 51 FR 11434, Apr. 3, 1986; 58 FR 2880, Jan. 6, 1993]




