# § 1090.1210   Recordkeeping requirements for gasoline manufacturers.

(a) *Overview.* In addition to the requirements in § 1090.1205, a gasoline manufacturer must keep records for each of their facilities that include the information in this section.


(b) *Batch records.* For each batch of gasoline, a gasoline manufacturer must keep records of the following information:


(1) The results of tests, including any calculations necessary to transcribe or correlate test results into reported values under subpart J of this part, performed to determine gasoline properties and characteristics as specified in subpart N of this part.


(2) The batch volume.


(3) The batch number.


(4) The date the batch was produced or imported.


(5) The designation of the batch under § 1090.1010.


(6) The PTDs for any gasoline produced or imported.


(7) The PTDs for any gasoline received.


(c) *Downstream oxygenate accounting.* For BOB for which the gasoline manufacturer has accounted for oxygenate added downstream under § 1090.710, a gasoline manufacturer must keep records of the following information:


(1) The test results for hand blends prepared under § 1090.1340.


(2) Records that demonstrate that the gasoline manufacturer participates in the NFSP under § 1090.1405.


(3) Records that demonstrate that the gasoline manufacturer participates in the NSTOP under § 1090.1450.


(4) Compliance calculations specified in § 1090.700 based on an assumed addition of oxygenate.


(d) *PCG and TGP.* For new batches of gasoline produced by adding blendstock to PCG or TGP, a gasoline manufacturer must keep records of the following information:


(1) Records that reflect the storage and movement of the PCG or TGP and blendstock within the fuel manufacturing facility to the point such PCG or TGP is used to produce gasoline or BOB.


(2) For new batches of gasoline produced by adding blendstock to PCG or TGP under § 1090.1320(a)(1) or § 1090.1325, respectively, keep records of the following additional information:


(i) The results of tests to determine the sulfur content, benzene content, oxygenate(s) content, and in the summer, RVP, for the PCG or TGP and volume of the PCG or TGP when received at the fuel manufacturing facility.


(ii) Records demonstrating which specific batches of PCG or TGP were used in each new batch of gasoline.


(iii) Records demonstrating which blendstocks were used in each new batch of gasoline.


(iv) Records of the test results for sulfur content, benzene content, oxygenate(s) content, distillation parameters, and in the summer, RVP, for each new batch of gasoline.


(3) For new batches of gasoline produced by adding blendstock to PCG or TGP under § 1090.1320(a)(2), keep records of the following additional information:


(i) Records of the test results for sulfur content, benzene content, oxygenate(s) content, and in the summer, RVP, of each blendstock used to produce the new batch of gasoline.


(ii) Records of the test results for sulfur content and in the summer, RVP, of each new batch of gasoline.


(iii) Records demonstrating which blendstocks were used in each new batch of gasoline.


(e) *Certified butane and certified pentane blenders.* For certified butane or certified pentane blended into gasoline or BOB under § 1090.1320, a certified butane or certified pentane blender must keep records of the following information:


(1) The volume of certified butane or certified pentane added.


(2) The purity and properties of the certified butane or certified pentane specified in § 1090.250 or § 1090.255, respectively.


(f) *Importation of gasoline treated as blendstock.* For any imported GTAB, an importer must keep records of documents that reflect the storage and physical movement of the GTAB from the point of importation to the point of blending to produce gasoline or the point at which the GTAB was certified as gasoline.


(g) *ABT.* A gasoline manufacturer must keep records of the following information related to their ABT activities under subpart H of this part, as applicable:


(1) Compliance sulfur values and compliance benzene values under § 1090.700, and the calculations used to determine those values.


(2) The number of valid credits in possession of the gasoline manufacturer at the beginning of each compliance period, separately by facility and compliance period of generation.


(3) The number of credits generated by the gasoline manufacturer under § 1090.725, separately by facility and compliance period of generation.


(4) If any credits were obtained from or transferred to other parties, all the following for each other party:


(i) The party's name.


(ii) The party's EPA company registration numbers.


(iii) The number of credits obtained from or transferred to the party.


(5) The number of credits that expired at the end of each compliance period, separately by facility and compliance period of generation.


(6) The number of credits that will be carried over into the next compliance period, separately by facility and compliance period of generation.


(7) The number of credits used, separately by facility and compliance period of generation.


(8) Contracts or other commercial documents that establish each transfer of credits from the transferor to the transferee.


(9) Documentation that supports the number of credits transferred between facilities within the same company (*i.e.,* intracompany transfers).




