# ยง 1312.6   Advance notice required.

(a) *Notice requirement.* Unless otherwise specifically authorized by the Board, tariffs must be filed with the Board on not less than the notice shown in paragraph (b) of this section. Notice means the number of days the publication is on file with the Board prior to its effective date(s). The date the publication is received by the Board counts as the first day of notice.


(b) *Length of notice.* A tariff may not become effective earlier than:


(1) Thirty days after filing for all collectively established tariff matter.


(2) Seven workdays after filing for independently established increased tariff matter.


(3) Upon filing for independently established new tariff matter, independently established reduced tariff matter, the addition or restoration of a carrier's participation in a tariff, a correction to the list of participating carriers in a tariff (other than the cancellation of a carrier's participation), an extension of the expiration date of tariff matter, or a postponement of the effective date of proposed tariff matter.


(c) *Receipt of tariffs by the Board.* The Board will receive tariff filings between the hours of 8:30 A.M. and 5:00 P.M. Eastern Time on workdays. Tariff filings delivered to the Board on other than a workday, or after 5:00 P.M. on a workday, will be considered as received the next workday.


(d) *Definitions.* For the purposes of this section:


*Increased* means any tariff change that results in higher charges to the payer of freight charges or reduced service at the same rate;


*New* means an initial rate or other provision for a new service;


*Reduced* means any tariff change that results in lower charges to the payer of freight charges or expanded service at the same rate; and


*Workdays* means all days except Saturdays, Sundays and all Federal holidays observed in the District of Columbia.


(e) *Notice for purposes of electronically filed tariffs.* A water carrier that keeps its tariffs on the internet must comply with the notice requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, provided however, that the relevant notice periods set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section shall run from the date on which the tariff matter first appears in the water carrier's tariff on the internet.



---

[N] [62 FR 19058, Apr. 18, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 5195, Feb. 3, 1999; 84 FR 20295, May 9, 2019]




