# § 60.5380b   What GHG and VOC standards apply to centrifugal compressor affected facilities?

Each centrifugal compressor affected facility must comply with the GHG and VOC standards in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.


(a) Each centrifugal compressor affected facility that uses wet seals must comply with the GHG and VOC standards in paragraphs (a)(1), (2), or (3) of this section. Each self-contained wet seal compressor, and each centrifugal compressor on the Alaska North Slope equipped with sour seal oil separator and capture system, must comply with the GHG and VOC standards in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, or one of the alternatives in (a)(3) through (5) of this section, as applicable, and (a)(8) of this section. Each centrifugal compressor affected facility that uses dry seals must comply with paragraphs (a)(6) through (8) of this section, or with of the alternatives in paragraph (a)(9) of this section.


(1) You must reduce methane and VOC emissions from each centrifugal compressor wet seal fluid degassing system by 95.0 percent.


(2) If you use a control device to reduce emissions, you must equip the wet seal fluid degassing system with a cover that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(b). The cover must be connected through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(a) and (c) and the closed vent system must be routed to a control device that meets the conditions specified in § 60.5412b.


(3) As an alternative to routing the closed vent system to a control device, you may route the closed vent system to a process. If you route the emissions to a process, you must equip the wet seal fluid degassing system with a cover that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(b). The cover must be connected through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(a) and (c).


(4) If you own or operate a self-contained wet seal centrifugal compressor you may comply with the GHG and VOC requirements as specified in paragraph (a)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section, using volumetric flow rate as a surrogate, in lieu of meeting the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. You must determine the volumetric flow rate in accordance with paragraph (a)(7)(i) of this section.


(i) The volumetric flow rate must not exceed 3 standard cubic feet per minute (scfm) per seal. If the individual seals are manifolded to a single open-ended vent line, the volumetric flow rate must not exceed the sum of the individual seals multiplied by 3 scfm. If the volumetric flow rate, measured in accordance with paragraph (a)(7)(i) of this section exceeds 3 scfm multiplied by the number of wet seals connected to the vent, the seals connected to the measured vent must be repaired as provided in paragraph (a)(8) of this section.


(ii) You must conduct your first volumetric flow rate measurement from your self-contained wet seal compressor on or before 8,760 hours of operation after May 7, 2024 or on or before 8,760 hours of operation after startup, whichever date is later.


(iii) You must conduct subsequent volumetric flow rate measurements from your self-contained wet seal centrifugal compressor on or before 8,760 hours of operation after the previous measurement which demonstrates compliance with the 3 scfm volumetric flow rate per seal. If the individual seals are manifolded to a single open-ended vent line, the volumetric flow rate must not exceed the sum of the individual seals multiplied by 3 scfm.


(5) If you own or operate a centrifugal compressor on the Alaska North Slope equipped with seal oil separator and capture system, you may comply with the GHG and VOC requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section using volumetric flow rate as a surrogate, in lieu of meeting the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2). You must determine the volumetric flow rate in accordance with paragraph (a)(7)(ii) of this section.


(i) The volumetric flow rate per seal must not exceed 9 scfm per seal. If the individual seals are manifolded to a single open-ended vent line, the volumetric flow rate must not exceed the sum of the individual seals multiplied by 9 scfm. If the volumetric flow rate, measured in accordance with paragraph (a)(7)(ii) of this section exceeds 9 scfm multiplied by the number of wet seals connected to the vent, the seals connected to the measured vent must be repaired as provided in paragraph (a)(8) of this section.


(ii) You must conduct your first volumetric flow rate measurement from your Alaska North Slope centrifugal compressor equipped with a sour seal oil separator and capture system on or before 8,760 hours of operation after May 7, 2024 or on or before 8,760 hours of operation after startup, whichever date is later.


(iii) You must conduct subsequent volumetric flow rate measurements from your Alaska North Slope centrifugal compressor equipped with sour seal separator and capture system on or before 8,760 hours of operation after the previous measurement which demonstrates compliance with the 9 scfm volumetric flow rate per seal. If the individual seals are manifolded to a single open-ended vent line, the volumetric flow rate must not exceed the sum of the individual seals multiplied by 9 scfm.


(6) If you own or operate a centrifugal compressor equipped with dry seals, you must comply with the GHG and VOC requirements as specified in paragraphs (a)(6)(i) through (iii), using volumetric flow rate as a surrogate. You must determine the volumetric flow rate in accordance with paragraph (a)(7)(iii) of this section.


(i) The volumetric flow rate per seal must not exceed 10 standard cubic feet per minute (scfm) per seal. If the individual seals are manifolded to a single open-ended vent line, the volumetric flow rate must not exceed the sum of the individual seals multiplied by 10 scfm. If the volumetric flow rate, measured in accordance with paragraph (a)(7)(iii) of this section exceeds 10 scfm multiplied by the number of dry seals connected to the vent, the seals connected to the measured vent must be repaired as provided in paragraph (a)(8) of this section.


(ii) You must conduct your first volumetric flow rate measurement from your centrifugal compressor equipped with a dry seal on or before 8,760 hours of operation after May 7, 2024 or on or before 8,760 hours of operation after startup, whichever date is later.


(iii) You must conduct subsequent volumetric flow rate measurements from your centrifugal compressor equipped with dry seals on or before 8,760 hours of operation after the previous measurement which demonstrates compliance with the 10 scfm volumetric flow rate per seal. If the individual seals are manifolded to a single open-ended vent line, the volumetric flow rate must not exceed the sum of the individual seals multiplied by 10 scfm.


(7) You must determine the volumetric flow rate for your centrifugal compressor, as specified in paragraphs (a)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) You must determine the volumetric flow rate from your self-contained wet seal centrifugal compressor wet seal as specified in paragraph (a)(7)(i)(A) or (B) of this section. If the volumetric flow rate exceeds 3 scfm multiplied by the number of wet seals connected to the vent, the wet seals connected to the measured vent must be repaired as provided in paragraph (a)(8) of this section.


(A) For self-contained wet seal centrifugal compressors in operating-mode or in standby-pressurized-mode, determine volumetric flow rate at standard conditions from each self-contained wet seal centrifugal compressor wet seal using one of the methods specified in paragraphs (a)(7)(i)(A)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section.


(*1*) You may choose to use any of the methods set forth in § 60.5386b(a) to screen for leaks/emissions. For the purposes of this paragraph, when using any of the methods in § 60.5386b(a), emissions are detected whenever a leak is detected according to the method. If emissions are detected using the methods set forth in § 60.5386b(a), then you must use one of the methods specified in paragraph (a)(7)(i)(A)(*2*) or (*3*) of this section to determine the volumetric flow rate. If emissions are not detected using the methods in § 60.5386b(a), then you may assume that the volumetric emissions are zero.


(*2*) Use a temporary or permanent flow meter according to methods set forth in § 60.5386b(b).


(*3*) Use a high-volume sampler according to the method set forth in § 60.5386b(c).


(B) For conducting measurements on manifolded groups of self-contained wet seal centrifugal compressor seals, you must determine the volumetric flow rate from the self-contained wet seal centrifugal compressor seal as specified in paragraph (a)(7)(i)(B)(*1*) or (*2*) of this section.


(*1*) Measure at a single point in the manifold downstream of all self-contained wet seal centrifugal compressor seal inputs and, if practical, prior to comingling with other non-compressor emission sources.


(*2*) Determine the volumetric flow rate at standard conditions from the common stack using one of the methods specified in paragraph (a)(7)(i)(A)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section.


(ii) You must determine the volumetric flow rate from your centrifugal compressor on the Alaska North Slope equipped with sour seal oil separator and capture system as specified in paragraph (a)(7)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section. If the volumetric flow rate exceeds 9 scfm multiplied by the number of wet seals connected to the vent, the wet seals connected to the measured vent must be repaired as provided in paragraph (a)(8) of this section.


(A) For centrifugal compressors in operating-mode or in standby-pressurized-mode, determine volumetric flow rate at standard conditions from each centrifugal compressor on the Alaska North Slope equipped with a sour seal oil separator and capture system using one of the methods specified in paragraphs (a)(7)(ii)(A)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section.


(*1*) You may choose to use any of the methods set forth in § 60.5386b(a) to screen for leaks/emissions. For the purposes of this paragraph, when using any of the methods in § 60.5386b(a), emissions are detected whenever a leak is detected according to the method. If emissions are detected using the methods set forth in § 60.5386b(a), then you must use one of the methods specified in paragraph (a)(7)(ii)(A)(*2*) or (*3*) of this section to determine the volumetric flow rate. If emissions are not detected using the methods in § 60.5386b(a), then you may assume that the volumetric emissions are zero.


(*2*) Use a temporary or permanent flow meter according to methods set forth in § 60.5386b(b).


(*3*) Use a high-volume sampler according to the method set forth in § 60.5386b(c).


(B) For conducting measurements on manifolded groups of centrifugal compressors on the Alaska North Slope equipped with sour seal oil separators and capture systems, you must determine the volumetric flow rate from the centrifugal compressors equipped with sour seal oil separators and capture systems as specified in paragraph (a)(7)(ii)(B)(*1*) or (*2*) of this section.


(*1*) Measure at a single point in the manifold downstream of all centrifugal compressors on the Alaska North Slope equipped with sour seal oil separator and capture system wet seal inputs and, if practical, prior to comingling with other non-compressor emission sources.


(*2*) Determine the volumetric flow rate at standard conditions from the common stack using one of the methods specified in paragraph (a)(7)(ii)(A)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section.


(iii) You must determine the volumetric flow rate from your centrifugal compressor equipped with dry seals as specified in paragraph (a)(7)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section. If the volumetric flow rate exceeds 10 scfm multiplied by the number of dry seals connected to the vent, the dry seals connected to the measured vent must be repaired as provided in paragraph (a)(8) of this section.


(A) For centrifugal compressors equipped with dry seals in operating-mode or in standby-pressurized-mode, determine volumetric flow rate at standard conditions from each centrifugal compressor equipped with dry seals using one of the methods specified in paragraphs (a)(7)(iii)(A)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section.


(*1*) You may choose to use any of the methods set forth in § 60.5386b(a) to screen for leaks/emissions. For the purposes of this paragraph, when using any of the methods in § 60.5386b(a), emissions are detected whenever a leak is detected according to the method. If emissions are detected using the methods set forth in § 60.5386b(a), then you must use one of the methods specified in paragraph (a)(7)(iii)(A)(*2*) or (*3*) of this section to determine the volumetric flow rate. If emissions are not detected using the methods in § 60.5386b(a), then you may assume that the volumetric emissions are zero.


(*2*) Use a temporary or permanent flow meter according to methods set forth in § 60.5386b(b).


(*3*) Use a high-volume sampler according to the method set forth in § 60.5386b(c).


(B) For conducting measurements on manifolded groups of centrifugal compressors equipped with dry seals, you must determine the volumetric flow rate from the dry seal centrifugal compressors as specified in paragraph (a)(7)(iii)(B)(*1*) or (*2*) of this section.


(*1*) Measure at a single point in the manifold downstream of all centrifugal compressors equipped with dry seals inputs and, if practical, prior to comingling with other non-compressor emission sources.


(*2*) Determine the volumetric flow rate at standard conditions from the common stack using one of the methods specified in paragraph (a)(7)(iii)(A)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section.


(8) The seal must be repaired within 90 calendar days after the date of the volumetric emissions measurement that exceeds the applicable required flow rate per seal. You must conduct follow-up volumetric flow rate measurements from seal vents using the methods specified in paragraph (a)(7) of this section within 15 days after the repair to document that the rate has been reduced to less than the applicable required flow rate per seal. If the individual seals are manifolded to a single open-ended vent line or vent, the volumetric flow rate must be reduced to less than the sum of the individual seals multiplied by the applicable required flow rate per seal specified in paragraph (a)(4) through (6) of this section, as applicable. Delay of repair will be allowed if the conditions in paragraphs (a)(8)(i) or (ii) of this section are met.


(i) If the repair of the wet or dry seal is technically infeasible, would require a vent blowdown, a compressor station shutdown, or would be unsafe to repair during operation of the unit, the repair must be completed during the next scheduled compressor station shutdown for maintenance, after a scheduled vent blowdown, or within 2 years of the date of the volumetric emissions measurement that exceeds the applicable required flow rate per seal, whichever is earliest. A vent blowdown is the opening of one or more blowdown valves to depressurize major production and processing equipment, other than a storage vessel.


(ii) If the repair requires replacement of the compressor seal or a part thereof, but the replacement cannot be acquired and installed within the repair timelines specified under this section due to the condition specified in paragraph (a)(8)(ii)(A) of this section, the repair must be completed in accordance with paragraph (a)(8)(ii)(B) of this section and documented in accordance with § 60.5420b(c)(4)(iii)(F) through (H).


(A) Seal or part thereof supplies had been sufficiently stocked but are depleted at the time of the required repair.


(B) The required replacement must be ordered no later than 10 calendar days after the centrifugal compressor seal is added to the delay of repair list due to parts unavailability. The repair must be completed as soon as practicable, but no later than 30 calendar days after receipt of the replacement seal or part, unless the repair requires a compressor station shutdown. If the repair requires a compressor station shutdown, the repair must be completed in accordance with the timeframe specified in paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section.


(9) As an alternative to meeting the requirements for centrifugal compressors with dry seals specified in paragraphs (a)(6) through (8) of this section, owners or operators are allowed to comply with the standard by meeting the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(9)(i) and (ii), or (a)(9)(iii) of this section.


(i) You must reduce methane and VOC emissions from each centrifugal compressor dry seal system by 95.0 percent.


(ii) If you use a control device to reduce emissions, you must equip the dry seal system with a cover that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(b). The cover must be connected through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(a) and (c) and the closed vent system must be routed to a control device that meets the conditions specified in § 60.5412b.


(iii) As an alternative to routing the closed vent system to a control device, you may route the closed vent system to a process. If you route the emissions to a process, you must equip the dry seal system with a cover that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(b). The cover must be connected through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(a) and (c).


(b) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the standards that apply to centrifugal compressor affected facilities as required by § 60.5410b(d).


(c) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the standards that apply to centrifugal compressor affected facilities as required by § 60.5415b(d).


(d) You must perform the reporting as required by § 60.5420b(b)(1) and (5), and (b)(11) through (13), as applicable; and the recordkeeping as required by § 60.5420b(c)(4), and (8) through (13), as applicable.






