# § 120.630   Qualifications to be a Pool Assembler.

(a) *Application to become Pool Assembler.* The application to become a Pool Assembler is available from the D/FA. In order to qualify as a Pool Assembler, an entity must send the application to the D/FA, with an application fee, and certify that it: 


(1) Is regulated by the appropriate agency as defined in section 3(a)(34)(G) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(34)(G)); 


(2) Meets all financial and other applicable requirements of its regulatory authority and the Government Securities Act of 1986, as amended (Pub. L. 99-571, 100 Stat. 3208); 


(3) Has the financial capability to assemble acceptable and eligible guaranteed loan portions in sufficient quantity to support the issuance of Pool Certificates; and 


(4) Is in good standing with SBA (as the D/FA determines in his or her discretion), and is Satisfactory with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) if it is a national bank, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation if it is a bank not regulated by the OCC, or the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) if it is a member as determined by SBA.


(5) For any pool assembler that is an SBA Lender, that the SBA Lender has satisfactory SBA performance, as determined by SBA in its discretion. The Lender's Risk Rating, among other factors, will be considered in determining satisfactory SBA performance. Other factors may include, but are not limited to, review/examination assessments, historical performance measures (like default rate, purchase rate and loss rate), loan volume to the extent that it impacts performance measures, and other performance related measurements and information (such as contribution toward SBA mission). 


(b) *Approval by SBA.* An entity may not submit Pool applications to the FTA until SBA has approved the application to become a Pool Assembler. 


(c) *Conduct of business by Pool Assembler.* An entity continues to qualify as a Pool Assembler so long as it: 


(1) Meets the eligibility standards in paragraph (a) of this section; 


(2) Conducts its business in accordance with SBA regulations and accepted securities or banking industry practices, ethics, and standards; and 


(3) Maintains its books and records in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or in accordance with the guidelines of the regulatory body governing its activities.



---

[N] [61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 75517, Dec. 11, 2008; 82 FR 39503, Aug. 21, 2017]




