# § 19.21   Notice of Disagreement.

(a) Cases in which a form is provided by the agency of original jurisdiction for the purpose of initiating an appeal.


(1) *Format.* For every case in which the agency of original jurisdiction (AOJ) provides, in connection with its decision, a form for the purpose of initiating an appeal, a Notice of Disagreement consists of a completed and timely submitted copy of that form. VA will not accept as a notice of disagreement an expression of dissatisfaction or disagreement with an adjudicative determination by the agency of original jurisdiction and a desire to contest the result that is submitted in any other format, including on a different VA form.


(2) *Provision of form to the claimant.* If a claimant has established an online benefits account with VA, or has designated an email address for the purpose of receiving communications from VA, VA may provide an appeal form pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section electronically, whether by email, hyperlink, or other direction to the appropriate form within the claimant's online benefits account. VA may also provide a form pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section in paper format.


(3) *Presumption form was provided.* This paragraph (a) applies if there is any indication whatsoever in the claimant's file or electronic account that a form was sent pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(4) *Specificity required by form.* If the agency of original jurisdiction gave notice that adjudicative determinations were made on several issues at the same time, the specific determinations with which the claimant disagrees must be identified to the extent a form provided pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section so requires. If the claimant wishes to appeal all of the issues decided by the agency of original jurisdiction, the form must clearly indicate that intent. Issues not identified on the form will not be considered appealed.


(5) *Alternate form or other communication.* The filing of an alternate form or other communication will not extend, toll, or otherwise delay the time limit for filing a Notice of Disagreement, as provided in § 19.52(a). In particular, returning the incorrect VA form, including a form designed to appeal a different benefit does not extend, toll, or otherwise delay the time limit for filing the correct form.


(b) *Cases in which no form is provided by the agency of original jurisdiction for purpose of initiating an appeal.* A written communication from a claimant or his or her representative expressing dissatisfaction or disagreement with an adjudicative determination by the agency of original jurisdiction and a desire to contest the result will constitute a Notice of Disagreement relating to a claim for benefits in any case in which the agency of original jurisdiction does not provide a form identified as being for the purpose of initiating an appeal. The Notice of Disagreement must be in terms which can be reasonably construed as disagreement with that determination and a desire for appellate review. If the agency of original jurisdiction gave notice that adjudicative determinations were made on several issues at the same time, the specific determinations with which the claimant disagrees must be identified.


(c) *Simultaneously contested claims.* The provisions of paragraph (b) of this section shall apply to appeals in simultaneously contested claims under Rules 500 and 501 (§§ 20.500 and 20.501 of this chapter), regardless of whether a standardized form was provided with the decision of the agency of original jurisdiction.



---

[N] [79 FR 57698, Sept. 25, 2014. Redesignated and amended at 84 FR 177, 178, Jan. 18, 2019]




