# § 3100.3   Authority.

(a)(1) *Public domain.* Oil and gas in public domain lands and lands returned to the public domain under 43 CFR part 2370 are subject to lease under the Mineral Leasing Act of 1920, as amended and supplemented (30 *U.S.C. 181 et seq.*), by acts, including, but not limited to, section 1009 of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3148).


(2) *Exceptions.* The following lands are not subject to lease.


(i) Units of the National Park System, including lands withdrawn by section 206 of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act, except as provided in paragraph (g)(4) of this section;


(ii) Indian reservations;


(iii) Incorporated cities, towns and villages;


(iv) Naval petroleum and oil shale reserves;


(v) Lands north of 68 degrees north latitude and east of the western boundary of the National Petroleum Reserve—Alaska;


(vi) Lands recommended for wilderness allocation by the surface managing agency;


(vii) Lands within the BLM's wilderness study areas;


(viii) Lands designated by Congress as wilderness study areas, except where oil and gas leasing is specifically allowed to continue by the statute designating the study area;


(ix) Lands within areas allocated for wilderness or further planning in Executive Communication 1504, Ninety-Sixth Congress (House Document numbered 96-119), unless such lands are allocated to uses other than wilderness by a land and resource management plan or have been released to uses other than wilderness by an Act of Congress;


(x) Lands within the National Wilderness Preservation System, subject to valid existing rights under section 4(d)(3) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133) established before midnight, December 31, 1983, unless otherwise provided by law;


(xi) Subject to valid existing rights, lands within the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System and that constitute the bed or bank or are situated within one-quarter mile of the bank of any river designated as a wild river under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1280), lands within the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System that constitute the bed or bank or are situated within one-quarter mile of the bank of certain rivers designated as scenic or recreational, and in some cases, designating legislation may apply a different boundary extent. Lands within the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System that constitute the bed or bank or are situated within one-half mile of the bank of any river designated a wild river by the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3148); and


(xii) Wildlife refuge lands, which are those lands embraced in a withdrawal of lands of the United States for the protection of all species of wildlife within a particular area. Sole and complete jurisdiction over such lands for wildlife conservation purposes is vested in the Fish and Wildlife Service even though such lands may be subject to prior rights for other public purposes or, by the terms of the withdrawal order, may be subject to mineral leasing. No expressions of interest covering wildlife refuge lands will be considered for oil and gas leasing, except as provided by applicable law.


(b)(1) *Acquired lands.* Oil and gas in acquired lands are subject to lease under the Mineral Leasing Act for Acquired Lands of August 7, 1947, as amended (30 U.S.C. 351 *et seq.*).


(2) *Exceptions.* The following lands are not subject to lease.


(i) Units of the National Park System, except as provided in paragraph (g)(4) of this section;


(ii) Incorporated cities, towns and villages;


(iii) Naval petroleum and oil shale reserves;


(iv) Tidelands or submerged coastal lands within the continental shelf adjacent or littoral to lands within the jurisdiction of the United States;


(v) Lands acquired by the United States for development of helium, fissionable material deposits or other minerals essential to the defense of the country, except oil, gas and other minerals subject to leasing under the Act;


(vi) Lands reported as excess under the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949;


(vii) Lands acquired by the United States by foreclosure or otherwise for resale;


(viii) Lands recommended for wilderness allocation by the surface managing agency;


(ix) Lands within the BLM's wilderness study areas;


(x) Lands designated by Congress as wilderness study areas, except where oil and gas leasing is specifically allowed to continue by the statute designating the study area;


(xi) Lands within areas allocated for wilderness or further planning in Executive Communication 1504, Ninety-Sixth Congress (House Document numbered 96-119), unless such lands are allocated to uses other than wilderness by a land and resource management plan or have been released to uses other than wilderness by an Act of Congress;


(xii) Lands within the National Wilderness Preservation System, subject to valid existing rights under section 4(d)(3) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133) established before midnight, December 31, 1983, unless otherwise provided by law;


(xiii) Subject to valid existing rights, lands within the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System and that constitute the bed or bank or are situated within one-quarter mile of the bank of any river designated as a wild river under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1280), lands within the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System that constitute the bed or bank or are situated within one-quarter mile of the bank of certain rivers designated as scenic or recreational, and in some cases, designating legislation may apply a different boundary extent. Lands within the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System that constitute the bed or bank or are situated within one-half mile of the bank of any river designated a wild river by the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3148); and


(xiv) Wildlife refuge lands, which are those lands embraced in a withdrawal of lands of the United States for the protection of all species of wildlife within a particular area. Sole and complete jurisdiction over such lands for wildlife conservation purposes is vested in the Fish and Wildlife Service even though such lands may be subject to prior rights for other public purposes or, by the terms of the withdrawal order, may be subject to mineral leasing. No expressions of interest for wildlife refuge lands will be considered except as provided in applicable law.


(c) National Petroleum Reserve—Alaska is subject to lease under the Department of the Interior Appropriations Act, Fiscal Year 1981 (42 U.S.C. 6508).


(d) Where oil or gas is being drained from lands otherwise unavailable for leasing, there is implied authority in the agency having jurisdiction of those lands to grant authority to the BLM to lease such lands (see *43 U.S.C. 1457;* also Attorney General's Opinion of April 2, 1941 (Vol. 40 Op. Atty. Gen. 41)).


(e) Where lands previously withdrawn or reserved from the public domain are no longer needed by the agency for which the lands were withdrawn or reserved and such lands are retained by the General Services Administration, or where acquired lands are declared as excess to or surplus by the General Services Administration, authority to lease such lands may be transferred to the Department in accordance with the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 and the Mineral Leasing Act for Acquired Lands, as amended.


(f) The Act of May 21, 1930 (*30 U.S.C. 301-306*), authorizes the leasing of oil and gas deposits under certain rights-of-way to the owner of the right-of-way or any assignee.


(g)(1) *Certain lands in Nevada.* The Act of May 9, 1942 (56 Stat. 273), as amended by the Act of October 25, 1949 (63 Stat. 886), authorizes leasing on certain lands in Nevada.


(2) *Lands patented to the State of California.* The Act of March 3, 1933 (47 Stat. 1487), as amended by the Act of June 5, 1936 (49 Stat. 1482) and the Act of June 29, 1936 (49 Stat. 2026), authorizes leasing on certain lands patented to the State of California.


(3) *National Forest Service Lands in Minnesota.* The Act of June 30, 1950 (16 U.S.C. 508(b)) authorizes leasing on certain National Forest Service Lands in Minnesota.


(4) *Units of the National Park System.* The Secretary is authorized to permit mineral leasing in the following units of the National Park System if the Secretary finds that such disposition would not have significant adverse effects on the administration of the area and if lease operations can be conducted in a manner that will preserve the scenic, scientific and historic features contributing to public enjoyment of the area, pursuant to the following authorities:


(i) *Lake Mead National Recreation Area*—The Act of October 8, 1964 (16 U.S.C. 460n *et seq.*).


(ii) *Whiskeytown Unit of the Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National Recreation Area*—The Act of November 8, 1965 (79 Stat. 1295; 16 U.S.C. 460q *et seq.*).


(iii) *Ross Lake and Lake Chelan National Recreation Areas*—The Act of October 2, 1968 (82 Stat. 926; 16 U.S.C. 90* et seq.*).


(iv) *Glen Canyon National Recreation Area*—The Act of October 27, 1972 (86 Stat. 1311; 16 U.S.C. 460dd *et seq.*).


(5) *Shasta and Trinity Units of the Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National Recreation Area.* Section 6 of the Act of November 8, 1965 (Pub. L. 89-336; 79 Stat. 1295), authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to permit the removal of leasable minerals from lands (or interest in lands) within the recreation area under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Agriculture in accordance with the Mineral Leasing Act of February 25, 1920, as amended (30 U.S.C. 181 *et seq.*), or the Acquired Lands Mineral Leasing Act of August 7, 1947 (30 U.S.C. 351 *et seq.*), if the Secretary finds that such disposition would not have significant adverse effects on the purpose of the Central Valley project or the administration of the recreation area.


(h) Under the Recreation and Public Purposes Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 869 *et seq.*), all lands within Recreation and Public Purposes leases and patents are subject to lease under the provisions of this part, subject to such conditions as the Secretary deems appropriate.


(i)(1) Coordination lands are those lands withdrawn or acquired by the United States and made available to the States by cooperative agreements entered into between the Fish and Wildlife Service and the game commissions of the various States, in accordance with the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (16 U.S.C. 661), or by long-term leases or agreements between the Department of Agriculture and the game commissions of the various States pursuant to the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act (50 Stat. 525), as amended, where such lands were subsequently transferred to the Department of the Interior, with the Fish and Wildlife Service as the custodial agency of the United States.


(2) Representatives of the BLM and the Fish and Wildlife Service will, in cooperation with the authorized members of the various State game commissions, confer for the purpose of determining by agreement those coordination lands which will not be subject to oil and gas leasing. Coordination lands not closed to oil and gas leasing may be subject to leasing on the imposition of such stipulations as are agreed upon by the State Game Commission, the Fish and Wildlife Service and the BLM.


(j) No lands within a refuge in Alaska open to leasing will be available until the Fish and Wildlife Service has first completed compatibility determinations.






