# § 400.33   Examiner's review—application to establish or modify a zone.

An examiner assigned to review an application to establish, reorganize or expand a zone shall conduct a review taking into account the factors enumerated in § 400.26 and other appropriate sections of this part, which shall include:


(a) Conducting or participating in hearings scheduled by the Executive Secretary;


(b) Reviewing case records, including public comments;


(c) Requesting information and evidence from parties of record;


(d) Developing information and evidence necessary for evaluation and analysis of the application in accordance with the criteria of the Act and this part; and


(e) Developing recommendations to the Board and submitting a report to the Executive Secretary, generally within 150 days of the close of the period for public comment (75 days for reorganizations under the ASF) (see § 400.32):


(1) If the recommendations are unfavorable to the applicant, they shall be considered preliminary and the applicant shall be notified in writing (via electronic means, where appropriate) of the preliminary recommendations and the factors considered in their development. The applicant shall be given 30 days from the date of notification, subject to extensions upon request by the applicant, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, in which to respond to the recommendations and submit additional evidence pertinent to the factors considered in the development of the preliminary recommendations. Public comment may be invited on preliminary recommendations when warranted.


(2) If the response contains new evidence on which there has been no opportunity for public comment, the Executive Secretary shall publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ after completion of the review of the response. The new material shall be made available for public inspection and the _Federal Register_ notice shall invite further public comment for a period of not less than 30 days, with an additional 15-day period for rebuttal comments.


(3) If the factors considered for an examiner's recommendation(s) change as a result of new evidence, the applicable procedures of paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section shall be followed.




(4) When necessary, a request may be made to CBP to provide further comments, which shall be submitted within 45 days after the request.



---

[N] [77 FR 12139, Feb. 28, 2012, as amended at 89 FR 8529, Feb. 8, 2024]




