# ยง 958.2   Definitions.

As used in this part:


(a) *Complaint* refers to the determination by the Determining Official that an individual has violated the prohibition against mailing hazardous materials and/or related violations under 39 U.S.C. 3018.


(b) *Initial Decision* refers to the written decision which the Presiding Officer renders.


(c) *Determining Official* refers to the Chief Postal Inspector or designee.


(d) *Judicial Officer* refers to the Judicial Officer or Acting Judicial Officer of the United States Postal Service or designee within the Judicial Officer Department.


(e) *Party* refers to the Postal Service or the respondent.


(f) *Person* refers to any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or private organization.


(g) *Presiding Officer* refers to an Administrative Law Judge designated by the Chief Administrative Law Judge to conduct a hearing, or to the Judicial Officer, if an Administrative Law Judge is not available.


(h) *Recorder* refers to the Recorder of the Judicial Office of the United States Postal Service, 2101 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 600, Arlington, Virginia 22201-3078.


(i) *Representative* refers to an attorney or other advocate.


(j) *Respondent* refers to any person determined by the Determining Official to be liable for civil penalties, clean-up costs and/or damages for mailing hazardous materials and/or related violations under 39 U.S.C. 3018.



---

[N] [74 FR 18631, Apr. 24, 2009, as amended at 81 FR 40193, June 21, 2016]




