# § 21.6310   Rate of pursuit.

(a) *General requirements.* A veteran should pursue a vocational training program at a rate which is consistent with his or her ability to successfully pursue training, considering:


(1) Effects of his or her disability;


(2) Family responsibilities;


(3) Travel;


(4) Reasonable adjustment to training; and


(5) Other circumstances which affect the veteran's ability to pursue training.


(b) *Continuous pursuit.* A veteran should pursue a program of vocational training with as little interruption as necessary, considering the factors described in paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) *Responsibility for determining the rate of pursuit.* VR&E staff, in consultation with the veteran, will determine the rate and continuity of pursuit of training. Consultation with the medical consultant and the Vocational Rehabilitation Panel should be utilized as necessary. This determination will be made in the course of developing the plan, but may be changed later, as necessary to enable the veteran to complete his or her training.


(d) *Measurement of training time used.* The rate of pursuit shall be measured on the basis of the provisions of § 21.310 of this part. A veteran may not pursue training on a less than half-time basis as measured under § 21.310 of this part, except for brief periods, after which training must be resumed on a half-time or greater basis. Brief periods are limited to all or part of a semester, term or quarter, or up to 90 days in a course not conducted on a semester, term, or quarter basis.


(e) *Reduced work tolerance.* The provisions of § 21.312 of this part are not applicable to this temporary program.


(f) *Pursuit of training under special circumstances.* The provisions of § 21.314 of this part are not applicable to this temporary program.


