# ยง 192.309   Repair of steel pipe.

(a) Each imperfection or damage that impairs the serviceability of a length of steel pipe must be repaired or removed. If a repair is made by grinding, the remaining wall thickness must at least be equal to either: 


(1) The minimum thickness required by the tolerances in the specification to which the pipe was manufactured; or 


(2) The nominal wall thickness required for the design pressure of the pipeline. 


(b) Each of the following dents must be removed from steel pipe to be operated at a pressure that produces a hoop stress of 20 percent, or more, of SMYS, unless the dent is repaired by a method that reliable engineering tests and analyses show can permanently restore the serviceability of the pipe:


(1) A dent that contains a stress concentrator such as a scratch, gouge, groove, or arc burn. 


(2) A dent that affects the longitudinal weld or a circumferential weld. 


(3) In pipe to be operated at a pressure that produces a hoop stress of 40 percent or more of SMYS, a dent that has a depth of:


(i) More than 
1/4 inch (6.4 millimeters) in pipe 12
3/4 inches (324 millimeters) or less in outer diameter; or 


(ii) More than 2 percent of the nominal pipe diameter in pipe over 12
3/4 inches (324 millimeters) in outer diameter. 


(c) Each arc burn on steel pipe to be operated at a pressure that produces a hoop stress of 40 percent, or more, of SMYS must be repaired or removed. If a repair is made by grinding, the arc burn must be completely removed and the remaining wall thickness must be at least equal to either: 


(1) The minimum wall thickness required by the tolerances in the specification to which the pipe was manufactured; or 


(2) The nominal wall thickness required for the design pressure of the pipeline. 


(d) A gouge, groove, arc burn, or dent may not be repaired by insert patching or by pounding out. 


(e) Each gouge, groove, arc burn, or dent that is removed from a length of pipe must be removed by cutting out the damaged portion as a cylinder. 



---

[N] [35 FR 13257, Aug. 19, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 192-1, 35 FR 17660, Nov. 17, 1970; Amdt. 192-85, 63 FR 37503, July 13, 1998; Amdt. 192-88, 64 FR 69664, Dec. 14, 1999] 




