# § 63.752   Recordkeeping requirements.

(a) *General*. Each owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall fulfill all recordkeeping requirements specified in § 63.10(a), (b), (d), and (f), except § 63.10(b)(2)(i), (iv) and (v). Each owner or operator must also record and maintain according to § 63.10(b)(1) the information specified in paragraph (a)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) In the event that an affected unit fails to meet an applicable standard, record the number of failures. For each failure record the date, time, and duration of each failure.


(2) For each failure to meet an applicable standard, record and retain a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(3) Record actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.743(e), and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.


(b) *Cleaning operation.* Each owner or operator of a new or existing cleaning operation subject to this subpart shall record the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section, as appropriate. 


(1) The name, vapor pressure, and documentation showing the organic HAP constituents of each cleaning solvent used for affected cleaning operations at the facility.


(2) For each cleaning solvent used in hand-wipe cleaning operations that complies with the composition requirements specified in § 63.744(b)(1) or for semi-aqueous cleaning solvents used for flush cleaning operations: 


(i) The name of each cleaning solvent used; 


(ii) All data and calculations that demonstrate that the cleaning solvent complies with one of the composition requirements; and 


(iii) Annual records of the volume of each solvent used, as determined from facility purchase records or usage records. 


(3) For each cleaning solvent used in hand-wipe cleaning operations that does not comply with the composition requirements in § 63.744(b)(1), but does comply with the vapor pressure requirement in § 63.744(b)(2):


(i) The name of each cleaning solvent used; 


(ii) The composite vapor pressure of each cleaning solvent used; 


(iii) All vapor pressure test results, if appropriate, data, and calculations used to determine the composite vapor pressure of each cleaning solvent; and 


(iv) The amount (in gallons) of each cleaning solvent used each month at each operation. 


(4) For each cleaning solvent used for the exempt hand-wipe cleaning operations specified in § 63.744(e) that does not conform to the vapor pressure or composition requirements of § 63.744(b): 


(i) The identity and amount (in gallons) of each cleaning solvent used each month at each operation; and 


(ii) A list of the processes set forth in § 63.744(e) to which the cleaning operation applies. 


(5) A record of all leaks from enclosed spray gun cleaners identified pursuant to § 63.751(a) that includes for each leak found: 


(i) Source identification; 


(ii) Date leak was discovered; and 


(iii) Date leak was repaired. 


(c) *Primer, topcoat, and specialty coating application operations—organic HAP and VOC*. Each owner or operator required to comply with the organic HAP and VOC content limits specified in § 63.745(c) shall record the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section, as appropriate. Each owner and operator using coating manufacturer's supplied data to demonstrate compliance with the applicable organic HAP or VOC limit specified in § 63.745(c) may retain the manufacturer's documentation and annual purchase records in place of the records specified in paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section. Owners and operators using the coating manufacturer's supplied data to demonstrate compliance based on the HAP content of the coating, and adding non-HAP solvent to those coatings, must also maintain records of the non-HAP solvent added to the coating.


(1) The name and VOC content as received and as applied of each primer, topcoat, and specialty coating used at the facility.


(2) For uncontrolled primers, topcoats, and specialty coatings that meet the organic HAP and VOC content limits in § 63.745(c)(1) through (c)(6) without averaging:


(i) The mass of organic HAP emitted per unit volume of coating as applied (less water) (H_i_) and the mass of VOC emitted per unit volume of coating as applied (less water and exempt solvents) (G_i_) for each coating formulation within each coating category used each month (as calculated using the procedures specified in § 63.750(c) and (e)); 


(ii) All data, calculations, and test results (including EPA Method 24 results) used in determining the values of H_i_ and G_i_; and 


(iii) The volume (gal) of each coating formulation within each coating category used each month. 


(3) For “low HAP content” uncontrolled primers with organic HAP content less than or equal to 250 g/l (2.1 lb/gal) less water as applied and VOC content less than or equal to 250 g/l (2.1 lb/gal) less water and exempt solvents as applied: 


(i) Annual purchase records of the total volume of each primer purchased; and 


(ii) All data, calculations, and test results (including EPA Method 24 results) used in determining the organic HAP and VOC content as applied. These records shall consist of the manufacturer's certification when the primer is applied as received, or the data and calculations used to determine H_i_ if not applied as received. 


(4) For primers, topcoats, and specialty coatings complying with the organic HAP or VOC content level by averaging:


(i) The monthly volume-weighted average masses of organic HAP emitted per unit volume of coating as applied (less water) (H_a_) and of VOC emitted per unit volume of coating as applied (less water and exempt solvents) (G_a_) for all coatings (as determined by the procedures specified in § 63.750(d) and (f)); and 


(ii) All data, calculations, and test results (including EPA Method 24 results) used to determine the values of H_a_ and G_a_. 


(5) For primers, topcoats, and specialty coatings that are controlled by a control device other than a carbon adsorber:


(i) The overall control efficiency of the control system (as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.750(h)) and all test results, data, and calculations used in determining the overall control efficiency; 


(ii) If an incinerator other than a catalytic incinerator is used, continuous records of the firebox temperature recorded under § 63.751(b)(9) and all calculated 3-hour averages of the firebox temperature; and 


(iii) If a catalytic incinerator is used, continuous records of the temperature recorded under § 63.751(b)(10) and all calculated 3-hour averages of the recorded temperatures. 


(6) For primers, topcoats, and specialty coatings that are controlled by a carbon adsorber:


(i) The overall control efficiency of the control system (as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.750(g)) and all test results, data, and calculations used in determining the overall control efficiency. The length of the rolling material balance period and all data and calculations used for determining this rolling period. The record of the certification of the accuracy of the device that measures the amount of HAP or VOC recovered; or 


(ii) For nonregenerative carbon adsorbers, the overall control efficiency of the control system (as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.750(g)) and all test results, data, and calculations used in determining the overall control efficiency. The record of the carbon replacement time established as the site-specific operating parameter to demonstrate compliance. 


(d) *Primer, topcoat, and specialty coating application operations—inorganic HAP emissions*. (1) Each owner or operator complying with § 63.745(g) for the control of inorganic HAP emissions from primer, topcoat, and specialty coating application operations through the use of a dry particulate filter system or a HEPA filter system shall record the pressure drop across the operating system once each shift during which coating operations occur.


(2) Each owner or operator complying with § 63.745(g) through the use of a conventional waterwash system shall record the water flow rate through the operating system once each shift during which coating operations occur. Each owner or operator complying with § 63.745(g) through the use of a pumpless waterwash system shall record the parameter(s) recommended by the booth manufacturer that indicate the performance of the booth once each shift during which coating operations occur.


(3) This log shall include the acceptable limit(s) of pressure drop, water flow rate, or for the pumpless waterwash booth, the booth manufacturer recommended parameter(s) that indicate the booth performance, as applicable, as specified by the filter or booth manufacturer or in locally prepared operating procedures.


(e) *Depainting operations.* Each owner or operator subject to the depainting standards specified in § 63.746 shall record the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(7) of this section, as appropriate. 


(1) *General.* For all chemical strippers used in the depainting operation: 


(i) The name of each chemical stripper; and 


(ii) Monthly volumes of each organic HAP containing chemical stripper used or monthly weight of organic HAP-material used for spot stripping and decal removal.


(2) For HAP-containing chemical strippers that are controlled by a carbon adsorber: 


(i) The overall control efficiency of the control system (as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.750(g)) and all test results, data, and calculations used in determining the overall control efficiency. The length of the rolling material balance period and all data and calculations used for determining this rolling period. The record of the certification of the accuracy of the device that measures the amount of HAP or VOC recovered; or 


(ii) For nonregenerative carbon adsorbers, the overall control efficiency of the control system (as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.750(g)) and all test results, data, and calculations used in determining the overall control efficiency. The record of the carbon replacement time established as the site-specific operating parameter to demonstrate compliance. 


(3) For HAP-containing chemical strippers that are controlled by a control device other than a carbon adsorber: 


(i) The overall control efficiency of the control system (as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.750(h)) and all test results, data, and calculations used in determining the overall control efficiency; 


(ii) [Reserved]


(4) For each type of aircraft depainted at the facility, a listing of the parts, subassemblies, and assemblies normally removed from the aircraft before depainting. Prototype, test model or aircraft that exist in low numbers (i.e., less than 25 aircraft of any one type) are exempt from this requirement. 


(5) *Non-chemical based equipment.* If dry media blasting equipment is used to comply with the organic HAP emission limit specified in § 63.746(b)(1): 


(i) The names and types of non-chemical based equipment; and 


(ii) For periods of malfunction, 


(A) The non-chemical method or technique that malfunctioned; 


(B) The date that the malfunction occurred; 


(C) A description of the malfunction; 


(D) The methods used to depaint aerospace vehicles during the malfunction period; 


(E) The dates that these methods were begun and discontinued; and 


(F) The date that the malfunction was corrected. 


(6) *Spot stripping and decal removal.* For spot stripping and decal removal, the volume of organic HAP-containing chemical stripper or weight of organic HAP used, the annual average volume of organic HAP-containing chemical stripper or weight of organic HAP used per aircraft, the annual number of aircraft stripped, and all data and calculations used.


(7) *Inorganic HAP emissions.* Each owner or operator shall record the actual pressure drop across the particulate filters or the visual continuity of the water curtain and water flow rate for conventional waterwash systems once each shift in which the depainting process is in operation. For pumpless waterwash systems, the owner or operator shall record the parameter(s) recommended by the booth manufacturer that indicate the performance of the booth once per shift in which the depainting process is in operation. This log shall include the acceptable limit(s) of the pressure drop as specified by the filter manufacturer, the visual continuity of the water curtain and the water flow rate for conventional waterwash systems, or the recommended parameter(s) that indicate the booth performance for pumpless systems as specified by the booth manufacturer or in locally prepared operating procedures.


(f) *Chemical milling maskant application operations*. Each owner or operator seeking to comply with the organic HAP and VOC content limits for the chemical milling maskant application operation, as specified in § 63.747(c), or the control system requirements specified in § 63.747(d), shall record the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (4) of this section, as appropriate. Each owner and operator using coating manufacturer's supplied data to demonstrate compliance with the applicable organic HAP or VOC limit specified in § 63.747(c) may retain the manufacturer's documentation and annual purchase records in place of the records specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section. Owners and operators using the coating manufacturer's supplied data to demonstrate compliance based on the HAP content of the coating, and adding non-HAP solvent to those coatings, must also maintain records of the non-HAP solvent added to the coating.


(1) For uncontrolled chemical milling maskants that meet the organic HAP or VOC content limit without averaging: 


(i) The mass of organic HAP emitted per unit volume of chemical milling maskant as applied (less water) (H_i_) and the mass of VOC emitted per unit volume of chemical milling maskant as applied (less water and exempt solvents) (G_i_) for each chemical milling maskant formulation used each month (as determined by the procedures specified in § 63.750 (k) and (m)); 


(ii) All data, calculations, and test results (including EPA Method 24 results) used in determining the values of H_i_ and G_i_; and 


(iii) The volume (gal) of each chemical milling maskant formulation used each month. 


(2) For chemical milling maskants complying with the organic HAP or VOC content level by averaging: 


(i) The monthly volume-weighted average masses of organic HAP emitted per unit volume of chemical milling maskant as applied (less water) (H_a_) and of VOC emitted per unit volume of chemical milling maskant as applied (less water and exempt solvents) (G_a_) for all chemical milling maskants (as determined by the procedures specified in § 63.750 (l) and (n)); and 


(ii) All data, calculations, and test results (including EPA Method 24 results) used to determine the values of H_a_ and G_a_. 


(3) For chemical milling maskants that are controlled by a carbon adsorber: 


(i) The overall control efficiency of the control system (as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.750(g)) and all test results, data, and calculations used in determining the overall control efficiency. The length of the rolling material balance period and all data and calculations used for determining this rolling period. The record of the certification of the accuracy of the device that measures the amount of HAP or VOC recovered; or 


(ii) For nonregenerative carbon adsorbers, the overall control efficiency of the control system (as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.750(g)) and all test results, data, and calculations used in determining the overall control efficiency. The record of the carbon replacement time established as the site-specific operating parameter to demonstrate compliance.


(4) For chemical milling maskants that are controlled by a control device other than a carbon adsorber: 


(i) The overall control efficiency of the control system (as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.750(h)) and all test results, data, and calculations used in determining the overall control efficiency; 


(ii) If an incinerator other than a catalytic incinerator is used, continuous records of the firebox temperature recorded under § 63.751(b)(9) and all calculated 3-hour averages of the firebox temperature; and 


(iii) If a catalytic incinerator is used, continuous records of the temperature recorded under § 63.751(b)(10) and all calculated 3-hour averages of the recorded temperatures.



---

[N] [60 FR 45956, Sept. 1, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 15023, Mar. 27, 1998; 63 FR 46534, Sept. 1, 1998; 80 FR 76187, Dec. 7, 2015]




