# ยง 1321.13   Designation of and designation changes to planning and service areas.

(a) The State agency is responsible for designating distinct planning and service areas within the State.


(b) No State agency may designate the entire State as a single planning and service area, except for States designated as such on or before October 1, 1980.


(c) State agencies must have policies and procedures regarding designation of and changes to planning and service areas in accordance with the Act. Such policies and procedures should provide due process to affected parties, accountability, and transparency. Such policies and procedures must address the following:


(1) The application process to change a planning and service area, if initiated outside of the State agency;


(2) How notice to interested parties will be provided;


(3) How need for the action will be documented;


(4) Provisions for conducting a public hearing;


(5) Provisions for involving area agencies on aging, service providers, and older individuals in the action or proceeding, such as offering other opportunities for feedback from interested parties;


(6) The appeals process for affected parties; and


(7) Timeframes that apply to each of the items under this paragraph (c).


(d) State agencies that seek to change one or more planning and service area designations must consider the following:


(1) The geographical distribution of older individuals in the State;


(2) The incidence of the need for services under the Act;


(3) The distribution of older individuals who have greatest economic need and greatest social need (with particular attention to low-income older individuals, including low-income minority older individuals, older individuals with limited English proficiency, and older individuals residing in rural areas) residing in such areas;


(4) The distribution of older individuals who are Native Americans residing in such areas;


(5) The distribution of resources available to provide such services under the Act;


(6) The boundaries of existing areas within the State which were drawn for the planning or administration of services under the Act;


(7) The location of units of general purpose local government, as defined in section 302(4) of the Act (2 U.S.C. 3022(4)), within the State; and


(8) Any other relevant factors.


(e) When the State agency issues a decision to change planning and service areas, it shall provide an explanation of its consideration of the factors in paragraph (d) of this section. Such explanations must be included in the State plan amendment submitted as set forth in ยง 1321.31(b) or State plan submitted as set forth in ยง 1321.33.






