# ยง 103.9   Definitions.

The terms *Fair Housing Act, General Counsel,* and *HUD* are defined in 24 CFR part 5. 


*Aggrieved person* includes any person who:


(a) Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice; or


(b) Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur.


*Assistant Secretary* means the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity in HUD.


*Attorney General* means the Attorney General of the United States.


*Complainant* means the person (including the Assistant Secretary) who files a complaint under this part.


*Conciliation* means the attempted resolution of issues raised by a complaint, or by the investigation of a complaint, through informal negotiations involving the aggrieved person, the respondent, and the Assistant Secretary.


*Conciliation agreement* means a written agreement setting forth the resolution of the issues in conciliation.


*Discriminatory housing practice* means an act that is unlawful under section 804, 805, 806 or 818 of the Fair Housing Act, as described in part 100.


*Dwelling* means any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families, or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.


*Person* includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustee in cases under title 11 U.S.C., receivers and fiduciaries.


*Personal service* means handing a copy of the document to the person to be served or leaving a copy of the document with a person of suitable age and discretion at the place of business, residence or usual place of abode of the person to be served.


*Receipt of notice* means the day that personal service is completed by handing or delivering a copy of the document to an appropriate person or the date that a document is delivered by certified mail.


*Respondent* means:


(a) The person or other entity accused in a complaint of a discriminatory housing practice; and


(b) Any other person or entity identified in the course of investigation and notified as required under ยง 103.50.


*State* means any of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any of the territories and possessions of the United States.


*Substantially equivalent State or local agency* means a State or local agency certified by HUD under 24 CFR part 115 (including agencies certified for interim referrals).


*To rent* includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.



---

[N] [54 FR 3292, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 61 FR 5205, Feb. 9, 1996]




