# § 3550.251   Property management and disposition.

(a) *Policy.* Rural Housing Service (RHS) will manage custodial property and Real Estate Owned (REO) property to protect the Government's interest, and may dispose of REO property through direct sales, sealed bid, or auction. RHS will follow affirmative fair housing marketing policies. 


(b) *Custodial property.* RHS may take custodial possession of security property that has been abandoned, or for other reasons necessary to protect the Government's security. After taking custodial possession of a security property, RHS may maintain and repair the security property as needed to protect the Government's interest, pay required real estate taxes and assessments, and secure personal property left on the premises. Expenses will be charged to the borrower's account. Custodial property may be leased when it is in the Government's best interest and in such cases the borrower's account will be credited for income from the security property. 


(c) *REO property*—(1) *Classification.* When RHS takes title to a security property, it is classified as either program or nonprogram (NP) property. An REO property that is eligible for financing under the section 502 program, or which could reasonably be repaired to be eligible, is classified as program property. An REO property that cannot reasonably be repaired to be eligible as section 502 property, and property that has been improved to a point that it will no longer qualify as modest under section 502, is classified as NP property. 


(2) *Disclosing decent, safe, and sanitary defects.* When RHS determines that an REO property to be sold is not decent, safe, and sanitary, or does not meet cost-effective energy conservation standards, it will disclose the reasons why. The deed by which such an REO property is conveyed will contain a covenant restricting it from residential use until it is decent, safe, and sanitary and meets the RHS cost-effective energy conservation standards. RHS will also notify any potential purchaser of any known lead-based paint hazards. 


(3) *Property on Indian tribal allotted or trust land.* REO property which is located on Indian tribal allotted or trust land, will be sold or otherwise disposed of only to a member of the particular tribe having jurisdiction over the allotted or tribal land, to the tribe, or to an Indian housing authority serving the tribe on a first-come, first-served basis.


(4) *Sale of program REO properties.* For no less than 30 days after a program REO property is listed for sale, the property will be reserved for sale to eligible direct or guaranteed single family housing very-low, low- or moderate income applicants under this part or part 3555 of this title, and for sale or lease to nonprofit organizations or public bodies providing transitional housing and turnkey housing for tenants of such transitional housing in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 11408a. Offers from eligible direct or guaranteed single family housing applicants are evaluated at the listed price, not the offering price. Priority of offers received the same day from eligible direct or guaranteed single family housing applicants will be given to applicants qualifying for veterans' preference, cash offers from highest to lowest, then credit offers from highest to lowest. Acceptable offers of equal priority received on the same business day are selected by lot. After the expiration of a reservation period, REO properties can be bought by any buyer.


(5) *Sale by sealed bid or auction.* RHS may authorize the sale of an REO property by sealed bid or public auction when it is in the best interest of the Government.





 
























(d) *Special purposes.* (1) REO property may be purchased for conversion to multiple family housing. 


(2) RHS shall follow the standards and procedures in 42 U.S.C. 11408a for the sale or lease of an REO property to a public agency or nonprofit organization. The terms of the sale and lease, and the entity seeking to purchase or lease the REO property, must meet the requirements in 42 U.S.C. 11408a.






(3) REO property may be sold under special provisions to nonprofit organizations or public bodies for the purpose of providing affordable housing to very low- and low-income families. 



---

[N] [61 FR 59779, Nov. 22, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 78332, Dec. 24, 2002; 87 FR 6773, Feb. 7, 2022]




