# § 86.602-98   Definitions.

Section 86.602-98 includes text that specifies requirements that differ from § 86.602-84. Where a paragraph in § 86.602-84 is identical and applicable to § 86.602-98, this may be indicated by specifying the corresponding paragraph and the statement “[Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.602-84.” Where a corresponding paragraph of § 86.602-84 is not applicable, this is indicated by the statement “[Reserved].”.


(a) through (b)(2) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.602-84.


(b)(3)(i) *Configuration,* when used for LDV exhaust emissions testing, means a subclassification of an engine-system combination on the basis of engine code, inertia weight class, transmission type and gear ratios, axle ratio, and other parameters which may be designated by the Administrator.


(ii) *Configuration,* when used for LDV refueling emissions testing, means a subclassification of an evaporative/refueling emission family on the basis of evaporative and refueling control system and other parameters which may be designated by the Administrator.


(4) *Test sample* means the collection of vehicles of the same configuration which have been drawn from the population of vehicles of that configuration and which will receive emission testing.


(b)(5) through (b)(8) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.602-84.


(9) *Executive Officer* means the Executive Officer of the California Air Resources Board or his or her authorized representative.


(10) *Executive Order* means the document the Executive Officer grants a manufacturer for an engine family that certifies the manufacturer has verified that the engine family complies with all applicable standards and requirements pursuant to Title 13 of the California Code of Regulations.


(11) *50-state engine family* means an engine family that meets both federal and California Air Resources Board motor vehicle emission control regulations and has received a federal certificate of conformity as well as an Executive Order.



---

[N] [59 FR 16300, Apr. 6, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 31234, June 6, 1997]




