# ยง 7.71   Delaware Water Gap National Recreation Area.

(a) *Powerless flight.* The use of devices designed to carry persons through the air in powerless flight is allowed at times and locations designated by the superintendent, pursuant to the terms and conditions of a permit.


(b) *Designated snowmobile routes.* (1) A route in Middle Smithfield Township, Monroe County, Pennsylvania, bounded by the Delaware River on the east and Hidden Lake on the west. The route begins at the Smithfield Beach parking area and is in two loops. Loop One is a small trail approximately 3 miles long and follows the west bank of the Delaware River and closely parallels the east side of L. R. 45012 (commonly known as the River Road). Loop Two is approximately 6 miles long and begins at the northwest end of Loop One; it goes northeasterly between the Delaware River and River Road for about one mile until it crosses River Road; then southwesterly along the ridge which is south of Hidden Lake to a point opposite the west end of Hidden Lake, and then goes southeasterly until it returns to Loop One near River Road. Maps of the route are available at Smithfield Beach and at the office of the superintendent. Both loops are marked by appropriate signs. 


(2) [Reserved]


(c) *Commercial vehicles.* Notwithstanding the prohibition of commercial vehicles set forth in ยง 5.6 of this chapter, commercial vehicles are authorized to use the portions of U.S. Highway 209 located within the Delaware Water Gap National Recreation Area in accordance with applicable law. The Superintendent will provide notice to the public about rules related to commercial vehicles, including the requirements of a fee and permit program, using the methods set forth in ยง 1.7 of this chapter.




(d) *Fishing.* Unless otherwise designated, fishing in any manner authorized under applicable State law is allowed.



---

[N] [34 FR 13595, Aug. 23, 1969, as amended at 47 FR 4256, Jan. 29, 1982; 48 FR 30295, June 30, 1983; 48 FR 46780, 46782, Oct. 14, 1983; 49 FR 9421, Mar. 13, 1984; 49 FR 18451, Apr. 30, 1984; 50 FR 34130, Aug. 23, 1985; 51 FR 40419, Nov. 7, 1986; 52 FR 34777, Sept. 15, 1987; 69 FR 57181, Sept. 24, 2004; 84 FR 29083, June 21, 2019]




