# § 165.5   Obtaining and submitting information.

(a) *Obtaining of information by CBP.* In obtaining information necessary to carry out its functions and duties under this part, CBP may employ any means authorized by law. In general, CBP will obtain information from its own files, from other agencies of the United States Government, through questionnaires and correspondence, and through field work by its officials.


(b) *Submissions to CBP.* The following requirements pertain to all parties who knowingly make submissions covered in this part:


(1) *Form.* All submissions to CBP must be in writing in the English language or accompanied by an adequate English language translation as they will be part of the record for proceedings and determinations covered in this part. Oral discussions or communications with CBP will not be considered part of the record, unless they are memorialized in a written document that is placed on the record. All submissions must be made electronically to the designated email address specified by CBP for purposes of the investigation or through any other method approved or designated by CBP.


(2) *Certifications.* Every written submission made to CBP by an interested party or requested by CBP from any other party pursuant to §§ 165.4 and 165.5 must be accompanied by the following certifications from the person making the submission:


(i) “On behalf of the party making this submission, I certify that all statements in this submission (and any attachments) are accurate and true to the best of my knowledge and belief.”


(ii) “On behalf of the party making this submission, I certify that any information for which I have not requested business confidential treatment pursuant to §165.4(a), may be released for public consumption.”


(iii) “On behalf of the party making this submission, I certify that I will advise CBP promptly of any knowledge of or reason to suspect that the covered merchandise poses any health or safety risk to U.S. consumers pursuant to §165.7(a).”


(3) *False statement.* Any interested party that provides a material false statement or makes a material omission or otherwise attempts to conceal material facts at any point in the proceedings may be subject to adverse inferences (*see* § 165.6) and prosecution pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001.


(4) *Nonconforming submissions.* CBP will reject a submission that does not meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section and will not consider it or place it on the administrative record.


(c) *Compliance with CBP time limits*—(1) *Requests for extensions.* CBP may, for good cause, extend any regulatory time limit, or any deadline for the submission of information requested by CBP, if a party requests an extension in a separate, stand-alone submission and states the reasons for the request. Such requests must be submitted no less than three business days before the time limit expires unless there are extraordinary circumstances. An extraordinary circumstance is an unexpected event that could not have been prevented even if reasonable measures had been taken by the requester. It is within CBP's reasonable discretion to determine what constitutes extraordinary circumstances, what constitutes good cause, and to grant or deny a request for an extension.


(2) *Rejection of untimely submissions.* If a submission is untimely filed, CBP will not consider it or place it on the administrative record and adverse inferences may be applied, if applicable.



---

[N] [81 FR 56482, Aug. 22, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 19258, March 18, 2024]








