# § 25.115   Applications for earth station authorizations.

(a)(1)(i) *Transmitting earth stations.* Commission authorization must be obtained for authority to operate a transmitting earth station. Applications must be filed electronically on FCC Form 312, Main Form and Schedule B, and include the information specified in this section, except as set forth in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) and (a)(2) of this section.


(ii) *Certification of compliance with space station authorization.* An earth station applicant certifying that it will comply with the applicable terms and conditions of the authorization of any space station with which it communicates need not provide technical demonstrations or other information that is duplicative or unnecessary due to the certification. This provision does not apply to FSS operation in bands below 10 GHz or in bands subject to § 25.136.


(2) Applicants for licenses for transmitting earth stations in the FSS may file on FCC Form 312EZ if all of the following criteria are met:


(i) The application is for a single station that will transmit to an FSS GSO space station, or stations, in the 5925-6425 MHz band, or for single or multiple stations that will transmit to an FSS GSO space station, or stations, in the 14.0-14.5 GHz, 28.35-28.6 GHz, and/or 29.5-30.0 GHz band;


(ii) The earth station(s) will not be installed or operated on ships, aircraft, or other moving vehicles;


(iii) The application meets all relevant criteria in § 25.211 or § 25.212 or includes information filed pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section indicating that off-axis EIRP density from the proposed earth stations will not exceed relevant levels specified in § 25.218; and


(iv) Operation of the proposed station has been successfully coordinated with terrestrial systems, if the station would transmit in the 5925-6425 MHz band;


(v) The application includes an environmental impact statement pursuant to § 1.1311 of this chapter, if required;


(vi) The applicant does not propose to communicate via non-U.S.-licensed space stations not on the Permitted Space Station List; and


(vii) If the proposed station(s) will receive in the 18.3-18.8 GHz and/or 19.7-20.2 GHz bands, the applicant proposes to communicate only via satellites for which coordination has been completed pursuant to Footnote US334 of the U.S. Table of Frequency Allocations with respect to Federal Government systems authorized on a primary basis, under an agreement previously approved by the Commission and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, and the applicant certifies that it will operate consistently with the agreement.


(3) Unless the Commission orders otherwise, an application filed on FCC Form 312EZ in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section will be deemed granted 35 days after the date of the public notice that the application has been accepted for filing, provided no objection is filed during the 30-day public notice period.


(4) [Reserved]


(5) Applicants that are not permitted to submit applications under paragraph (a)(2) of this section on Form 312EZ, must submit, as an attachment to their application, the following information to be used as an “informative” in the public notice issued under § 25.151:


(i) A detailed description of the service to be provided, including frequency bands and satellites to be used. The applicant must identify either the specific satellite(s) with which it plans to operate, or the eastern and western boundaries of the arc it plans to coordinate.


(ii) The diameter or equivalent diameter of the antenna.


(iii) Proposed power and power density levels.


(iv) Identification of any random access technique, if applicable.


(v) Identification of a specific rule or rules for which a waiver is requested.


(6)(i) Applicants for earth stations transmitting in frequency bands shared with equal rights between terrestrial and space services must provide a frequency coordination analysis in accordance with § 25.203(b) and must include any notification or demonstration required by any other relevant provision in § 25.203.


(ii) Applicants for user transceiver units associated with the NVNG MSS must provide the information required by § 25.135.


(iii) Applicants for 1.6/2.4 GHz MSS user transceivers must demonstrate that the transceivers will operate in compliance with relevant requirements in § 25.213.


(iv) Applicants for earth stations licensed in accordance with § 25.136 must demonstrate that the transmitting earth stations will meet the relevant criteria specified in that section, including any showings required under § 25.136(a)(4), (c), (d)(4), and/or (e)(4).


(7) In those cases where an applicant is filing a number of essentially similar applications, showings of a general nature applicable to all of the proposed stations may be submitted in the initial application and incorporated by reference in subsequent applications.


(8) Transmissions of signals or programming to non-U.S. licensed satellites, and to and/or from foreign points by means of U.S.-licensed fixed satellites may be subject to restrictions as a result of international agreements or treaties. The Commission will maintain public information on the status of any such agreements.


(9) Applicants seeking to operate in a shared government/non-government band must provide the half-power beam width of their proposed earth station antenna, as an attachment to their applications.


(10) With the exception of applications for blanket-licensed earth station networks filed pursuant to § 25.115(c) or § 25.218; applications for conventional Ka-band hub stations filed pursuant to § 25.115(e); applications for NGSO FSS gateway earth stations filed pursuant to § 25.115(f); applications for individually licensed earth stations filed pursuant to § 25.136; applications for ESIMs filed pursuant to § 25.115(l), § 25.115(m), or § 25.115(n); or applications for 29 GHz NGSO MSS feeder-link stations in a complex as defined in § 25.257, parties may apply, either in an initial application or an application for modification of license, for operating authority for multiple transmitting FSS earth stations that are not eligible for blanket or network licensing under another section of this part in the following circumstances:


(i) The antennas would transmit in frequency bands shared with terrestrial services on a co-primary basis and the antennas would be sited within an area bounded by 1 second of latitude and 1 second of longitude.


(ii) The antennas would transmit in frequency bands allocated to FSS on a primary basis and there is no co-primary allocation for terrestrial services, and the antennas would be sited within an area bounded by 10 seconds of latitude and 10 seconds of longitude.


(b) *Receive-only earth stations.* Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1) and (8) of this section, applications for licenses for receive-only earth stations must be submitted on FCC Form 312, Main Form and Schedule B, accompanied by any required exhibits and the information described in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (v) of this section. Such applications must be filed electronically through the International Communications Filing System (ICFS) in accordance with the applicable provisions of part 1, subpart Y, of this chapter.




(1) Receive-only earth stations in the FSS that operate with U.S.-licensed space stations, or with non-U.S.-licensed space stations that have been duly approved for U.S. market access, may be registered with the Commission in order to protect them from interference from terrestrial microwave stations in bands shared co-equally with the Fixed Service in accordance with the procedures of §§ 25.203 and 25.251, subject to the stricture in § 25.209(c).


(2) Licensing or registration of receive-only earth stations with the Commission confers no authority to receive and use signals or programming received from satellites. *See* Section 705 of the Communications Act. 47 U.S.C. 605.


(3) Applications for registration must be accompanied by the coordination exhibit required by § 25.203 and any other required exhibits.


(4) Complete applications for registration will be placed on public notice for 30 days and automatically granted if no objection is submitted to the Commission and served on the applicant. Additional pleadings are authorized in accordance with § 1.45 of this chapter.


(5) The registration of a receive-only earth station results in the listing of an authorized frequency band at the location specified in the registration. Interference protection levels are those agreed to during coordination.


(6) Reception of signals or programming from non-U.S. satellites may be subject to restrictions as a result of international agreements or treaties. The Commission will maintain public information on the status of any such agreements.


(7) Registration term: Registrations for receive-only earth stations governed by this section will be issued for a period of 15 years from the date on which the application was filed. Applications for renewals of registrations must be submitted on FCC Form 312R (Application for Renewal of Radio Station License in Specified Services) no earlier than 90 days and no later than 30 days before the expiration date of the registration.


(8) Applications for modification of license or registration of receive-only earth stations must be made in conformance with §§ 25.117 and 25.118. In addition, registrants are required to notify the Commission when a receive-only earth station is no longer operational or when it has not been used to provide any service during any 6-month period.


(9)(i) Except as set forth in paragraph (b)(9)(ii) of this section, receive-only earth stations operating with non-U.S. licensed space stations must file an FCC Form 312 requesting a license or modification to operate such station.


(ii) Operators of receive-only earth stations need not apply for a license to receive transmissions from non-U.S.-licensed space stations that have been duly approved for U.S. market access, provided the space station operator and earth station operator comply with all applicable rules in this chapter and with applicable conditions in the Permitted Space Station List or market-access grant.


(c)(1) *GSO FSS earth stations in 10.7-12.2 GHz or 14-14.5 GHz.* A blanket license application for operation in the 10.7-12.2 GHz or 14-14.5 GHz bands may be filed on FCC Form 312 or Form 312EZ, with a Schedule B for each large (5 meters or larger) hub station antenna and each representative type of small antenna (less than 5 meters) operating within the network; however, blanket licensing in the 10.7-11.7 GHz band is on an unprotected basis with respect to the fixed service.


(i) Applications to license networks of earth stations operating in the 11.7-12.2 GHz and 14.0-14.5 GHz bands under blanket operating authority that meet the requirements of § 25.212(c) or § 25.218(e) or (f) will be routinely processed.


(ii) Applications to license networks of earth stations operating in the 11.7-12.2 GHz and 14.0-14.5 GHz bands under blanket operating authority that do not meet the requirements of § 25.212(c) or § 25.218(e) or (f) must comply with the requirements in § 25.220 and must be filed on FCC Form 312 with a Schedule B for each large (5 meters or larger) hub station antenna and each representative type of small antenna (less than 5 meters) operating within the network.


(2) *Networks of earth stations operating in the 3700-4200 MHz and 5925-6425 MHz bands.* Applications to license networks of earth stations operating in the 3700-4200 MHz and 5925-6425 MHz bands must be filed electronically on FCC Form 312, Main Form and Schedule B. Applications will be routinely processed provided that frequency coordination has been satisfactorily completed and that the proposed earth stations comply with the applicable provisions in § 25.211(d) or § 25.212(d). Alternatively, applicants that have satisfactorily completed frequency coordination may be routinely processed if the proposed earth stations comply with the applicable off-axis EIRP density limits in § 25.218(c) or (d).


(i) For earth station antennas operating with power levels not consistent with the applicable provisions in § 25.211(d) or § 25.212(d), or with EIRP density levels not consistent with those specified in § 25.218(c) or (d), the applicant must file an initial lead application providing a detailed overview of the complete network. Such lead applications must fully identify the scope and nature of the service to be provided, as well as the complete technical details of each representative type of antenna that will operate within the network. Such lead applications for a single system must identify:


(A) No more than three geostationary satellites to be accessed;


(B) The amount of frequency bandwidth sought, up to a maximum of 20 MHz of spectrum in each direction at each of the satellites (The same 20 MHz of uplink and 20 MHz of downlink spectrum at each satellite would be accessible by all earth stations in the system. The 20 MHz of uplink and 20 MHz of downlink spectrum need not be the same at each satellite location); 


(C) The maximum number of earth station sites; 


(ii) Following the issuance of a license for the lead application, the licensee shall notify the Commission of the complete technical parameters of each individual earth station site before that site is bought into operation under the lead authorization. Full frequency coordination of each individual site (e.g., for each satellite and the spectrum associated therewith) shall be completed prior to filing Commission notification. The coordination must be conducted in accordance with § 25.203. Such notification shall be done by electronic filing and shall be consistent with the technical parameters of Schedule B of FCC Form 312. 


(iii) Following successful coordination of such an earth station, if the earth station operator does not file a lead application or a Schedule B within six months after it successfully completes coordination, it will be assumed that such frequency use is no longer desired, unless a second notification has been received within ten days prior to the end of the six month period. Such renewal notifications must be sent to all parties concerned. If the lead application or Schedule B, or renewal notification, is not timely received, the coordination will lapse and the licensee must re-coordinate the relevant earth stations if it still wishes to bring them into operation. 


(iv) Operation of each individual site may commence immediately after the public notice is released that identifies the notification sent to the Commission and if the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section are met. Continuance of operation of each station for the duration of the lead license term shall be dependent upon successful completion of the normal public notice process. If any objections are received to the new station prior to the end of the 30 day comment period of the Public Notice, the licensee shall immediately cease operation of those particular stations until the coordination dispute is resolved and the licensee informs the Commission of the resolution. If the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section are not met, operation may not commence until the Commission issues the public notice acting on the terminal authorization. 


(v) Each licensee shall annually provide the Commission an updated list of all operational earth stations in its system. The annual list shall also include a list of all earth stations deactivated during the year and identification of the satellites providing service to the network as of the date of the report. 


(vi) *Conditional authorization.* (A) An applicant for a new radio station or modification of an existing station authorized under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section in the 3700-4200; or 5925-6425 MHz bands may operate the proposed station during the pendency of its application after the release of the public notice accepting the notification for filing that complies with paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section. The applicant, however, must first certify that the following conditions are satisfied: 


(*1*) The frequency coordination procedures of § 25.203 have been successfully completed; 


(*2*) The antenna structure has been previously studied by the Federal Aviation Administration and determined to pose no hazard to aviation safety as required by subpart B of part 17 of this chapter; or the antenna or tower structure does not exceed 6.1 meters above ground level or above an existing man-made structure (other than an antenna structure), if the antenna or tower has not been previously studied by the Federal Aviation Administration and cleared by the FCC; 


(*3*) The grant of the application(s) does not require a waiver of the Commission's rules (with the exception of a request for waiver pertaining to fees);


(*4*) The applicant has determined that the facility(ies) will not significantly affect the environment as defined in § 1.1307 of this chapter after complying with any applicable environmental notification procedures specified in § 17.4(c) of this chapter.


(*5*) The station site does not lie within 56.3 kilometers of any international border or within a radio “Quiet Zone” identified in § 1.924 of this chapter; and 


(*6*) The filed application is consistent with the proposal that was coordinated pursuant to § 25.251.


(B) Conditional authority ceases immediately if the Schedule B is returned by the Commission because it is not accepted for filing.


(C) A conditional authorization pursuant to paragraphs (c)(2)(vi)(A) and (c)(2)(vi)(B) of this section is evidenced by retaining a copy of the Schedule B notification with the station records. Conditional authorization does not prejudice any action the Commission may take on the subject application(s) or the Schedule B notifications.


(D) Conditional authority is accepted with the express understanding that such authority may be modified or cancelled by the Commission at any time without hearing if, in the Commission's discretion, the need for such action arises. An applicant operating pursuant to this conditional authority assumes all risks associated with such operation, the termination or modification of the conditional authority, or the subsequent dismissal or denial of its application(s).


(E) The copy of the Schedule B notification form must be posted at each station operating pursuant to this section.


(vii) *Period of construction.* Construction of each earth station must be completed and the station must be brought into regular operation within twelve months from the date that action is taken to authorize that station to operate under the lead authorization, except as may be otherwise determined by the Commission for any particular application.


(3) Networks of earth stations operating in the 18.3-18.8 GHz, 19.7-20.2 GHz, 28.35-28.6 GHz, and 29.25-30 GHz bands with U.S.-licensed or non-U.S.-licensed satellites for domestic or international services.


(i) Applications to license networks of earth stations that will transmit digitally modulated signals to GSO space stations in the 28.35-28.6 GHz and/or 29.25-30.0 GHz bands under blanket operating authority must be filed on FCC Form 312, or Form 312EZ if available, with a Schedule B for each large (5 meters or larger) hub station antenna and each representative type of small antenna (less than 5 meters) operating within the network and may be routinely processed if the criteria in paragraphs (c)(3)(i)(A) and (B) of this section are met:


(A) The applicant certifies pursuant to § 25.132(a)(1) that the off-axis gain of transmitting antennas in the network will not exceed the relevant levels specified in § 25.209(a) and (b) and the power spectral density of any digitally modulated carrier into any transmitting earth station antenna in the proposed network will not exceed 3.5 dBW/MHz as specified in § 25.212(e).


(B) The application includes information filed pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section indicating that off-axis EIRP density from the proposed earth stations will not exceed relevant routine levels specified in § 25.218(i).


(ii) Applications to license networks of earth stations operating in the 28.35-28.6 GHz and/or 29.25-30.0 GHz bands under blanket operating authority that do not meet the requirements of § 25.212(e) or § 25.218(i) must comply with the requirements in § 25.220 and must be filed on FCC Form 312 with a Schedule B for each large (5 meters or larger) hub station antenna and each representative type of small antenna (less than 5 meters) operating within the network.


(d) Mobile-Satellite Service user transceivers need not be individually licensed. Service vendors may file blanket applications for such transceivers using FCC Form 312, Main Form and Schedule B, specifying the number of units to be covered by the blanket license. A blanket license application for 1.5/1.6 GHz MSS user transceivers must include an explanation of how the applicant will comply with the priority and preemptive access requirements in § 25.287. 


(e) *GSO FSS earth stations in 17.3-30 GHz.* (1) An application for a GSO FSS earth station license in the 17.3-19.4 GHz, 19.6-20.2 GHz, 27.5-29.1 GHz, or 29.25-30 GHz bands not filed on FCC Form 312EZ pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section must be filed on FCC Form 312, Main Form and Schedule B, and must include any information required by paragraphs (a)(5) through (10) or paragraph (g) or (j) of this section.


(2) Individual or blanket license applications may be filed for operation in the 17.3-17.8 GHz band; however, blanket licensed earth stations shall operate on an unprotected basis with respect to DBS feeder link earth stations. All receiving FSS earth stations shall operate on an unprotected basis with respect to the Fixed Service in the 17.7-17.8 GHz band.


(f) *NGSO FSS earth stations in 10.7-30.0 GHz.* (1) An application for an NGSO FSS earth station license in the 10.7-30.0 GHz band must include the certification described in § 25.146(a)(2).


(2) Individual or blanket license applications may be filed for operation in the 10.7-12.7 GHz, 14-14.5 GHz, 17.3-17.7 GHz, 17.7-17.8 GHz, 17.8-18.6 GHz, 18.8-19.4 GHz, 19.6-20.2 GHz, 28.35-29.1 GHz, or 29.5-30.0 GHz bands; however, ESIMs cannot operate in the 28.35-28.4 GHz band and blanket licensing in the 10.7-11.7 GHz, 17.7-17.8 GHz, 17.8-18.3 GHz, 19.3-19.4 GHz, and 19.6-19.7 GHz bands is on an unprotected basis with respect to current and future systems operating in the fixed service.


(3) Individual license applications only may be filed for operation in the 12.75-13.15 GHz, 13.2125-13.25 GHz, 13.75-14 GHz, or 27.5-28.35 GHz bands.


(g) *Additional requirements for certain GSO earth stations.* Applications for earth stations that will transmit to GSO space stations in any portion of the 5850-6725 MHz, 13.75-14.5 GHz, 24.75-25.25 GHz, 27.5-29.1 GHz, or 29.25-30.0 GHz bands must include, in addition to the particulars of operation identified on FCC Form 312 and associated Schedule B, the information specified in either paragraph (g)(1) or (2) of this section for each earth station antenna type.


(1) Specification of off-axis EIRP density calculated from measurements made consistent with the requirements in § 25.132(b)(1), in accordance with the following requirements. For purposes of this rule, the “off-axis angle” is the angle in degrees from a line between an earth station antenna and the target satellite.


(i) A plot of maximum co-polarized EIRP density in the plane tangent to the GSO arc at off-axis angles from minus 180° to plus 180°;


(ii) A plot of maximum co-polarized EIRP density in the plane tangent to the GSO arc at off-axis angles from minus 10° to plus 10°;


(iii) A plot of maximum co-polarized EIRP density in the plane perpendicular to the GSO arc at off-axis angles from 0° to plus 30°;


(iv) A plot of maximum cross-polarized EIRP density in the plane tangent to the GSO arc at off-axis angles from minus 7° to plus 7°;


(v) A plot of maximum cross-polarized EIRP density in the plane perpendicular to the GSO arc at off-axis angles from minus 7° to plus 7°;


(vi) For antennas for which gain measurements are made pursuant to § 25.132(b)(1)(iv), the EIRP density plots specified in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (v) of this section must be provided over the specified angular ranges in two orthogonal planes, one of which is tangent to the GSO arc and with the antenna operating at its maximum skew angle, which the applicant must specify.


(vii) The relevant off-axis EIRP density envelopes in § 25.218 must be superimposed on plots submitted pursuant to paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section.


(viii) The showing must include a supplemental table for each off-axis angular range in which the relevant EIRP density envelope will be exceeded, specifying angular coordinates in degrees off-axis and corresponding calculated off-axis EIRP density at 0.2° increments over the angular range in which the routine envelope will be exceeded and one degree on each side of that range.


(2) An applicant that certifies pursuant to § 25.132(a)(1) that a proposed antenna's measured gain pattern conforms to relevant standards in § 25.209(a) and (b) and that input power density to the antenna will not exceed the relevant limit in § 25.211 or § 25.212 need not provide a showing pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section for operation with that antenna.


(h) [Reserved]


(i) An earth station applicant filing an application for a blanket-licensed earth station network made up of FSS earth stations and planning to use a contention protocol must include in its application a certification that its contention protocol usage will be reasonable.


(j) An application for a new fixed earth station or modification involving alteration of the overall height of one or more existing earth station antenna structures must include the FCC Antenna Structure Registration Number(s) for the antenna structure(s), if assigned. If no such number has been assigned, the application must state whether prior FAA notification is required by part 17 of this chapter and, if so, whether the applicant or owner of the structure has notified the FAA of the proposed construction or alteration and applied for an Antenna Structure Registration Number in accordance with part 17 of this chapter. Applicants who maintain that prior FAA notification is not required for construction or alteration of a structure with overall height more than 6.1 meters above ground level must explain in the application why such prior notification is not required.


(k) *Permitted Space Station List.* (1) Applicants for FSS earth stations that qualify for routine processing in the conventional or extended C-bands, the conventional or extended Ku-bands, the conventional or extended Ka-bands, or the 24.75-25.25 GHz band, including ESV applications filed pursuant to paragraph (m)(1) or (n)(1) of this section, VMES applications filed pursuant to paragraph (m)(1) or (n)(1) of this section, and ESAA applications filed pursuant to paragraph (m)(1) or (n)(1) of this section, may designate the Permitted Space Station List as a point of communication. Once such an application is granted, the earth station operator may communicate with any space station on the Permitted Space Station List, provided that the operation is consistent with the technical parameters and conditions in the earth station license and any limitations placed on the space station authorization or noted in the Permitted Space Station List.


(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (k)(1) of this section, an earth station that would receive signals in the 17.7-20.2 GHz band may not communicate with a space station on the Permitted Space Station List in that band until the space station operator has completed coordination under Footnote US334 to § 2.106 of this chapter.


(l) The requirements of this paragraph apply to applications for ESV operation in the 5925-6425 MHz (Earth-to-space) band with GSO satellites in the Fixed-Satellite Service, in addition to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1), (5), (6), and (i) of this section:


(1) Applications where any necessary frequency coordination has been satisfactorily completed, and the proposed earth station transmissions comport with the applicable provisions in § 25.212(d) or the applicable off-axis EIRP density limits in § 25.218(d) will be routinely processed. Such applications must include the relevant information specified by paragraph (g) of this section. Applicants for ESIMs operating in a network using variable power density control of earth stations transmitting simultaneously in shared frequencies to the same target satellite receiving beam must also provide the certification required by § 25.212(g) or § 25.218(d)(4), whichever is applicable.


(2) Applications where the proposed earth station transmissions do not comport with the applicable provisions in § 25.212(d) or the applicable off-axis EIRP density limits in § 25.218(d) must include the information specified by paragraph (g)(1) of this section, and are subject to the requirements of § 25.220.


(3) Applications must include the following information:


(i) ESIM applicants that meet the relevant off-axis EIRP density mask must certify that an ESIM system is self-monitoring and capable of automatically ceasing or reducing emissions within 100 milliseconds if the ESIM transmitter exceeds the relevant off-axis EIRP density limits. ESIM applicants that do not meet the relevant off-axis EIRP density mask must provide a detailed showing that an ESIM system is self-monitoring and capable of automatically ceasing or reducing emissions within 100 milliseconds if the ESIM transmitter exceeds the relevant off-axis EIRP density limits. Variable-power ESIM applicants must certify that one or more transmitters are capable of automatically ceasing or reducing emissions within 100 milliseconds of receiving a command to do so from the system's network control and monitoring center, if the aggregate off axis EIRP densities of the transmitter or transmitters exceed the relevant off-axis EIRP density limits.


(ii) An exhibit describing the geographic area(s) in which the ESVs will operate.


(iii) The point of contact information referred to in § 25.228(e)(2).


(iv) Applicants for ESVs that will exceed the guidelines in § 1.1310 of this chapter for radio frequency radiation exposure must provide, with their environmental assessment, a plan for mitigation of radiation exposure to the extent required to meet those guidelines.


(m) The requirements of this paragraph apply to applications for ESIM operation in the 14.0-14.5 GHz (Earth-to-space) band with GSO satellites in the Fixed-Satellite Service, in addition to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (5) and (i) of this section:


(1) Applications where any necessary frequency coordination has been satisfactorily completed, and the proposed earth station transmissions comport with the applicable provisions in § 25.212(c)(2) or the applicable off-axis EIRP density limits in § 25.218(f) will be routinely processed. Such applications must include the relevant information specified by paragraph (g) of this section. Applicants for ESIMs operating in a network using variable power density control of earth stations transmitting simultaneously in shared frequencies to the same target satellite receiving beam must also provide the certification required by § 25.212(g) or § 25.218(f)(4), whichever is applicable.


(2) Applications where the proposed earth station transmissions do not comport with the applicable provisions in § 25.212(c)(2) or the applicable off-axis EIRP density limits in § 25.218(f) must include the information specified by paragraph (g)(1) of this section, and are subject to the requirements of § 25.220.


(3) Applications must include the following information:


(i) ESIM applicants that meet the relevant off-axis EIRP density mask must certify that an ESIM system is self-monitoring and capable of automatically ceasing or reducing emissions within 100 milliseconds if the ESIM transmitter exceeds the relevant off-axis EIRP density limits. ESIM applicants that do not meet the relevant off-axis EIRP density mask must provide a detailed showing that an ESIM system is self-monitoring and capable of automatically ceasing or reducing emissions within 100 milliseconds if the ESIM transmitter exceeds the relevant off-axis EIRP density limits. Variable-power ESIM applicants must certify that one or more transmitters are capable of automatically ceasing or reducing emissions within 100 milliseconds of receiving a command to do so from the system's network control and monitoring center, if the aggregate off axis EIRP densities of the transmitter or transmitters exceed the relevant off-axis EIRP density limits.


(ii) An exhibit describing the geographic area(s) in which the ESIMs will operate.


(iii) The point of contact information referred to in § 25.228(e)(2), (f), or (g)(1) as appropriate.


(iv) Applicants for ESIMs that will exceed the guidelines in § 1.1310 of this chapter for radio frequency radiation exposure must provide, with their environmental assessment, a plan for mitigation of radiation exposure to the extent required to meet those guidelines.


(n) The requirements of this paragraph apply to applications for ESIM operation in the 28.35-28.6 GHz or 29.25-30.0 GHz (Earth-to-space) band with GSO satellites in the Fixed-Satellite Service, in addition to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (5) and (i) of this section:


(1) Applications where any necessary frequency coordination has been satisfactorily completed, and the proposed earth station transmissions comport with the applicable provisions in § 25.212(e) or the applicable off-axis EIRP density limits in § 25.218(i) will be routinely processed. Such applications must include the relevant information specified by paragraph (g) of this section. Applicants for ESIMs operating in a network using variable power density control of earth stations transmitting simultaneously in shared frequencies to the same target satellite receiving beam must also provide the certification required by § 25.212(g) or § 25.218(i)(5), whichever is applicable.


(2) Applications where the proposed earth station transmissions do not comport with the applicable provisions in § 25.212(e) or the applicable off-axis EIRP density limits in § 25.218(i) must include the information specified by paragraph (g)(1) of this section, and are subject to the requirements of § 25.220.


(3) Applications must include the following information:


(i) ESIM applicants that meet the relevant off-axis EIRP density mask must certify that an ESIM system is self-monitoring and capable of automatically ceasing or reducing emissions within 100 milliseconds if the ESIM transmitter exceeds the relevant off-axis EIRP density limits. ESIM applicants that do not meet the relevant off-axis EIRP density mask must provide a detailed showing that an ESIM system is self-monitoring and capable of automatically ceasing or reducing emissions within 100 milliseconds if the ESIM transmitter exceeds the relevant off-axis EIRP density limits. Variable-power ESIM applicants must certify that one or more transmitters are capable of automatically ceasing or reducing emissions within 100 milliseconds of receiving a command to do so from the system's network control and monitoring center, if the aggregate off axis EIRP densities of the transmitter or transmitters exceed the relevant off-axis EIRP density limits.


(ii) An exhibit describing the geographic area(s) in which the ESIMs will operate.


(iii) The point of contact information referred to in § 25.228(e)(2), (f), or (g)(1) as appropriate.


(iv) Applicants for ESIMs that will exceed the guidelines in § 1.1310 of this chapter for radio frequency radiation exposure must provide, with their environmental assessment, a plan for mitigation of radiation exposure to the extent required to meet those guidelines.


(o) The requirements in this paragraph apply to applications for ESIMs operation with NGSO satellites in the Fixed-Satellite Service, in addition to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(5), and (i) of this section:


(1) An exhibit describing the geographic area(s) in which the ESIMs will operate and the location of hub and/or gateway stations.


(2) The point of contact information referred to in § 25.228(e)(2), (f), or (g)(1) as appropriate.


(3) Applicants for ESIMs that will exceed the guidelines in § 1.1310 of this chapter for radio frequency radiation exposure must provide, with their environmental assessment, a plan for mitigation of radiation exposure to the extent required to meet those guidelines.


(p) The licensee and grantees shall ensure compliance with the Commission's radio frequency exposure requirements in §§ 1.1307(b), 2.1091, and 2.1093 of this chapter, as appropriate. An Environmental Assessment may be required if RF radiation from the proposed facilities would, in combination with radiation from other sources, cause RF power density or field strength in an accessible area to exceed the applicable limits specified in § 1.1310 of this chapter. *See* § 1.1307(b)(5)(ii).


(q) *SCS earth stations.* An applicant seeking to use SCS earth stations to provide SCS must comply with § 25.125.


(1) A satellite operator licensed under § 25.125 to provide SCS is permitted to communicate with all terrestrial wireless licensee(s)-associated SCS earth stations that have been approved for such use under part 2 of this chapter.


(i) Such earth stations must show compliance with this part and at least one of either part 22, 24, or 27 of this chapter to provide SCS within the technical parameters and provisions associated with the device certification.


(ii) The device certification must show compliance with the licensed parameters of the terrestrial wireless license(s) and at least one of either part 22, 24, or 27 of this chapter, as applicable.


(2) An earth station may be used for the provision of SCS when:


(i) The satellite operator licensed under § 25.125 is a party to a valid and approved spectrum leasing arrangement or agreement pursuant to § 1.9047 of this chapter with at least one terrestrial wireless licensee(s) licensed under one of either part 22, 24, or 27 of this chapter; and


(ii) That terrestrial wireless licensee(s) has met and operates within all conditions associated with the relevant terrestrial wireless license(s).


(3) A satellite operator authorized to provide SCS under § 25.125 is authorized under paragraph (q)(1) of this section to communicate with SCS earth stations for any period during which each of the following apply:


(i) The service is provided during the valid duration of any spectrum leasing arrangement or agreement pursuant to § 1.9047 of this chapter between the terrestrial wireless licensee(s) and satellite operator;


(ii) The devices to which service is provided are certified under part 2 of this chapter; and


(iii) The terrestrial wireless licensee(s) is a valid licensee(s) under part 22, 24, or 27 of this chapter.


(4) A satellite operator with SCS authorization via a market access grant can avail itself of the provisions of this paragraph (q) but, in addition to the parameters established in paragraphs (q)(1) and (2) of this section, must also comply with any additional parameters included in the satellite operator's space station market access grant.


(5) A satellite operator operating in conformance with the parameters established in this part does not need a separate earth station authorization for the provision of SCS under this part.



---

[N] [62 FR 5928, Feb. 10, 1997]


