# § 724.805   Response to items submitted as issues by the applicant.

(a) *General guidance.* (1) If any issue submitted by an applicant contains two or more clearly separate issues, the NDRB should respond to each issue under the guidance of this paragraph as if it had been set forth separately by the applicant.


(2) If an applicant uses a “building block” approach (that is, setting forth a series of conclusions on issues that lead to a single conclusion purportedly warranting a change in the applicant's discharge), normally there should be a separate response to each issue.


(3) Nothing in this paragraph precludes the NDRB from making a single response to multiple issues when such action would enhance the clarity of the decisional document, but such response must reflect an adequate response to each separate issue.


(b) *Decisional issues.* An item submitted as an issue by an applicant in accordance with this Manual shall be addressed as a decisional issue in the following circumstances:


(1) When the NDRB decides that a change in discharge should be granted, and the NDRB bases its decision in whole or in part on the applicant's issue; or


(2) When the NDRB does not provide the applicant with the full change in discharge requested, and the decision is based in whole or in part on the NDRB's disagreement on the merits with an issue submitted by the applicant.


(c) *Response to items not addressed as decisional issues.* (1) If the applicant receives the full change in discharge requested (or a more favorable change), that fact shall be noted and the basis shall be addressed as a decisional issue. No further response is required to other issues submitted by the applicant.


(2) If the applicant does not receive the full change in discharge requested with respect to either the character of or reason for discharge (or both), the NDRB shall address the items submitted by the applicant under § 724.806, (Decisional Issues) unless one of the following responses is applicable:


(i) *Duplicate issues.* The NDRB may state that there is a full response to the issue submitted by the applicant under a specified decisional issue. This response may be used only when one issue clearly duplicates another or the issue clearly requires discussion in conjunction with another issue.


(ii) *Citations without principles and facts.* The NDRB may state that the applicant's issue, which consists of a citation to a decision without setting forth any principles and facts from the decision that the applicant states are relevant to the applicant's case, does not comply with the requirements of § 724.802(b)(4).


(iii) *Unclear issues.* The NDRB may state that it cannot respond to an item submitted by the applicant as an issue because the meaning of the item is unclear. An issue is unclear if it cannot be understood by a reasonable person familiar with the discharge review process after a review of the materials considered.


(iv) *Nonspecific issues.* The NDRB may state that it cannot respond to an item submitted by the applicant as an issue because it is not specific. A submission is considered not specific if a reasonable person familiar with the discharge review process after a review of the materials considered cannot determine the relationship between the applicant's submission and the particular circumstances of the case. This response may be used only if the submission is expressed in such general terms that no other response is applicable. For example, if the NDRB disagrees with the applicant as to the relevance of matters set forth in the submission, the NDRB normally will set forth the nature of the disagreement with respect to decisional issues, or it will reject the applicant's position. If the applicant's submission is so general that none of those provisions is applicable, then the NDRB may state that it cannot respond because the item is not specific.




