# § 162.52   Disposition of proceeds of sale of property seized and forfeited under 19 U.S.C. 1592.

(a) *Order of disposition of proceeds.* Section 613 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1613), provides for the disposition of the proceeds from the sale of property seized and forfeited under section 592, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1592), as provided for in § 162.75 of this part. Distribution shall be made in the following order:


(1) Internal revenue taxes.


(2) Marshal's fees and court costs.


(3) Expenses of advertising and sale.


(4) Expenses of cartage, storage, and labor. When proceeds are insufficient to pay these expenses fully, they shall be paid pro rata.


(5) Duties.


(6) Any sum due to satisfy a lien for freight, charges, or contributions in general average, provided notice of the lien has been given in the manner prescribed by law.


(7) The monetary penalty assessed under 19 U.S.C. 1592.


(8) The remaining proceeds, if any, shall be paid to the appropriate party-in-interest as provided in paragraph (b).


(b) *Determination of appropriate party-in-interest.* (1) If the property is subject to a judicial forfeiture proceeding and if it appears at the time of this proceeding that 2 or more parties claim an interest in the remaining proceeds referred to in paragraph (a)(8), each of the parties shall be joined in the proceeding so that the issue of proper distribution may be determined by the court.


(2) If the property is sold under the summary forfeiture procedure, or if the court has not specified the manner of distribution, the Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer shall hold the excess proceeds for 3 months from the date of the sale to allow any party-in-interest to claim the proceeds.


(3) If there is one alleged violator and no petition has been filed for the excess proceeds by another person, the excess proceeds shall be disbursed to the person against whom the penalty was assessed.


(4) If there are 2 or more persons with claims or possible claims to the excess proceeds, the Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer shall attempt to obtain a written agreement from the parties as to the distribution. If an agreement cannot be reached, the matter shall be referred to Customs Headquarters for determination.


(c) *Official use of seized and forfeited property.* If the seized and forfeited property has been authorized for official use, its retention or delivery shall be regarded as a “sale” for the purposes of section 613, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1613). The appropriation available to the receiving agency for the purchase, hire, operation, maintenance, and repair of the type of property involved shall be distributed as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b).



---

[N] [T.D. 79-160, 44 FR 31958, June 4, 1979, as amended by T.D. 99-27, 64 FR 13676, Mar. 22, 1999]




