# ยง 352.308   Effecting employment by transfer.

(a) *Authority to approve transfers.* On written request by an international organization for the services of an employee, the agency may authorize the transfer of the employee to the organization for any period not to exceed 5 years, except that when the Secretary of State determines it to be in the national interest, a period of employment by transfer may be extended, subject to the approval of the head of the agency, for up to an additional 3 years. A transfer or series of transfers or combination of details and transfers shall not exceed 8 years in the aggregate. Refusal by the head of the agency to authorize the transfer or the extension of the transfer is not reviewable by or appealable to OPM. 


(b) *Letter of consent.* When an agency consents to the transfer of an employee, the agency shall give its consent in writing to the international organization and shall furnish the employee with a copy of the consent. 


(c) *Effective date.* The agency and the international organization shall establish the effective date of transfer by mutual agreement. 


(d) *Recording requirement.* The agency must furnish the employee with a leave statement, showing his or her annual and sick leave balances at the time of transfer. In addition, the notification of personnel action effecting the employee's separation for transfer must include:


(1) Identification of the international organization to which the employee is transferring,


(2) A clear statement of the period during which the employee has reemployment rights in the agency under section 3582 of title 5, United States Code, and this subpart, and


(3) The legal and regulatory conditions for reemployment.



---

[N] [35 FR 16525, Oct. 23, 1970, as amended at 73 FR 64860, Oct. 31, 2008]




