# § 1.422-2   Incentive stock options defined.

(a) *Incentive stock option defined*—(1) *In general.* The term *incentive stock option* means an option that meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section on the date of grant. An incentive stock option is also subject to the $100,000 limitation described in § 1.422-4. An incentive stock option may contain a number of permissible provisions that do not affect the status of the option as an incentive stock option. See § 1.422-5 for rules relating to permissible provisions of an incentive stock option.


(2) *Option requirements.* To qualify as an incentive stock option under this section, an option must be granted to an individual in connection with the individual's employment by the corporation granting such option (or by a related corporation as defined in § 1.421-1(i)(2)), and granted only for stock of any of such corporations. In addition, the option must meet all of the following requirements—


(i) It must be granted pursuant to a plan that meets the requirements described in paragraph (b) of this section;


(ii) It must be granted within 10 years from the date of the adoption of the plan or the date such plan is approved by the stockholders, whichever is earlier (see paragraph (c) of this section);


(iii) It must not be exercisable after the expiration of 10 years from the date of grant (see paragraph (d) of this section);


(iv) It must provide that the option price per share is not less than the fair market value of the share on the date of grant (see paragraph (e) of this section);


(v) By its terms, it must not be transferrable by the individual to whom the option is granted other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and must be exercisable, during such individual's lifetime, only by such individual (see §§ 1.421-1(b)(2) and 1.421-2(c)); and


(vi) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, it must be granted to an individual who, at the time the option is granted, does not own stock possessing more than 10 percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the corporation employing such individual or of any related corporation of such corporation.


(3) *Amendment of option terms.* Except as otherwise provided in § 1.424-1, the amendment of the terms of an incentive stock option may cause it to cease to be an option described in this section. If the terms of an option that has lost its status as an incentive stock option are subsequently changed with the intent to re-qualify the option as an incentive stock option, such change results in the grant of a new option on the date of the change. See § 1.424-1(e).


(4) *Terms provide option not an incentive stock option.* If the terms of an option, when granted, provide that it will not be treated as an incentive stock option, such option is not treated as an incentive stock option.


(b) *Option plan*—(1) *In general.* An incentive stock option must be granted pursuant to a plan that meets the requirements of this paragraph (b). The authority to grant other stock options or other stock-based awards pursuant to the plan, where the exercise of such other options or awards does not affect the exercise of incentive stock options granted pursuant to the plan, does not disqualify such incentive stock options. The plan must be in writing or electronic form, provided that such writing or electronic form is adequate to establish the terms of the plan. See § 1.422-5 for rules relating to permissible provisions of an incentive stock option.


(2) *Stockholder approval.* (i) The plan required by this paragraph (b) must be approved by the stockholders of the corporation granting the incentive stock option within 12 months before or after the date such plan is adopted. Ordinarily, a plan is adopted when it is approved by the granting corporation's board of directors, and the date of the board's action is the reference point for determining whether stockholder approval occurs within the applicable 24-month period. However, if the board's action is subject to a condition (such as stockholder approval) or the happening of a particular event, the plan is adopted on the date the condition is met or the event occurs, unless the board's resolution fixes the date of approval as the date of the board's action.


(ii) For purposes of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the stockholder approval must comply with the rules described in § 1.422-3.


(iii) The provisions relating to the maximum aggregate number of shares to be issued under the plan (described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section) and the employees (or class or classes of employees) eligible to receive options under the plan (described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section) are the only provisions of a stock option plan that, if changed, must be re-approved by stockholders for purposes of section 422(b)(1). Any increase in the maximum aggregate number of shares that may be issued under the plan (other than an increase merely reflecting a change in the number of outstanding shares, such as a stock dividend or stock split), or change in the designation of the employees (or class or classes of employees) eligible to receive options under the plan is considered the adoption of a new plan requiring stockholder approval within the prescribed 24-month period. In addition, a change in the granting corporation or the stock available for purchase or award under the plan is considered the adoption of a new plan requiring new stockholder approval within the prescribed 24-month period. Any other changes in the terms of an incentive stock option plan are not considered the adoption of a new plan and, thus, do not require stockholder approval.


(3) *Maximum aggregate number of shares.* (i) The plan required by this paragraph (b) must designate the maximum aggregate number of shares that may be issued under the plan through incentive stock options. If nonstatutory options or other stock-based awards may be granted, the plan may separately designate terms for each type of option or other stock-based awards and designate the maximum number of shares that may be issued under such option or other stock-based awards. Unless otherwise specified, all terms of the plan apply to all options and other stock-based awards that may be granted under the plan.


(ii) A plan that merely provides that the number of shares that may be issued as incentive stock options under such plan may not exceed a stated percentage of the shares outstanding at the time of each offering or grant under such plan does not satisfy the requirement that the plan state the maximum aggregate number of shares that may be issued under the plan. However, the maximum aggregate number of shares that may be issued under the plan may be stated in terms of a percentage of the authorized, issued, or outstanding shares at the date of the adoption of the plan. The plan may specify that the maximum aggregate number of shares available for grants under the plan may increase annually by a specified percentage of the authorized, issued, or outstanding shares at the date of the adoption of the plan. A plan which provides that the maximum aggregate number of shares that may be issued as incentive stock options under the plan may change based on any other specified circumstances satisfies the requirements of this paragraph (b)(3) only if the stockholders approve an immediately determinable maximum aggregate number of shares that may be issued under the plan in any event.


(iii) It is permissible for the plan to provide that, shares purchasable under the plan may be supplied to the plan through acquisitions of stock on the open market; shares purchased under the plan and forfeited back to the plan; shares surrendered in payment of the exercise price of an option; shares withheld for payment of applicable employment taxes and/or withholding obligations resulting from the exercise of an option.


(iv) If there is more than one plan under which incentive stock options may be granted and stockholders of the granting corporation merely approve a maximum aggregate number of shares that are available for issuance under such plans, the stockholder approval requirements described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section are not satisfied. A separate maximum aggregate number of shares available for issuance pursuant to incentive stock options must be approved for each plan.


(4) *Designation of employees.* The plan described in this paragraph (b), as adopted and approved, must indicate the employees (or class or classes of employees) eligible to receive the options or other stock-based awards to be granted under the plan. This requirement is satisfied by a general designation of the employees (or the class or classes of employees) eligible to receive options or other stock-based awards under the plan. Designations such as “key employees of the grantor corporation”; “all salaried employees of the grantor corporation and its subsidiaries, including subsidiaries which become such after adoption of the plan;” or “all employees of the corporation” meet this requirement. This requirement is considered satisfied even though the board of directors, another group, or an individual is given the authority to select the particular employees who are to receive options or other stock-based awards from a described class and to determine the number of shares to be optioned or granted to each such employee. If individuals other than employees may be granted options or other stock-based awards under the plan, the plan must separately designate the employees or classes of employees eligible to receive incentive stock options.


(5) *Conflicting option terms.* An option on stock available for purchase or grant under the plan is treated as having been granted pursuant to a plan even if the terms of the option conflict with the terms of the plan, unless such option is granted to an employee who is ineligible to receive options under the plan, options have been granted on stock in excess of the aggregate number of shares which may be issued under the plan, or the option provides otherwise.


(6) The following examples illustrate the principles of this paragraph (b):


(c) *Duration of option grants under the plan.* An incentive stock option must be granted within 10 years from the date that the plan under which it is granted is adopted or the date such plan is approved by the stockholders, whichever is earlier. To grant incentive stock options after the expiration of the 10-year period, a new plan must be adopted and approved.


(d) *Period for exercising options.* An incentive stock option, by its terms, must not be exercisable after the expiration of 10 years from the date such option is granted, or 5 years from the date such option is granted to an employee described in paragraph (f) of this section. An option that does not contain such a provision when granted is not an incentive stock option.


(e) *Option price.* (1) Except as provided by paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the option price of an incentive stock option must not be less than the fair market value of the stock subject to the option at the time the option is granted. The option price may be determined in any reasonable manner, including the valuation methods permitted under § 20.2031-2 of this chapter, so long as the minimum price possible under the terms of the option is not less than the fair market value of the stock on the date of grant. For general rules relating to the option price, see § 1.421-1(e). For rules relating to the determination of when an option is granted, see § 1.421-1(c).


(2)(i) If a share of stock is transferred to an individual pursuant to the exercise of an option which fails to qualify as an incentive stock option merely because there was a failure of an attempt, made in good faith, to meet the option price requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the requirements of such paragraph are considered to have been met. Whether there was a good-faith attempt to set the option price at not less than the fair market value of the stock subject to the option at the time the option was granted depends on the relevant facts and circumstances.


(ii) For publicly held stock that is actively traded on an established market at the time the option is granted, determining the fair market value of such stock by the appropriate method described in § 20.2031-2 of this chapter establishes that a good-faith attempt to meet the option price requirements of this paragraph (e) was made.


(iii) For non-publicly traded stock, if it is demonstrated, for example, that the fair market value of the stock at the date of grant was based upon an average of the fair market values as of such date set forth in the opinions of completely independent and well-qualified experts, such a demonstration generally establishes that there was a good-faith attempt to meet the option price requirements of this paragraph (e). The optionee's status as a majority or minority stockholder may be taken into consideration.


(iv) Regardless of whether the stock offered under an option is publicly traded, a good-faith attempt to meet the option price requirements of this paragraph (e) is not demonstrated unless the fair market value of the stock on the date of grant is determined with regard to *nonlapse restrictions* (as defined in § 1.83-3(h)) and without regard to *lapse restrictions* (as defined in § 1.83-3(i)).


(v) Amounts treated as interest and amounts paid as interest under a deferred payment arrangement are not includible as part of the option price. See § 1.421-1(e)(1). An attempt to set the option price at not less than fair market value is not regarded as made in good faith where an adjustment of the option price to reflect amounts treated as interest results in the option price being lower than the fair market value on which the option price was based.


(3) Notwithstanding that the option price requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section are satisfied by an option granted to an employee whose stock ownership exceeds the limitation provided by paragraph (f) of this section, such option is not an incentive stock option when granted unless it also complies with paragraph (f) of this section. If the option, when granted, does not comply with the requirements described in paragraph (f) of this section, such option can never become an incentive stock option, even if the employee's stock ownership does not exceed the limitation of paragraph (f) of this section when such option is exercised.


(f) *Options granted to certain stockholders.* (1) If, immediately before an option is granted, an individual owns (or is treated as owning) stock possessing more than 10 percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the corporation employing the optionee or of any related corporation of such corporation, then an option granted to such individual cannot qualify as an incentive stock option unless the option price is at least 110 percent of the stock's fair market value on the date of grant and such option by its terms is not exercisable after the expiration of 5 years from the date of grant. For purposes of determining the minimum option price for purposes of this paragraph (f), the rules described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, relating to the good-faith determination of the option price, do not apply.


(2) For purposes of determining the stock ownership of the optionee, the stock attribution rules of § 1.424-1(d) apply. Stock that the optionee may purchase under outstanding options is not treated as stock owned by the individual. The determination of the percentage of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the employer corporation (or of its related corporations) that is owned by the optionee is made with respect to each such corporation in the related group by comparing the voting power of the shares owned (or treated as owned) by the optionee to the aggregate voting power of all shares of each such corporation actually issued and outstanding immediately before the grant of the option to the optionee. The aggregate voting power of all shares actually issued and outstanding immediately before the grant of the option does not include the voting power of treasury shares or shares authorized for issue under outstanding options held by the individual or any other person.


(3) *Examples.* The rules of this paragraph (f) are illustrated by the following examples:



---

[N] [T.D. 9144, 69 FR 46412, Aug. 3, 2004; T.D. 9471, 74 FR 59077, Nov. 17, 2009]




