# ยง 1.423   Post-hearing procedure.

(a) *Corrections to transcript.* (1) Within the period of time fixed by the Judge, any party may file a motion proposing corrections to the transcript.


(2) Unless a party files such motion in the manner prescribed, the transcript shall be presumed, except for obvious typographical errors, to be complete.


(3) As soon as practicable after the close of the hearing and after consideration of any timely objections filed as to the transcript, the Judge shall issue an order making any corrections to the transcript which the Judge finds are warranted, which corrections shall be entered onto the original transcript by the Hearing Clerk (without obscuring the origianl text).


(b) *Proposed findings of fact, conclusions, order, and brief.* Prior to the close of the hearing, each party may submit for consideration proposed findings of fact, conclusions, order, and brief in support thereof. A copy of each such document filed by a party shall be served upon each of the other parties.


(c) *Judge's decision.* (1) The Judge may, upon motion of any party or in his or her own discretion, issue a decision orally at the close of the hearing, or within 10 calendar days after the close of the hearing, or within 10 calendar days after submission of the record, if no hearing is requested.


(2) If the decision is announced orally, a copy thereof, excerpted from the transcript of the record, shall be furnished to the parties by the Hearing Clerk. Irrespective of the date such copy is mailed, the issuance date of the decision shall be the date the oral decision was announced.


(3) If the decision is in writing, it shall be filed with the Hearing Clerk and served upon the parties as provided in ยง 1.427.


(4) The Judge's decision shall become effective without further proceedings 21 calendar days after the issuance of the decision, if announced orally at the hearing, or if the decision is in writing, 21 calendar days after the date of service thereof upon the respondent, unless there is an appeal to the Judicial Officer by a party to the proceeding pursuant to ยง 1.426; *Provided, however,* that no decision shall be final for purposes of judicial review except a final decision of the Judicial Officer upon appeal.


(5) The Judicial Officer shall issue a decision within 10 calendar days of the receipt of the response to the appeal.




