# § 32.50-20   Cargo piping for tank vessels constructed between November 10, 1936, and July 1, 1951—TB/ALL.

(a) On tank vessels, the construction or conversion of which is started on or after November 10, 1936, and prior to July 1, 1951, the piping shall be arranged so as to avoid excessive stresses at the joints. For sizes exceeding 2 inches in diameter, flanged, welded, or other approved types of joints shall be employed. Packing material shall be suitable for the cargo carried. Connections at bulkheads shall be made so that the plating does not form part of a flanged joint. Piping may be carried through bunker spaces and deep tanks provided it is run through a pipe tunnel. The tunnel may be omitted where the pipe is extra heavy, all joints are welded, and bends are installed to provide for expansion and contraction. 


(b) Cargo piping shall not pass through spaces containing machinery where sources of vapor ignition are normally present: *Provided,* That in special cases the Commandant may permit the piping to pass through such spaces if Grade E liquids only are involved. 


(c) Valve operating rods in the cargo tanks shall be solid and of ample size, well guided and supported, and attached to the valve stems in a manner to guard against their working loose. Where such valve rods pass through the deck, gas tight stuffing boxes shall be fitted. The leads of valve rods shall be as direct as possible. All valves and fittings shall be of material, design, and manufacture for the intended service on the cargo system; either rising or nonrising stem valves may be used. 




