# § 60.741   Definitions, symbols, and cross-reference tables.

(a) All terms used in this subpart not defined below have the meaning given to them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.


*Coating applicator* means any apparatus used to apply a coating to a continuous substrate.


*Coating mix preparation equipment* means all mixing vessels in which solvent and other materials are blended to prepare polymeric coatings. 


*Coating operation* means any coating applicator(s), flashoff area(s), and drying oven(s) located between a substrate unwind station and a rewind station that coats a continuous web to produce a substrate with a polymeric coating. Should the coating process not employ a rewind station, the end of the coating operation is after the last drying oven in the process.


*Common emission control device* means a device controlling emissions from an affected coating operation as well as from any other emission source.


*Concurrent* means the period of time in which construction of an emission control device serving an affected facility is commenced or completed, beginning 6 months prior to the date that construction of the affected facility commences and ending 2 years after the date that construction of the affected facility is completed.


*Control device* means any apparatus that reduces the quantity of a pollutant emitted to the air.


*Cover* means, with respect to coating mix preparation equipment, a device that fits over the equipment opening to prevent emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOC) from escaping.


*Drying oven* means a chamber within which heat is used to dry a surface coating; drying may be the only process or one of multiple processes performed in the chamber.


*Equivalent diameter* means four times the area of an opening divided by its perimeter.


*Flashoff area* means the portion of a coating operation between the coating applicator and the drying oven where VOC begins to evaporate from the coated substrate.


*Natural draft opening* means any opening in a room, building, or total enclosure that remains open during operation of the facility and that is not connected to a duct in which a fan is installed. The rate and direction of the natural draft across such an opening is a consequence of the difference in pressures on either side of the wall or barrier containing the opening.


*Nominal 1-month period* means a calendar month or, if established prior to the performance test in a statement submitted with notification of anticipated startup pursuant to 40 CFR 60.7(a)(2), a similar monthly time period (e.g., 30-day month or accounting month).


*Onsite coating mix preparation equipment* means those pieces of coating mix preparation equipment located at the same plant as the coating operation they serve.


*Polymeric coating of supporting substrates* means a web coating process that applies elastomers, polymers, or prepolymers to a supporting web other than paper, plastic film, metallic foil, or metal coil.


*Substrate* means the surface to which a coating is applied.


*Temporary enclosure* means a total enclosure that is constructed for the sole purpose of measuring the fugitive VOC emissions from an affected facility.


*Total enclosure* means a structure that is constructed around a source of emissions and operated so that all VOC emissions are collected and exhausted through a stack or duct. With a total enclosure, there will be no fugitive emissions, only stack emissions. The drying oven itself may be part of the total enclosure. 


*Vapor capture system* means any device or combination of devices designed to contain, collect, and route solvent vapors released from the coating mix preparation equipment or coating operation. 


*VOC in the applied coating* means the product of Method 24 VOC analyses or formulation data (if those data are demonstrated to be equivalent to Method 24 results) and the total volume of coating fed to the coating applicator. 


*VOC used* means the amount of VOC delivered to the coating mix preparation equipment of the affected facility (including any contained in premixed coatings or other coating ingredients prepared off the plant site) for the formulation of polymeric coatings to be applied to supporting substrates at the coating operation, plus any solvent added after initial formulation is complete (e.g., dilution solvent added at the coating operation). If premixed coatings that require no mixing at the plant site are used, “VOC used” means the amount of VOC delivered to the coating applicator(s) of the affected facility. 


*Volatile organic compounds* or *VOC* means any organic compounds that participate in atmospheric photochemical reactions; or that are measured by a reference method, an equivalent method, an alternative method, or that are determined by procedures specified under any subpart. 


*Waterborne coating* means a coating which contains more than 5 weight percent water in its volatile fraction. 


*Web coating* means the coating of products, such as fabric, paper, plastic film, metallic foil, metal coil, cord, and yarn, that are flexible enough to be unrolled from a large roll; and coated as a continuous substrate by methods including, but not limited to, knife coating, roll coating, dip coating, impregnation, rotogravure, and extrusion. 


(b) The nomenclature used in this subpart has the following meaning:


(c) Tables 1a and 1b present a cross reference of the affected facility status and the relevant section(s) of the regulation. 


