# § 416.1503   Definitions.

As used in this subpart:


*Affiliate* means to associate with an entity through our prescribed registration process.


*Assignment* means the transfer of the right to receive direct payment of an authorized fee to an entity as described in § 416.1530(e).


*Date we notify him or her* means 5 days after the date on the notice, unless the recipient shows us that he or she did not receive it within the 5-day period.


*Eligible non-attorney* means a non-attorney representative who we determine is qualified to receive direct payment of his or her fee under § 416.1517(a).


*Entity* means any business, firm, or other association, including but not limited to partnerships, corporations, for-profit organizations, and not-for-profit organizations.


*Federal agency* refers to any authority of the Executive branch of the Government of the United States.


*Federal program* refers to any program established by an Act of Congress or administered in whole or in part by a Federal agency.


*Legal guardian or court-appointed representative* means a court-appointed person, committee, or conservator who is responsible for taking care of and managing the property and rights of an individual who is considered incapable of managing his or her own affairs.


*Past-due benefits* means the total amount of payments under title XVI of the Act, the Supplemental Security Income (SSI) program, including any Federally administered State payments, that has accumulated to you and your spouse because of a favorable administrative or judicial determination or decision, up to but not including the month the determination or decision is made. For purposes of calculating fees for representation, we first determine the SSI past-due benefits before any applicable reduction for reimbursement to a State (or political subdivision) for interim assistance reimbursement, and before any applicable reduction under section 1127 of the Act (for receipt of benefits for the same period under title II). We then reduce that figure by the amount of any reduction of title II or title XVI benefits that was required by section 1127. We do this whether the actual offset, as provided under section 1127, reduced the title II or title XVI benefits. Past-due benefits do not include:


(1) Continued benefits paid pursuant to § 416.996 of this part;


(2) Continued benefits paid pursuant to § 416.1336(b) of this part; or


(3) Interim benefits paid pursuant to section 1631(a)(8) of the Act.


*Point of Contact* means an individual who registers as a representative in the manner we prescribe and is selected by an entity to speak and act on the entity's behalf and who assumes the affirmative duties and obligations we prescribe.


*Registration* means a process by which an individual or entity provides the information we require to conduct business with us.


*Representational services* means services performed for a claimant in connection with any claim the claimant has before us, any asserted right the claimant may have for an initial or reconsidered determination, and any decision or action by an administrative law judge or the Appeals Council.


*Representative* means an attorney who meets all of the requirements of § 416.1505(a), or a person other than an attorney who meets all of the requirements of § 416.1505(b), and whom you appoint to represent you in dealings with us. For purposes of our Rules of conduct and standards of responsibility for representatives in §§ 416.1540 through 416.1599, *Representative* also includes an individual who provides representational services and an individual who is listed as a point of contact for an entity, as applicable to their identified role.


*We, our,* or *us* refers to the Social Security Administration (SSA).


*You* or *your* refers to any person or the eligible spouse of any person claiming or receiving supplemental security income benefits.



---

[N] [45 FR 52106, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 62 FR 38455, July 18, 1997; 72 FR 16725, Apr. 5, 2007; 74 FR 48384, Sept. 23, 2009; 76 FR 45194, July 28, 2011; 76 FR 80247, Dec. 23, 2011; 89 FR 67555, Aug. 21, 2024]




