# § 151.1504   Definitions.

The following terms are defined as used in this subpart.


*Alternate management system (AMS)* means a ballast water management system approved by a foreign administration pursuant to the standards set forth in the International Maritime Organization's International BWM Convention, and meeting all applicable requirements of U.S. law, and which is used in lieu of ballast water exchange.


*Ballast tank* means any tank or hold on a vessel used for carrying ballast water, whether or not the tank or hold was designed for that purpose.


*Ballast water* means any water and suspended matter taken on board a vessel to control or maintain, trim, draught, stability, or stresses of the vessel, regardless of how it is carried.


*Ballast water management system (BWMS)* means any system which processes ballast water to kill, render harmless, or remove organisms. The BWMS includes all ballast water treatment equipment and all associated control and monitoring equipment.


*Captain of the Port (COTP)* means the Coast Guard officer designated as COTP of either the Buffalo, NY, Marine Inspection Zone and Captain of the Port Zone or the New York, NY, Captain of the Port Zone described in part 3 of this chapter or an official designated by the COTP.


*Commandant* means the Commandant of the Coast Guard or an authorized representative.


*Constructed* in respect to a vessel means a stage of construction when—


(1) The keel of a vessel is laid;


(2) Construction identifiable with the specific vessel begins;


(3) Assembly of the vessel has commenced and comprises at least 50 tons or 1 percent of the estimated mass of all structural material, whichever is less; or


(4) The vessel undergoes a major conversion.


*Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ)* means the area established by Presidential Proclamation Number 5030, dated March 10, 1983, (48 FR 10605, 3 CFR, 1983 Comp., p. 22), which extends from the base line of the territorial sea of the United States seaward 200 miles, and the equivalent zone of Canada.


*Environmentally sound method* means methods, efforts, actions, or programs, either to prevent introductions or to control infestations of aquatic nuisance species, that minimize adverse impacts to the structure and function of an ecosystem, minimize adverse effects on non-target organisms and ecosystems, and that emphasize integrated pest management techniques and non-chemical measures.


*Great Lakes* means Lake Ontario, Lake Erie, Lake Huron (including Lake Saint Clair), Lake Michigan, Lake Superior, and the connecting channels (Saint Mary's River, Saint Clair River, Detroit River, Niagara River, and Saint Lawrence River to the Canadian border), and includes all other bodies of water within the drainage basin of such lakes and connecting channels.


*Port* means a terminal or group of terminals or any place or facility that has been designated as a port by the COTP.


*Sediments* means any matter settled out of ballast water within a vessel.


*Voyage* means any transit by a vessel destined for the Great Lakes or the Hudson River, north of the George Washington Bridge, from a port or place outside of the EEZ, including intermediate stops at a port or place within the EEZ.


*Waters of the United States* means waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States as defined in 33 CFR 2.38, including the navigable waters of the United States. For 33 CFR part 151, subparts C and D, the navigable waters include the territorial sea as extended to 12 nautical miles from the baseline, pursuant to Presidential Proclamation No. 5928 of December 27, 1988.



---

[N] [CGD 91-066, 58 FR 18334, Apr. 8, 1993, as amended by CGD 94-003, 59 FR 67634, Dec. 30, 1994; USCG-1998-3423, 64 FR 26682, May 17, 1999; USCG-2001-10486, 77 FR 17304, Mar. 23, 2012]




