# 1.109   Statutory acquisition-related dollar thresholds—adjustment for inflation.

(a) 41 U.S.C. 1908 requires that the FAR Council periodically adjust all statutory acquisition-related dollar thresholds in the FAR for inflation, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. This adjustment is calculated every 5 years, starting in October 2005, using the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U), and supersedes the applicability of any other provision of law that provides for the adjustment of such acquisition-related dollar thresholds.


(b) The statute defines an acquisition-related dollar threshold as a dollar threshold that is specified in law as a factor in defining the scope of the applicability of a policy, procedure, requirement, or restriction provided in that law to the procurement of supplies or services by an executive agency, as determined by the FAR Council.


(c) The statute does not permit escalation of acquisition-related dollar thresholds established by:


(1) 40 U.S.C. chapter 31—


(i) Subchapter III, Bonds; and


(ii) Subchapter IV, Wage Rate Requirements (Construction);




(2) 41 U.S.C. chapter 67, Service Contract Labor Standards; or


(3) The United States Trade Representative pursuant to the authority of the Trade Agreements Act of 1979 (19 U.S.C. 2511 *et seq.*).


(d) The statute, as amended by section 821 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Pub. L. 115-91), requires the adjustment described in paragraph (a) of this section be applied to contracts and subcontracts without regard to the date of award of the contract or subcontract. Therefore, if a threshold is adjusted for inflation as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, then the changed threshold applies throughout the remaining term of the contract, unless there is a subsequent threshold adjustment.


(e) A matrix showing calculation of the most recent escalation adjustments of statutory acquisition-related dollar thresholds is available via the Internet at *http://www.regulations.gov* (search FAR case 2019-013, open the docket folder, and go to the supporting documents file).



---

[N] [71 FR 57365, Sept. 28, 2006, as amended at 75 FR 53131, Aug. 30, 2010; 79 FR 24194, Apr. 29, 2014; 80 FR 38295, July 2, 2015; 85 FR 27089, May 6, 2020; 85 FR 62487, Oct. 2, 2020; 88 FR 25477, Apr. 26, 2023]




