# ยง 437.1   Basis, scope, purpose, and applicability.

(a) *Statutory basis.* This subpart is based on sections 1139A, 1139B, 1902(a)(6), 1945(c)(4)(B), 1945(g), and 1945A(g) of the Act.


(b) *Scope.* This subpart sets forth specifications for issuance and updates to the Core Set of Children's Health Care Quality Measures for Medicaid and CHIP (Child Core Set), the Core Set of Adult Health Care Quality Measures for Medicaid (Adult Core Set), and the 1945 and 1945A Core Sets of Health Home Quality Measures for Medicaid (Health Home Core Sets) by the Secretary. It also sets forth requirements related to annual reporting by States of measures in all of the Core Sets, and requirements related to provider reporting to States on the Health Home Core Sets.


(c) *Purpose.* (1) The purpose of the Medicaid and CHIP Child Core Set and the Medicaid Adult Core Set is to measure the overall national quality of care for beneficiaries, monitor performance at the State-level, and improve the quality of health care.


(2) The purpose of the Health Home Core Sets is to measure the overall program quality of health home services for Medicaid beneficiaries enrolled in a health home program under section 1945 or 1945A of the Act, monitor the impact of these two optional State plan benefits, monitor performance of these two benefits at the program level, and improve the quality of health care.


(d) *Applicability.* The provisions of this subpart apply as follows:


(1) For the Child and Adult Core Sets, State includes the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and Guam.


(2) For the Health Home Core Sets, State includes any State (as defined under section 1101 of the Act for purposes of Title XIX of the Act) with an approved Medicaid Health Home State Plan Amendment under section 1945 or 1945A of the Act.


(e) *Applicability dates.* States must comply with the requirements of this subpart by no later than State reporting on the 2024 Core Sets, which must be submitted and certified by December 31, 2024.






