# § 248.213   Plan of action.

(a) *Preparation and submission.* The owner shall submit the plan of action to the Commissioner in such form and manner as the Commissioner shall prescribe. The owner may submit the plan of action simultaneously to any appropriate State or local government agency, which shall, in reviewing the plan, consult with representatives of the tenants of the housing. An owner shall submit the plan of action to the Commissioner in such form and manner as the Commissioner shall prescribe. The owner shall notify the tenants of the plan of action by posting in each occupied building a summary of the plan of action and by delivery of a copy of the plan of action to the tenant representative, if any. In addition, the summary must indicate that a copy of the plan of action shall be available from the tenant representatives, whose names, addresses and telephone numbers are indicated on the summary, the local HUD field office, and the on-site office for the project, or if one is not available, in the location where rents are collected, for inspection and copying, at a reasonable cost, during normal business hours. Simultaneously with the submission to the Commissioner, the owner shall submit the plan of action to that officer of State or local government to whom the owner submitted a notice of intent under § 248.211(b). The summary of the plan of action posted by the owner and the copies of the plan of action submitted to the tenant representative and the officer of State or local government shall all state that, upon request, the tenants and the State or local government, may obtain from the owner or from the local HUD field office a copy of all documentation supporting the plan of action except for that documentation deemed “proprietary information” under § 248.101.


(b) *Contents.* The plan of action shall include:


(1) A description of any proposed changes in the status or terms of the mortgage or regulatory agreement, which may include a request for incentives to extend the low income use of the housing, as authorized under § 248.231 of this part; or may include a request to terminate the insurance contract.


(2) A description of any assistance that could be provided by State or local government agencies, as determined by prior consultation between the owner and the agencies;


(3) A description of any proposed changes in the low income affordability restrictions;


(4) A description of any proposed changes in ownership related to the plan of action, prepayment or termination of mortgage insurance;


(5) An assessment of the effect of the proposed changes on existing tenants.


(6) In the case of a plan of action involving incentives, an appraisal using the residential income approach;


(7) In the case of a plan of action involving the termination of low income affordability restrictions, a statement of the effect, if any, of the proposed changes on the supply of housing affordable to low and very low income families in the community within which the housing is located and in the area that the housing could reasonably be expected to serve; and


(8) A market study which demonstrates that the project is located in a market area that would enable the Commissioner to make the findings set forth at § 248.221(b)(1); and


(9) A list of any waivers requested by the owner pursuant to § 248.7 of this part; and 


(10) Any other information which the owner may choose to submit which would enable the owner to meet the criteria for approval of the proposed plan of action.



---

[N] [55 FR 38952, Sept. 21, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 57 FR 12041, 12060, Apr. 8, 1992; 58 FR 37816, July 13, 1993]




