# ยง 58.59   Public hearings and meetings.

(a) *Factors to consider.* In determining whether or not to hold public hearings in accordance with 40 CFR 1506.6, the responsible entity must consider the following factors: 


(1) The magnitude of the project in terms of economic costs, the geographic area involved, and the uniqueness or size of commitment of resources involved. 


(2) The degree of interest in or controversy concerning the project. 


(3) The complexity of the issues and the likelihood that information will be presented at the hearing which will be of assistance to the responsible entity. 


(4) The extent to which public involvement has been achieved through other means. 


(b) *Procedure.* All public hearings must be preceded by a notice of public hearing, which must be published in the local news media or on an appropriate government website that is accessible to individuals with disabilities and provides meaningful access for individuals with Limited English Proficiency 15 days before the hearing date. The Notice must: 


(1) State the date, time, place, and purpose of the hearing or meeting. 


(2) Describe the project, its estimated costs, and the project area. 


(3) State that persons desiring to be heard on environmental issues will be afforded the opportunity to be heard. 


(4) State the responsible entity's name and address and the name and address of its Certifying Officer. 


(5) State what documents are available, where they can be obtained, and any charges that may apply. 



---

[N] [61 FR 19122, Apr. 30, 1996, as amended at 89 FR 30913, Apr. 23, 2024]




