# § 660.502   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions in the Magnuson-Stevens Act and in § 600.10 of this chapter, the terms used in this subpart have the following meanings:




*Advisory Subpanel* (AP) means the Coastal Pelagic Species Advisory Subpanel that comprises members of the fishing industry and public appointed by the Council to review proposed actions for managing the coastal pelagic fisheries.


*Biomass* means the estimated amount, by weight, of a coastal pelagic species population. The term biomass means total biomass (age 1 and above) unless stated otherwise.


*Coastal pelagic species (CPS)* means northern anchovy (*Engraulis mordax*), Pacific mackerel (*Scomber japonicus*), Pacific sardine (*Sardinops sagax*), jack mackerel (*Trachurus symmetricus*), and market squid (*Loligo opelescens*).


*Coastal Pelagic Species Management Team (CPSMT)* means the individuals appointed by the Council to review, analyze, and develop management measures for the CPS fishery.


*Comparable capacity* means gross tonnage plus 10 percent of the vessel's calculated gross tonnage.


*Council* means the Pacific Fishery Management Council, including its CPSMT, AP, Scientific and Statistical Committee (SSC), and any other committee established by the Council.


*Finfish* means northern anchovy, Pacific mackerel, Pacific sardine, and jack mackerel.


*Fishery Management Area* means the EEZ off the coasts of Washington, Oregon, and California between 3 and 200 nautical miles offshore, bounded in the north by the Provisional International Boundary between the United States and Canada, and bounded in the south by the International Boundary between the United States and Mexico.


*Fishing trip* means a period of time between landings when fishing is conducted.


*Gross tonnage* (GT) means gross tonnage as determined by the formula in 46 CFR 69.209(a) for a vessel not designed for sailing (.67 × length × breadth × depth/100). A vessel's length, breadth, and depth are those specified on the vessel's certificate of documentation issued by the U.S. Coast Guard or State.


*Harvest guideline* means a specified numerical harvest objective that is not a quota. Attainment of a harvest guideline does not require complete closure of a fishery. It is operationally similar to an Annual Catch Target (ACT) (as defined at § 600.310(f)(2) of this chapter).


*Harvesting vessel* means a vessel involved in the attempt or actual catching, taking or harvesting of fish, or any activity that can reasonably be expected to result in the catching, taking or harvesting of fish.


*Initial harvest guideline* means a specified numerical harvest objective set at the beginning of the fishing season.


*Krill* means all species of euphausiids that occur in the EEZ off the West Coast.


*Land* or *Landing* means to begin transfer of fish from a fishing vessel. Once transfer begins, all fish onboard the vessel are counted as part of the landing.


*Limited entry fishery* means the commercial fishery consisting of vessels fishing for CPS in the CPS Management Zone under limited entry permits issued under § 660.512.


*Live bait fishery* means fishing for CPS for use as live bait in other fisheries.


*Nonreduction fishery* means fishing for CPS for use as dead bait or for processing for direct human consumption.


*Owner,* means a person who is identified as the current owner in the Certificate of Documentation (CG-1270) issued by the U.S. Coast Guard for a documented vessel, or in a registration certificate issued by a state or the U.S. Coast Guard for an undocumented vessel.


*Person,* means any individual, corporation, partnership, association or other entity (whether or not organized or existing under the laws of any state), and any Federal, state, or local government, or any entity of any such government that is eligible to own a documented vessel under the terms of 46 U.S.C. 12102(a).


*Processing* or *to process* means preparing or packaging coastal pelagic species to render the fish suitable for human consumption, pet food, industrial uses or long-term storage, including, but not limited to, cooking, canning, smoking, salting, drying, filleting, freezing, or rendering into meal or oil, but does not mean heading and gutting unless there is additional preparation.


*Prohibited harvest species* means all krill species in the EEZ off the West Coast.


*Prohibited Species* means all species of trout and salmon (*Salmonidae*) and Pacific halibut (*Hippoglossus stenolepis*).


*Quota* means a specified numerical harvest objective for a single species of CPS, the attainment (or expected attainment) of which causes the complete closure of the fishery for that species.


*Reduction fishery* means fishing for CPS for the purposes of conversion into fish flour, fish meal, fish scrap, fertilizer, fish oil, other fishery products, or byproducts for purposes other than direct human consumption.


*Regional Administrator* means the Regional Administrator, West Coast Region, NMFS,

501 W. Ocean Boulevard, Suite 4200, Long Beach, CA 90802-4213, or a designee.


*Reserve* means a portion of the harvest guideline or quota set aside at the beginning of the year for specific purposes, such as for individual harvesting groups to ensure equitable distribution of the resource or to allow for uncertainties in preseason estimates of DAP and JVP.


*Sustainable Fisheries Division* (SFD) means the Assistant Regional Administrator for Sustainable Fisheries, Southwest Region, NMFS, or a designee.


*Totally lost* means that the vessel being replaced no longer exists *in specie,* or is absolutely and irretrievably sunk or otherwise beyond the possible control of the owner, or the costs of repair (including recovery) would exceed the repaired value of the vessel.


*Trip limit* means the total allowable amount of a CPS species by weight or by percentage of weight of fish on board the vessel that may be taken and retained, possessed, or landed from a single fishing trip by a vessel that harvests CPS.



---

[N] [64 FR 69893, Dec. 15, 1999, as amended at 68 FR 3822, Jan. 27, 2003; 71 FR 37001, June 29, 2006; 74 FR 33373, July 13, 2009; 76 FR 70363, Nov. 14, 2011; 83 FR 6473, Feb. 14, 2018; 88 FR 42653, July 3, 2023]




