# § 801.20   Processing of requests.

(a) *Multi-track processing.* The FOIA Office processes FOIA requests in one of three tracks:


(1) Track 1: Requests that meet the criteria for expedited processing, or requests that seek records that have been produced in response to a prior request.


(2) Track 2: Requests that do not involve voluminous records or lengthy consultations with other entities.


(3) Track 3: Requests that involve voluminous records and for which lengthy or numerous consultations are required, or those requests which may involve sensitive records.


(b) *Expedited processing.* (1) A requester may submit a statement demonstrating with reasonable particularity that the requester has a compelling need for expedited processing in Track 1. The requester must certify that the statement is true and correct to the best of the requester's knowledge. Within 10 calendar days after receipt of the statement, the FOIA Office will inform the requester whether the request qualifies for expedited processing, and if not, provide the requester with the information in § 801.21(b).


(2) In this section, “compelling need” means:


(i) That a failure to expedite the request could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual; or


(ii) With respect to a request made by a person primarily engaged in disseminating information, urgency to inform the public concerning actual or alleged Federal Government activity.


(3) The requester may appeal the FOIA Office's decision regarding expedited processing to the Managing Director within 90 calendar days. The Managing Director will decide the appeal on an expedited basis, and no later than 20 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after receipt of the appeal. The final determination will notify the requester of the statutory right to seek judicial review of the determination pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(E)(iii), and will inform the requester of the dispute resolution services offered by OGIS.




