# ยง 570.429   Hawaii general and grant requirements.

(a) *General.* This section applies to non-entitlement CDBG grants in Hawaii. The non-entitlement counties in the State of Hawaii will be treated as entitlement grantees except for the calculation of allocations, and the source of their funding, which will be from section 106(d) of the Act.


(b) *Scope and applicability.* Except as modified or limited under the provisions thereof or this subpart, the policies and procedures outlined in subparts A, C, D, J, K, and O of this part apply to non-entitlement CDBG grants in Hawaii.


(c) *Grant amounts.* (1) For each eligible unit of general local government, a formula grant amount will be determined which bears the same ratio to the total amount available for the nonentitlement area of the State as the weighted average of the ratios between:


(i) The population of that eligible unit of general local government and the population of all eligible units of general local government in the nonentitlement areas of the State;


(ii) The extent of poverty in that eligible unit of general local government and the extent of poverty in all the eligible units of general local government in the nonentitlement areas of the State; and


(iii) The extent of housing overcrowding in that eligible unit of general local government and the extent of housing overcrowding in all the eligible units of general local government in the nonentitlement areas of the State.


(2) In determining the average of the ratios under this paragraph (c), the ratio involving the extent of poverty shall be counted twice and each of the other ratios shall be counted once. (0.25 + 0.50 + 0.25 = 1.00).


(d) *Reallocation.* (1) Any amounts that become available as a result of any reductions under subpart O of this part shall be reallocated in the same or future fiscal year to any remaining eligible applicants on a pro rata basis.


(2) Any formula grant amounts reserved for an applicant that chooses not to submit an application shall be reallocated to any remaining eligible applicants on a pro rata basis.


(3) No amounts shall be reallocated under paragraph (d) of this section in any fiscal year to any applicant whose grant amount was reduced under subpart O of this part.



---

[N] [62 FR 62914, Nov. 25, 1997, as amended at 72 FR 46371, Aug. 17, 2007]




