# ยง 50.1   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Affected landowners* include owners of property interests, as noted in the most recent county/city tax records as receiving the tax notice, whose property:


(1) Is directly affected (*i.e.*, crossed or used) by the proposed activity, including all facility sites, rights-of-way, access roads, staging areas, and temporary workspace; or


(2) Abuts either side of an existing right-of-way or facility site owned in fee by any utility company, or abuts the edge of a proposed facility site or right-of-way which runs along a property line in the area in which the facilities would be constructed, or contains a residence within 50 feet of a proposed construction work area.


*Director* means the Director of the Office of Energy Projects or his designees.


*Environmental justice community* means any community that has been historically marginalized and overburdened by pollution. Environmental justice communities include, but may not be limited to, minority populations, low-income populations, or indigenous peoples.


*Federal authorization* means permits, special use authorizations, certifications, opinions, or other approvals that may be required under Federal law in order to site a transmission facility.


*Indian Tribe* means an Indian Tribe that is recognized by treaty with the United States, by Federal statute, or by the U.S. Department of the Interior in its periodic listing of Tribal entities in the _Federal Register_ in accordance with 25 CFR 83.6(a), and whose Tribal interests may be affected by the development and operation of the proposed transmission facilities.


*National interest electric transmission corridor* means any geographic area that is experiencing electric energy transmission capacity constraints or congestion that adversely affects consumers or is expected to experience such energy transmission capacity constraints or congestion, as designated by the Secretary of Energy.


*Permitting entity* means any Federal or State agency, Indian Tribe, or multistate entity that is responsible for issuing separate authorizations pursuant to Federal law that are required to construct electric transmission facilities in a national interest electric transmission corridor.


*Stakeholder* means any Federal, State, interstate, or local agency; any Indian Tribe; any affected landowner; any environmental justice community member; or any other interested person or organization.


*Transmitting utility* means an entity that owns, operates, or controls facilities used for the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce for the sale of electric energy at wholesale.



---

[N] [71 FR 69465, Dec. 1, 2006, as amended at 89 FR 46730, May 29, 2024]




