# § 438.530   Annual technical resource manual.

(a) Beginning in calendar year 2027, CMS will publish a Medicaid managed care quality rating system technical resource manual annually, which may be released in increments throughout the year. Subject to the limitation described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the technical resource manual must include all the following:


(1) Identification of all Medicaid managed care quality rating system measures, including:


(i) A list of the mandatory measures


(ii) Any measures newly added or removed from the prior year's mandatory measure set.


(iii) The subset of mandatory measures that must be displayed and stratified by factors such as race and ethnicity, sex, age, rural/urban status, disability, language, or such other factors as may be specified by the CMS in accordance with § 438.520(a)(2)(v) and (a)(6)(i).


(2) Guidance on the application of the methodology used to calculate and issue quality ratings as described in § 438.515(b).


(3) Measure steward technical specifications for mandatory measures.


(4) If the public notice and comment process described in § 438.510(b) of this subpart occurs in the calendar year in which the manual is published, a summary of interested party engagement and public comments received during the notice and comment process using the process identified in § 438.510(c) for the most recent modifications to the mandatory measure set including:


(i) Discussion of the feedback and recommendations received on potential modifications to mandatory measures;


(ii) The final modifications and the timeline by which such modifications must be implemented; and


(iii) The rationale for not accepting or implementing specific recommendations or feedback submitted during the consultation process.


(b) In developing and issuing the manual content described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, CMS will take into account whether stratification is currently required by the measure steward or other CMS programs and by which factors when issuing guidance that identifies which measures, and by which factors, States must stratify mandatory measures.


(c) No later than August 1, 2025, CMS will publish the information described at paragraph (a)(1) of this section for the initial mandatory measure set.






