# ยง 439.10   Criteria for obtaining accreditation.

(a) Analytical laboratories may be accredited for the analyses of foodborne indicator and pathogen analytes, or a specified chemical residue or a class of chemical residues, in raw or processed meat, poultry, and egg products. Analytical laboratories also may be accredited for the analyses of food chemistry components in raw or processed meat and poultry products.


(b) Accreditation will be granted only if the applying laboratory successfully satisfies FSIS requirements that are stated in this part.


(c) To obtain FSIS accreditation, an analytical laboratory must:


(1) Be supervised by a person holding, at a minimum, a bachelor's degree in biology, chemistry, microbiology, food science, food technology, or a related field.


(i) For food chemistry accreditation, the supervisor must also have one year of experience in food chemistry analysis, or equivalent qualifications.


(ii) For chemical residue accreditation, either the supervisor or the analyst assigned to analyze the sample must also have three years of experience determining analytes at or below part per million levels, or equivalent qualifications.


(iii) For indicator organisms or pathogen accreditation, either the supervisor or the analyst assigned to analyze the sample must also have three years of experience in foodborne pathogen analyses or equivalent qualifications.


(2) Demonstrate the capability to achieve quality assurance levels that are within acceptable limits as determined by evaluation that is consistent with ISO 13528 for the analysis of initial accreditation proficiency testing samples, in the analyte category for which accreditation is sought. FSIS and some Association of Official Analytical Collaboration (AOAC) International analytical test procedures are acceptable for use in this program. FSIS procedures may be found on the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) FSIS website at *www.fsis.usda.gov.* AOAC procedures may be found on the AOAC website at *www.aoac.org.*

(3) Complete a second set of proficiency testing samples if the results of the first set of proficiency testing samples are unsuccessful.


(i) The second set of proficiency testing samples will be provided within 30 days following the date of receipt by FSIS of a request from the applying laboratory. The second set of proficiency testing samples will be analyzed only for the analyte(s) or analyte classes for which unacceptable initial results had been obtained by the laboratory.


(ii) If the results of the second set of proficiency testing samples are unsuccessful, the laboratory may request a third set of proficiency testing samples after a 60-day waiting period, commencing from the date of notification by FSIS of unsuccessful results. The third set of proficiency testing samples will be analyzed only for the analyte(s) or analyte classes for which unacceptable initial results had been obtained by the laboratory.


(iii) If the laboratory is unsuccessful for the third set and still wishes to pursue accreditation, the ALP will require a new application and an application fee if the initial accreditation process is not completed within eleven months. Documentation of corrective action(s) related to the previous unsuccessful accreditation attempt must be submitted to and accepted by the ALP.


(4) Allow inspection of the laboratory facility and pertinent documents by FSIS officials prior to the determination of granting accredited status.


(5) Pay the accreditation fee by the date required.




