# § 184.1845   Stannous chloride (anhydrous and dihydrated).

(a) Stannous chloride is anhydrous or contains two molecules of water of hydration. Anhydrous stannous chloride (SnCl_2_, CAS Reg. No. 7772-99-8) is the chloride salt of metallic tin. It is prepared by reacting molten tin with either chlorine or gaseous tin tetrachloride. Dihydrated stannous chloride (SnCl_2_·2H_2_O, CAS Reg. No. 10025-69-1) is the chloride salt of metallic tin that contains two molecules of water. It is prepared from granulated tin suspended in water and hydrochloric acid or chlorine.


(b) Both forms of the ingredient meet the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), p. 312, which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) The ingredient is used as an antioxidant as defined in § 170.3(o)(3) of this chapter.


(d) The ingredient is used in food at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice in accordance with § 184.(b)(1). Current good manufacturing practice results in a maximum level, as served, of 0.0015 percent or less; calculated as tin, for all food categories.


(e) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from those uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.



---

[N] [47 FR 27816, June 25, 1982, as amended at 76 FR 59250, Sept. 26, 2011]




