# § 370.1   What special terms do I need to know to understand this part?

*Automated Clearing House (ACH) entry* means a transaction in accordance with the Operating Rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association, as modified by these regulations and other law. The regulations in this part control in the event of any inconsistencies with the applicable Operating Rules.


*Credit entry* means an ACH entry for the payment of money to a deposit account.


*Debit entry* means an ACH entry for the collection of money from a deposit account.


*Deposit account* means a demand deposit (checking), savings, or asset account (other than an occasional or incidental credit balance in a credit plan) held directly or indirectly by a financial institution.


*Digital signature* means a type of electronic signature. A signer creates a digital signature by using public-key encryption to transform a message digest of an electronic message. If a recipient of the digital signature has an electronic message, message digest function, and the signer's public key, the recipient can verify:


(1) Whether the transformation was accomplished with the private key that corresponds to the signer's public key; and


(2) Whether the electronic message has been altered since the transformation was made.


*Electronic message* means information that is stored in an electronic medium and is retrievable in perceivable form.


*Electronic signature* means a signature of an electronic message that:


(1) Identifies and authenticates a particular person as the source of the electronic message; and


(2) Indicates such person's approval of the information contained in the electronic message.


*Financial institution* means:


(1) Any insured bank as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) or any bank that is eligible to make application to become an insured bank under section 5 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1815);


(2) Any mutual savings bank as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) or any bank that is eligible to make application to become an insured bank under section 5 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1815);


(3) Any savings bank as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) or any bank that is eligible to make application to become an insured bank under section 5 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1815);


(4) Any insured credit union as defined in section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752) or any credit union that is eligible to make application to become an insured credit union pursuant to section 201 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1781);


(5) Any savings association as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) that is an insured depository institution as defined in that act or is eligible to apply to become an insured depository institution under that act; and


(6) Any Federal branch or agency of a foreign bank as defined in section 1(b) of the International Banking Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 3101).


*Investor account* is our record of your *TreasuryDirect* holdings, including a list of your total security holdings, the exact form of registration of your account, your mailing address, your *TreasuryDirect* account number, your social security account number or employer identification number, and your deposit account instructions.


*Message digest function* means an algorithm that transforms an electronic message into a seemingly unintelligible, generally smaller, result called the message digest. A message digest function has these qualities:


(1) The same electronic message yields the same message digest every time the algorithm is executed;


(2) It is computationally infeasible that an electronic message can be derived from the message digest result produced by the algorithm; and


(3) it is computationally infeasible that two electronic messages can be found that produce the same message digest using the algorithm.


*Payment* means, for the purpose of this part, funds paid by us to you.


*Person* means any natural person or organization.


*Public-key encryption* means a cryptographic process which generates and employs a key pair, consisting of a public key and a different but mathematically related private key. One use of the public key is to verify a digital signature created by the private key.


*Security* means an obligation offered by the Secretary of the Treasury.


*Settlement date* means the date an exchange of funds with respect to an ACH entry is reflected on the books of the Federal Reserve Bank(s).


*Signature* means any symbol or method executed or adopted by a person with present intention to be bound.


*We (or “us”)* refers to the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary's delegates at the Treasury Department and Bureau of the Fiscal Service. The term also extends to any fiscal or financial agent acting on behalf of the United States when designated to act by the Secretary or the Secretary's delegates. The term does not extend to United States Savings Bond issuing and paying agents.


*You* means a deposit account owner, in subparts B and C, unless stated otherwise. The word “you” means a person who electronically submits transaction requests through us, in subpart D.




