# § 520.1664   Oxytetracycline and carbomycin.

(a) *Specifications.* (1) Oxytetracycline: The antibiotic substance produced by growth of *Streptomyces rimosus* or the same antibiotic substance produced by any other means. 


(2) Carbomycin: The antibiotic substance produced by growth of *Streptomyces halstedii* or the same antibiotic substance produced by any other means.


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 054771 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter. 


(c) *Special considerations.* The quantities of oxytetracycline in paragraph (e) of this section refer to the activity of oxytetracycline hydrochloride and the quantities of carbomycin listed refer to the activity of an appropriate standard. 


(d) *Related tolerances.* See §§ 556.110 and 556.500 of this chapter. 


(e) *Conditions of use.* It is used as oxytetracycline hydrochloride plus carbomycin base in drinking water of chickens as follows: 


(1) *Amount.* Administer 1.0 gram of oxytetracycline and 1.0 gram carbomycin per gallon for not more than 5 days.


(2) *Indications for use.* As an aid in the prevention and treatment of complicated chronic respiratory disease (air-sac infection) caused by *Mycoplasma gallisepticum* and secondary bacterial organisms associated with chronic respiratory disease such as *E. coli.*

(3) *Limitations.* Not for use in chickens producing eggs for human consumption. Withdraw 24 hours before slaughter. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.



---

[N] [40 FR 13838, Mar. 27, 1975, as amended at 78 FR 28825, May 20, 2014; 81 FR 94989, Dec. 27, 2016. Redesignated at 88 FR 55563, Aug. 16, 2023]








