# § 409.60   Benefit periods.

(a) *When benefit periods begin.* The initial benefit period begins on the day the beneficiary receives inpatient hospital, inpatient CAH, or SNF services for the first time after becoming entitled to hospital insurance. Thereafter, a new benefit period begins whenever the beneficiary receives inpatient hospital, inpatient CAH, or SNF services after he or she has ended a benefit period as described in paragraph (b) of this section. 


(b) *When benefit periods end*—(1) A benefit period ends when a beneficiary has, for at least 60 consecutive days not been an inpatient in any of the following: 


(i) A hospital that meets the requirements of section 1861(e)(1) of the Act. 


(ii) A CAH that meets the requirements of section 1820 of the Act. 


(iii) A SNF that meets the requirements of sections 1819(a)(1) or 1861(y) of the Act.


(2) For purposes of ending a benefit period, a beneficiary was an inpatient of a SNF if his or her care in the SNF met the skilled level of care requirements specified in § 409.31(b) (1) and (3).


(c) *Presumptions.* (1) For purposes of determining whether a beneficiary was an inpatient of a SNF under paragraph (b)(2) of this section—


(i) A beneficiary's care met the skilled level of care requirements if inpatient SNF claims were paid for those services under Medicare or Medicaid, unless:


(A) Such payments were made under § 411.400 or Medicaid administratively necessary days provisions which result in payment for care not meeting the skilled level of care requirements, or


(B) A Medicare denial and a Medicaid payment are made for the same period, in which case the presumption in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section applies;


(ii) A beneficiary's care met the skilled level of care requirements if a SNF claim was paid under section 1879(e) of the Social Security Act;


(iii) A beneficiary's care did not meet the skilled level of care requirements if a SNF claim was paid for the services under § 411.400;


(iv) A beneficiary's care did not meet the skilled level of care requirements if a Medicaid SNF claim was denied on the grounds that the services were not at the skilled level of care (even if paid under applicable Medicaid administratively necessary days provisions which result in payment for care not meeting the skilled level of care requirements);


(2) For purposes of determining whether a beneficiary was an inpatient of a SNF under paragraph (b)(2) of this section a beneficiary's care in a SNF is presumed—


(i) To have met the skilled level of care requirements during any period for which the beneficiary was assigned to one of the Resource Utilization Groups designated as representing the required level of care, as provided in § 409.30.


(ii) To have met the skilled level of care requirements if a Medicaid or Medicare claim was denied on grounds other than that the services were not at the skilled level of care;


(iii) Not to have met the skilled level of care requirements if a Medicare SNF claim was denied on the grounds that the services were not at the skilled level of care and payment was not made under § 411.400; or


(iv) Not to have met the skilled level of care requirements if no Medicare or Medicaid claim was submitted by the SNF.


(3) If information upon which to base a presumption is not readily available, the intermediary may, at its discretion review the beneficiary's medical records to determine whether he or she was an inpatient of a SNF as set forth under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(4) When the intermediary makes a benefit period determination based upon paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the beneficiary may seek to reverse the benefit period determination by timely appealing the prior Medicare SNF claim determination under part 405, subpart G of this chapter, or the prior Medicaid SNF claim under part 431, subpart E of this chapter. 


(5) When the intermediary makes a benefit period determination under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the beneficiary will be notified of the basis for the determination, and of his or her right to present evidence to rebut the determination that the skilled level of care requirements specified in § 409.31 (b)(1) and (b)(3) were or were not met on reconsideration and appeal under 42 CFR, part 405, subpart G of this chapter.


(d) *Limitation on benefit period determinations.* When the intermediary considers the same prior SNF stay of a particular beneficiary in making benefit period determinations for more than one inpatient Medicare claim—


(1) Medicare will recognize only the initial level of care characterization for that prior SNF stay (or if appealed under 42 CFR part 405, subpart G of this chapter, the level of care determined under appeal); or


(2) If part of a prior SNF stay has one level of care characterization and another part has another level of care characterization, Medicare will recognize only the initial level of care characterization for a particular part of a prior SNF stay (or if appealed under 42 CFR part 405, subpart G of this chapter, the level of care determined under appeal).


(e) *Relation of benefit period to benefit limitations.* The limitations specified in §§ 409.61 and 409.64, and the deductible and coinsurance requirements set forth in subpart G of this part apply for each benefit period. The limitations of § 409.63 apply only to the initial benefit period. 



---

[N] [52 FR 22645, June 15, 1987; 52 FR 28824, Aug. 4, 1987, as amended at 58 FR 30667, May 26, 1993; 63 FR 26307, May 12, 1998; 70 FR 45055, Aug. 4, 2005]




