# § 98.67   Records that must be retained.

In addition to the information required by § 98.3(g), you must retain the following records:


(a) Monthly aluminum production in metric tons.


(b) Type of smelter technology used.


(c) The following PFC-specific information on a monthly basis:


(1) Perfluoromethane and perfluoroethane emissions from anode effects in prebake and Søderberg electolysis cells.


(2) Anode effect minutes per cell-day (AE-mins/cell-day), anode effect frequency (AE/cell-day), anode effect duration (minutes). (Or anode effect overvoltage factor ((kg CF_4_/metric ton Al)/(mV/cell day)), potline overvoltage (mV/cell day), current efficiency (%).))


(3) Smelter-specific slope coefficients and the last date when the smelter-specific-slope coefficients were measured.


(d) Method used to measure the frequency and duration of anode effects (or to measure anode effect overvoltage and current efficiency).


(e) The following CO_2_-specific information for prebake cells:


(1) Annual anode consumption.


(2) Annual CO_2_ emissions from the smelter.


(f) The following CO_2_-specific information for Søderberg cells:


(1) Annual paste consumption.


(2) Annual CO_2_ emissions from the smelter.


(g) Smelter-specific inputs to the CO_2_ process equations (e.g., levels of sulfur and ash) that were used in the calculation, on an annual basis.


(h) Exact data elements required will vary depending on smelter technology (e.g., point-feed prebake or Søderberg) and process control technology (e.g., Pechiney or other).


(i) *Verification software records.* You must keep a record of the file generated by the verification software specified in § 98.5(b) for the applicable data specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (30) of this section. Retention of this file satisfies the recordkeeping requirement for the data in paragraphs (i)(1) through (30) of this section.


(1) Slope coefficient per potline per month (kg CF_4_/metric ton Al)/(AE-Mins/cell-day)) (Equation F-2 of § 98.63).


(2) Anode effect minutes per cell-day per potline per month (AE-Mins/cell-day) (Equation F-2).


(3) Anode effect frequency per potline per month (AE/cell-day) (Equation F-2).


(4) Anode effect duration per potline per month (minutes) (Equation F-2).


(5) Metal production of aluminum per potline per month (metric tons) (Equation F-2).


(6) Overvoltage emission factor per potline per month (kg CF4/metric ton Al) (Equation F-3 of § 98.63).


(7) Metal production of aluminum per potline per month (metric tons) (Equation F-3).


(8) Weight fraction of C_2_F6/CF_4_ per potline per month (kg C_2_F_6_/kg CF_4_) (Equation F-4 of § 98.63).


(9) Net annual prebaked anode consumption (metric tons C/metric tons Al) (Equation F-5 of § 98.63).


(10) Annual metal production of aluminum (metric tons) (Equation F-5).


(11) Sulfur content in baked anode (weight percent) (Equation F-5).


(12) Ash content in baked anode (weight percent) (Equation F-5).


(13) Annual paste consumption (metric ton/metric ton Al) (Equation F-6 of § 98.63).


(14) Annual metal production of aluminum (metric tons) (Equation F-6).


(15) Annual emissions of cyclohexane soluble matter (kg/metric ton Al) (Equation F-6).


(16) Binder content of paste (weight percent) (Equation F-6).


(17) Sulfur content of pitch (weight percent) (Equation F-6).


(18) Ash content of pitch (weight percent) (Equation F-6).


(19) Hydrogen content of pitch (weight percent) (Equation F-6).


(20) Sulfur content in calcined coke (weight percent) (Equation F-6).


(21) Ash content in calcined coke (weight percent) (Equation F-6).


(22) Carbon in skimmed dust from Søderberg cells (metric ton C/metric ton Al) (Equation F-6).


(23) Initial weight of green anodes (metric tons) (Equation F-7 of § 98.63).


(24) Annual hydrogen content in green anodes (metric tons) (Equation F-7).


(25) Annual baked anode production (metric tons) (Equation F-7).


(26) Annual waste tar collected (metric tons) (Equation F-7).


(27) Annual packing coke consumption (metric tons/metric ton baked anode) (Equation F-8 of § 98.63).


(28) Annual baked anode production (metric tons) (Equation F-8).


(29) Sulfur content in packing coke (weight percent) (Equation F-8).


(30) Ash content in packing coke (weight percent) (Equation F-8).



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 79 FR 63784, Oct. 24, 2014]




