# § 35.10005   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this part:


*Community water system* has the meaning given the term in section 1401 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f).


*Credit assistance* means a secured loan or loan guarantee under 33 U.S.C. 3908.


*Credit agreement* means a contractual agreement between the EPA and the project sponsor (and the lender, if applicable) that formalizes the terms and conditions established in the term sheet (or conditional term sheet) and authorizes the execution of a secured loan or loan guarantee.


*Credit subsidy cost* shall have the same meaning as “cost” under section 502(5) of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661a(5)), which is the net present value at the time the obligation is entered into. The credit subsidy cost for a given project is calculated by EPA in consultation with OMB. The credit subsidy cost must be less than the unobligated subsidy amount that has been appropriated by Congress to date.


*Eligible project costs* mean amounts, substantially all of which are paid by, or for the account of, an obligor in connection with a project, including the cost of:


(1) Development-phase activities, including planning, feasibility analysis (including any related analysis necessary to carry out an eligible project), revenue forecasting, environmental review, permitting, preliminary engineering and design work, and other preconstruction activities;


(2) Construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation, and replacement activities;


(3) The acquisition of real property or an interest in real property (including water rights, land relating to the project, and improvements to land), environmental mitigation (including acquisitions pursuant to section 5026(7)), construction contingencies, and acquisition of equipment; and


(4) Capitalized interest necessary to meet market requirements, reasonably required reserve funds, capital issuance expenses, and other carrying costs during construction. Capitalized interest on the WIFIA credit instrument is not an eligible project cost.


*Federal credit instrument* means a secured loan or loan guarantee authorized to be made available under 33 U.S.C. 3901-3914 with respect to a project.


*Investment-grade rating* means a rating category of BBB minus, Baa3, bbb minus, BBB (low), or higher assigned by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization (NRSRO) to project obligations offered into the capital markets.


*Iron and steel products* means the following products made primarily of iron or steel: Lined or unlined pipes and fittings, manhole covers and other municipal castings, hydrants, tanks, flanges, pipe clamps and restraints, valves, structural steel, reinforced precast concrete, and construction materials.


*Lender* means any non-Federal qualified institutional buyer (as defined in 17 CFR 230.144A(a)), known as Rule 144A(a) of the Securities and Exchange Commission and issued under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a *et seq.*), including:


(1) A qualified retirement plan (as defined in section 4974(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 26 U.S.C. 4974(c)) that is a qualified institutional buyer; and


(2) A governmental plan (as defined in section 414(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 26 U.S.C. 414(d)) that is a qualified institutional buyer.


*Loan guarantee* means any guarantee or other pledge by the Administrator to pay all or part of the principal of and interest on a loan or other debt obligation issued by an obligor and funded by a lender.


*Nationally recognized statistical rating organization (NRSRO)* means a credit rating agency identified and registered by the Office of Credit Ratings in the Securities and Exchange Commission under 15 U.S.C. 78o-7.


*Obligor* means a party primarily liable for payment of the principal of or interest on a Federal credit instrument, which party may be a corporation; partnership; joint venture; trust; Federal, State, or local governmental entity, agency, or instrumentality; tribal government or consortium of tribal governments; or a State infrastructure finance authority.


*Project* means:


(1) One or more activities that are eligible for assistance under section 603(c) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1383(c)), notwithstanding the public ownership requirement under paragraph (1) of that subsection;


(2) One or more activities described in section 1452(a)(2) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-12(a)(2));


(3) A project for enhanced energy efficiency in the operation of a public water system or a publicly owned treatment works;


(4) A project for repair, rehabilitation, or replacement of a treatment works, community water system, or aging water distribution or waste collection facility (including a facility that serves a population or community of an Indian reservation).;


(5) A brackish or sea water desalination project, a managed aquifer recharge project, or a water recycling project;


(6) Acquisition of real property or an interest in real property—


(i) If the acquisition is integral to a project described in paragraphs (1) through (5) of this definition; or


(ii) Pursuant to an existing plan that, in the judgment of the Administrator, would mitigate the environmental impacts of water resources infrastructure projects otherwise eligible for assistance under this section;


(7) A combination of projects, each of which is eligible under paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition, for which a State infrastructure financing authority submits to the Administrator a single application; or


(8) A combination of projects secured by a common security pledge, each of which is eligible under paragraph (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), or (6) of this definition, for which an eligible entity, or a combination of eligible entities, submits a single application.


*Project obligation* means any note, bond, debenture, or other debt obligation issued by an obligor in connection with the financing of a project, other than a Federal credit instrument.


*Project sponsor,* for the purposes of this part, means an applicant for WIFIA assistance or an obligor, as appropriate.


*Publicly sponsored* means the obligor can demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Administrator, that it has consulted with the affected state, local, or tribal government in which the project is located, or is otherwise affected by the project, and that such government supports the proposed project. Support can be shown by a certified letter signed by the approving municipal department or similar agency, mayor or other similar designated authority, local ordinance, or any other means by which local government approval can be evidenced.


*Secured loan* means a direct loan or other debt obligation issued by an obligor and funded by the Administrator in connection with the financing of a project under 33 U.S.C. 3908.


*State* means any one of the fifty states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or any other territory or possession of the United States.


*State infrastructure financing authority* means the State entity established or designated by the Governor of a State to receive a capitalization grant provided by, or otherwise carry out the requirements of, title VI of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1381 *et seq.*) or section 1452 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-12).


*Subsidy amount* means the dollar amount of budget authority sufficient to cover the estimated long-term cost to the Federal Government of a Federal credit instrument, calculated on a net present value basis, excluding administrative costs and any incidental effects on governmental receipts or outlays in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661 *et seq.*).


*Substantial completion* means the stage in the progress of the project when the project or designated portion thereof is sufficiently complete in accordance with the contract documents so that the project or a portion thereof can be used for its intended use.


*Term sheet* means a contractual agreement between the EPA and the project sponsor (and the lender, if applicable) that sets forth the key business terms and conditions of a Federal credit instrument. Execution of this document represents a legal obligation of budget authority.


*Treatment works* has the meaning given the term in section 212 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1292).


*WIFIA* means the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 2014, Pub. L. 113-121, 128 Stat, 1332, codified at 33 U.S.C. 3901-3914.




