# § 923.125   Criteria for section 309 project selection.

(a) *Section 309 criteria for weighted formula funding.* (1) For those projects that will be funded by weighted formula, the Assistant Administrator will determine that: 


(i) The project is consistent with the State's approved Assessment and Strategy and advances the attainment of the objectives of the Strategy; 


(ii) Costs are reasonable and necessary to achieve the objectives of both the project and the Strategy. Allowability of costs will be determined in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-87: Cost Principles for State and Local Governments


(iii) The project is technically sound; 


(iv) The State has an effective plan to ensure proper and efficient administration of the project; and 


(v) The State has submitted the required project information as specified in § 923.126(b)(1). 


(2) In reviewing projects that will be considered under the weighted formula, the Assistant Administrator will take into consideration the fiscal and technical needs of proposing States and the overall merit of each proposal in terms of benefits to the public. 


(b) *Section 309 criteria for evaluation and ranking of projects of special merit.* (1) After determining those projects that will be funded under weighted formula funding, the Assistant Administrator will evaluate and rank State funding proposals of special merit which may be funded under 15 CFR 932.4(e). 


(2) In addition to meeting the criteria in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, proposals will be evaluated and ranked under this subsection using the following criteria: 


(i) *Merit.* (90 points) The Assistant Administrator will review each application to determine the following: 


(A) Degree to which the project significantly advances the program improvements and leads to a program change identified in the State's Strategy. In making this determination, the Assistant Administrator shall consider the weighting factor derived from the evaluation of the quality of the State's Strategy, as supported by the State's Assessment, relative to the weighting factors assigned to other eligible States; 


(B) Overall benefit of the project to the public relative to the project's cost; 


(C) Innovativeness of the proposal; 


(D) Transferability of the results to problems in other coastal States; and 


(E) The State's past performance under section 309. 


(ii) *Fiscal needs.* (5 points) The Assistant Administrator will review each application to determine the “fiscal needs” of a State as defined in § 923.123(e). 


(iii) *Technical needs.* (5 points) The Assistant Administrator will review each application to determine the “technical needs” of a State as defined in § 923.123(f). 


(c) Section 309 funds not awarded to States under § 923.125(a) will be awarded to States under § 923.125(b). 



---

[N] [57 FR 31116, July 14, 1992. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 33818, 33819, June 28, 1996]




