# ยง 1145.7   Termination.

(a) If the incumbent carrier does not timely file a petition for termination, a prescription hereunder automatically renews at the end of the term established under ยง 1145.6(c). Automatic renewal is for the same term as the original term of the prescription. If the Board denies a petition to terminate the prescription, it will determine, on a case-by-case basis, the appropriate renewal term based on the evidentiary record, not to exceed the original term of the prescription. At the end of the renewal term, if the incumbent carrier does not timely file a petition for termination, the prescribed agreement will automatically renew for the same number of years as the renewed term.


(b) The Board will grant a petition to terminate a prescription if the incumbent rail carrier demonstrates that, for the most recent 12-week period prior to the filing of the petition to terminate, the incumbent rail carrier's service for similar traffic on average met all three performance standards under this part. This requirement includes a demonstration by the incumbent carrier that it has been able to meet, over the most recent 12-week period, the performance standards for similar traffic to or from the relevant terminal area.


(c) The incumbent rail carrier may submit a petition to terminate a prescription not more than 180 days and not less than 150 days before the end of the current term of the prescription.


(d) A reply to a petition to terminate is due within 15 days of the filing of the petition.


(e) A rebuttal may be filed within 10 days of the filing of the reply.


(f) The Board will endeavor to issue a decision on a petition to terminate within 90 days from the close of briefing.


(1) If the Board does not act within 90 days from the close of briefing, the prescription automatically terminates at the end of the current term of the prescription.


(2) If the Board does not issue a decision due to extraordinary circumstances, as determined by the Board, the prescription is automatically renewed for 30 days from the end of the current term. When there are extraordinary circumstances, the Board will issue an order alerting the parties that it will not issue a decision within the required time period. Under such circumstances, the Board will issue its decision as expeditiously as possible.


(3) A prescribed agreement will continue in effect until 30 days after the Board serves a decision that grants a petition to terminate or after the end of the prescription period, whichever is later.






