# § 705.23   Guest cruises.

(a) *General policy.* (1) The embarkation of civilian guests in Navy ships is appropriate in the furtherance of continuing public awareness of the Navy and its mission.


(i) Examples of embarkations for public affairs purposes are (but not limited to): Individuals, community service clubs, civic groups, the Navy League, and trade and professional associations.


(ii) Embarkation of media representatives on assignment is discussed in § 705.14.


(iii) Other categories may be established by the Secretary of the Navy, subject to the approval of the Secretary of Defense.


(2) It has also been demonstrated that the occasional embarkation on cruises of families and personal guests of naval personnel has contributed materially to the morale of the family circle and has instilled in each individual a sense of pride in his ship. For further information see OPNAVINST 5720.2G.


(3) Embarkations should be conducted within the framework of regularly scheduled operations; underway periods solely to accommodate guests are not authorized.


(4) Commander-in-Chief, Pacific Fleet, Commander-in-Chief, Atlantic Fleet, Commander-in-Chief, U.S. Naval Forces Europe, Commander Military Sealift Command (and their subordinate commands if so designated), Chief of Naval Education and Training, and District Commandants may authorize the embarkation of female civilians for daylight cruises. Embarkation of civilians for overnight cruises must be authorized by the Chief of Naval Operations via the Chief of Information.


(5) All guest visits are normally authorized on an unclassified basis.


(6) In all instances, due precautions must be taken for the safety of the guests. (See section 0403, pars. 6(b) and, 6(e), of the Navy Public Affairs Regulations, for procedures to be followed in the case of death of, or injury to, civilians embarked on naval ships.)


(7) For further information on policy, procedures, and eligibility criteria, see OPNAVINST 5720.2G.


(b) *Authority.* (1) Authority to establish procedures for the conduct of the embarkation of guests for public affairs purposes (including the Secretary of the Navy Guest Cruise and Guest of the Navy Cruise programs, which are discussed in § 705.24) is vested in the Secretary of the Navy. This authority is limited only insofar as the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the commanders of the Unified and Specified Commands (and their component commanders, if so designated) have the authority to use Navy ships to embark individuals other than news media representatives for public affairs purposes.


(i) Public affairs embarkations originating within the geographical limits of the Unified Command will be approved by and coordinated with the commanders of such commands. This authority may be delegated. Requests for such embarkations originating with the subordinate fleet or force command of a Unified Command will be submitted via the operational chain of command, to the appropriate commander of the Unified Command, unless delegated.


(ii) Requests for public affairs embarkations originating from any Navy source other than the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, or the Unified and Specified Commanders or their subordinate commands, will be submitted to the Chief of Information, who will effect coordination with the Chief of Naval Operations and/or the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Public Affairs) as appropriate.


(iii) When guests debark in a foreign port which is in the geographic area of a Unified Command other than that in which the cruise originated, the Chief of Information will coordinate travel by obtaining concurrence of all appropriate commanders and the approval of the Chief of Naval Operations, and the Assistant secretary of Defense (Public Affairs) as appropriate.


(2) Officers in command to whom authority to embark guests for public affairs purposes is delegated will make maximum use of this authority.


(c) *Secretary of the Navy Guest Cruise and Guest of the Navy Cruise Programs.* (1) The objective of these two programs is: To expose top-level and middle-level opinion leaders in the fields of business, industry, science, education, and labor to the operation of the U.S. Navy, in order that they may gain a better understanding of its capabilities and problems, the complicated nature of modern sea-based equipment, and the high levels of responsibility and training required of Navy men and women.


(2) In addition to policy contained in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the following policy guidelines apply to the conduct of the Secretary of the Navy Guest Cruise and the Guest of the Navy Cruise Programs.


(i) *Secretary of the Navy Guest Cruise Program.* (A) Only aircraft carriers and cruisers will be used.


(B) Cruises will be conducted once each quarter on each coast, contingent upon the availability of appropriate ships.


(C) The optimum number of guests is 15.


(D) Guests will be drawn from top-level executives and leaders who have not had previous exposure to the Navy. “Previous exposure” is defined as active or reserve service in the U.S. Navy or U.S. Marine Corps within the last 10 years; membership in the Navy League or any other Navy-oriented organization; or participation in a cruise on a U.S. Navy ship in the last 10 years.


(E) Whenever feasible, Secretary of the Navy Guests will be greeted by CINCLANTFLT or CINCPACFLT, or in their absence by the SOPA. Comprehensive unclassified briefings will be given dealing with the Navy's mission, fleet operations, and current problems.


(F) Cruises will vary in length from 3 to 7 days, when appropriate, to conform with the operating schedule of the ship.


(ii) *Guests of the Navy Cruise Program.* (A) All types of ships will be used. This will include carriers when available, after selection of a cruise for the Secretary of the Navy Guest Cruise Program.


(B) Guest of the Navy Cruise guests will be drawn from middle-level executives and leaders who have not had previous exposure to the Navy. Guests should include persons who have direct impact on recruiting, such as secondary school principals, guidance counselors, coaches and teachers.


(C) Cruises of relatively short duration (3 to 5 days) are preferred, although cruises up to 7 days are authorized. Protracted cruises will not be approved except for special circumstances.


(D) Invitations will be extended by the District of Commandants. Invitations will include:


(*1*) Statement of the purpose of the Guest of the Navy Cruise Program.


(*2*) Authorization for embarkation and, if applicable, for COD flights, with instructions for reporting on board.


(*3*) Name and rank of the commanding officer and, if applicable, name and rank of embarked flag officer.


(*4*) A caution that guests should not accept the invitation unless they are in good health.


(*5*) Statement to the effect that the tempo of operations might cause changes in scheduling which could result in the invitation having to be withdrawn.


(E) The following necessary information may be included separately with a letter of invitation: Recommended wardrobe, passport and immunization requirements, availability of emergency medical and dental facilities, ship's store and laundry facilities, statement that guest's use of a camera will be authorized subject to certain restrictions, and a listing of those restrictions. In addition, the following statement will be included with each invitation, or form part of the attached information sheets:


(iii) *Applicable to both programs.* (A) Guests will provide their own transportation from home to the ship and return, and must reimburse the Navy for living and incidental expenses while embarked so that the program may be conducted at no additional expense to the government.


(B) Because the number of billets available to accommodate all of the potential guests is limited, the guest's opportunity to communicate his experience to his associates must be considered. For this reason, one of the criteria for selection of guests will be their level of activity in civic, professional, and social organizations. In nominating and selecting guests, effort will be made to ensure that minority citizens are included as appropriate.


(C) Atlantic cruises will be made on ships operating between East Coast ports, or between CONUS and the U.S. Caribbean ports of San Juan, PR, or Charlotte Amalie (St. Thomas), Virgin Islands. Pacific cruises will be made on ships operating between West Coast ports: Between CONUS and ports in Hawaii, Alaska, Mexico or Canada; or between ports within Hawaii or Alaska.


(D) Guests will be informed of security restrictions. Unclassified photography should be permitted on board, as pictures renew guests' feelings of identification with a ship. Guests will be advised of areas, however, where photography is prohibited, and security regulations will be courteously but firmly enforced.


(E) Guests will be billeted in officers quarters and normally subsisted in the wardroom. It is not necessary that guests be assigned individual rooms. Billeting with ship's officers promotes mutual understanding, and guests feel more closely identified with the ship's company. They will be invited to dine at least once in each mess on board, if the length of the cruise permits. Guests will be encouraged to speak freely and mingle with the crew.


(F) Guests will be accorded privileges of the cigar mess commissioned officers mess (open) ashore—with the exception of package store privileges—and the use of ship's or Navy Exchange laundry and tailor shops. Other Navy Exchange privileges will be limited to purchase of items for immediate personal use.


(G) Only emergency medical and dental care will be provided and then only where civilian care is not conveniently available.


(*1*) In the event of injury to civilians embarked in Navy ships and aircraft or visiting naval activities, commanding officers will notify the Chief of information, the appropriate Commandant, and operational commanders, by message, of the injury and action taken.


(*2*) In the event of an emergency not covered by Navy Regulations, the facts and circumstances will be reported immediately to the Secretary of the Navy.


(H) Guests may be allotted time for side trips at their own expense when an itinerary includes naval activities or ports adjacent to recognized points of interest.


(I) As a souvenir of the cruise, it is suggested that guests be provided with a photograph of the ship, perhaps suitably inscribed by the commanding officer prior to debarkation.


(J) Any publicity will be limited to that initiated by the participants. Navy-sponsored publicity will be avoided unless sought by the participants. At the same time, media inquiries or inquiries from the general public will be answered fully, the purposes of the cruise program outlined and the fact stressed that no cost to the government is incurred.



---

[N] [41 FR 29101, July 15, 1976, as amended at 44 FR 6391, Feb. 1, 1979]




