# § 13.203   Service requirements.

Each applicant for a Tank Vessel-PIC endorsement for DL or LG must meet the requirements of either paragraphs (a) and (b) or paragraph (c) of this section.


(a) Each applicant must provide evidence of—


(1) At least 90 days of service as a deck officer or an engineering officer on one or more tankships or self-propelled tank vessels certified to carry DL or LG appropriate to the endorsement applied for;


(2) At least 90 days of rating or cadet service on deck or in the engine department on one or more tankships or self-propelled tank vessels certified to carry DL or LG appropriate to the endorsement applied for; or


(3) A combination of the service in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section.


(b) Each applicant must provide evidence of participation, under the supervision of a Tank Vessel-PIC, in at least 10 transfers of liquid cargo in bulk of the classification desired on tankships or self-propelled tank vessels, including at least—


(1) Five loadings and five discharges;


(2) Two commencements of loading and two completions of loading; and


(3) Two commencements of discharge and two completions of discharge.


(c) Each applicant already holding an MMC endorsed as Tank Vessel-PIC for DL and seeking an endorsement for LG, or the converse, must—


(1) Provide evidence of at least half the service required by paragraph (a) of this section; and


(2) Comply with paragraph (b) of this section, except that they need provide evidence of only three loadings and three discharges along with evidence of compliance with paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section. 



---

[N] [CGD 79-116, 60 FR 17142, Apr. 4, 1995, as amended by CGD 79-116, 62 FR 25134, May 8, 1997; USCG-2006-24371, 74 FR 11259, Mar. 16, 2009; USCG-2004-17914, 78 FR 77995, Dec. 24, 2013; USCG-2021-0834, 89 FR 102337, Dec. 17, 2024]




