# § 2804.25   How will the BLM process my application?

(a) The BLM will notify you in writing when it receives your application. This notification will also:


(1) Identify your cost recovery fee described at § 2804.14, unless you are exempt from paying fees; and


(2) Inform you of any other grant applications which involve all or part of the lands for which you applied.


(b) The BLM will not process your application if you have any:


(1) Outstanding unpaid debts owed to the Federal Government. Outstanding debts are those currently unpaid debts owed to the Federal Government after all administrative collection actions have occurred, including any appeal proceedings under applicable Federal regulations and the Administrative Procedure Act; or


(2) Trespass action pending against you for any activity on BLM-administered lands (see § 2808.12), except those to resolve the trespass with a right-of-way as authorized in this part, or a lease or permit under the regulations found at 43 CFR part 2920, but only after outstanding unpaid debts are paid.


(c) The BLM may require you to submit additional information necessary to process the application. This information may include a detailed construction, operation, rehabilitation, and environmental protection plan (*i.e.,* a POD), and any needed cultural resource surveys or inventories for threatened or endangered species. If the BLM needs more information, the BLM will identify this information in a written deficiency notice asking you to provide the additional information within a specified period of time. The failure to provide additional information requested by the BLM under this section may result in the BLM denying your application pursuant to § 2804.26.




(d) *Customer service standard.* The BLM will process your complete application as follows:


(e) In processing an application, the BLM will:


(1) Hold public meetings if sufficient public interest exists to warrant their time and expense. The BLM will publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ and may use other notification methods, such as a newspaper of general circulation in the vicinity of the lands involved in the area affected by the potential right-of-way or the Internet, to announce in advance any public hearings or meetings;


(2) If your application is for solar or wind energy development;


(i) Hold a local public meeting if there is no other public meeting or opportunity for early engagement on the project, such as those completed when complying with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA).


(ii) Prioritize the application in accordance with § 2804.35; and


(iii) Evaluate the application based on the information provided by the applicant and input from other parties, such as Federal, State, Tribal, and local government agencies, as well as comments received in preliminary application review meetings held under § 2804.12(b)(4) and any public meeting held under paragraph (e)(1) of this section. Based on these evaluations, the BLM will either deny your application or continue processing it.




(3) Determine whether a POD schedule submitted with your application meets the development schedule or other requirements described by the BLM, such as in § 2804.12(b);


(4) Complete appropriate NEPA compliance for the application, as required by 43 CFR part 46 and 40 CFR chapter V, subchapter A;




(5) Determine whether your proposed use complies with applicable Federal laws;


(6) If your application is for a road, determine whether it is in the public interest to require you to grant the United States an equivalent authorization across lands that you own;


(7) Consult, as necessary, on a government-to-government basis with tribes and other governmental entities; and


(8) Take any other action necessary to fully evaluate and decide whether to approve or deny your application.


(f)(1) The BLM may segregate, if it finds it necessary for the orderly administration of the public lands, lands included in a right-of-way application under this subpart for the generation of electrical energy from wind or solar sources. In addition, the BLM may also segregate lands that it identifies for potential rights-of-way for electricity generation from wind or solar sources when initiating a competitive process for solar or wind development on particular lands. Upon segregation, such lands would not be subject to appropriation under the public land laws, including location under the Mining Law of 1872 (30 U.S.C. 22 *et seq.*), but would remain open under the Mineral Leasing Act of 1920 (30 U.S.C. 181 *et seq.*) or the Materials Act of 1947 (30 U.S.C. 601 *et seq.*). The BLM would effect a segregation by publishing a _Federal Register_ notice that includes a description of the lands being segregated. The BLM may effect segregation in this way for both pending and new right-of-way applications.


(2) The effective date of segregation is the date of publication of the notice in the _Federal Register._ Consistent with 43 CFR 2091-3.2, the segregation terminates and the lands automatically open on the date that is the earliest of the following:


(i) When the BLM issues a decision granting, granting with modifications, or denying the application for a right-of-way;


(ii) Automatically at the end of the segregation period stated in the _Federal Register_ notice initiating the segregation; or


(iii) Upon publication of a _Federal Register_ notice terminating the segregation and opening the lands.


(3) The segregation period may not exceed 2 years from the date of publication in the _Federal Register_ of the notice initiating the segregation, unless the state director determines and documents in writing, prior to the expiration of the segregation period, that an extension is necessary for the orderly administration of the public lands. If the state director determines an extension is necessary, the BLM will extend the segregation for up to 2 years by publishing a notice in the _Federal Register,_ prior to the expiration of the initial segregation period. A segregation will not be extended unless the application is complete and cost recovery has been received. Segregations under this part may only be extended once and the total segregation period may not exceed 4 years.





---

[N] [81 FR 92209, Dec. 19, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 25961, Apr. 12, 2024; 89 FR 35678, May 1, 2024]




