# § 721.10645   Multi-walled carbon nanotube (generic) (P-08-0392).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as multi-walled carbon nanotube (PMN P-08-392) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance that have been completely reacted (cured); incorporated or embedded into a polymer matrix that itself has been completely reacted (cured); or embedded in a permanent solid polymer form that is not intended to undergo further processing except for mechanical processing.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3), (a)(4), and (a)(6) (particulate, including solids or liquid droplets). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent or reduce exposure, where feasible. A National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped with N100 filters with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50 meet the minimum requirements of § 721.63(a)(4).


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(f), (k), and (q) (within 18 months of commencing non-exempt commercial manufacture).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.



---

[N] [79 FR 51907, Sept. 2, 2014]




