# § 948.12   State statutory, regulatory, and proposed program amendment provisions not approved.

(a) We are not approving the following provisions of the proposed program amendment that West Virginia submitted on May 11, 1998: 


(1) CSR 38-2-3.14, to the extent that it could be interpreted as applying to the on-site reprocessing of abandoned coal mine waste piles or to the extent that it would apply to the removal of abandoned coal refuse piles where, on average, the material to be removed meets the definition of coal in 30 CFR 700.5. 


(2) CSR 38-2-3.32.g., which concerns unanticipated events or conditions. 


(3) CSR 38-2-14.14.a.1., which concerns placement of excess spoil outside the permit area. 


(4) CSR 38-2-23, which concerns coal extraction as part of land development activities. 


(5) CSR 38-2-24.4, which concerns water quality standards for bond release. 


(b) We are not approving the following provisions of the proposed program amendment that West Virginia submitted on March 14, 2000, March 28, 2000, and April 6, 2000: 


(1) The proviso at W.Va. Code 22-3-23(c)(2)(C) which concerns Phase III bond release where the quality of the untreated postmining water discharged is better than or equal to the premining water quality discharged from the mining site. 


(2) At CSR 38-2-7.4.b.1.C.5., the phrase, “except for ponds and impoundments located below the valley fills.” 


(3) At CSR 38-2-7.4.b.1.D.2, the phrase, “except for those areas with a slope of at least 50%.” 


(4) At CSR 38-2-7.4.b.1.G.1., the word “excessive.” 


(5) At CSR 38-2-7.4.b.1.I., the new stocking standards for commercial forestry and forestry. 


(6) At CSR 38-2-7.4.b.1.I.2., the phrase, “where there is potential for excessive erosion on slopes greater than 20%.” 


(7) At CSR 38-2-7.4.b.1.I.2., the words “rock cover.” 


(8) At CSR 38-2-7.4.b.1.I.3., the phrase “or, if a commercial forestry mitigation plan is submitted to the Director, and approved and completed.” 


(9) The portion of CSR 38-2-7.4.b.1.I.4. concerning in-kind mitigation plans. 


(10) At CSR 38-2-14.12.a.1., the term “commercial forestry.”


(c) We are not approving the following provisions of the proposed program amendment that West Virginia submitted on March 14, 2000, March 28, 2000, and April 6, 2000: 


(1) At CSR 38-2-7.5.j.3.B., the phrase, “except for those areas with a slope of at least 50%” is not approved, and the phrase, “and other areas from which the applicant affirmatively demonstrates and the Director of the WVDEP finds that soil cannot reasonably be recovered” is not approved. 


(2) At CSR 38-2-7.5.j.6.A., the word “excessive” in the phrase “excessive erosion” is not approved. 


(3) At CSR 38-2-7.5.o.2., the new planting arrangements and stocking standards are not approved. 


(4) At CSR 38-2-7.5.o.2., the words “rock cover” are not approved. 


(d) We are not approving the following provision of the proposed blasting-related program amendment that West Virginia submitted on October 30, 2000, and November 28, 2001: At CSR 199-1-4.8.c, the phrase “substantial or significant” is not approved.


(e) Section 22A-3-23(c)(3) of the Code of West Virginia is found inconsistent with Section 519(c)(3) of SMCRA to the extent that it states: *“Provided, however,* That such a release may be made where the quality of the untreated postmining water discharged is better than or equal to the premining water quality discharged from the mining site.”


(f) Section 22A-3-12(e) of the Code of West Virginia is found inconsistent with Section 515(e) of SMCRA.


(g) [Reserved]


(h) We are not approving the following provisions of the proposed program amendment that West Virginia submitted on March 25, 2004:


(1) At CSR 38-2-7.6.e.1, the word “excessive.”


(2) At CSR 38-2-7.7.e.1, the word “excessive.”


(i) We are removing and reserving paragraph (i) for the following reasons:


(1) We are removing and reserving subparagraph (1) of paragraph (i) since the words “Impoundments meeting” have been removed from CSR 38-2-5.4.e.1.


(2) We are removing and reserving subparagraph (2) of paragraph (i) since CSR 38-2-7.4.b.1.J.1(C) has been reinserted in the State regulations.


(j) We are not approving the following provisions of the proposed West Virginia program amendment dated April 8, 2008, and received electronically on April 17, 2008:


(1) At CSR 199-1-2.27 regarding other structure, the last sentence which provides that, “The term does not include structures owned, operated, or built by the permittee for the purpose of carrying out surface mining operations.”


(2) At CSR 199-1-2.36 regarding structure, the last sentence which provides that, “The term does not include structures built and/or utilized for the purpose of carrying out the surface mining operation.”


(3) At CSR 38-2-2.119 regarding structure, the last sentence which provides that, “The term does not include structures built and/or utilized for the purpose of carrying out the surface mining operation.”


(4) At CSR 38-2-6.5.h, we are not approving its deletion because the deletion of CSR 38-2-6.5.h would make CSR 199-1-3.6.g and 3.11 less effective than the Federal blasting requirements.


(k) We are not approving the following portions of provisions of the proposed program amendment that West Virginia submitted on May 15, 2017:


(1) We are deferring our decision on the deletion of provisions from W.Va. Code 22-3-11(g)(2) regarding the development of a long-range planning process for the selection and prioritization of sites to be reclaimed. We defer our decision until we make a determination on West Virginia's related amendment docketed as WV-128-FOR, which relates to the complete and accurate listing of all outstanding reclamation obligations (including water treatment) on active permits in the State.


(2) [Reserved]


(l) We are not approving the following provisions of the proposed West Virginia program amendments dated May 2, 2018:


(1) At W.Va. Code 22-3-9, revisions substituting notice by newspaper with notice in a form and manner determined by the Secretary which may be electronic.


(2) At W.Va. Code 22-3-20, revisions substituting notice by newspaper with notice in a form and manner determined by the Secretary which may be electronic.


(3) At CSR 38-2-2.37, the removal of the definition “completion of reclamation”.


(4) At CSR 38-2-12.2.d., the elimination to the existing prohibition on bond release for any site specific bonding (*i.e.,* open-acre bonding) until all coal extraction is completed and the disturbed area is completely backfilled and regraded.


(5) At CSR 38-2-12.2.e., to restructure and revise existing approved language in this section and move it to CSR 38-2-12.2.a.4.


(6) At CSR 38-2-12.2.f., to move, unchanged, this existing language to CSR 38-2-12.2.d.


(7) At CSR 38-2-12.2.g., to move, unchanged, this existing language to CSR 38-2-12.2.f.


(8) At CSR 38-2-12.2.h., to renumber existing CSR 38-2-12.2.h to 12.2.i. and to insert it as a new CSR 38-2-12.2.h.


(9) At CSR 38-2-12.4.c., to eliminate an existing 180 day window for initiating reclamation operations to reclaim the site in accordance with the approved reclamation plan or modification thereof.


(10) At CSR 38-2-12.5., to delete subsection 12.5 of the West Virginia regulations, which directs WVDEP's collection, analysis and reporting on sites where bond has been forfeited including, in particular, data relating to the water quality of water being discharged from forfeited sites.



---

[N] [48 FR 52053, Nov. 16, 1983, as amended at 50 FR 28323, 28342, July 11, 1985; 55 FR 21337, May 23, 1990; 61 FR 6535, Feb. 21, 1996; 65 FR 26135, May 5, 2000; 65 FR 50430, Aug. 18, 2000; 65 FR 80328, Dec. 21, 2000; 68 FR 40167, July 7, 2003; 68 FR 68738, Dec. 10, 2003; 70 FR 6590, Feb. 8, 2005; 71 FR 10790, Mar. 2, 2006; 85 FR 27156, May 7, 2020; 89 FR 2138, Jan. 12, 2024; 89 FR 19273, Mar. 18, 2024; 90 FR 5628, Jan. 17, 2025]




