# ยง 5001.507   Lender transfer.

(a) After the issuance of a loan note guarantee, a lender may sell or transfer the entire loan to a new lender with prior written approval of the Agency. The Agency may approve the sale or transfer to a new lender if the following conditions are met. The new lender:


(1) Is an eligible lender in accordance with ยง 5001.130 of this part and is approved as such;


(2) Is able to service the loan in accordance with the original loan documents;


(3) Agrees in writing to acquire title to the unguaranteed portion of the loan held by the original lender and assumes all original loan requirements, including liabilities and servicing responsibilities; and




(4) The transfer to the new lender is requested in writing by the borrower, the proposed new lender, and the original lender of record, if still in existence.


(b) Upon Agency approval, the original lender must transfer to the new lender the:


(1) Original promissory note and loan security documents;


(2) Original loan note guarantee;


(3) Original personal and corporate guarantee(s);


(4) Loan payment history; and


(v) The new lender must agree to accept the current loan terms, including the interest rate, secondary market holder (if any), collateral, loan agreement terms, and guarantors. The new lender can modify the loan terms after acquisition only by submitting a written request to the Agency and receiving Agency approval.


(vi) The new lender must certify to the Agency that the loan transfer has been completed in accordance with applicable laws and all provisions of the original loan remain in full force and effect.


(c) The Agency will not pay any loss or share in any costs (*e.g.,* legal fees, appraisal fees and environmental assessments) for a voluntary transfer of lender. This includes situations where a lender is merged with or acquired by another lender and situations where the lender has failed and been taken over by a Federal regulatory agency such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the loan is subsequently sold to another lender. However, in situations where the lender has failed and been taken over by a Federal regulator and the loan is liquidated rather than being sold to another lender, the Agency will pay losses and share in costs as if the Federal regulatory agency were an approved new lender.


(d) In cases when there is a transfer to a new lender or when a lender has been merged with or acquired by another lender, the Agency and the new lender must execute a new lender's agreement, unless the new lender already has a valid lender's agreement with the Agency.




(e) After Agency approval of a transfer of lender, all terms of the original loan note guarantee shall transfer to the benefit of the new lender.





---

[N] [85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79727, Sept. 30, 2024]










