# § 63.8010   What requirements apply to my storage tanks?

(a) *Introduction.* You must meet each emission limit in Table 2 to this subpart that applies to your storage tanks, and you must meet each applicable requirement specified in § 63.8000(b). For each control device used to comply with Table 2 to this subpart, you must comply with subpart SS of this part as specified in § 63.8000(c), except as specified in § 63.8000(d) and (f) and paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.




(b) *Exceptions to subparts SS and WW of this part 63.* (1) If you conduct a performance test or design evaluation for a control device used to control emissions only from storage tanks, you must establish operating limits, conduct monitoring, and keep records using the same procedures as required in subpart SS of this part 63 for control devices used to reduce emissions from process vents instead of the procedures specified in §§ 63.985(c), 63.998(d)(2)(i), and 63.999(b)(2).


(2) When the term storage vessel is used in subparts SS and WW of this part 63, the term storage tank, as defined in § 63.8105 applies for the purposes of this subpart.


(c) *Planned routine maintenance.* The emission limits in Table 2 to this subpart for control devices used to control emissions from storage tanks do not apply during periods of planned routine maintenance. Periods of planned routine maintenance of each control device, during which the control device does not meet the emission limit specified in Table 2 to this subpart, must not exceed 240 hours per year (hr/yr). You may submit an application to the Administrator requesting an extension of this time limit to a total of 360 hr/yr. The application must explain why the extension is needed, it must indicate that no material will be added to the storage tank between the time the 240 hr/yr limit is exceeded and the control device is again operational, and it must be submitted at least 60 days before the 240 hr/yr limit will be exceeded.


(d) *Vapor balancing alternative.* As an alternative to the emission limits specified in Table 2 to this subpart, you may elect to implement vapor balancing in accordance with § 63.1253(f), except as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) To comply with § 63.1253(f)(6)(i), the owner or operator of an offsite cleaning and reloading facility must comply with §§ 63.7995 through 63.8105 instead of complying with § 63.1253(f)(7)(ii).


(2) You may elect to set a pressure relief device to a value less than the 2.5 psig required in § 63.1253(f)(5) if you provide rationale in your notification of compliance status report explaining why the alternative value is sufficient to prevent breathing losses at all times.



---

[N] [68 FR 69185, Dec. 11, 2003, as amended at 85 FR 49743, Aug. 14, 2020]






