# ยง 70.604   Record of inventory to support claims.

(a) *Claims relating to distilled spirits.* The record of inventory of distilled spirits lost, made unmarketable, or condemned, which is required to support claims filed under ยง 70.603, shall show the following information:


(1) Name and business address of claimant (as shown on claim, Form 2635 (5620.8)).


(2) Address where the spirits were lost, became unmarketable, or were condemned, if different from the business address.


(3) Kind of spirits.


(4) Brand name.


(5) For full cases, show:


(i) Number of cases;


(ii) Serial numbers;


(iii) Bottles per case;


(iv) Size of bottles;


(v) Wine gallons per case;


(vi) Proof; and


(vii) Proof gallons.


(6) For bottles not in cases, show:


(i) Total number;


(ii) Size of bottles;


(iii) Wine gallons;


(iv) Proof; and


(v) Total proof gallons.


(7) Total proof gallons for all items.


(b) *Claims relating to wines.* The record of inventory of wines lost, made unmarketable, or condemned, which is required to support claims filed under ยง 70.603, shall show the following information:


(1) Name and business address of claimant (as shown on claim, Form 2635 (5620.8)).


(2) Address where the wines were lost, became unmarketable, or were condemned, if different from the business address.


(3) Kind of wine.


(4) Percent of alcohol by volume.


(5) Number of barrels or kegs.


(6) Kind and number of other bulk containers.


(7) Number of full cases and bottles per case.


(8) Size of bottles.


(9) Number of bottles not in cases and wine gallons.


(10) Total wine gallons.


(c) *Claims relating to beer.* The record of inventory of beer lost, made unmarketable, or condemned, which is required to support claims filed under ยง 70.603, shall show the following information:


(1) Name and business address of claimant (as shown on claim, Form 2635 (5620.8)).


(2) Address where the beer was lost, became unmarketable, or was condemned, if different from the business address.


(3) Number and size of barrels.


(4) *For full cases, show:*

(i) Number of cases;


(ii) Bottles or cans per case; and


(iii) Size (in ounces) of bottles or cans.


(5) Number and size of bottles and cans not in cases.


(6) Quantity in terms of 31-gallon barrels.


(7) Total quantity.


(d) *Special instructions.* (1) Inventories of domestic liquors, imported liquors, and liquors manufactured in the Virgin Islands shall be reported separately.


(2) Liquors manufactured in Puerto Rico may not be included in claims filed under this subpart. Claims for losses of Puerto Rican liquors shall be filed with the Secretary of the Treasury of Puerto Rico under the laws of Puerto Rico.




