# § 679.43   Determinations and appeals.

(a) *General.* This section describes the procedure for appealing initial administrative determinations made in this title under parts 300, 679, 680, and subpart E of part 300 of this chapter.


(b) *Who may appeal.* Any person whose interest is directly and adversely affected by an initial administrative determination may file a written appeal. For purposes of this section, such persons will be referred to as “applicant” or “appellant.” 


(c) *Submission of appeals.* An appeal to an initial administrative determination must be submitted under the appeals procedure set out at 15 CFR part 906. 


(d) *Timing of appeals.* (1) If an applicant appeals an initial administrative determination, the appeal must be filed not later than 60 days after the date the determination is issued. 


(2) The time period within which an appeal may be filed begins to run on the date the initial administrative determination is issued. If the last day of the time period is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the time period will extend to the close of business on the next business day. 


(e) *Address of record.**General*—NMFS will establish as the address of record the address used by the applicant in initial correspondence to NMFS concerning the application. Notifications of all actions affecting the applicant after establishing an address of record will be mailed to that address, unless the applicant provides NMFS, in writing, with any changes to that address. NMFS bears no responsibility if a notification is sent to the address of record and is not received because the applicant's actual address has changed without notification to NMFS.


(f) *Statement of reasons for appeals.* Applicants must timely submit a full written statement in support of the appeal, including a concise statement of the reasons the initial administrative determination has a direct and adverse effect on the applicant and should be reversed or modified. If the applicant requests a hearing on any issue presented in the appeal, such request for hearing must be accompanied by a concise written statement raising genuine and substantial issues of adjudicative fact for resolution and a list of available and specifically identified reliable evidence upon which the factual issues can be resolved. The appellate officer will limit his/her review to the issues stated in the appeal; all issues not set out in the appeal will be waived. 


(g) *Hearings.* The appellate officer will review the applicant's appeal and request for hearing, and has discretion to proceed as follows: 


(1) Deny the appeal; 


(2) Issue a decision on the merits of the appeal, if the record contains sufficient information on which to reach final judgment; or 


(3) Order that a hearing be conducted. The appellate officer may so order only if the appeal demonstrates the following: 


(i) There is a genuine and substantial issue of adjudicative fact for resolution at a hearing. A hearing will not be ordered on issues of policy or law. 


(ii) The factual issue can be resolved by available and specifically identified reliable evidence. A hearing will not be ordered on the basis of mere allegations or denials or general descriptions of positions and contentions. 


(iii) The evidence described in the request for hearing, if established at hearing, would be adequate to justify resolution of the factual issue in the way sought by the applicant. A hearing will not be ordered if the evidence described is insufficient to justify the factual determination sought, even if accurate. 


(iv) Resolution of the factual issue in the way sought by the applicant is adequate to justify the action requested. A hearing will not be ordered on factual issues that are not determinative with respect to the action requested. 


(h) *Types of hearings.* If the appellate officer determines that a hearing should be held to resolve one or more genuine and substantial issues of adjudicative fact, he/she may order: 


(1) A written hearing, as provided in paragraph (m) of this section; or 


(2) An oral hearing, as provided in paragraph (n) of this section. 


(i) *Authority of the appellate officer.* The appellate officer is vested with general authority to conduct all hearings in an orderly manner, including the authority to: 


(1) Administer oaths. 


(2) Call and question witnesses. 


(3) Issue a written decision based on the record. 


(j) *Evidence.* All evidence that is relevant, material, reliable, and probative may be included in the record. Formal rules of evidence do not apply to hearings conducted under this section. 


(k) *Appellate officers' decisions.* The appellate officer will close the record and issue a decision after determining there is sufficient information to render a decision on the record of the proceedings and that all procedural requirements have been met. The decision must be based solely on the record of the proceedings. Except as provided in paragraph (o) of this section, an appellate officer's decision takes effect 30 days after it is issued and, upon taking effect, is the final agency action for purposes of judicial review. 


(l) *Disqualification of an appellate officer.* (1) The appellate officer will withdraw from an appeal at any time he/she deems himself/herself disqualified. 


(2) The appellate officer may withdraw from an appeal on an appellant's motion if: 


(i) The motion is entered prior to the appellate officer's issuance of a decision; and 


(ii) The appellant demonstrates that the appellate officer has a personal bias or any other basis for disqualification. 


(3) If the appellate officer denies a motion to withdraw, he/she will so rule on the record. 


(m) *Written hearing.* (1) An appellate officer may order a written hearing under paragraph (h)(1) of this section if he/she: 


(i) Orders a hearing as provided in paragraph (g)(3) of this section; and 


(ii) Determines that the issues to be resolved at hearing can be resolved by allowing the appellant to present written materials to support his/her position. 


(2) After ordering a written hearing, the appellate officer will: 


(i) Provide the appellant with notification that a written hearing has been ordered. 


(ii) Provide the appellant with a statement of issues to be determined at hearing. 


(iii) Provide the appellant with 30 days to file a written response. The appellant may also provide documentary evidence to support his/her position. The period to file a written response may be extended at the sole discretion of the appellate officer, if the appellant shows good cause for the extension. 


(3) The appellate officer may, after reviewing the appellant's written response and documentary evidence: 


(i) Order that an oral hearing be held, as provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, to resolve issues that cannot be resolved through the written hearing process; 


(ii) Request supplementary evidence from the appellant before closing the record; or 


(iii) Close the record. 


(4) The appellate officer will close the record and issue a decision after determining that the information on the record is sufficient to render a decision. 


(n) *Oral hearing.* (1) The appellate officer may order an oral hearing under paragraphs (h)(2) and (m)(3)(i) of this section if he/she: 


(i) Orders a hearing as provided in paragraph (g)(3) of this section; and 


(ii) Determines that the issues to be resolved at hearing can best be resolved through the oral hearing process. 


(2) After ordering an oral hearing, the appellate officer will: 


(i) Provide the appellant with notification that an oral hearing has been ordered. 


(ii) Provide the appellant with a statement of issues to be determined at hearing. 


(iii) Provide the appellant with notification, at least 30 days in advance, of the place, date, and time of the oral hearing. Oral hearings will be held in Juneau, AK, at the prescribed date and time, unless the appellate officer determines, based upon good cause shown, that a different place, date, or time will better serve the interests of justice. A continuance of the oral hearing may be ordered at the sole discretion of the appellate officer if the appellant shows good cause for the continuance. 


(3) The appellate officer may, either at his/her own discretion or on the motion of the appellant, order a pre-hearing conference, either in person or telephonically, to consider: 


(i) The simplification of issues. 


(ii) The possibility of obtaining stipulations, admissions of facts, and agreements to the introduction of documents. 


(iii) The possibility of settlement or other means to facilitate resolution of the case. 


(iv) Such other matters as may aid in the disposition of the proceedings. 


(4) The appellate officer must provide the appellant with notification of a pre-hearing conference, if one is ordered, at least 30 days in advance of the conference. All action taken at the pre-hearing conference will be made part of the record. 


(5) At the beginning of the oral hearing, the appellate officer may first seek to obtain stipulations as to material facts and the issues involved and may state any other issues on which he/she may wish to have evidence presented. Issues to be resolved at the hearing will be limited to those identified by the appellate officer as provided in paragraph (g)(3) of this section. The appellant will then be given an opportunity to present his/her case. 


(6) During the oral hearing, the appellant has the right to present reliable and material oral or documentary evidence and to conduct such cross-examination as may be required in the interests of justice. 


(7) After the conclusion of the oral hearing, the appellant may be given time by the appellate officer to submit any supplementary information that may assist in the resolution of the case. 


(8) The appellate officer will close the record and issue a decision after determining that the information on the record is sufficient to render a decision. 


(o) *Review by the Regional Administrator.* An appellate officer's decision is subject to review by the Regional Administrator, as provided in this paragraph (o). 


(1) The Regional Administrator may affirm, reverse, modify, or remand the appellate officer's decision before the 30-day effective date of the decision provided in paragraph (k) of this section. 


(2) The Regional Administrator may take any of these actions on or after the 30-day effective date by issuing a stay of the decision before the 30-day effective date. An action taken under paragraph (o)(1) of this section takes effect immediately. 


(3) The Regional Administrator must provide a written explanation why an appellate officer's decision has been reversed, modified, or remanded. 


(4) The Regional Administrator must promptly notify the appellant(s) of any action taken under this paragraph (o). 


(5) The Regional Administrator's decision to affirm, reverse, or modify an appellate officer's decision is a final agency action for purposes of judicial review. 


(p) *Issuance of a non-transferable license.* A non-transferable license will be issued to a person upon acceptance of his or her appeal of an initial administrative determination denying an application for a license for license limitation groundfish, crab species under § 679.4(k) or scallops under § 679.4(g). This non-transferable license authorizes a person to conduct directed fishing for groundfish, crab species, or catch and retain scallops and will have specific endorsements and designations based on the person's claims in his or her application for a license. This non-transferable license expires upon the resolution of the appeal.



---

[N] [61 FR 31230, June 19, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 17753, Apr. 11, 1997; 63 FR 52657, Oct. 1, 1998; 63 FR 64879, Nov. 24, 1998; 65 FR 78118, Dec. 14, 2000; 66 FR 27911, May 21, 2001; 67 FR 4148, Jan. 28, 2002; 67 FR 64317, Oct. 18, 2002; 67 FR 72611, Dec. 6, 2002; 68 FR 44487, July 29, 2003; 70 FR 10238, Mar. 2, 2005; 70 FR 16754, Apr. 1, 2005; 77 FR 6501, Feb. 8, 2012; 85 FR 8481, Feb. 14, 2020]




