# ยง 216.2   Definitions.

As used in these regulations: 


(a) *Secretary* means the Secretary of the Department of Energy. 


(b) *Applicant* means a person requesting priorities or allocation assistance in connection with an energy program or project. 


(c) *Application* means the written request of an applicant for assistance. 


(d) *Assistance* means use of the authority vested in the President by DPA section 101(c) to implement priorities and allocation support. 


(e) *DHS* means the Department of Homeland Security.


(f) *DOC* means the Department of Commerce.


(g) *DOE* means the Department of Energy.


(h) *Defense Priorities and Allocations System Coordination Office* means the Department of Energy, Office of Electricity.


(i) *Eligible energy program or project* means a designated activity which maximizes domestic energy supplies by furthering the exploration, production, refining, transportation or conservation of energy supplies or construction or maintenance of energy facilities within the meaning of DPA section 101(c), as determined by DOE.


(j) *Facilities* means all types of buildings, structures, or other improvements to real property (but excluding farms, churches or other places of worship, and private dwelling houses), and services relating to the use of any such building, structure, or other improvement.


(k) *Materials and equipment* means: (1) Any raw materials (including minerals, metals, and advanced processed materials), commodities, articles, components (including critical components), products, and items of supply; and


(2) Any technical information or services ancillary to the use of such raw materials, commodities, articles, components, products, or items.


(l) *National Defense* means programs for military and energy production or construction, military assistance to any foreign nation, stockpiling, space, and any directly related activity. Such term also includes emergency preparedness activities conducted pursuant to title VI of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5195, *et seq.*) and critical infrastructure protection and restoration.


(m) *Person* means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, or any other organized group of persons, or legal successor or representative thereof, or any state or local government or agency thereof.


(n) *Services* include any effort that is needed for or incidental to:


(1) The development, production, processing, distribution, delivery, or use of an industrial resource, or critical technology item; or


(2) The construction of facilities.



---

[N] [43 FR 6212, Feb. 14, 1978, as amended at 51 FR 8311, Mar. 11, 1986; 73 FR 10983, Feb. 29, 2008; 85 FR 31669, May 27, 2020]




