# § 887.5   Definitions.

As used in this part—


*Establishment*—means either the development of a subsidence insurance program or the administration or operation of a subsidence insurance program.


*Private property*—means any or all of the following: dwellings and improvements, commercial and industrial structures, utilities, underground structures such as sewers, pipes, wells and septic systems, sidewalks and driveways, and land. 


*Reclamation plan* or *State reclamation plan* means a plan that a State or Indian tribe submitted and that we approved under section 405 of SMCRA and part 884 of this chapter.


*Self-sustaining* means maintaining an insurance rate structure which is designed to be actuarially sound. Self-sustaining requires that State or Indian tribal subsidence insurance programs provide for recovery of payments made in settlement for damages from any party responsible for the damages under the law of the State or Indian tribe. Actuarial soundness implies that funds are sufficient to cover expected losses and expenses including a reasonable allowance for underwriting services and contingencies. Self-sustaining must not preclude the use of funds from other non-Federal sources.


*State or Indian tribe administered* means administered either directly by a State or Indian tribe or for a State or Indian tribe through a State or Indian tribal authorized commission, board, contractor such as an insurance company, or other entity subject to State or Indian tribal direction.



---

[N] [51 FR 5493, Feb. 13, 1986, as amended at 73 FR 67647, Nov. 14, 2008]




