# § 63.110   Applicability.

(a) This subpart applies to all process vents, storage vessels, transfer racks, wastewater streams, and in-process equipment subject to § 63.149 within a source subject to subpart F of this part.


(b) *Overlap with other regulations for storage vessels.* (1) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part, a Group 1 or Group 2 storage vessel that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb is required to comply only with the provisions of this subpart. 


(2) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part, a Group 1 storage vessel that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 61, subpart Y is required to comply only with the provisions of this subpart. 




(3) Except as specified in paragraph (j) of this section, after the compliance dates specified in § 63.100, a Group 2 storage vessel that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 61, subpart Y is required to comply only with the provisions of part 61, subpart Y, of this chapter. The recordkeeping and reporting requirements of part 61, subpart Y, will be accepted as compliance with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this subpart.

 


(c) *Overlap with other regulations for transfer racks.* (1) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part, a Group 1 transfer rack that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 61, subpart BB is required to comply only with the provisions of this subpart. 


(2) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part, a Group 2 transfer rack that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 61, subpart BB is required to comply with the provisions of either paragraph (c)(2)(i) or (c)(2)(ii) of this subpart. 


(i) Except as provided in paragraph (j) of this section, if the transfer rack is subject to the control requirements specified in § 61.302 of this chapter, then the transfer rack is required to comply with the control requirements of § 61.302. The owner or operator may elect to comply with either the associated testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements of part 61, subpart BB, of this chapter or with the testing, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements specified in this subpart for Group 1 transfer racks. The owner or operator shall indicate this decision in either the Notification of Compliance Status specified in § 63.152(b) or in an operating permit application or amendment.






(ii) If the transfer rack is subject only to reporting and recordkeeping requirements under 40 CFR part 61, subpart BB, then the transfer rack is required to comply only with the reporting and recordkeeping requirements specified in this subpart for Group 2 transfer racks and is exempt from the reporting and recordkeeping requirements in 40 CFR part 61, subpart BB. 


(d) *Overlap with other regulations for process vents.* (1) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part, a Group 1 process vent that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart III is required to comply only with the provisions of this subpart. 




(2) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.100, the owner or operator of a Group 2 process vent that is also subject to the provisions of part 60, subpart III, of this chapter shall determine requirements according to paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. For each source as defined in § 63.101, on and after July 15, 2027, this paragraph no longer applies.




(i) If the Group 2 process vent has a TRE value less than 1 as determined by the procedures in 40 CFR part 60, subpart III, the process vent is required to comply with the provisions in paragraphs (d)(2)(i)(A) through (d)(2)(i)(C) of this section. 


(A) The provisions in both this subpart and in 40 CFR part 60, subpart III for applicability determination and the associated recordkeeping and reporting; 


(B) The provisions in both this subpart and in 40 CFR part 60, subpart III for process changes and recalculation of the TRE index value and the associated recordkeeping and reporting; and


(C) The control requirements in § 60.612 of 40 CFR part 60, subpart III. The owner or operator may elect to comply with either the associated testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements of 40 CFR part 60, subpart III or with the testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements specified in this subpart for Group 1 process vents. The owner or operator shall indicate this decision in either the Notification of Compliance Status specified in § 63.152(b) of this subpart or in an operating permit application or amendment.


(ii) If the Group 2 process vent has a TRE value greater than or equal to 1 as determined by the procedures in 40 CFR part 60, subpart III, the process vent is required to comply only with the provisions specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(A) through (d)(2)(ii)(D) of this section.


(A) The provisions in both this subpart and in 40 CFR part 60, subpart III for applicability determination and the associated recordkeeping and reporting;


(B) The provisions in both this subpart and in 40 CFR part 60, subpart III for process changes and recalculation of the TRE index value and the associated recordkeeping and reporting;


(C) If the provisions of both this subpart and 40 CFR part 60, subpart III require continuous monitoring of recovery device operating parameters, the process vent is required to comply only with the provisions that are specified in this subpart for continuous monitoring of recovery device operating parameters and the associated testing, reporting, and recordkeeping.


(D) If only the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart III require continuous monitoring of recovery device operating parameters, the process vent is required to comply only with the provisions that are specified in 40 CFR part 60, subpart III for continuous monitoring of recovery device operating parameters and the associated testing, reporting, and recordkeeping.


(3) After the compliance dates specified in 63.100, if an owner or operator of a process vent subject to this subpart that is also subject to the provisions of part 60, subpart III, of this chapter elects to control the process vent to the levels required in § 63.113(a)(1) or (2) without calculating the TRE index value for the vent according to the procedures specified in § 63.115(d), then the owner or operator shall comply with the testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping provisions of this subpart and shall be exempt from the testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping provisions of part 60, subpart III. For each source as defined in § 63.101, on and after July 15, 2027, this paragraph no longer applies.












(4) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part, a Group 1 process vent that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart NNN is required to comply only with the provisions of this subpart.




(5) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.100, the owner or operator of a Group 2 process vent that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart NNN shall determine requirements according to paragraphs (d)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section. For each source as defined in § 63.101, on and after July 15, 2027, this paragraph no longer applies.








(i) If the Group 2 process vent has a TRE value less than 1 as determined by the procedures in 40 CFR part 60, subpart NNN, the process vent is required to comply with the provisions in paragraphs (d)(5)(i)(A) through (d)(5)(i)(C) of this section.


(A) The provisions in both this subpart and in 40 CFR part 60, subpart NNN for applicability determination and the associated recordkeeping and reporting;


(B) The provisions in both this subpart and in 40 CFR part 60, subpart NNN for process changes and recalculation of the TRE index value and the associated recordkeeping and reporting; and


(C) The control requirements in § 60.662 of 40 CFR part 60, subpart NNN. The owner or operator may elect to comply with either the associated testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements of 40 CFR part 60, subpart NNN or with the testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements specified in this subpart for Group 1 process vents. The owner or operator shall indicate this decision in either the Notification of Compliance Status specified in § 63.152(b) of this subpart or in an operating permit application or amendment.


(ii) If the Group 2 process vent has a TRE value greater than or equal to 1 as determined by the procedures in 40 CFR part 60, subpart NNN, the process vent is required to comply only with the provisions specified in paragraphs (d)(5)(ii)(A) through (d)(5)(ii)(D) of this section.


(A) The provisions in both this subpart and in 40 CFR part 60, subpart NNN for applicability determination and the associated recordkeeping and reporting;


(B) The provisions in both this subpart and in 40 CFR part 60, subpart NNN for process changes and recalculation of the TRE index value and the associated recordkeeping and reporting;


(C) If the provisions of both this subpart and 40 CFR part 60, subpart NNN require continuous monitoring of recovery device operating parameters, the process vent is required to comply only with the provisions that are specified in this subpart for continuous monitoring of recovery device operating parameters and the associated testing, reporting, and recordkeeping.


(D) If only the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart NNN require continuous monitoring of recovery device operating parameters, the process vent is required to comply only with the provisions that are specified in 40 CFR part 60, subpart NNN for continuous monitoring of recovery device operating parameters and the associated testing, reporting, and recordkeeping.






(6) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.100, if an owner or operator of a process vent subject to this subpart that is also subject to the provisions of part 60, subpart NNN, of this chapter elects to control the process vent to the levels required in § 63.113(a)(1) or (2) without calculating the TRE index value for the vent according to the procedures specified in § 63.115(d), then the owner or operator shall comply with the testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping provisions of this subpart and shall be exempt from the testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping provisions of part 60, subpart NNN. For each source as defined in § 63.101, on and after July 15, 2027, this paragraph no longer applies.












(7) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part, a Group 1 process vent that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart RRR is required to comply only with the provisions of this subpart. 




(8) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.100, the owner or operator of a Group 2 process vent that is also subject to the provisions of part 60, subpart RRR, of this chapter shall determine requirements according to paragraphs (d)(8)(i) and (ii) of this section. For each source as defined in § 63.101, on and after July 15, 2027, this paragraph no longer applies.








(i) If the Group 2 process vent has a TRE value less than 1 as determined by the procedures in 40 CFR part 60, subpart RRR, the process vent is required to comply with the provisions in paragraphs (d)(8)(i)(A) through (d)(8)(i)(C) of this section. 


(A) The provisions in both this subpart and in 40 CFR part 60, subpart RRR for applicability determination and the associated recordkeeping and reporting; 


(B) The provisions in both this subpart and in 40 CFR part 60, subpart RRR for process changes and recalculation of the TRE index value and the associated recordkeeping and reporting; and 


(C) The control requirements in § 60.702 of 40 CFR part 60, subpart RRR. The owner or operator may elect to comply with either the associated testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements of 40 CFR part 60, subpart RRR or with the testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements specified in this subpart for Group 1 process vents. The owner or operator shall indicate this decision in either the Notification of Compliance Status specified in § 63.152(b) of this subpart or in an operating permit application or amendment. 


(ii) If the Group 2 process vent has a TRE value greater than or equal to 1 as determined by the procedures in 40 CFR part 60, subpart RRR, the process vent is required to comply only with the provisions specified in paragraphs (d)(8)(ii)(A) through (d)(8)(ii)(D) of this section. 


(A) The provisions in both this subpart and in 40 CFR part 60, subpart RRR for applicability determination and the associated recordkeeping and reporting; 


(B) The provisions in both this subpart and in 40 CFR part 60, subpart RRR for process changes and recalculation of the TRE index value and the associated recordkeeping and reporting; 


(C) If the provisions of both this subpart and 40 CFR part 60, subpart RRR require continuous monitoring of recovery device operating parameters, the process vent is required to comply only with the provisions that are specified in this subpart for continuous monitoring of recovery device operating parameters and the associated testing, reporting, and recordkeeping. 


(D) If only the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart RRR require continuous monitoring of recovery device operating parameters, the process vent is required to comply only with the provisions that are specified in 40 CFR part 60, subpart RRR for continuous monitoring of recovery device operating parameters and the associated testing, reporting, and recordkeeping. 




(9) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.100, if an owner or operator of a process vent subject to this subpart that is also subject to the provisions of part 60, subpart RRR, of this chapter elects to control the process vent to the levels required in § 63.113(a)(1) or (2) without calculating the TRE index value for the vent according to the procedures specified in § 63.115(d), then the owner or operator shall comply with the testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping provisions of this subpart and shall be exempt from the testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping provisions of part 60, subpart RRR. For each source as defined in § 63.101, on and after July 15, 2027, this paragraph no longer applies.



 


(10) As an alternative to the requirements of paragraphs (d)(2), (d)(3), (d)(5), (d)(6), (d)(8), and/or (d)(9) of this section as applicable, if a chemical manufacturing process unit has equipment subject to the provisions of this subpart and equipment subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart III, NNN, or RRR, the owner or operator may elect to apply this subpart to all such equipment in the chemical manufacturing process unit. If the owner or operator elects this method of compliance, all total organic compounds minus methane and ethane, in such equipment shall be considered for purposes of applicability and compliance with this subpart, as if they were organic hazardous air pollutants. Compliance with the provisions of this subpart, in the manner described in this paragraph, shall be deemed to constitute compliance with 40 CFR part 60, subpart III, NNN, or RRR, as applicable. 


(e) *Overlap with other regulations for wastewater.*  (1) Except as specified in paragraph (j) of this section, after the compliance dates specified in § 63.100, the owner or operator of a Group 1 or Group 2 wastewater stream that is also subject to the provisions of part 61, subpart FF, of this chapter is required to comply with the provisions of both this subpart and part 61, subpart FF. Alternatively, the owner or operator may elect to comply with the provisions of paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, which shall constitute compliance with the provisions of part 61, subpart FF.










(i) Comply with the provisions of this subpart; and 


(ii) For any Group 2 wastewater stream or organic stream whose benzene emissions are subject to control through the use of one or more treatment processes or waste management units under the provisions of 40 CFR part 61, subpart FF on or after December 31, 1992, comply with the requirements of this subpart for Group 1 wastewater streams. 


(2) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part, the owner or operator of any Group 1 or Group 2 wastewater stream that is also subject to provisions in 40 CFR parts 260 through 272 shall comply with the requirements of either paragraph (e)(2)(i) or (e)(2)(ii) of this section. 


(i) For each Group 1 or Group 2 wastewater stream, the owner or operator shall comply with the more stringent control requirements (e.g., waste management units, numerical treatment standards, etc.) and the more stringent testing, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements that overlap between the provisions of this subpart and the provisions of 40 CFR parts 260 through 272. The owner or operator shall keep a record of the information used to determine which requirements were the most stringent and shall submit this information if requested by the Administrator; or 


(ii) The owner or operator shall submit, no later than four months before the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part, a request for a case-by-case determination of requirements. The request shall include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(ii)(A) and (e)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.


(A) Identification of the wastewater streams that are subject to this subpart and to provisions in 40 CFR parts 260 through 272, determination of the Group 1/Group 2 status of those streams, determination of whether or not those streams are listed or exhibit a characteristic as specified in 40 CFR part 261, and determination of whether the waste management unit is subject to permitting under 40 CFR part 270. 


(B) Identification of the specific control requirements (e.g., waste management units, numerical treatment standards, etc.) and testing, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements that overlap between the provisions of this subpart and the provisions of 40 CFR parts 260 through 272. 




(f) *Overlap with the Vinyl Chloride NESHAP.* (1) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part, the owner or operator of any Group 1 process vent that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 61, subpart F shall comply only with the provisions of this subpart. 


(2) Except as specified in paragraph (j) of this section, after the compliance dates specified in § 63.100, the owner or operator of any Group 2 process vent that is also subject to the provisions of part 61, subpart F, of this chapter shall comply with the provisions specified in either paragraph (f)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section.




(i) If the process vent is already controlled by a combustion device meeting the requirements of 40 CFR part 61, subpart F, then the owner or operator shall comply with either the associated testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping provisions for Group 1 process vents in this subpart or the testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping provisions of 40 CFR part 61, subpart F. The owner or operator shall indicate this decision in either the Notification of Compliance Status specified in § 63.152(b) of this subpart or in an operating permit application or amendment. 


(ii) If the process vent is not already controlled by a combustion device, then the owner or operator shall comply with the provisions of both this subpart and 40 CFR part 61, subpart F. 


(3) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.100, if an owner or operator of a process vent subject to this subpart that is also subject to the provisions of part 61, subpart F, of this chapter elects to control the process vent to the levels required in § 63.113(a)(1) or (2) without calculating the TRE index value for the vent according to the procedures specified in § 63.115(d), then the owner or operator shall comply with the testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping provisions of this subpart and shall be exempt from the testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping provisions of part 61, subpart F. For each source as defined in § 63.101, on and after July 15, 2027, this paragraph no longer applies.


(4) Except as specified in paragraph (j) of this section, after the compliance dates specified in § 63.100, the owner or operator of a Group 1 or Group 2 wastewater stream that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 61, subpart F shall comply with the provisions of either paragraph (f)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section.






(i) The owner or operator shall comply with the provisions of both this subpart and 40 CFR part 61, subpart F or 


(ii) The owner or operator may submit, no later than four months before the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part, information demonstrating how compliance with 40 CFR Part 61, subpart F, will also ensure compliance with this subpart. The information shall include a description of the testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping that will be performed. 


(g) *Rules stayed for reconsideration.* Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart, the effectiveness of subpart G is stayed from October 24, 1994, to April 24, 1995, only as applied to those sources for which the owner or operator makes a representation in writing to the Administrator that the resolution of the area source definition issues could have an effect on the compliance status of the source with respect to subpart G. 


(h) *Overlap with other regulations for monitoring, recordkeeping, or reporting with respect to combustion devices, recovery devices, or recapture devices.* (1) Except as specified in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, after the compliance dates specified in § 63.100, if any combustion device, recovery device, or recapture device subject to this subpart is also subject to monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements in part 264, subpart AA or CC, of this chapter or is subject to monitoring and recordkeeping requirements in part 265, subpart AA or CC, of this chapter and the owner or operator complies with the periodic reporting requirements under 40 CFR part 264, subpart AA or CC that would apply to the device if the facility had final-permitted status, the owner or operator may elect to comply either with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of this subpart, or with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements in parts 264 and/or 265, as described in this paragraph, which shall constitute compliance with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of this subpart. The owner or operator shall identify which option has been selected in the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.152(b).


(2) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10) of subpart F of this part, paragraph (h)(1) of this section no longer applies.


(i) *Alternative means of compliance*— For each source as defined in § 63.101, on and after July 15, 2027, this paragraph (i) no longer applies.









 


(i) For Group 1 and Group 2 process vents, 40 CFR part 65, subpart D, satisfies the requirements of §§ 63.102, 63.103, 63.112 through 63.118, 63.148, 63.151, and 63.152. 


(ii) For Group 1 storage vessels, 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, satisfies the requirements of §§ 63.102, 63.103, 63.112, 63.119 through 63.123, 63.148, 63.151, and 63.152. 


(iii) For Group 1 transfer racks, 40 CFR part 65, subpart E, satisfies the requirements of §§ 63.102, 63.103, 63.112, 63.126 through 63.130, 63.148, 63.151, and 63.152. 




(iv) For equipment, comply with § 63.160(g).








(2) *Part 63, subpart A.* Owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65 must also comply with the applicable general provisions of this part 63 listed in table 1A of this subpart. All sections and paragraphs of subpart A of this part that are not mentioned in table 1A of this subpart do not apply to owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, except that provisions required to be met prior to implementing 40 CFR part 65 still apply. Owners and operators who choose to comply with a subpart of 40 CFR part 65 must comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart A.


(j) *Overlap with other regulations for flares.* (1) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), flares used as a control device to comply with the overlap provisions in either paragraph (b)(3), (c)(2)(i), (e)(1), (f)(2)(i), (f)(2)(ii), or (f)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section must comply with the provisions specified in § 63.108 and are no longer subject to any flare related provisions of part 61, subparts F, Y, BB, and FF, of this chapter or § 60.18 of this chapter.


(2) Owners and operators of flares that are subject to the flare related requirements of this subpart and flare related requirements of any other regulation in part 60, 61, or 63 of this chapter, may elect to comply with the requirements in § 63.108 in lieu of all flare related requirements in any other regulation in part 60, 61, or 63.





---

[N] [59 FR 19468, Apr. 22, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 53360, Oct. 24, 1994; 60 FR 5321, Jan. 27, 1995; 61 FR 64575, Dec. 5, 1996; 62 FR 2742, Jan. 17, 1997; 65 FR 78284, Dec. 14, 2000; 66 FR 6929, Jan. 22, 2001; 89 FR 43175, May 16, 2024]










