# § 303.142   Processing.

(a) *Expedited processing.* A notice filed by an insured state savings association seeking to commence or continue an activity under § 362.11(b)(2)(ii) of this chapter will be acknowledged in writing by the FDIC and will receive expedited processing, unless the applicant is notified in writing to the contrary and provided a basis for that decision. The FDIC may remove the notice from expedited processing for any of the reasons set forth in § 303.11(c)(2). Absent such removal, a notice processed under expedited processing is deemed approved 30 days after receipt of a complete notice by the FDIC (subject to extension for an additional 15 days upon written notice to the bank) or on such earlier date authorized by the FDIC in writing. 


(b) *Standard processing for applications and notices that have been removed from expedited processing.* For an application filed by an insured state savings association seeking to commence or continue an activity under § 362.11(a)(2)(ii), § 362.11(b)(2)(i), § 362.12(b)(1) of this chapter or for notices which are not processed pursuant to the expedited processing procedures, the FDIC will provide the insured state savings association with written notification of the final action as soon as the decision is rendered. The FDIC will normally review and act in such cases within 60 days after receipt of a completed application or notice (subject to extension for an additional 30 days upon written notice to the bank), but failure of the FDIC to act prior to the expiration of these periods does not constitute approval. 


(c) *Notices of activities in excess of an amount permissible for a federal savings association; subsidiary notices.* Receipt of a notice filed by an insured state savings association as required by § 362.11(b)(3) or § 362.15 of this chapter will be acknowledged in writing by the FDIC. The notice will be reviewed at the appropriate FDIC office, which will take such action as it deems necessary and appropriate. 




