# ยง 3104.10   Bond obligations.

(a) Prior to the commencement of surface disturbing activities related to drilling operations, the lessee, operating rights owner (sublessee), or operator must submit a surety or a personal bond, conditioned upon compliance with all of the terms and conditions of the entire leasehold(s) covered by the bond, as described in this subpart. The bond amounts must be not less than the minimum amounts described in this subpart in order to ensure compliance with the Act, including complete and timely plugging of the well(s), reclamation of the lease area(s), and the restoration of any lands or surface waters adversely affected by lease operations after the abandonment or cessation of oil and gas operations on the lease(s) in accordance with, but not limited to, the standards and requirements set forth in 43 CFR 3162.3 and 3162.5 and orders issued by the authorized officer.


(b) Surety bonds must be issued by qualified surety companies approved by the Department of the Treasury (see Department of the Treasury Circular No. 570).


(c) Personal bonds must be accompanied by a:


(1) Certificate of deposit issued by a financial institution, the deposits of which are federally insured, explicitly granting the Secretary full authority to demand immediate payment in case of default in the performance of the terms and conditions of the lease. The certificate will explicitly indicate on its face, or through assignment, that Secretarial approval is required prior to redemption of the certificate of deposit by any party;


(2) Cashier's check;


(3) Certified check; or


(4) Negotiable Treasury securities of the United States of a value equal to the amount specified in the bond. Negotiable Treasury securities must be accompanied by a proper conveyance to the Secretary of full authority to sell such securities in case of default in the performance of the terms and conditions of a lease.


(5) Irrevocable letter of credit issued by a financial institution, for a specific term, identifying the secretary as sole payee with full authority to demand immediate payment in the case of default in the performance of the terms and conditions of a lease. Letters of credit must be subject to the following conditions:


(i) The letter of credit must be issued only by a financial institution organized or authorized to do business in the United States;


(ii) The letter of credit must be irrevocable during its term. A letter of credit used as security for any lease upon which drilling has taken place and final approval of all abandonment has not been given, or as security for an individual lease or statewide bond, will be forfeited and will be collected by the authorized officer if not replaced by other suitable bond or letter of credit at least 30 days before its expiration date;


(iii) The letter of credit must be payable to the Bureau of Land Management upon demand, in part or in full, upon receipt from the authorized officer of a notice of collection stating the basis therefore, *e.g.,* default in compliance with the lease terms and conditions or failure to file a replacement in accordance with paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section;


(iv) The initial expiration date of the letter of credit must be at least 1 year following the date it is filed in the proper BLM office; and


(v) The letter of credit must contain a provision for automatic renewal for periods of not less than 1 year in the absence of notice to the proper BLM office at least 90 days prior to the originally stated or any extended expiration date. In the event the BLM is notified of the financial institution's intent not to renew the letter of credit, the principal must extend the letter of credit or provide an adequate replacement bond with an assumption of liability rider. If the BLM does not receive an adequate notice or replacement bond with rider, the BLM will collect the letter of credit within 30 days of the expiration without further notification to the obligor.






