# § 66.100   General.

(a) *Responsibility for disclosure.* (1) For a food that is packaged prior to receipt by a retailer, the food manufacturer or importer is responsible for ensuring that the food label bears a bioengineered food disclosure in accordance with this part.


(2) If a retailer packages a food or sells a food in bulk, that retailer is responsible for ensuring that the food bears a bioengineered food disclosure in accordance with this part.


(b) *Type of disclosure.* If a food must bear a bioengineered food disclosure under this part, the disclosure must be in one of the forms described in this paragraph (b), except as provided in §§ 66.110 and 66.112.


(1) A text disclosure in accordance with § 66.102.


(2) A symbol disclosure in accordance with § 66.104.


(3) An electronic or digital link disclosure in accordance with § 66.106.


(4) A text message disclosure in accordance with § 66.108.


(c) *Appearance of disclosure.* The required disclosure must be of sufficient size and clarity to appear prominently and conspicuously on the label, making it likely to be read and understood by the consumer under ordinary shopping conditions.


(d) *Placement of the disclosure.* Except as provided in § 66.114 for bulk food, the disclosure must be placed on the label in one of the manners described in this paragraph (d).


(1) The disclosure is placed in the information panel directly adjacent to the statement identifying the name and location of the handler, distributor, packer, manufacturer, importer, or any statement disclosing similar information.


(2) The disclosure is placed in the principal display panel.


(3) The disclosure is placed in an alternate panel likely to be seen by a consumer under ordinary shopping conditions if there is insufficient space to place the disclosure on the information panel or the principal display panel.


(e) *Uniform Resource Locator (URL).* Except for disclosures made by small manufacturers and for disclosures on very small packages, a bioengineered food disclosure may not include an internet website URL that is not embedded in an electronic or digital link.




