# ยง 1290.1   Definitions.

For purposes of this part:


*Advisory Council* means the Advisory Council each Bank is required to establish pursuant to section 10(j)(11) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(11)) and part 1291 of this chapter.


*CDFI Fund* means the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund established under section 104(a) of the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4703(a)).


*Community development financial institution or CDFI* means an institution that is certified as a community development financial institution by the CDFI Fund under the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4701 *et seq.*).


*CRA* means the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, as amended (12 U.S.C. 2901, *et seq.*).


*CRA evaluation* means the public disclosure portion of the CRA performance evaluation provided by a member's appropriate Federal banking agency.


*Displaced homemaker* means an adult who has not worked full-time, full-year in the labor force for a number of years, and during that period, worked primarily without remuneration to care for a home and family, and currently is unemployed or underemployed and is experiencing difficulty in obtaining or upgrading employment.


*First-time homebuyer* means:


(1) An individual and his or her spouse, if any, who has had no present ownership interest in a principal residence during the three-year period prior to purchase of a principal residence.


(2) A displaced homemaker who, except for owning a residence with his or her spouse or residing in a residence owned by his or her spouse, meets the requirements of paragraph (1) of this definition.


(3) A single parent who, except for owning a residence with his or her spouse or residing in a residence owned by his or her spouse, meets the requirements of paragraph (1) of this definition.


*Long-term advance* means an advance with a term to maturity greater than one year.


*Restriction on access to long-term advances* means a member may not borrow long-term advances or renew any maturing advance for a term to maturity greater than one year.


*Single parent* means an individual who is unmarried or legally separated from a spouse and has custody or joint custody of one or more minor children or is pregnant.


*Targeted community lending* means providing financing for economic development projects for targeted beneficiaries.



---

[N] [80 FR 30342, May 28, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 76300, Nov. 2, 2016]




