# § 176.30   Definitions.

As used in this part—


*Award* means any grant, cooperative agreement or loan made with Recovery Act funds. Award official means a person with the authority to enter into, administer, and/or terminate financial assistance awards and make related determinations and findings.


*Classified* or *“classified information”* means any knowledge that can be communicated or any documentary material, regardless of its physical form or characteristics, that—


(1)(i) Is owned by, is produced by or for, or is under the control of the United States Government; or


(ii) Has been classified by the Department of Energy as privately generated restricted data following the procedures in 10 CFR 1045.21; and


(2) Must be protected against unauthorized disclosure according to Executive Order 12958, Classified National Security Information, April 17, 1995, or classified in accordance with the Atomic Energy Act of 1954.


*Recipient* means any entity other than an individual that receives Recovery Act funds in the form of a grant, cooperative agreement or loan directly from the Federal Government.


*Recovery funds* or *Recovery Act funds* are funds made available through the appropriations of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, Public Law 111-5.


*Subaward* means—


(1) A legal instrument to provide support for the performance of any portion of the substantive project or program for which the recipient received this award and that the recipient awards to an eligible subrecipient;


(2) The term does not include the recipient's procurement of property and services needed to carry out the project or program (for further explanation, see §____.210 of the attachment to OMB Circular A-133, “Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations”). OMB Circular A-133 is available at *http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/circulars/a133/a133.html.*

(3) A subaward may be provided through any legal agreement, including an agreement that the recipient or a subrecipient considers a contract.


*Subcontract* means a legal instrument used by a recipient for procurement of property and services needed to carry out the project or program.


*Subrecipient* or *Subawardee* means a non-Federal entity that expends Federal awards received from a pass-through entity to carry out a Federal program, but does not include an individual that is a beneficiary of such a program. A subrecipient may also be a recipient of other Federal awards directly from a Federal awarding agency. Guidance on distinguishing between a subrecipient and a vendor is provided in §____.210 of OMB Circular A-133.




