# § 961.4   Employee petition for a hearing.

(a) If an employee desires a hearing, prescribed by section 5 of the Debt Collection Act, to challenge the Postal Service's determination of the existence or amount of a debt, or to challenge the involuntary repayment terms proposed by the Postal Service, the employee must file a written petition electronically at *https://usps-judicialoffice.journaltech.com*. The Hearing Official, in his or her discretion may waive this deadline upon a demonstration of good cause. In the event that the Postal Service initiated involuntary administrative salary offsets without having issued a Notice as required by the Debt Collection Act, the Hearing Official, in his or her discretion, may retain authority to resolve the debt assessment as if a Notice had been issued, and may order the Postal Service to return any improperly offset money.


(b) A sample petition is available through the Judicial Officer Electronic Filing website (*https://usps-judicialoffice.journaltech.com*). The hearing petition shall include the following:


(1) The words, “Petition for Hearing under the Debt Collection Act,” prominently captioned at the top of the first page;


(2) The name of the employee, the employee's work address, home address, work telephone number, home telephone number, and email address, if any, or other address and telephone number at which the employee may be contacted during business hours;


(3) A statement of the date on which the employee received the “Notice of Involuntary Administrative Salary Offsets Under the Debt Collection Act,” and a copy of the Notice;


(4) A statement indicating whether the employee challenges:


(i) The existence of the debt identified in the Notice of Involuntary Administrative Salary Offsets;


(ii) the amount of the debt identified in the Notice; and/or


(iii) the involuntary repayment terms identified by the Postal Service in the Notice. For each challenge, the employee's petition shall indicate the basis of the employee's disagreement. The employee should identify and explain the facts, evidence, and legal arguments which support his or her position;


(5) Copies of all records in the employee's possession which relate to the debt; and


(6) If an employee contends that the Postal Service's proposed offset schedule would result in a severe financial hardship on the employee, his or her spouse, and dependents, the employee shall identify an alternative offset schedule. As directed by the Hearing Official, the employee shall provide a statement and supporting documents indicating the employee's financial status. This statement should address total income from all sources; assets; liabilities; number of dependents; and expenses for food, housing, clothing, transportation, medical care, and exceptional expenses, if any.


(c) The employee shall file with the Recorder, any additional information directed by the Hearing Official.



---

[N] [79 FR 22026, Apr. 21, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 54722, Sept. 11, 2015, 89 FR 61021, July 30, 2024]






