# § 488.320   Sanctions for inadequate survey performance.

(a) *Annual assessment of survey performance.* CMS assesses the performance of the State's survey and certification program annually. 


(b) *Sanctions for inadequate survey performance.* When a State demonstrates inadequate survey performance, as specified in § 488.318, CMS notifies the survey agency of the inadequacy and takes action in accordance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. 


(c) *Medicaid facilities.* (1) For a pattern of failure to identify deficiencies in Medicaid facilities, CMS—


(i) Reduces FFP, as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, and if appropriate; 


(ii) Provides for training of survey teams. 


(2) For other survey inadequacies in Medicaid facilities, CMS provides for training of survey teams. 


(d) *Medicare facilities.* For all survey inadequacies in Medicare facilities, CMS—


(1) Requires that the State survey agency submit a plan of correction; 


(2) Provides for training of survey teams; 


(3) Provides technical assistance on scheduling and procedural policies; 


(4) Provides CMS-directed scheduling; or 


(5) Initiates action to terminate the agreement between the Secretary and the State under section 1864 of the Act, either in whole or in part. 


(e) *Reduction of FFP.* In reducing FFP for inadequate survey performance, CMS uses the formula specified in section 1919(g)(3)(C) of the Act, that is 33 percent multiplied by a fraction—


(1) The numerator of which is equal to the total number of residents in the NFs that CMS found to be noncompliant during validation surveys for that quarter; and 


(2) The denominator of which is equal to the total number of residents in the NFs in which CMS conducted validation surveys during that quarter. 


(f) *Appeal of FFP reduction.* When a State is dissatisfied with CMS's determination to reduce FFP, the State may appeal the determination to the Departmental Appeals Board, using the procedures specified in 45 CFR part 16. 




