# § 38.05-10   Installation of cargo tanks—general—TB/ALL.

(a)(1) Cargo tanks shall be supported on foundations of steel or other suitable material and securely anchored in place to prevent the tanks from shifting when subjected to external forces. Each tank shall be so supported as to prevent the concentration of excessive loads on the supporting portions of the shell or head as prescribed under § 38.05-2(d). 


(2) Cargo tanks installed in barges shall comply with the requirements of § 32.63-25 of this subchapter. 


(b) Foundations, and stays where required, shall be designed for support and constraint of the weight of the full tank, and the dynamic loads imposed thereon. Thermal movement shall also be considered. 


(c) Foundations and stays which may be exposed to the cargo shall be suitable for the temperatures involved and be impervious to the cargo. 


(d) The design of the foundations and stays shall consider the resonance of the cargo tank, or parts thereof, and the vibratory forces, found in the tank vessel. If necessary, effective damping arrangements shall be provided. 


(e) Independent containment systems shall be so arranged as to provide a minimum clearance of not less than 24 inches from the vessel's side and not less than 15 inches from the vessel's bottom to provide access for inspection of the hull. Clearances for collision protection, where required by other parts of the regulations in this subchapter, may increase the clearances specified here. 


(1) For pressure vessel type tanks the distance between adjacent tanks and between tanks and vessel's structure shall be adequate to permit access for inspection and maintenance of all tank surfaces and hull structure as approved by the Commandant. Alternate provisions may be made for inspection and maintenance of the vessel's structure and tanks by moving such tanks or by providing equivalent acceptable means for remote inspection. 


(2) For nonpressure vessel type containment systems, access shall be arranged to permit inspection of one side each of the primary tank and secondary barrier, under normal shipyard conditions. Containment systems which, because of their peculiar design, cannot be visually inspected to this degree, may be specially considered provided an equivalent degree of safety is attained. 


(f) Cargo tanks may be installed *on deck, under deck,* or with the tanks protruding through the deck. All tanks shall be installed with the manhole openings located in the open above the weather deck. Provided an equivalent degree of safety is attained, the Commandant may approve cargo tanks installed with manhole openings located below the weather deck. 


(g) For pressure vessel type cargo tanks, the following conditions apply: 


(1) Liquefied flammable gas cargo tanks may be located in cargo tanks or in spaces which meet the requirements for cofferdams as defined in § 30.10-13 of this subchapter. When liquefied flammable gas cargo tanks are installed in cargo tanks, such cargo tanks may be used simultaneously or separately for the carriage of flammable or combustible liquids up to and including the grade for which the cargo tanks are otherwise certified in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter. 


(2) Where the liquefied flammable gas tanks are installed in cargo tanks and a portion of the liquefied flammable gas tanks extend above the weather deck, the penetration shall be made gastight and watertight, and shall be such as to provide full compliance with the structural requirements including testing for the hull and integral tanks. In the application of the requirements for the hydrostatic test of the cargo tanks, the hydrostatic test shall in no case be less severe than the worst anticipated service condition of the cargo loading. In the design and testing of independent cargo tanks and integral cargo tanks consideration shall be given to the possibility of the independent tanks being subjected to external loads. 


(3) Where the liquefied flammable gas tanks are installed in nontank hull spaces and a portion of the tank extends above the weather deck, provision shall be made to maintain the weathertightness of the deck, except that the weathertightness of the upper deck need not be maintained on: 


(i) Vessels operating on restricted routes which are sufficiently protected; or, 


(ii) Open hopper type barges of acceptable design. 


(h) No strength welding employed in the attachment of supports, lugs, fittings, etc., shall be done on tanks that require and have been stress relieved, unless authorized by the Commandant. 




