# ยง 721.2380   Disubstituted diamino anisole.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The following chemical substance referred to by its premanufacture notice number and generic chemical name is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section: P-83-822, disubstituted diamino anisole.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) Use other than as an intermediate.


(ii) Manufacture, import, or processing for use as an intermediate without establishing a program whereby:


(A) Persons employed by or under the control of the manufacturer, importer, or processor who may be exposed to the substance (including those persons involved in maintenance, packaging, and storage operations) wear protective gloves determined to be impervious to the substance by testing the gloves under the conditions of exposure or by evaluating the specifications provided by the manufacturer of the gloves, and


(B) Packages containing the substance (including those storing the substance between manufacturing or importing and processing stages) are labeled to indicate that the substance should be handled only while using gloves determined to be impervious to the substance.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* In addition to the requirements of ยง 721.17, manufacturers, importers, and processors of the chemical substance identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section must maintain the following records for 5 years from their creation:


(i) The results of any determination that gloves are impervious.


(ii) The names of persons required to wear gloves.


(iii) Copies of labels described in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.


(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [50 FR 34465, Aug. 26, 1985. Redesignated at 53 FR 2845, Feb. 2, 1988. Further redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




