# § 580.11   Petition for approval of alternate disclosure requirements.

(a) A state may petition NHTSA for approval of disclosure requirements which differ from the disclosure requirements of § 580.5, § 580.6, § 580.7, or § 580.13(f) of this part.


(b) Each petition filed under this section shall—


(1) Be written in the English language;


(2) Be submitted to the Office of Chief Counsel, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE, W41-326, Washington, DC 20590;


(3) Set forth the motor vehicle disclosure requirements in effect in the jurisdiction, including a copy of the applicable laws or regulations of the jurisdiction; and


(4) Explain how the jurisdiction's motor vehicle disclosure requirements are consistent with the purposes of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act.


(c) Notice of the petition and an initial determination pending a 30-day comment period will be published in the _Federal Register._ Notice of final grant or denial of a petition for approval of alternate motor vehicle disclosure requirements will be published in the _Federal Register._ The effect of the grant of a petition is to relieve a jurisdiction from responsibility to conform the Jurisdiction disclosure requirements with § 580.5, § 580.6, § 580.7, or § 580.13(f), as applicable, for as long as the approved alternate disclosure requirements remain in effect in that jurisdiction. The effect of a denial is to require a jurisdiction to conform to the requirements of § 580.5, § 580.6, § 580.7, or § 580.13(f), as applicable, of this part until such time as NHTSA approves any alternate motor vehicle disclosure requirements.



---

[N] [53 FR 29476, Aug. 5, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 47686, Sept. 20, 1991; 84 FR 52702, Oct. 2, 2019]




