# § 35.28   Annual report requirements.

By March 31 of each year beginning March 31, 2023, and ending with the report to be submitted on March 31, 2028, each participating jurisdiction shall submit to the U.S. Department of the Treasury an annual report that includes, with respect to the previous calendar year, the following data for each business that receives a loan, investment, other credit or equity support, or technical assistance as part of the State Small Business Credit Initiative. For each business that receives a loan, investment, or other credit or equity support under the State Small Business Credit Initiative, the reported data shall be based on the ownership and control of the business immediately before the consummation of such loan, investment, or other credit or equity support-related transaction. For each business that receives technical assistance under the State Small Business Credit Initiative, the reported data shall be based on the ownership and control of the business at the time it receives such technical assistance.


(a) *Self-certified SEDI demographics-related business status.* (1) Indicate which one or more of the following categories apply: Self-certified due to membership of a group that has been subjected to racial or ethnic prejudice or cultural bias within American society; self-certified due to gender; self-certified due to veteran status; self-certified due to limited English proficiency; self-certified due to disability; self-certified due to long-term residence in an environment isolated from the mainstream of American society; self-certified due to membership of a federally or state-recognized Indian Tribe; self-certified due to long-term residence in a rural community; self-certified due to residence in a U.S. territory; self-certified due to residence in a community undergoing economic transitions (including communities impacted by the shift towards a net-zero economy or deindustrialization); self-certified due to membership of an “underserved community” as defined in § 35.27(g)(11)(i); none of the preceding categories are applicable; prefer not to respond; or the business did not answer.


(2) The participating jurisdiction must permit each business to identify all of the categories that apply in the definition of SEDI demographics-related business, and the participating jurisdiction must report to Treasury all categories identified by the business.


(b) *Minority-owned or controlled business status.* Indicate whether the business is a minority-owned or controlled business. The participating jurisdiction must indicate yes; no; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.


(c) *Women-owned or controlled business status.* Indicate whether the business is a women-owned or controlled business. The participating jurisdiction must indicate yes; no; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.


(d) *Veteran-owned or controlled business status.* Indicate whether the business is a veteran-owned or controlled business. The participating jurisdiction must indicate yes; no; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.


(e) *Race of principal owners.* (1) For each principal owner of the business, indicate which one or more of the following race categories (including the Office of Management and Budget's minimum categories and the relevant disaggregated categories) with which the principal owner identifies: American Indian or Alaska Native; Asian; Asian disaggregated categories: Indian, Chinese, Filipino, Japanese, Korean, Vietnamese, Asian (Other); Black or African American; Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander; Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander disaggregated categories: Guamanian or Chamorro, Native Hawaiian, Samoan, Pacific Islander (Other); White; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.


(2) The participating jurisdiction must permit each business to identify all of the Office of Management and Budget's minimum categories and disaggregated categories in paragraph (e)(1) of this section with which each principal owner of the business identifies, and the participating jurisdiction must report to Treasury all categories identified by the business.


(f) *Ethnicity of principal owners.* For each principal owner of the business, indicate which of the following ethnicity categories the principal owner identifies with: Hispanic or Latino/a; not Hispanic or Latino/a; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.


(g) *Middle Eastern or North African Ancestry of principal owners.* For each principal owner of the business, indicate which of the following ancestry categories the principal owner identifies with: Middle Eastern or North African; not Middle Eastern or North African; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.


(h) *Gender of principal owners.* For each principal owner of the business, indicate which of the following gender categories the principal owner identifies with: Female; male; nonbinary; prefer to self-describe, prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer. If the “prefer to self-describe” option is chosen, the participating jurisdiction must provide an option for the business to write in the gender and must report what the business writes in.


(i) *Sexual orientation of principal owners.* For each principal owner of the business, indicate which of the following sexual orientation categories the principal owner identifies with: Gay or lesbian; bisexual; straight, that is, not gay, lesbian, or bisexual; something else; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.


(j) *Veteran status of principal owners.* For each principal owner of the business, indicate which of the following categories the principal owner identifies with: Veteran; non-veteran; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.




