# ยง 1662.24   The FOIA Exemption 7: Law enforcement.

The FOIA exempts from disclosure information or records that the government has compiled for law enforcement purposes. The records may apply to actual or potential violations of either criminal or civil laws or regulations. The Agency can withhold these records only to the extent that releasing them would cause harm in at least one of the following situations:


(a) *Enforcement proceedings.* Pursuant to the FOIA Exemption 7(A) (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(7)(a)), the Chief FOIA Officer may withhold information whose release could reasonably be expected to interfere with prospective or ongoing law enforcement proceedings. Investigations of fraud and mismanagement, employee misconduct, and civil rights violations may fall into this category.


(b) *Fair trial or impartial adjudication.* Under the FOIA Exemption 7(B) (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(7)(b)), the FOIA exempts from disclosure records whose release would deprive a person of a fair trial or an impartial adjudication because of prejudicial publicity.


(c) *Personal privacy.* Under the FOIA Exemption 7(C) (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(7)(c)), the FOIA exempts from disclosure personally identifiable information of individuals when the disclosure could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.


(d) *Confidential sources and information.* Pursuant to the FOIA Exemption 7(D) (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(7)(d)), the FOIA exempts from disclosure the identity of confidential sources, as well as the records obtained from the confidential sources in criminal investigations or by an agency conducting a lawful national security investigation. A confidential source may be an individual; a state, local, or foreign government agency; or any private organization. The exemption applies whether the source provides information under an express promise of confidentiality or under circumstances from which such an assurance could be reasonably inferred; however, inferred confidentiality is determined in a case-by-case analysis. Also protected from mandatory disclosure is any information which, if disclosed, could reasonably be expected to jeopardize the system of confidentiality that assures a flow of information from sources to investigatory agencies.


(e) *Techniques and procedures.* Under the FOIA Exemption 7(E) (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(7)(e)), the FOIA exempts from disclosure records reflecting special techniques or procedures of investigation or prosecution, not otherwise generally known to the public. In some cases, it is not possible to describe even in general terms those techniques without disclosing the very material to be withheld. The Chief FOIA Officer may also withhold records whose release would disclose guidelines for law enforcement investigations or prosecutions if this disclosure could reasonably be expected to create a risk that someone could circumvent requirements of law or of regulation.


(f) *Life and physical safety.* Under the FOIA Exemption 7(F) (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(7)(f)), the Chief FOIA Officer may withhold records whose disclosure could reasonably be expected to endanger the life or physical safety of any individual. This protection extends to threats and harassment, as well as to physical violence.






