# ยง 721.11011   Pulp, cellulose, reaction products with lignin.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as pulp, cellulose, reaction products with lignin (PMN P-16-361; CAS No. 167062-70-6) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance after they have been incorporated into a polymer matrix.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in ยง 721.80(y)(1). It is a significant new use to manufacture, process, or use the PMN substance other than in a liquid or gel formulation, unless the solid particle form has a particle size distribution where less than 0.5% of the particles are less than 10 microns. It is a significant new use to manufacture the solid particle form more than six months without measuring the particle size distribution to characterize the particle size distribution of fractions less than 10 microns of the dry particle PMN substance and sending the results of the measurement to EPA.


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in ยง 721.125(a) through (c) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of ยง 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [82 FR 48652, Oct. 19, 2017]




