# ยง 301.210   Establishment and operation of a Dispute Resolution Board.

(a) *In general.* If NTIA receives a written request under ยง 301.200, it shall establish a Dispute Resolution Board in accordance with this section.


(b) *Board membership.* A board established under this section shall be composed of three (3) members, to be appointed as follows:


(1) A representative of OMB, to be appointed by the Director of OMB;


(2) A representative of NTIA, to be appointed by the Assistant Secretary; and


(3) A representative of the Commission, to be appointed by the Chairman of the Commission.


(c) *Qualifications.* The Assistant Secretary, in consultation with the Director of OMB and the Chairman of the Commission, may impose qualifications for one or more members of a board established under this section as are necessary pursuant to section 113(g)(6) of the NTIA Organization Act (47 U.S.C. 923(g)(6)), including, but not limited to, the following:


(1) The member has the appropriate and current security clearances to enable access to any classified or other sensitive information that may be associated with or relevant to the Transition Plan subject to dispute;


(2) The member must be an employee of the appointing agency;


(3) The member must be from a predetermined slate of not less than three (3) qualified candidates from NTIA, OMB, and the Commission and able to serve on a board immediately upon the notification of the establishment of a board under this section until it rules on the dispute that it was established to resolve; and


(4) The member may not simultaneously be a member of the Technical Panel governed by subpart B of this part or a former member of the Technical Panel that reviewed the Transition Plan subject to dispute.


(d) *Chair.* (1) The representative of OMB shall be the Chair of any board established under paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) The Chair may designate a Vice-Chair who may act as Chair in the absence of the Chair.


(e) *Term.* The term of a member of a board shall be until such board is terminated pursuant to paragraph (j) of this section or until a successor or replacement member is appointed under paragraph (b) of this section.


(f) *Vacancies.* Any vacancy on a board shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made under paragraph (b) of this section.


(g) *Compensation.* (1) No member of a board shall receive any compensation for service on such board.


(2) Compensation in the member's capacity as an employee of the agency of the official that appointed such member to a board pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall not be considered compensation under paragraph (g)(1) of this section.


(h) *Procedures of and actions by a board.* (1) Except with respect to meetings with the parties pursuant to ยง 301.220(a), a board shall meet at the call of the Chair either in person or by some mutually agreeable electronic means to deliberate or rule on the dispute that it was established to resolve under paragraph (a) of this section or to receive technical assistance from the Technical Panel pursuant to ยง 301.130 of this part.


(2) A board shall endeavour to rule on the dispute that it was established to resolve under paragraph (a) of this section unanimously. Absent unanimous consent of all three members of a board, a concurring vote of a majority of the total board membership constitutes an action of such board.


(3) A majority of board members constitutes a quorum for any purpose.


(4) The Chair of a board, in consultation with the other members, may adopt additional policies and procedures to facilitate the efficient and timely resolution of the dispute that it was established to resolve under paragraph (a) of this section.


(i) *Administrative support.* NTIA shall provide any board established pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section with the administrative support services necessary to carry out its duties under this subpart.


(j) *Termination of a board.* (1) A board established pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall terminate after it rules on the dispute that it was established to resolve and the time for appeal of its decision under section 113(i)(7) of the NTIA Organization Act (47 U.S.C. 923(i)(7)) has expired, unless such an appeal has been taken.


(2) If such an appeal has been taken, the board shall continue to exist until the appeal process has been exhausted and the board has completed any action required by a court hearing the appeal.




