# § 253.26   Traditional loans.

(a) *Eligible projects.* Financing or refinancing up to 80 percent of a project's actual cost shall be available to any citizen who is determined to be eligible and qualified under the Act and these rules, except—


(1) The Program will not finance the cost of new vessel construction.


(2) The Program will not finance a vessel refurbishing project that materially increases an existing vessel's harvesting capacity.


(b) *Financing or refinancing.* (1) Projects, other than those specified in paragraphs (a) (1) and (a)(2) of this section, may be financed, as well as refinanced.


(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Program may refinance the construction cost of a vessel whose construction cost has already been financed (or otherwise paid) prior to the submission of a loan application.


(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the Program may refinance the refurbishing cost of a vessel whose initial refurbishing cost has already been financed (or otherwise paid) prior to the submission of a loan application.


(4) The Program may finance or refinance the purchase or refurbishment of any vessel or facility for which the Secretary has:


(i) Accelerated and/or paid outstanding debts or obligations;


(ii) Acquired; or


(iii) Sold at foreclosure.


(c) *Existing vessels and facilities.* The Program may finance the purchase of an existing vessel or existing fishery facility if such vessel or facility will be refurbished in the United States and will be used in the fishing industry.


(d) *Fisheries modernization.* Notwithstanding any of this part, the Program may finance or refinance any:


(1) Activities that assist in the transition to reduced fishing capacity; or


(2) Technologies or upgrades designed to:


(i) Improve collection and reporting of fishery-dependent data;


(ii) Reduce bycatch;


(iii) Improve selectivity;


(iv) Reduce adverse impacts of fishing gear; or


(v) Improve safety.


(e) *Guaranty transition.* Upon application by the obligor, any guaranteed loans originated prior to October 11, 1996, may be refinanced as direct loans, regardless of the original purpose of the guaranteed loan.


(f) *Maturity.* Maturity may not exceed 25 years, but shall not exceed the project property's useful life. The Program, at its sole discretion, may set a shorter maturity period.


(g) *Credit standards.* Traditional loans are subject to all Program general credit standards and requirements. Collateral, guarantee and other requirements may be adjusted in accordance with the Program's assessment of individual credit risks.




