# § 52.1846   Grades of seedless raisins.

(a) “U.S. Grade A” is the quality of seedless raisins that have similar varietal characteristics; that have a good typical color; that have a good characteristic flavor; that show development characteristics of raisins prepared from well-matured grapes with not less than 80 percent, by weight, of raisins that are well-matured or reasonably well-matured; that contain not more than 18 percent, by weight, of moisture for all varieties of seedless raisins except the Monukka variety, which may contain not more than 19 percent, by weight, of moisture; and that meet the additional requirements outlined in table 1 to this section.


(b) “U.S. Grade B” is the quality of seedless raisins that have similar varietal characteristics; that have a reasonably good typical color; that have a good characteristic flavor; that show development characteristics of raisins prepared from reasonably well-matured grapes with not less than 70 percent, by weight, of raisins that are well-matured or reasonably well-matured; that contain not more than 18 percent, by weight, of moisture for all varieties of seedless raisins except the Monukka variety, which may contain not more than 19 percent, by weight, of moisture; and that meet the additional requirements outlined in table 1 to this section.


(c) “U.S. Grade C” is the quality of seedless raisins that have similar varietal characteristics; that have a fairly good typical color; that have a fairly good flavor; that show development characteristics of raisins prepared from fairly well-matured grapes with not less than 55 percent, by weight, of raisins that are well-matured or reasonably well-matured; that contain not more than 18 percent, by weight, of moisture for all varieties of seedless raisins except the Monukka variety, which may contain not more than 19 percent, by weight, of moisture; and that meet the additional requirements outlined in table 1 to this section.


(d) “Substandard” is the quality of seedless raisins that fail to meet the requirements of U.S. grade C.



---

[N] [41 FR 34751, Aug. 17, 1976. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977; 43 FR 51754, Nov. 7, 1978. Further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 81 FR 40780, June 23, 2016; 88 FR 71460, Oct. 17, 2023]






