# § 60.505a   Recordkeeping and reporting.

(a) *Recordkeeping requirements.* For each affected facility listed under § 60.500a(a), keep records as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section, as applicable, for a minimum of five years unless otherwise specified in this section. These recordkeeping requirements supersede the requirements in § 60.7(b).


(1) For each thermal oxidation system used to comply with the emission limitations in § 60.502a(b)(1) or (c)(1) by monitoring the combustion zone temperature as specified in § 60.502a(b)(1)(ii) or (c)(1)(ii), for each pressure CPMS used to comply with the requirements in § 60.502a(h), and for each vapor recovery system used to comply with the emission limitations in § 60.502a(b)(2) or (c)(2), maintain records, as applicable, of:


(i) The applicable operating or emission limit for the continuous monitoring system (CMS). For combustion zone temperature operating limits, include the applicable date range the limit applies based on when the performance test was conducted.


(ii) Each 3-hour rolling average combustion zone temperature measured by the temperature CPMS, each 5-minute average reading from the pressure CPMS, and each 3-hour rolling average TOC concentration (as propane) measured by the TOC CEMS.


(iii) For each deviation of the 3-hour rolling average combustion zone temperature operating limit, maximum loading pressure specified in § 60.502a(h), or 3-hour rolling average TOC concentration (as propane), the start date and time, duration, cause, and the corrective action taken.


(iv) For each period when there was a CMS outage or the CMS was out of control, the start date and time, duration, cause, and the corrective action taken. For TOC CEMS outages where the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e) is used, the corrective action taken shall include an indication of the use of the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e).


(v) Each inspection or calibration of the CMS including a unique identifier, make, and model number of the CMS, and date of calibration check. For TOC CEMS, include the type of CEMS used (*i.e.,* flame ionization detector, nondispersive infrared analyzer) and an indication of whether methane is excluded from the TOC concentration reported in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.


(vi) For TOC CEMS outages where the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e) is used, also keep records of:


(A) The quantity of liquid product loaded in gasoline cargo tanks for the past 10 adsorption cycles prior to the CEMS outage.


(B) The vacuum pressure, purge gas quantities, and duration of the vacuum/purge cycles used for the past 10 desorption cycles prior to the CEMS outage.


(C) The quantity of liquid product loaded in gasoline cargo tanks for each adsorption cycle while using the alternative.


(D) The vacuum pressure, purge gas quantities, and duration of the vacuum/purge cycles for each desorption cycle while using the alternative.


(2) For each flare used to comply with the emission limitations in § 60.502a(c)(3) and for each thermal oxidation system using the flare monitoring alternative as provided in § 60.502a(c)(1)(iii), maintain records of:


(i) The output of the monitoring device used to detect the presence of a pilot flame as required in § 63.670(b) of this chapter for a minimum of 2 years. Retain records of each 15-minute block during which there was at least one minute that no pilot flame was present when gasoline vapors were routed to the flare for a minimum of 5 years. The record must identify the start and end time and date of each 15-minute block.


(ii) Visible emissions observations as specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section, as applicable, for a minimum of 3 years.


(A) If visible emissions observations are performed using Method 22 of appendix A-7 to this part, the record must identify the date, the start and end time of the visible emissions observation, and the number of minutes for which visible emissions were observed during the observation. If the owner or operator performs visible emissions observations more than one time during a day, include separate records for each visible emissions observation performed.


(B) For each 2-hour period for which visible emissions are observed for more than 5 minutes in 2 consecutive hours but visible emissions observations according to Method 22 of appendix A-7 to this part were not conducted for the full 2-hour period, the record must include the date, the start and end time of the visible emissions observation, and an estimate of the cumulative number of minutes in the 2-hour period for which emissions were visible based on best information available to the owner or operator.


(iii) Each 15-minute block period during which operating values are outside of the applicable operating limits specified in § 63.670(d) through (f) of this chapter when liquid product is being loaded into gasoline cargo tanks for at least 15-minutes identifying the specific operating limit that was not met.


(iv) The 15-minute block average cumulative flows for flare vent gas or the thermal oxidation system vent gas and, if applicable, total steam, perimeter assist air, and premix assist air specified to be monitored under § 63.670(i) of this chapter, along with the date and start and end time for the 15-minute block. If multiple monitoring locations are used to determine cumulative vent gas flow, total steam, perimeter assist air, and premix assist air, retain records of the 15-minute block average flows for each monitoring location for a minimum of 2 years, and retain the 15-minute block average cumulative flows that are used in subsequent calculations for a minimum of 5 years. If pressure and temperature monitoring is used, retain records of the 15-minute block average temperature, pressure and molecular weight of the flare vent gas, thermal oxidation system vent gas, or assist gas stream for each measurement location used to determine the 15-minute block average cumulative flows for a minimum of 2 years, and retain the 15-minute block average cumulative flows that are used in subsequent calculations for a minimum of 5 years. If you use the supplemental gas flow rate monitoring alternative in § 60.502a(c)(3)(viii), the required minimum supplemental gas flow rate (winter and summer, if applicable) and the actual monitored supplemental gas flow rate for the 15-minute block. Retain the supplemental gas flow rate records for a minimum of 5 years.


(v) The flare vent gas compositions or thermal oxidation system vent gas specified to be monitored under § 63.670(j) of this chapter. Retain records of individual component concentrations from each compositional analyses for a minimum of 2 years. If an NHV_vg_ analyzer is used, retain records of the 15-minute block average values for a minimum of 5 years. If you demonstrate your gas streams have consistent composition using the provisions in § 63.670(j)(6) of this chapter as specified in § 60.502a(c)(3)(vii), retain records of the required minimum ratio of gasoline loaded to total liquid product loaded and the actual ratio on a 5-minute block basis. If applicable, you must retain records of the required minimum gasoline loading rate as specified in § 60.502a(c)(3)(vii) and the actual gasoline loading rate on a 5-minute block basis for a minimum of 5 years.


(vi) Each 15-minute block average operating parameter calculated following the methods specified in § 63.670(k) through (n) of this chapter, as applicable.


(vii) All periods during which the owner or operator does not perform monitoring according to the procedures in § 63.670(g), (i), and (j) of this chapter or in § 60.502a(c)(3)(vii) and (viii) as applicable. Note the start date, start time, and duration in minutes for each period.


(viii) An indication of whether “vapors displaced from gasoline cargo tanks during product loading” excludes periods when liquid product is loaded but no gasoline cargo tanks are being loaded or if liquid product loading is assumed to be loaded into gasoline cargo tanks according to the provisions in § 60.502a(c)(3)(i), records of all time periods when “vapors displaced from gasoline cargo tanks during product loading”, and records of time periods when there were no “vapors displaced from gasoline cargo tanks during product loading”.


(ix) If you comply with the flare tip velocity operating limit using the one-time flare tip velocity operating limit compliance assessment as provided in § 60.502a(c)(3)(ix), maintain records of the applicable one-time flare tip velocity operating limit compliance assessment for as long as you use this compliance method.


(x) For each parameter monitored using a CMS, retain the records specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(x)(A) through (C) of this section, as applicable:


(A) For each deviation, record the start date and time, duration, cause, and corrective action taken.


(B) For each period when there is a CMS outage or the CMS is out of control, record the start date and time, duration, cause, and corrective action taken.


(C) Each inspection or calibration of the CMS including a unique identifier, make, and model number of the CMS, and date of calibration check.


(3) The gasoline cargo tank vapor tightness documentation required under § 60.502a(e)(1) for each gasoline cargo tank loading at the affected facility shall be kept on file at the terminal in either a hardcopy or electronic form available for inspection. The documentation shall include, at a minimum, the following information:


(i) Test title: Annual Certification Test—EPA Method 27 or Railcar Bubble Leak Test Procedure.


(ii) Cargo tank owner's name and address.


(iii) Cargo tank identification number.


(iv) Test location and date.


(v) Tester name and signature.


(vi) Witnessing inspector, if any: Name, signature, and affiliation.


(vii) Vapor tightness repair: Nature of repair work and when performed in relation to vapor tightness testing.


(viii) Test results: Tank or compartment capacity, test pressure; pressure or vacuum change, mm of water; time period of test; number of leaks found with instrument; and leak definition.


(4) Records of each instance in which liquid product was loaded into a gasoline cargo tank for which vapor tightness documentation required under § 60.502a(e)(1) was not provided or available in the terminal's records. These records shall include, at a minimum:


(i) Cargo tank owner and address.


(ii) Cargo tank identification number.


(iii) Date and time liquid product was loaded into a gasoline cargo tank without proper documentation.


(iv) Date proper documentation was received or statement that proper documentation was never received.


(5) Records of each instance when liquid product was loaded into gasoline cargo tanks not using submerged filling, as defined in § 60.501a, not equipped with vapor collection equipment that is compatible with the terminal's vapor collection system, or not properly connected to the terminal's vapor collection system. These records shall include, at a minimum:


(i) Date and time of liquid product loading into gasoline cargo tank not using submerged filling, improperly equipped, or improperly connected.


(ii) Type of deviation (*e.g.,* not submerged filling, incompatible equipment, not properly connected).


(iii) Cargo tank identification number.


(6) A record [list, summary description, or diagram(s) showing the location] of all equipment in gasoline service at the collection of equipment at a bulk gasoline terminal affected facility and at the loading rack affected facility. A record of each leak inspection and leak identified under §§ 60.503a(a)(2) and 60.502a(j) as specified in paragraphs (a)(6)(i) through (iv) of this section:


(i) For each leak inspection, keep the following records:


(A) An indication if the leak inspection was conducted under § 60.502a(j) or § 60.503a(a)(2).


(B) Leak determination method used for the leak inspection.


(ii) For leak inspections conducted with Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part, keep the following additional records:


(A) Date of inspection.


(B) Inspector name.


(C) Monitoring instrument identification.


(D) Identification of all equipment surveyed and the instrument reading for each piece of equipment.


(E) Date and time of instrument calibration and initials of operator performing the calibration.


(F) Calibration gas cylinder identification, certification date, and certified concentration.


(G) Instrument scale used.


(H) Results of the daily calibration drift assessment.


(iii) For leak inspections conducted with OGI, keep the records specified in section 12 of appendix K to this part.


(iv) For each leak detected during a leak inspection or by audio/visual/olfactory methods during normal duties, record the following information:


(A) The equipment type and identification number.


(B) The date the leak was detected, the name of the person who found the leak, the nature of the leak (*i.e.,* vapor or liquid), and the method of detection (*i.e.,* audio/visual/olfactory, Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part, or OGI).


(C) The dates of each attempt to repair the leak and the repair methods applied in each attempt to repair the leak.


(D) The date of successful repair of the leak, the method of monitoring used to confirm the repair, and if Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part is used to confirm the repair, the maximum instrument reading measured by Method 21 of appendix A-7. If OGI is used to confirm the repair, keep video footage of the repair confirmation.


(E) For each repair delayed beyond 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak, record “Repair delayed”, the reason for the delay, and the expected date of successful repair. The owner or operator (or designate) whose decision it was that repair could not be carried out in the 15-calendar-day timeframe must sign the record.


(F) For each leak that is not repairable, the maximum instrument reading measured by Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part at the time the leak is determined to be not repairable, a video captured by the OGI camera showing that emissions are still visible, or a signed record that the leak is still detectable via audio/visual/olfactory methods.


(7) Records of each performance test or performance evaluation conducted on the affected facility and each notification and report submitted to the Administrator. For each performance test, include an indication of whether liquid product loading is assumed to be loaded into gasoline cargo tanks or periods when liquid product is loaded but no gasoline cargo tanks are being loaded are excluded in the determination of the combustion zone temperature operating limit according to the provision in § 60.503a(c)(8)(ii).


(8) Records of all 5-minute time periods during which liquid product is loaded into gasoline cargo tanks or assumed to be loaded into gasoline cargo tanks and records of all 5-minute time periods when there was no liquid product loaded into gasoline cargo tanks.


(9) Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are submitted electronically via the EPA's Compliance and Emissions Reporting Interface (CEDRI) may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated authority or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.


(b) *Reporting requirements for performance tests and evaluations.* Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test and each CEMS performance evaluation required by this subpart, you must submit the results following the procedures specified in paragraph (e) of this section. As required by § 60.8(f)(2)(iv), you must include the value for the combustion zone temperature operating parameter limit set based on your performance test in the performance test report. Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) and performance evaluations of CEMS measuring RATA pollutants that are supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert*) at the time of the test or performance evaluation must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT and performance evaluations of CEMS measuring RATA pollutants that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test or performance evaluation must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file.


(c) *Reporting requirements for semiannual report.* You must submit to the Administrator semiannual reports with the applicable information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (7) of this section by the dates specified in paragraph (d) of this section following the procedure specified in paragraph (e) of this section. For this subpart, the semiannual reports supersede the excess emissions and monitoring systems performance report and/or summary report form required under § 60.7. Beginning on July 8, 2024, or once the report template for this subpart has been available on the CEDRI website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri*) for one year, whichever date is later, submit all subsequent reports using the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website for this subpart and following the procedure specified in paragraph (e). The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated State agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports, the report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted.


(1) Report the following general facility information:


(i) Facility name.


(ii) Facility physical address, including city, county, and State.


(iii) Latitude and longitude of facility's physical location. Coordinates must be in decimal degrees with at least five decimal places.


(iv) The following information for the contact person:


(A) Name.


(B) Mailing address.


(C) Telephone number.


(D) Email address.


(v) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. You are no longer required to provide the date of report when the report is submitted via CEDRI.


(vi) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report. If your report is submitted via CEDRI, the certifier's electronic signature during the submission process replaces the requirement in this paragraph (c)(1)(vi).


(2) For each thermal oxidation system used to comply with the emission limitations in § 60.502a(b)(1) or (c)(1) by monitoring the combustion zone temperature as specified in § 60.502a(b)(1)(ii) or (c)(1)(ii), for each pressure CPMS used to comply with the requirements in § 60.502a(h), and for each vapor recovery system used to comply with the emission limitations in § 60.502a(b)(2) or (c)(2) report the following information for the CMS:


(i) For all instances when the temperature CPMS measured 3-hour rolling averages below the established operating limit or when the vapor collection system pressure exceeded the maximum loading pressure specified in § 60.502a(h) when liquid product was being loaded into gasoline cargo tanks or when the TOC CEMS measured 3-hour rolling average concentrations higher than the applicable emission limitation when the vapor recovery system was operating:


(A) The date and start time of the deviation.


(B) The duration of the deviation in hours.


(C) Each 3-hour rolling average combustion zone temperature, average pressure, or 3-hour rolling average TOC concentration during the deviation. For TOC concentration, indicate whether methane is excluded from the TOC concentration.


(D) A unique identifier for the CMS.


(E) The make, model number, and date of last calibration check of the CMS.


(F) The cause of the deviation and the corrective action taken.


(ii) For all instances that the temperature CPMS for measuring the combustion zone temperature or pressure CPMS was not operating or was out of control when liquid product was loaded into gasoline cargo tanks, or the TOC CEMS was not operating or was out of control when the vapor recovery system was operating:


(A) The date and start time of the deviation.


(B) The duration of the deviation in hours.


(C) A unique identifier for the CMS.


(D) The make, model number, and date of last calibration check of the CMS.


(E) The cause of the deviation and the corrective action taken. For TOC CEMS outages where the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e) is used, the corrective action taken shall include an indication of the use of the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e).


(F) For TOC CEMS outages where the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e) is used, report either an indication that there were no deviations from the operating limits when using the limited alternative or report the number of each of the following types of deviations that occurred during the use of the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e).


(*1*) The number of adsorption cycles when the quantity of liquid product loaded in gasoline cargo tanks exceeded the operating limit established in § 60.504a(e)(1). Enter 0 if no deviations of this type.


(*2*) The number of desorption cycles when the vacuum pressure was below the average vacuum pressure as specified in § 60.504a(e)(2)(i). Enter 0 if no deviations of this type.


(*3*) The number of desorption cycles when the quantity of purge gas used was below the average quantity of purge gas as specified in § 60.504a(e)(2)(ii). Enter 0 if no deviations of this type.


(*4*) The number of desorption cycles when the duration of the vacuum/purge cycle was less than the average duration as specified in § 60.504a(e)(2)(iii). Enter 0 if no deviations of this type.


(3) For each flare used to comply with the emission limitations in § 60.502a(c)(3) and for each thermal oxidation system using the flare monitoring alternative as provided in § 60.502a(c)(1)(iii), report:


(i) The date and start and end times for each of the following instances:


(A) Each 15-minute block during which there was at least one minute when gasoline vapors were routed to the flare and no pilot flame was present.


(B) Each period of 2 consecutive hours during which visible emissions exceeded a total of 5 minutes. Additionally, report the number of minutes for which visible emissions were observed during the observation or an estimate of the cumulative number of minutes in the 2-hour period for which emissions were visible based on best information available to the owner or operator.


(C) Each 15-minute period for which the applicable operating limits specified in § 63.670(d) through (f) of this chapter were not met. You must identify the specific operating limit that was not met. Additionally, report the information in paragraphs (c)(3)(i)(C)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section, as applicable.


(*1*) If you use the loading rate operating limits as determined in § 60.502a(c)(3)(vii) alone or in combination with the supplemental gas flow rate monitoring alternative in § 60.502a(c)(3)(viii), the required minimum ratio and the actual ratio of gasoline loaded to total product loaded for the rolling 15-minute period and, if applicable, the required minimum quantity and the actual quantity of gasoline loaded, in gallons, for the rolling 15-minute period.


(*2*) If you use the supplemental gas flow rate monitoring alternative in § 60.502a(c)(3)(viii), the required minimum supplemental gas flow rate and the actual supplemental gas flow rate including units of flow rates for the 15-minute block.


(*3*) If you use parameter monitoring systems other than those specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(i)(C)(*1*) and (*2*) of this section, the value of the net heating value operating parameter(s) during the deviation determined following the methods in § 63.670(k) through (n) of this chapter as applicable.


(ii) The start date, start time, and duration in minutes for each period when “vapors displaced from gasoline cargo tanks during product loading” were routed to the flare or thermal oxidation system and the applicable monitoring was not performed.


(iii) For each instance reported under paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section that involves CMS, report the following information:


(A) A unique identifier for the CMS.


(B) The make, model number, and date of last calibration check of the CMS.


(C) The cause of the deviation or downtime and the corrective action taken.


(4) For any instance in which liquid product was loaded into a gasoline cargo tank for which vapor tightness documentation required under § 60.502a(e)(1) was not provided or available in the terminal's records, report:


(i) Cargo tank owner and address.


(ii) Cargo tank identification number.


(iii) Date and time liquid product was loaded into a gasoline cargo tank without proper documentation.


(iv) Date proper documentation was received or statement that proper documentation was never received.


(5) For each instance when liquid product was loaded into gasoline cargo tanks not using submerged filling, as defined in § 60.501a, not equipped with vapor collection equipment that is compatible with the terminal's vapor collection system, or not properly connected to the terminal's vapor collection system, report:


(i) Date and time of liquid product loading into gasoline cargo tank not using submerged filling, improperly equipped, or improperly connected.


(ii) Type of deviation (*e.g.,* not submerged filling, incompatible equipment, or not properly connected).


(iii) Cargo tank identification number.


(6) Report the following information for each leak inspection required under §§ 60.502a(j)(1) and 60.503a(a)(2) and each leak identified under § 60.502a(j)(2).


(i) For each leak detected during a leak inspection required under §§ 60.502a(j)(1) and 60.503a(a)(2), report:


(A) The date of inspection.


(B) The leak determination method (OGI or Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part).


(C) The total number and type of equipment for which leaks were detected.


(D) The total number and type of equipment for which leaks were repaired within 15 calendar days.


(E) The total number and type of equipment for which no repair attempt was made within 5 calendar days of the leaks being identified.


(F) The total number and type of equipment placed on the delay of repair, as specified in § 60.502a(j)(8).


(ii) For leaks identified under § 60.502a(j)(2), report:


(A) The total number and type of equipment for which leaks were identified.


(B) The total number and type of equipment for which leaks were repaired within 15 calendar days.


(C) The total number and type of equipment for which no repair attempt was made within 5 calendar days of the leaks being identified.


(D) The total number and type of equipment placed on the delay of repair, as specified in § 60.502a(j)(8).


(iii) The total number of leaks on the delay of repair list at the start of the reporting period.


(iv) The total number of leaks on the delay of repair list at the end of the reporting period.


(v) For each leak that was on the delay of repair list at any time during the reporting period, report:


(A) Unique equipment identification number.


(B) Type of equipment.


(C) Leak determination method (OGI, Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part, or audio, visual, or olfactory).


(D) The reason(s) why the repair was not feasible within 15 calendar days.


(E) If applicable, the date repair was completed.


(7) If there were no deviations from the emission limitations, operating parameters, or work practice standards, then provide a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limitations, operating limits, or work practice standards during the reporting period. If there were no periods during which a CMS (including a CEMS or CPMS) was inoperable or out-of-control, then provide a statement that there were no periods during which a CMS was inoperable or out-of-control during the reporting period.


(d) *Timeframe for semiannual report submissions.* (1) The first semiannual report will cover the date starting with the date the source first becomes an affected facility subject to this subpart and ending with the last day of the month five months later. For example, if the source becomes an affected facility on April 15, the first semiannual report would cover the period from April 15 to September 30. The first semiannual report must be submitted on or before the last day of the month two months after the last date covered by the semiannual report. In this example, the first semiannual report would be due November 30.


(2) Subsequent semiannual reports will cover subsequent 6 calendar month periods with each report due on or before the last day of the month two months after the last date covered by the semiannual report.


(e) *Requirements for electronically submitting reports.* For reports required to be submitted following the procedures specified in this paragraph (e), you must submit reports to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as confidential business information (CBI). Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim for some of the information in the report, you must submit a complete file in the format specified in this subpart, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA following the procedures in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section. Clearly mark the part or all of the information that you claim to be CBI. Information not marked as CBI may be authorized for public release without prior notice. Information marked as CBI will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data are not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available. You must submit the same file submitted to the CBI office with the CBI omitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph (e).


(1) The preferred method to receive CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol, or other online file sharing services. Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address *oaqpscbi@epa.gov,* and as described above, should include clear CBI markings. ERT files should be flagged to the attention of the Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group; all other files should be flagged to the attention of the Gasoline Distribution Sector Lead. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if you do not have your own file sharing service, please email *oaqpscbi@epa.gov* to request a file transfer link.


(2) If you cannot transmit the file electronically, you may send CBI information through the postal service to the following address: U.S. EPA, Attn: OAQPS Document Control Officer, Mail Drop: C404-02, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, P.O. Box 12055, RTP, NC 27711. ERT files should be flagged to the attention of the Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, and all other files should also be flagged to the attention of the Gasoline Distribution Sector Lead. The mailed CBI material should be double wrapped and clearly marked. Any CBI markings should not show through the outer envelope.


(f) *Claims of EPA system outage.* If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (f)(1) through (7) of this section.


(1) You must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.


(2) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date that the submission is due.


(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.


(4) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.


(5) You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:


(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;


(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;


(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and


(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.


(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(7) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.


(g) *Claims of force majeure.* If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of *force majeure* for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of *force majeure,* you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (g)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) You may submit a claim if a *force majeure* event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a *force majeure* event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (*e.g.,* hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (*e.g.,* large scale power outage).


(2) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.


(3) You must provide to the Administrator:


(i) A written description of the *force majeure* event;


(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the *force majeure* event;


(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and


(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.


(4) The decision to accept the claim of *force majeure* and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(5) In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the *force majeure* event occurs.






