# § 10.30   Citizen petition.

(a) This section applies to any petition submitted by a person (including a person who is not a citizen of the United States) except to the extent that other sections of this chapter apply different requirements to a particular matter.


(b) A petition (including any attachments) must be submitted in accordance with § 10.20 and, if applicable, § 10.31. The certification requirement in this section does not apply to petitions subject to the certification requirement of § 10.31. The petition must also be submitted in accordance with the following paragraphs, as applicable:


(1) *Electronic submission.* Petitions (including any attachments) may be electronically submitted in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section and § 10.20 through *http://www.regulations.gov* at Docket No. FDA 2013-S-0610. It is only necessary to submit one copy.


(2) *Mail, delivery services, or other non-electronic submissions.* A petition (including any attachments), that is not electronically submitted under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, must be submitted in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section and § 10.20 and delivered to this address: Dockets Management Staff, Department of Health and Human Services, Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, Rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852. Submit two copies (original and redacted version) for confidential petitions. Otherwise, only one copy is necessary.


(3) *Petition format.* A petition submitted under paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section must be in accordance with § 10.20 and in the following format:


(c) A petition that appears to meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, § 10.20, and, if applicable, § 10.31, will be filed by the Dockets Management Staff, stamped with the date of filing, and assigned a unique docket number. The unique docket number identifies the docket file established by the Dockets Management Staff for all submissions relating to the petition, as provided in this part. Subsequent submissions relating to the matter must refer to the assigned docket number assigned in this paragraph and will be filed in the established docket file. Related petitions may be filed together and given the same docket number. The Dockets Management Staff will promptly notify the petitioner of the filing and unique docket number of the petition.


(d) An interested person may submit comments to the Dockets Management Staff on a filed petition, which comments become part of the docket file. The comments are to specify the docket number of the petition and include, if applicable, the verification under § 10.31, and may support or oppose the petition in whole or in part. A request for alternative or different administrative action must be submitted as a separate petition.


(e)(1) The Commissioner shall, in accordance with paragraph (e)(2), rule upon each petition filed under paragraph (c) of this section, taking into consideration (i) available agency resources for the category of subject matter, (ii) the priority assigned to the petition considering both the category of subject matter involved and the overall work of the agency, and (iii) time requirements established by statute.


(2) Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(4) and (5) of this section, the Commissioner shall furnish a response to each petitioner within 180 days of receipt of the petition. The response will either:


(i) Approve the petition, in which case the Commissioner shall concurrently take appropriate action (e.g., publication of a _Federal Register_ notice) implementing the approval;


(ii) Deny the petition;


(iii) Dismiss the petition if at any time the Commissioner determines that changes in law, facts, or circumstances since the date on which the petition was submitted have rendered the petition moot; or


(iv) Provide a tentative response, indicating why the agency has been unable to reach a decision on the petition, e.g., because of the existence of other agency priorities, or a need for additional information. The tentative response may also indicate the likely ultimate agency response, and may specify when a final response may be furnished.


(3) The Commissioner may grant or deny such a petition, in whole or in part, and may grant such other relief or take other action as the petition warrants. If, at any time, the Commissioner determines that changes in law, facts, or circumstances since the date on which the petition was submitted have rendered the petition moot, the Commissioner may dismiss the petition. The petitioner is to be notified of the Commissioner's decision. The decision will be placed in the public docket file and may also be in the form of a notice published in the _Federal Register._

(4) The Commissioner shall furnish a response to each petitioner within 90 days of receipt of a petition filed under section 505(j)(2)(C) of the act. The response will either approve or disapprove the petition. Agency action on a petition shall be governed by § 314.93 of this chapter.


(5) The Commissioner intends to furnish a response to each petitioner within 150 days of receipt of a petition subject to section 505(q) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.


(f) If a petition filed under paragraph (c) of this section requests the Commissioner to issue, amend, or revoke a regulation, § 10.40 or § 10.50 also apply.


(g) A petitioner may supplement, amend, or withdraw a petition without Agency approval and without prejudice to resubmission at any time until the Commissioner rules on the petition, unless the petition has been referred for a hearing under parts 12, 13, 14, or 15 of this chapter. After a ruling or referral, a petition may be supplemented, amended, or withdrawn only with the approval of the Commissioner. The Commissioner may approve withdrawal, with or without prejudice against resubmission of the petition.


(h) In reviewing a petition the Commissioner may use the following procedures:


(1) Conferences, meetings, discussions, and correspondence under § 10.65.


(2) A hearing under parts 12, 13, 14, 15, or 16.


(3) A _Federal Register_ notice requesting information and views.


(4) A proposal to issue, amend, or revoke a regulation, in accordance with § 10.40 or § 12.20.


(5) Any other specific public procedure established in this chapter and expressly applicable to the matter.


(i) The record of the administrative proceeding consists of the following:


(1) The petition, including all information on which it relies, filed by the Dockets Management Staff.


(2) All comments received on the petition, including all information submitted as a part of the comments.


(3) If the petition resulted in a proposal to issue, amend, or revoke a regulation, all of the documents specified in § 10.40(g).


(4) The record, consisting of any transcripts, minutes of meetings, reports, _Federal Register_ notices, and other documents resulting from the optional procedures specified in paragraph (h) of this section, except a transcript of a closed portion of a public advisory committee meeting.


(5) The Commissioner's decision on the petition, including all information identified or filed by the Commissioner with the Dockets Management Staff as part of the record supporting the decision.


(6) All documents filed with the Dockets Management Staff under § 10.65(h).


(7) If a petition for reconsideration or for a stay of action is filed under paragraph (j) of this section, the administrative record specified in § 10.33(k) or § 10.35(h).


(j) The administrative record specified in paragraph (i) of this section is the exclusive record for the Commissioner's decision. The record of the administrative proceeding closes on the date of the Commissioner's decision unless some other date is specified. Thereafter any interested person may submit a petition for reconsideration under § 10.33 or a petition for stay of action under § 10.35. A person who wishes to rely upon information or views not included in the administrative record shall submit them to the Commissioner with a new petition to modify the decision in accordance with this section.


(k) This section does not apply to the referral of a matter to a United States attorney for the initiation of court enforcement action and related correspondence, or to requests, suggestions, and recommendations made informally in routine correspondence received by FDA. Routine correspondence does not constitute a petition within the meaning of this section unless it purports to meet the requirements of this section. Action on routine correspondence does not constitute final administrative action subject to judicial review under § 10.45.


(l) The Dockets Management Staff will maintain a chronological list of each petition filed under this section and § 10.85, but not of petitions submitted elsewhere in the agency under § 10.25(a)(1), showing:


(1) The docket number;


(2) The date the petition was filed by the Dockets Management Staff;


(3) The name of the petitioner;


(4) The subject matter involved; and


(5) The disposition of the petition.



---

[N] [44 FR 22323, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 46 FR 8455, Jan. 27, 1981; 50 FR 16656, Apr. 26, 1985; 54 FR 9034, Mar. 3, 1989; 57 FR 17980, Apr. 28, 1992; 59 FR 14364, Mar. 28, 1994; 62 FR 40592, July 29, 1997; 66 FR 6467, Jan. 22, 2001; 66 FR 12848, Mar. 1, 2001; 78 FR 76749, Dec. 19, 2013; 81 FR 78505, Nov. 8, 2016; 88 FR 45064, July 14, 2023]




