# ยง 19.37   Consideration of additional evidence received by the agency of original jurisdiction after an appeal has been initiated.

(a) *Evidence received prior to transfer of records to Board of Veterans' Appeals.* Evidence received by the agency of original jurisdiction prior to transfer of the records to the Board of Veterans' Appeals after an appeal has been initiated (including evidence received after certification has been completed) will be referred to the appropriate rating or authorization activity for review and disposition. If the Statement of the Case and any prior Supplemental Statements of the Case were prepared before the receipt of the additional evidence, a Supplemental Statement of the Case will be furnished to the appellant and his or her representative as provided in ยง 19.31 of this part, unless the additional evidence received duplicates evidence previously of record which was discussed in the Statement of the Case or a prior Supplemental Statement of the Case or the additional evidence is not relevant to the issue, or issues, on appeal. 


(b) *Evidence received after transfer of records to the Board of Veterans' Appeals.* Additional evidence received by the agency of original jurisdiction after the records have been transferred to the Board of Veterans' Appeals for appellate consideration will be forwarded to the Board if it has a bearing on the appellate issue or issues. The Board will then determine what action is required with respect to the additional evidence.


(c) The provisions of this section do not apply in proceedings before the General Counsel conducted under part 14 of this chapter to cancel accreditation or to review fee agreements and expenses for reasonableness.



---

[N] [57 FR 4104, Feb. 3, 1992, as amended at 73 FR 29879, May 22, 2008; 84 FR 178, Jan. 18, 2019]




