# § 721.10796   Polymer of terephthalic acid and ethyl benzene with multi-walled carbon nanotube (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as polymer of terephthalic acid and ethyl benzene with multi-walled carbon nanotube (PMN P-13-573) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The SNUR does not apply to the PMN substance when it is manufactured, pursuant to any of the exemptions in 40 CFR 720.30(h) with no commercial purpose separate from the substance, mixture, or article of which it is a part.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(particulate), (b), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63 (a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. A National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an N-100, P-100, or R-100 cartridge meet the requirements of § 721.63(a)(4).


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (k)(a significant new use is any processing or use other than described in the consent order) and (q).


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.



---

[N] [80 FR 5468, Feb. 2, 2015]




