# § 99.4   How do I authorize and what are the responsibilities of the designated representative?

Each WEC obligated party must follow the procedures in paragraphs (a) through (l) of this section, as applicable, to identify a WEC obligated party designated representative. In cases where a WEC applicable facility has more than one owner or operator, the WEC obligated party shall be an owner or operator selected by an agreement binding on each of the owners and operators involved with the facility, following the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section. Failure to select a WEC obligated party for each WEC applicable facility with multiple owners or operators following the procedures of paragraph (b) of this section is considered a violation of this part for each owner and operator (as defined in § 99.2 of this part) for the applicable industry segment of the associated WEC applicable facility. If an owner or operator acquires a WEC applicable facility in a transaction occurring subsequent to the end of the reporting year (*i.e.,* between January 1 and December 31 of the year following the reporting year) that resulted in the owner(s) or operator(s) of the facility as of December 31 of the reporting year ceasing to exist prior to the WEC filing date pursuant to § 99.5, the acquiring owner or operator shall be considered the WEC obligated party for that facility.


(a) *General.* Except as provided under paragraph (f) of this section, each WEC obligated party that is subject to this part shall have one designated representative, who shall be responsible for certifying, signing, and submitting WEC filings or other submissions to the Administrator under this part.


(b) *Authorization of a designated representative.* The designated representative of each WEC obligated party shall be an individual selected by an agreement binding on the owner and operator of such entity and shall act in accordance with the certification statement in paragraph (i) of this section. Failure of a WEC obligated party to authorize a designated representative following the procedures of this section is considered a violation of this part.


(c) *Responsibility of the designated representative.* Upon receipt by the Administrator of a complete certificate of representation under this section for the WEC obligated party, the designated representative identified in such certificate of representation shall represent and, by their representations, actions, inactions, or submissions, legally bind the WEC obligated party in all matters pertaining to this part, notwithstanding any agreement between the designated representative and said WEC obligated party. The owner and operator shall be bound by any decision or order issued to the designated representative by the Administrator or a court.


(d) *Timing.* No WEC filing or other submissions under this part for a WEC obligated party will be accepted until the Administrator has received a complete certificate of representation for the reporting year under this section for a designated representative of the WEC obligated party. Such certificate of representation shall be submitted at least 60 days before the deadline for submission of the WEC obligated party's WEC filing under § 99.5 in each reporting year.


(e) *Certification of the WEC filing.* Each WEC filing and any other submission under this part for a WEC obligated party shall be certified, signed, and submitted by the designated representative or any alternate designated representative of the WEC obligated party in accordance with this section and § 3.10 of this chapter.


(1) Each such submission shall include the following certification statement signed by the designated representative or any alternate designated representative: “I am authorized to make this submission on behalf of the WEC obligated party, for which the submission is made. I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined, and am familiar with, the statements and information submitted in this document and all its attachments. Based on my inquiry of those individuals with primary responsibility for obtaining the information, I certify that the statements and information are to the best of my knowledge and belief true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false statements and information or omitting required statements and information, including the possibility of fine or imprisonment.”


(2) The Administrator will accept a WEC filing or other submission for a WEC obligated party under this part only if the submission is certified, signed, and submitted in accordance with this section.


(f) *Alternate designated representative.* A certificate of representation under this section for the WEC obligated party may designate one alternate designated representative, who shall be an individual selected by an agreement binding on the owner and operator, and may act on behalf of the WEC obligated party designated representative. The agreement by which the alternate designated representative is selected shall include a procedure for authorizing the alternate designated representative to act in lieu of the designated representative.


(1) Upon receipt by the Administrator of a complete certificate of representation under this section for a WEC obligated party identifying an alternate designated representative, the following apply.


(i) The alternate WEC obligated party designated representative may act on behalf of the WEC obligated party designated representative.


(ii) Any representation, action, inaction, or submission by the alternate designated representative shall be deemed to be a representation, action, inaction, or submission by the WEC obligated party designated representative.


(2) Except in this section, whenever the term “designated representative” is used in this part, the term shall be construed to include the designated representative or any alternate designated representative.


(g) *Changing a designated representative or alternate designated representative.* The designated representative or alternate designated representative identified in a complete certificate of representation under this section for a WEC obligated party received by the Administrator may be changed at any time upon receipt by the Administrator of another later signed, complete certificate of representation under this section for the WEC obligated party. Notwithstanding any such change, all representations, actions, inactions, and submissions by the previous designated representative or the previous alternate designated representative of the WEC obligated party before the time and date when the Administrator receives such later signed certificate of representation shall be binding on the new designated representative and the owner and operator of the WEC obligated party.


(h) *Changes in the WEC obligated party.* Within 90 days after any change in the WEC obligated party, the designated representative or any alternate designated representative shall submit a certificate of representation that is complete under this section to reflect the change.


(i) *Certificate of representation.* The annual certificate of representation shall be complete if it includes the following elements in a format prescribed by the Administrator in accordance with this section:


(1) Identification of the WEC obligated party and the United States address of the WEC obligated party for which the certificate of representation is submitted.


(2) The name, organization name (company affiliation-employer), address, email address, telephone number, and facsimile transmission number (if any) of the designated representative and any alternate designated representative.


(3) The facility ID number for each WEC applicable facility comprising the WEC obligated party.


(4) The name and United States address of the parent company for purposes of netting under subpart B of this part for the WEC obligated party and the WEC applicable facilities. The indicated parent company must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (i)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section. As an alternative to reporting a parent company, the WEC obligated party may be listed and paragraphs (i)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section do not apply.


(i) The indicated parent company must have been reported pursuant to § 98.3(c)(11) of this chapter for each WEC applicable facility listed in the certificate of representation for which the WEC obligated party was an owner or operator of the facility as of December 31 of the reporting year and was reported pursuant to § 98.3(c)(14) of this chapter.


(ii) The WEC obligated party must be a subsidiary of, or partially owned by, the indicated parent company.


(5) The following certification statements by the designated representative and any alternate designated representative:


(i) “I certify that I was selected as the designated representative or alternate designated representative, as applicable, by an agreement binding on the WEC obligated party.”


(ii) “I certify that I have all the necessary authority to carry out my duties and responsibilities under 40 CFR part 99 on behalf of the WEC obligated party and that such owner and operator shall be fully bound by my representations, actions, inactions, or submissions.”


(iii) “I certify that the owner and operator of the WEC obligated party, as applicable, shall be bound by any order issued to me by the Administrator or a court therein.”


(iv) If there are multiple owners and/or operators reported pursuant to § 98.3(c)(14) of this chapter for any WEC applicable facility listed in the certificate of representation pursuant to paragraph (i)(5) of this section, for each facility, “I certify that I have given a written notice of my selection as the `designated representative' or `alternate designated representative', as applicable, and of the agreement by which I was selected to each owner and operator of the WEC applicable facility for which there are multiple owners and/or operators.”


(6) The signature of the designated representative and any alternate designated representative and the dates signed.


(j) *Documents of agreement.* Unless otherwise required by the Administrator, documents of agreement referred to in the certificate of representation shall not be submitted to the Administrator. The Administrator shall not be under any obligation to review or evaluate the sufficiency of such documents, if submitted.


(k) *Binding nature of the certificate of representation.* Once a complete certificate of representation under this section for a WEC obligated party has been received, the Administrator will rely on the certificate of representation unless and until a later signed, complete certificate of representation under this section for the facility is received by the Administrator.


(l) *Objections concerning a designated representative.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, no objection or other communication submitted to the Administrator concerning the authorization, or any representation, action, inaction, or submission, of the designated representative or alternate designated representative shall affect any representation, action, inaction, or submission of the designated representative or alternate designated representative, or the finality of any decision or order by the Administrator under this part.


(2) The Administrator will not adjudicate any private legal dispute concerning the authorization or any representation, action, inaction, or submission of any designated representative or alternate designated representative.






