# ยง 13.1902   Subsistence.

(a) *Subsistence resident zone communities.* The following communities and areas are included within the resident zone for Wrangell-St. Elias National Park: Chisana, Chistochina, Chitina, Copper Center, Dot Lake, Gakona, Gakona Junction, Glennallen, Gulkana, Healy Lake, Kenny Lake, Lower Tonsina, McCarthy, Mentasta Lake, Nabesna, Northway/Northway Village/Northway Junction, Slana, Tanacross, Tazlina, Tetlin, Tok, Tonsina, and Yakutat.


(b) *Subsistence resident zone boundaries.* Boundaries for communities and areas added to the park resident zone will be determined by the Superintendent after consultation with the affected area or community. If the Superintendent and community are not able to agree on a boundary within two years, the boundary of the area or community added will be the boundary of the Census Designated Place, or other area designation, used by the Alaska Department of Labor for census purposes for that community or area. Copies of the boundary map will be available in the park headquarters office.


(c) *Subsistence aircraft exemption.* In extraordinary cases where no reasonable alternative exists local rural residents who permanently reside in the following exempted community(ies) may use aircraft for access to lands and waters within the park for subsistence purposes in accordance with a permit issued by the Superintendent: Yakutat (for access to the Malaspina Forelands Area only).


(d) *Use of bait for taking bears.* (1) The superintendent may issue individual, annual permits allowing the use of human-produced food items as bait for taking bears upon a finding that:


(i) Such use is compatible with the purposes and values for which the area was established (e.g. does not create a user conflict); and


(ii) The permit applicant does not have reasonable access to natural bait that may be used under ยง 13.480(b)(1).


(2) Permits will identify specific locations within the park area where the bait station may be established and will not include areas where the use of such materials could create a user conflict.



---

[N] [71 FR 69333, Nov. 30, 2006, as amended at 82 FR 3633, Jan. 12, 2017]




