# ยง 551.705   Filing an FLSA claim.

(a) *Filing an FLSA claim.* A claimant may file an FLSA claim with either the agency employing the claimant during the claim period or with OPM, but a claimant cannot pursue the same claim with both at the same time. OPM encourages a claimant to obtain a decision on the claim from the agency before filing the claim with OPM. However, this is a matter of personal discretion and a claimant is not required to do this; a claimant may use either avenue. A claimant who receives an unfavorable decision on a claim from the agency may still file the claim with OPM. However, a claimant may not file the claim with the agency after receiving an unfavorable decision from OPM. An OPM decision on a claim is final and is not subject to further administrative review.


(b) *FLSA claim filed with agency.* An FLSA claim filed with an agency should be made according to appropriate agency procedures. At the request of the claimant, the agency may forward the claim to OPM on the claimant's behalf. The claimant is responsible for ensuring that OPM receives all the information requested in paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *FLSA claim filed with OPM.* An FLSA claim filed with OPM must be made in writing and must be signed by the claimant or the claimant's representative. Relevant information may be submitted to OPM at any time following the initial submission of a claim to OPM and prior to OPM's decision on the claim. The claim must include the following:


(1) The identity of the claimant (see ยง 551.706(a)(2) regarding requesting confidentiality) and any designated representative, the agency employing the claimant during the claim period, the position (job title, series, and grade, or equivalent level) occupied by the claimant during the claim period, and the current mailing address, commercial telephone number, and facsimile machine number, if available, of the claimant and any designated representative;


(2) A description of the nature of the claim and the specific issues or incidents giving rise to the claim, including the time period covered by the claim;


(3) A description of actions taken by the claimant to resolve the claim within the agency and the results of any actions taken;


(4) A copy of any relevant decision or written response by the agency;


(5) Evidence available to the claimant or the claimant's designated representative which supports the claim, including the identity, commercial telephone number, and location of other individuals who may be able to provide information relating to the claim;


(6) The remedy sought by the claimant;


(7) Evidence, if available, that the claim period was preserved in accordance with ยง 551.702. The date the claim is received by the agency or OPM becomes the date on which the claim period is preserved;


(8) A statement from the claimant that he or she was or was not a member of a collective bargaining unit at any time during the claim period;


(9) If the claimant was a member of a bargaining unit, a statement from the claimant that he or she was or was not covered by a negotiated grievance procedure at any time during the claim period, and if covered, whether that procedure specifically excluded the claim from the scope of the negotiated grievance procedure;


(10) A statement from the claimant that he or she has or has not filed an action in an appropriate United States court; and


(11) Any other information that the claimant believes OPM should consider.




