# ยง 155.106   Election to operate an Exchange after 2014.

(a) *Election to operate an Exchange.* Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a State electing to seek approval of its Exchange must:


(1) Comply with the State Exchange approval requirements and process set forth in ยง 155.105;


(2) Submit an Exchange Blueprint application for HHS approval at least 15 months prior to the date on which the Exchange proposes to begin open enrollment as a State Exchange. HHS requires that a State submitting a Blueprint Application to operate a State Exchange provide, upon request, supplemental information to HHS detailing the State's implementation of its State Exchange functionality, including information on the ability to implement and comply with Federal requirements for operating an Exchange.


(i) *Public notice.* Upon submission of an Exchange Blueprint application to operate a State Exchange, the State shall issue a public notice of its Exchange Blueprint application submission through its website and include a copy of the Exchange Blueprint application, a description of the Plan Year for which the State seeks to transition to a State Exchange, language indicating that the State is seeking approval from HHS to transition to a State Exchange, and information about when and where the State will conduct public engagements regarding the State's Exchange Blueprint application, as described in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.


(ii) *Public engagements.* After a State issues its public notice as described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section and until HHS approves, or conditionally approves, the State's Exchange Blueprint application, a State must conduct at least one public engagement (such as a townhall meeting or public hearing) either in-person or virtually, regarding the State's Exchange Blueprint application progress, in a timeline and manner considered effective by the State and with HHS' concurrence. A State shall provide public notice of the public engagement. Such public engagement shall also provide interested parties the opportunity to learn about the State's progress in transitioning to a State Exchange and offer input on that transition. Following the initial public engagement described in this paragraph and until HHS approves or conditionally approves the State Exchange Blueprint application, a State shall conduct periodic public engagements, either in-person or virtually, in a timeframe and manner considered effective by the State.


(3) Have in effect an approved, or conditionally approved, Exchange Blueprint and operational readiness assessment prior to the date on which the Exchange would begin open enrollment as a State Exchange;






(4) Develop a plan jointly with HHS to facilitate the transition to a State Exchange; and


(5) If the open enrollment period for the year the State intends to begin operating an SBE has not been established, this deadline must be calculated based on the date open enrollment began or will begin in the year in which the State is submitting the Blueprint application.


(b) *Transition process for State Exchanges that cease operations.* If a State intends to cease operation of its Exchange, HHS will operate the Exchange on behalf of the State. Therefore, a State that intends to cease operations of its Exchange must:


(1) Notify HHS that it will no longer operate an Exchange at least 12 months prior to ceasing operations; and


(2) Coordinate with HHS on a transition plan to be developed jointly between HHS and the State.


(c) *Process for State Exchanges that seek to utilize the Federal platform for select functions.* States may seek approval to operate a State Exchange utilizing the Federal platform for only the individual market. A State seeking approval to operate a State Exchange utilizing the Federal platform for the individual market to support select functions through a Federal platform agreement under ยง 155.200(f) must:


(1) If the State Exchange does not have a conditionally approved Exchange Blueprint application, submit one for HHS approval at least 3 months prior to the date on which the Exchange proposes to begin open enrollment as an SBE-FP;


(2) If the State Exchange has a conditionally approved Exchange Blueprint application, submit any significant changes to that application for HHS approval, in accordance with ยง 155.105(e), at least 3 months prior to the date on which the Exchange proposes to begin open enrollment as an SBE-FP;




(3) Have in effect an approved, or conditionally approved, Exchange Blueprint and operational readiness assessment prior to the date on which the Exchange proposes to begin open enrollment as a State-based Exchanges on the Federal platform (SBE-FP), in accordance with HHS rules in this chapter, as a State Exchange utilizing the Federal platform;






(4) Prior to approval, or conditional approval, of the Exchange Blueprint, execute a Federal platform agreement for utilizing the Federal platform for select functions; and


(5) Coordinate with HHS on a transition plan to be developed jointly between HHS and the State.



---

[N] [77 FR 18444, Mar. 27, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 13837, Mar. 11, 2014; 81 FR 12336, Mar. 8, 2016; 83 FR 17060, Apr. 17, 2018; 88 FR 25917, Apr. 27, 2023; 89 FR 26419, Apr. 15, 2024]




