# ยง 401.74   Transit declaration.

(a) A Seaway Transit Declaration Form (Cargo and Passenger) shall be forwarded to the Manager by the representative of a vessel, for each vessel that has an approved preclearance except non-cargo vessels, within fourteen (14) days after the vessel enters the Seaway on any up bound or down bound transit. The form may be obtained from the St. Lawrence Management Corporation, 151 Ecluse Street, St. Lambert, Quebec, J4R 2V6 or downloaded from the St. Lawrence Seaway Web site at *www.greatlakes-seaway.com.* The form may also be completed and submitted on the Seaway Web site via e-business.


(b) The loaded or manifest weight of cargo shall be shown on the Seaway Transit Declaration Form, except in the case of petroleum products where gallonage meters are not available at the point of loading, in which case offloaded weights may be shown on the Declaration Form.


(c) Where a vessel carries cargo to or from an overseas port, a copy of the cargo manifest, duly certified, shall be forwarded with the Seaway Transit Declaration Form.


(d) A Weight-Scale Certificate or similar document issued in the place of a cargo manifest may be accepted in lieu thereof.


(e) Where a Seaway Transit Declaration Form is found to be inaccurate concerning the destination, cargo or passengers, the representative shall immediately forward to the Manager a revised Declaration Form. 


(f) Seaway Transit Declaration Forms shall be used in assessing toll charges in accordance with the *St. Lawrence Seaway Schedule of Tolls,* and toll accounts shall be forwarded to the representative or its designated agent.


(g) Where government aid cargo is declared, appropriate Canadian or U.S. customs form or a stamped and signed certification letter from the U.S. or Canada Customs must accompany the transit declaration form.



---

[N] [39 FR 10900, Mar. 22, 1974, as amended at 48 FR 20691, May 9, 1983; 49 FR 30936, Aug. 2, 1984; 65 FR 52914, Aug. 31, 2000; 70 FR 12973, Mar. 17, 2005; 71 FR 5607, Feb. 2, 2006; 79 FR 12661, Mar. 6, 2014]




