# ยง 136.102   Definitions.

As used in this subpart:


(a) *Act* means Title I of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, Pub. L. 93-638 (88 Stat. 2203).


(b) *Indian* means a person who is a member of an Indian tribe.


(c) *Indian tribe* means any Indian tribe, band, nation, rancheria, Pueblo, colony or community, including any Alaska Native Village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, Pub. L. 92-203 (85 Stat. 688 which is recognized as eligible by the United States Government for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.


(d) *Tribal organization* means: 


(1) The recognized governing body of any Indian tribe; or 


(2) Any legally established organization of Indians which is: 


(i) Controlled, sanctioned or chartered by such governing body or bodies; or 


(ii) Democratically elected by the adult members of the Indian community to be served by such organization and which includes the maximum participation of Indians in all phases of its activities.


(e) *Secretary* means the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services and any other officer or employee of the Department of Health and Human Services to whom the authority involved has been delegated.


(f) *Grantee* means the tribe or tribal organization that receives a grant under section 104(b) of the Act and this subpart and assumes the legal and financial responsibility for the funds awarded and for the performance of the grant supported activity in accordance with the Act and these regulations.


(g) *Indian owned economic enterprise* means any commercial, industrial, or business activity established or organized for the purpose of profit which is not less than 51 percent Indian owned. 




