# § 123.706   What are the requirements for IDAP Lenders?

(a) *IDAP Lenders.* An IDAP Lender must be a 7(a) Lender (as defined in § 120.10). Notwithstanding the provisions of § 120.470(a), a Small Business Lending Company (SBLC) that is a 7(a) Lender may make IDAP loans. An IDAP Lender must sign a supplemental Loan Guarantee Agreement for the IDAP loan program. An IDAP Lender must comply and maintain familiarity with the IDAP Loan Program Requirements, as such requirements are revised from time to time. IDAP Loan Program Requirements in effect at the time that an IDAP Lender takes an action in connection with a particular IDAP loan govern that specific action. With respect to their activities in the IDAP loan program, IDAP Lenders are subject to the requirements of §§ 120.140 (What ethical requirements apply to participants?), 120.197 (Notifying SBA's Office of Inspector General of suspected fraud), 120.400 (Loan Guarantee Agreements), 120.410 (Requirements for all participating Lenders), 120.411 (Preferences), 120.412 (Other services Lenders may provide Borrowers), and 120.413 (Advertisement of relationship with SBA) of this chapter. An IDAP Lender and its contractor(s) are independent contractors that are responsible for their own actions with respect to an IDAP loan. SBA has no responsibility or liability for any claim by an IDAP Borrower, guarantor or other party alleging injury as a result of any allegedly wrongful action taken by an IDAP Lender or an employee, agent or contractor of an IDAP Lender.


(b) *Delegated authority.* An IDAP loan must be processed, serviced and liquidated under an IDAP Lender's delegated authority provided by the supplemental Loan Guarantee Agreement for the IDAP loan program. Non-delegated processing is not available for the IDAP loan program. An IDAP Lender is responsible for all IDAP loan decisions regarding eligibility (including size) and creditworthiness. In determining creditworthiness, an IDAP Lender must use the existing practices and procedures that the IDAP Lender uses for its non-SBA guaranteed commercial loans of a similar size. The IDAP Lender's existing practices and procedures must be appropriate and generally accepted, proven and prudent credit evaluation processes and procedures, which may include credit scoring, and must ensure that there is reasonable assurance of repayment. In disbursing the IDAP loan, the IDAP Lender must use the same disbursement procedures and documentation as it uses for its similarly sized non-SBA guaranteed commercial loans. An IDAP Lender is also responsible for confirming that all IDAP loan processing, closing, servicing and liquidation decisions are correct and that all IDAP Loan Program Requirements have been followed.


(c) *IDAP Lender reporting.* An IDAP Lender must report on its IDAP loans in accordance with requirements established by SBA from time to time.


(d) *Servicing.* Each IDAP Lender must service all of its IDAP loans in accordance with the existing practices and procedures that the IDAP Lender uses for its non-SBA guaranteed commercial loans. In all circumstances, such practices and procedures must be commercially reasonable and consistent with prudent lending standards and in accordance with IDAP Loan Program Requirements. SBA's prior written consent is required for servicing actions that may have significant exposure implications for SBA. SBA may require written notice of other servicing actions it considers necessary for portfolio management purposes.


(e) *Liquidations.* Each IDAP Lender must be responsible for liquidating its defaulted IDAP loans. IDAP loans will be liquidated in accordance with the existing practices and procedures that the IDAP Lender uses for its non-SBA guaranteed commercial loans. In all circumstances, such practices and procedures must be commercially reasonable and consistent with prudent lending standards and in accordance with IDAP Loan Program Requirements. IDAP loans with *de minimis* value may, at the IDAP Lender's request and with SBA's approval, be liquidated by SBA or its agent(s). Significant liquidation actions taken on IDAP loans must be documented. The reimbursement of IDAP Lender liquidation expenses is limited to the amount of the recovery on the IDAP loan.


(f) *Purchase requests.* An IDAP Lender may request SBA to purchase the guaranteed portion of an IDAP loan when there has been an uncured payment default exceeding 60 days or when the IDAP Borrower has declared bankruptcy. IDAP loans are subject to the 7(a) loan program requirements of §§ 120.520 (Purchase of 7(a) loan guarantees), 120.521 (What interest rate applies after SBA purchases its guaranteed portion?), 120.522 (Payment of accrued interest to the Lender or Registered Holder when SBA purchases the guaranteed portion), 120.523 (What is the “earliest uncured payment default”?), 120.524 (When is SBA released from liability on its guarantee?), 120.542 (Payment by SBA of legal fees and other expenses) and 120.546 (Loan asset sales) of this chapter.


(g) *Prohibition on secondary market sales, securitizations, loan participations and loan sales.* An IDAP Lender may not sell the guaranteed portion of an IDAP loan in the secondary market, securitize the unguaranteed portion of an IDAP loan, participate any portion of an IDAP loan with another lender, or sell all of its interest in an IDAP loan.


(h) *Loan pledges.* An IDAP Lender may pledge an IDAP loan subject to the 7(a) loan program requirements of §§ 120.434 and 120.435 of this chapter.


(i) *Oversight.* All IDAP Lenders are subject to the supervision and enforcement provisions applicable to 7(a) Lenders in part 120, subpart I of this chapter (§§ 120.1000 through 120.1600). In addition, an IDAP Lender that is an SBA Supervised Lender (as defined in § 120.10) is subject to the requirements of §§ 120.460 through 120.490, as applicable.




