# § 3055.31   Contents of the Quarterly Report of service performance achievements.

(a) The items in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section shall be included in the quarterly report of service performance achievements.


(b) The class or group-specific reporting items specified in §§ 3055.45 through 3055.70.


(c) The identification of each product, or component of a product, granted an exception from reporting pursuant to § 3055.3, and a certification that the rationale for originally granting the exception remains valid.


(d) Documentation showing how data reported at a given level of aggregation were derived from data reported at greater levels of disaggregation. Such documentation shall be in electronic format with all data links preserved. It shall show all formulas used, including volumes and other weighting factors. Any graphical representation of data provided shall also be accompanied by the underlying data presented in spreadsheet form.


(e) A year-to-date aggregation of each data item provided in each Quarterly Report due for the reported fiscal year, where applicable, including volumes and other weighting factors provided in electronic format, with formulas shown and data links preserved to allow traceability to individual Quarterly Reports.


(f) For each Market Dominant product, the average time in which the product was delivered, measured by actual delivery days, during the previous fiscal quarter, provided at the District, Postal Administrative Area, and National levels. “Actual delivery days” shall include all days in which Market Dominant products are eligible for delivery, excluding Sundays and holidays. The report shall include the following information on dispersion around the average:


(1) The percent of mailpieces delivered within +1 day of the applicable service standard;


(2) The percent of mailpieces delivered within +2 days of the applicable service standard; and


(3) The percent of mailpieces delivered within +3 days of the applicable service standard.


(g) A description of each Site-Specific Operating Plan, including operation completion time performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for each Site-Specific Operating Plan measurement category during the previous fiscal quarter. Such information shall be at the National level and disaggregated by Division and Region.


(h) A description of the total mail volumes measured and excluded from measurement. Such description shall include:


(1) For each class of Market Dominant products (except Special Services), a report of the reasons that mailpieces were excluded during the previous fiscal quarter. The report shall include:


(i) The exclusion reason;


(ii) The exclusion reason description;


(iii) The number of mailpieces excluded from measurement, which is the sum of all mailpieces excluded from measurement for the individual exclusion reason; and


(iv) The exclusion reason as a percent of total mailpieces excluded from measurement, which is the number of mailpieces excluded from measurement (*i.e.,* provided in paragraph (h)(1)(iii) of this section) divided by the sum of all mailpieces excluded from measurement across all exclusion reason categories *(i.e.,* the sum of all values provided in paragraph (h)(1)(iii) of this section).


(v) The report shall include information for each quarter in the applicable fiscal year.


(2) The report described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section shall follow the format as shown below:


(3) For each class of Market Dominant products and for each Market Dominant product (except Special Services), a description of the mail volumes measured and unmeasured during the previous fiscal quarter. The description shall explain in detail any notations regarding the Postal Service's inability to collect any data. Corresponding data shall also be provided for the same period last year (SPLY). Each report is due within 60 days of the close of each fiscal quarter.


(4) The report described in paragraph (h)(3) of this section shall follow the format as shown below:


(i) A report of quarterly third-party audit results of its internal service performance measurement system for Market Dominant products. This report shall include a description of the audit measures used and the audit results specific to inbound and outbound single-piece First-Class Mail International and the Green Card option of the Return Receipt service. For any measure deemed by the auditor to be not achieved or only partially achieved, the Postal Service shall include in its report an explanation of its plan to achieve said measure in the future. Each report is due within 60 days of the close of each fiscal quarter.



---

[N] [75 FR 38742, July 6, 2010, as amended at 88 FR 10040, Feb. 16, 2023]






