# § 165.1199   Security Zones; Military Ocean Terminal Concord (MOTCO), Concord, California.

(a) *Location.* The security zone(s) reside(s) within the navigable waters of Suisun Bay, California, extending from the surface to the sea floor, within 500 yards of the three Military Ocean Terminal Concord (MOTCO) piers in Concord, California.


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this section, “designated representative” means any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer or any Federal, state, or local law enforcement officer who has been designated by the Captain of the Port San Francisco (COTP) to act on the COTP's behalf. The COTP's representative may be on a Coast Guard vessel, a Coast Guard Auxiliary vessel, a Federal, state, or local law enforcement vessel, or a location on shore.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) The security zone(s) described in paragraph (a) of this section will be in force during active military onloading and/or offloading operations and at any time a vessel loaded with munitions is present at a pier.


(2) When one or more piers are involved in onload or offload operations at the same time, there will be a 500-yard security zone for each involved pier.


(3) Under the general regulations in subpart D of this part, entry into, transiting or anchoring within the security zone(s) described in paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited during times of enforcement unless authorized by the COTP or a designated representative.


(4) Vessel operators desiring to enter or operate within the security zone(s) during times of enforcement must contact the COTP or a designated representative on VHF-16 or through the 24-hour Command Center at telephone (415) 399-3547 to obtain permission to do so. Vessel operators given permission to enter or operate in the security zone(s) must comply with all directions given to them by the COTP or a designated representative.


(5) Upon being hailed by the COTP or designated representative by siren, radio, flashing light, or other means, the operator of a vessel approaching the security zone(s) must proceed as directed to avoid entering the security zone(s).


(d) *Notice of enforcement or suspension of enforcement of security zone(s).* During periods that one or more security zones are enforced, the COTP or a designated representative will issue a Broadcast Notice to Mariners and/or notify mariners via actual notice on-scene. In addition, COTP maintains a telephone line that is maintained 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The public can contact COTP at (415) 399-3547 to obtain information concerning enforcement of this section. When the security zones are no longer needed, the COTP or designated representative will cease enforcement of the security zones. Upon suspension of enforcement, all persons and vessels are granted general permissions to enter, move within, and exit the security zones, but should remain cognizant of the applicable restricted area designated in 33 CFR 334.1110.





---

[N] [USCG-2015-0330, 81 FR 37516, June 10, 2016]










