# ยง 310.25   What conditions apply to acquisitions of Computerized Tribal IV-D Systems?

(a) *APD Approval.* A comprehensive Tribal IV-D agency must have an approved APD in accordance with the applicable requirements of ยง 310.20 of this part prior to initiating acquisition of a Computerized Tribal IV-D System.


(b) *Procurements.* Requests for Proposals (RFP) and similar procurement documents, contracts, and contract amendments involving costs eligible for FFP, must be submitted to OCSE for approval prior to release of the procurement document, and prior to the execution of the resultant contract when a procurement is anticipated to or will exceed the Simplified Acquisition Threshold;


(c) *Software and ownership rights.* (1) All procurement and contract instruments must include a clause that provides that the comprehensive Tribal IV-D agency will have all ownership rights to Computerized Tribal IV-D System software or enhancements thereof and all associated documentation designed, developed or installed with FFP. Intergovernmental Service Agreements are not subject to this paragraph.


(2) OCSE reserves a royalty-free, nonexclusive, and irrevocable license to reproduce, publish, or otherwise use and to authorize others to use for Federal Government purposes, such software, modifications and documentation.


(3) FFP is not available for the costs of rental or purchase of proprietary application software developed specifically for a Computerized Tribal IV-D System. Commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) software packages that are sold or leased to the general public at established catalog or market prices are not subject to the ownership and license provisions of this requirement.


(d) *Requirements for acquisitions under the threshold amount.* A comprehensive Tribal IV-D agency is not required to submit procurement documents, contracts, and contract amendments for acquisitions under the Simplified Acquisition Threshold unless specifically requested to do so in writing by OCSE.




