# § 135.154   Terrain awareness and warning system.

(a) *Airplanes manufactured after March 29, 2002:*

(1) No person may operate a turbine-powered airplane configured with 10 or more passenger seats, excluding any pilot seat, unless that airplane is equipped with an approved terrain awareness and warning system that meets the requirements for Class A equipment in Technical Standard Order (TSO)-C151. The airplane must also include an approved terrain situational awareness display. 


(2) No person may operate a turbine-powered airplane configured with 6 to 9 passenger seats, excluding any pilot seat, unless that airplane is equipped with an approved terrain awareness and warning system that meets as a minimum the requirements for Class B equipment in Technical Standard Order (TSO)-C151. 


(b) *Airplanes manufactured on or before March 29, 2002:*

(1) No person may operate a turbine-powered airplane configured with 10 or more passenger seats, excluding any pilot seat, after March 29, 2005, unless that airplane is equipped with an approved terrain awareness and warning system that meets the requirements for Class A equipment in Technical Standard Order (TSO)-C151. The airplane must also include an approved terrain situational awareness display. 


(2) No person may operate a turbine-powered airplane configured with 6 to 9 passenger seats, excluding any pilot seat, after March 29, 2005, unless that airplane is equipped with an approved terrain awareness and warning system that meets as a minimum the requirements for Class B equipment in Technical Standard Order (TSO)-C151. 


(c) *Airplane Flight Manual.* The Airplane Flight Manual shall contain appropriate procedures for— 


(1) The use of the terrain awareness and warning system; and 


(2) Proper flight crew reaction in response to the terrain awareness and warning system audio and visual warnings.



---

[N] [Doc. No. 29312, 65 FR 16755, Mar. 29, 2000]




