# § 800.301   Transactions that are covered control transactions.

Transactions that are covered control transactions include:


(a) A transaction which, irrespective of the actual arrangements for control provided for in the terms of the transaction, results or could result in control of a U.S. business by a foreign person. (See the examples in paragraphs (e)(1), (2), and (3) of this section.)


(b) A transaction in which a foreign person conveys its control of a U.S. business to another foreign person. (See the example in paragraph (e)(4) of this section.)


(c) A transaction that results or could result in control by a foreign person of any part of an entity or of assets, if such part of an entity or assets constitutes a U.S. business. (See § 800.302(c) and the examples in paragraphs (e)(5) through (14) of this section.)


(d) A joint venture in which the parties enter into a contractual or other similar arrangement, including an agreement on the establishment of a new entity, but only if one or more of the parties contributes a U.S. business and a foreign person could control that U.S. business by means of the joint venture. (See the examples in paragraphs (e)(15) through (17) of this section.)


(e) Examples:


(1) *Example 1.* Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to purchase all of the shares of Corporation X, which is a U.S. business. As the sole owner, Corporation A will have the right to elect directors and appoint other primary officers of Corporation X, and those directors will have the right to make decisions about the closing and relocation of particular production facilities and the termination of significant contracts. The directors also will have the right to propose to Corporation A, the sole shareholder, the dissolution of Corporation X and the sale of its principal assets. The proposed transaction is a covered control transaction.


(2) *Example 2.* Same facts as the example (e)(1) of this section, except that Corporation A plans to retain the existing directors of Corporation X, all of whom are U.S. nationals. Although Corporation A may choose not to exercise its power to elect new directors for Corporation X, Corporation A nevertheless will have that exercisable power. The proposed transaction is a covered control transaction.


(3) *Example 3.* Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to purchase 50 percent of the voting shares in Corporation X, a U.S. business, from Corporation B, also a U.S. business. The governance documents of Corporation X provide that important decisions require the affirmative vote of more than half of the votes cast. Corporation B would retain the other 50 percent of the shares in Corporation X, and Corporation A and Corporation B would contractually agree that Corporation A would not exercise its voting and other rights for 10 years. The proposed transaction is a covered control transaction.


(4) *Example 4.* Corporation X is a U.S. business, but is wholly owned and controlled by Corporation Y, a foreign person. Corporation Z, also a foreign person, but not related to Corporation Y, seeks to acquire Corporation X from Corporation Y. The proposed transaction is a covered control transaction because it could result in control of Corporation X, a U.S. business, by another foreign person, Corporation Z.


(5) *Example 5.* Corporation X, a foreign person, has a branch office located in the United States. Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to buy that branch office. The proposed transaction is a covered control transaction.


(6) *Example 6.* Corporation A, a foreign person, buys a branch office located entirely outside the United States of Corporation Y, which is incorporated in the United States. Assuming no other relevant facts, the branch office of Corporation Y is not a U.S. business, and the transaction is not a covered control transaction.


(7) *Example 7.* Corporation A, a foreign person, makes a start-up, or “greenfield,” investment in the United States. That investment involves activities such as the foreign person separately arranging for the financing of and the construction of a plant to make a new product, buying supplies and inputs, hiring personnel, and purchasing the necessary technology. The investment involves incorporating a newly formed subsidiary of the foreign person. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A will not have acquired a U.S. business, and its greenfield investment is not a covered control transaction. However, this transaction may be subject to the provisions of part 802 of this title, which addresses certain transactions concerning real estate.


(8) *Example 8.* Corporation A, a foreign person, intends to make an early-stage investment in a start-up company in the United States. Prior to the investment by the foreign person, the start-up has engaged in interstate commerce, including incorporating, establishing a domain name, hiring personnel, developing business plans, seeking financing, and renting office space, without the involvement of the foreign person. As a result of the investment, Corporation A could control the U.S. business. Corporation A is acquiring a U.S. business and the proposed transaction is a covered control transaction.


(9) *Example 9.* Corporation A, a foreign person, purchases substantially all of the assets of Corporation B. Corporation B, which is incorporated in the United States, was in the business of producing industrial equipment, but stopped producing and selling such equipment one week before Corporation A purchased substantially all of its assets. At the time of the transaction, Corporation B continued to have employees on its payroll, maintained know-how in producing the industrial equipment it previously produced, and maintained relationships with its prior customers, all of which were transferred to Corporation A. Corporation A has acquired a U.S. business and the acquisition is a covered control transaction.


(10) *Example 10.* Corporation X, a foreign person, seeks to acquire from Corporation A, a U.S. business, an empty warehouse facility located in the United States. The acquisition would be limited to the physical facility, and would not include customer lists, intellectual property, or other proprietary information, or other intangible assets or the transfer of personnel. Assuming no other relevant facts, the facility is not an entity and therefore not a U.S. business, and the proposed acquisition of the facility is not a covered control transaction. However, this transaction may be subject to the provisions of part 802 of this chapter, which addresses certain transactions concerning real estate.


(11) *Example 11.* Same facts as the example in paragraph (e)(10) of this section, except that, in addition to the proposed acquisition of Corporation A's warehouse facility, Corporation X would acquire the personnel, customer list, equipment, and inventory management software used to operate the facility. Under these facts, Corporation X is acquiring a U.S. business, and the proposed acquisition is a covered control transaction.


(12) *Example 12.* Corporation A, a foreign person, seeks to acquire from Corporation X, a U.S. business, certain tangible and intangible assets that Corporation X operates as a business in the United States. Corporation A intends to use the assets to establish a business undertaking in a foreign country. Under these facts, Corporation X is acquiring a U.S. business, and the proposed acquisition is a covered control transaction.


(13) *Example 13.* Corporation A, a foreign person, seeks to acquire from Corporation X, a U.S. business, proprietary software developed by Corporation X. The acquisition would be limited to the software and would not include customer lists, marketing material, or other proprietary information; any other tangible or intangible assets; or the transfer of personnel. Assuming no other relevant facts, the software does not constitute an entity and is therefore not a U.S. business, and the proposed acquisition of the software is not a covered control transaction.


(14) *Example 14.* Same facts as the example in paragraph (e)(13) of this section, except that, in addition to the proposed acquisition of Corporation X's proprietary software, Corporation A would acquire Corporation X's customer lists, advertising and promotional material, branding, trademarks, domain names, and internet presence. Under these facts, Corporation A is acquiring a U.S. business, and the proposed acquisition is a covered control transaction.


(15) *Example 15.* Corporation A, a foreign person, and Corporation X, a U.S. business, form a separate corporation, JV Corporation, to which Corporation A contributes only cash and Corporation X contributes a U.S. business. Each owns 50 percent of the shares of JV Corporation and, under the Articles of Incorporation of JV Corporation, both Corporation A and Corporation X have veto power over matters affecting JV Corporation identified under § 800.208, giving them both control over JV Corporation. The place of incorporation of JV Corporation is not relevant to the determination of whether the transaction is a covered control transaction. The formation of JV Corporation is a covered control transaction.


(16) *Example 16.* Corporation A, a foreign person, and Corporation X, a U.S. business, form a separate corporation, JV Corporation, to which Corporation A contributes funding and managerial and technical personnel, while Corporation X contributes certain land and equipment that do not in this example constitute a U.S. business. Corporations A and X each have a 50 percent interest in the joint venture. Assuming no other relevant facts, the formation of JV Corporation is not a covered control transaction. However, this transaction may be subject to the provisions of part 802 of this title, which addresses certain transactions concerning real estate.


(17) *Example 17.* Same facts as the example in paragraph (e)(16) of this section, except that, in addition to contributing certain land and equipment, Corporation X also contributes intellectual property, other proprietary information, and other intangible assets, that together with the land and equipment constitute a U.S. business, to JV Corporation. Under these facts, Corporation X has contributed a U.S. business, and the formation of JV Corporation is a covered control transaction.




