# § 1.1001-2   Discharge of liabilities.

(a) *Inclusion in amount realized*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (a) (2) and (3) of this section, the amount realized from a sale or other disposition of property includes the amount of liabilities from which the transferor is discharged as a result of the sale or disposition.


(2) *Discharge of indebtedness.* The amount realized on a sale or other disposition of property that secures a recourse liability does not include amounts that are (or would be if realized and recognized) income from the discharge of indebtedness under section 61(a)(12). For situations where amounts arising from the discharge of indebtedness are not realized and recognized, see section 108 and § 1.61-12(b)(1).


(3) *Liability incurred on acquisition.* In the case of a liability incurred by reason of the acquisition of the property, this section does not apply to the extent that such liability was not taken into account in determining the transferor's basis for such property.


(4) *Special rules.* For purposes of this section—


(i) The sale or other disposition of property that secures a nonrecourse liability discharges the transferor from the liability;


(ii) The sale or other disposition of property that secures a recourse liability discharges the transferor from the liability if another person agrees to pay the liability (whether or not the transferor is in fact released from liability);


(iii) A disposition of property includes a gift of the property or a transfer of the property in satisfaction of liabilities to which it is subject;


(iv) Contributions and distributions of property between a partner and a partnership are not sales or other dispositions of property; and


(v) The liabilities from which a transferor is discharged as a result of the sale or disposition of a partnership interest include the transferor's share of the liabilities of the partnership.


(b) *Effect of fair market value of security.* The fair market value of the security at the time of sale or disposition is not relevant for purposes of determining under paragraph (a) of this section the amount of liabilities from which the taxpayer is discharged or treated as discharged. Thus, the fact that the fair market value of the property is less than the amount of the liabilities it secures does not prevent the full amount of those liabilities from being treated as money received from the sale or other disposition of the property. However, see paragraph (a)(2) of this section for a rule relating to certain income from discharge of indebtedness.


(c) *Examples.* The provisions of this section may be illustrated by the following examples. In each example assume the taxpayer uses the cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting, makes a return on the basis of the calendar year, and sells or disposes of all property which is security for a given liability.



---

[N] [T.D. 7741, 45 FR 81744, Dec. 12, 1980]










