# § 201.51   Interest rates applicable to credit extended by a Federal Reserve Bank. 


(a) *Primary credit.* The interest rate at each Federal Reserve Bank for primary credit provided to depository institutions under § 201.4(a) is 4.50 percent.


(b) *Secondary credit.* The interest rate at each Federal Reserve Bank for secondary credit provided to depository institutions under § 201.4(b) is 5.00 percent.


(c) *Seasonal credit.* The rate for seasonal credit extended to depository institutions under § 201.4(c) is a flexible rate that takes into account rates on market sources of funds.


(d) *Primary credit rate in a financial emergency.* (1) The primary credit rate at a Federal Reserve Bank is the target federal funds rate of the Federal Open Market Committee or, if the Federal Open Market Committee has set a target range for the federal funds rate, the rate corresponding to the top of the target range, if: 


(i) In a financial emergency the Reserve Bank has established the primary credit rate at that rate; and 


(ii) The Chairman of the Board of Governors (or, in the Chairman's absence, his authorized designee) certifies that a quorum of the Board is not available to act on the Reserve Bank's rate establishment. 


(2) For purposes of this paragraph (d), a financial emergency is a significant disruption to the U.S. money markets resulting from an act of war, military or terrorist attack, natural disaster, or other catastrophic event. 


(e) *Term auction facility.* The interest rate on advances to depository institutions made pursuant to an auction under § 201.4(e) is the rate at which all bids at that auction may be fulfilled, up to the maximum auction amount and subject to any minimum bid rate and other conditions as set by the Board.



---

[N] [Reg. A, 67 FR 67787, Nov. 7, 2002]


