# ยง 107.1240   Funding of Licensee's draw request through sale to short-term investor.

(a) *Licensee's authorization of SBA to arrange sale of securities to short-term investor.* By submitting a request for a draw of Debenture or Participating Security Leverage, you authorize SBA, or any agent or trustee SBA designates, to enter into any agreements (and to bind you to such agreements) necessary to accomplish: 


(1) The sale of your Debenture or Participating Security to a short-term investor at a rate that may be different from the Trust Certificate Rate which will be established at the time of the pooling of your security;


(2) The purchase of your security from the short-term investor, either by you or on your behalf; and 


(3) The pooling of your security with other securities with the same maturity date. 


(b) *Sale of Debentures to a short-term investor.* If SBA sells your Debenture to a short-term investor:


(1) The sale price will be the face amount.


(2) At the next scheduled date for the sale of Debenture Trust Certificates, whether or not the sale actually occurs, you must pay interest to the short-term investor for the short-term period. If the actual sale of Trust Certificates takes place after the scheduled date, you must pay the short-term investor interest from the scheduled sale date to the actual sale date. This additional interest is due on the actual sale date.


(3) Failure to pay the interest constitutes noncompliance with the terms of your Leverage (see ยง 107.1810).


(c) *Sale of Participating Securities to a short-term investor.* If SBA sells your Participating Security to a short-term investor, the sale price will be the face amount.


(d) *Licensee's right to repurchase its Debentures before pooling.* You may repurchase your Debentures from the short-term investor before they are pooled. To do so, you must:


(1) Give SBA written notice at least 10 days before the cut-off date for the pool in which your Debenture is to be included; and


(2) Pay the face amount of the Debenture, plus interest, to the short-term investor.



---

[N] [61 FR 3189, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 5868, Feb. 5, 1998]




