# ยง 82.40   Technician training and certification.

(a) Any technician training and certification program may apply for approval, in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph, by submitting to the Administrator at the address in ยง 82.38(a) verification that the program meets all of the following standards:


(1) *Training.* Each program must provide adequate training, through one or more of the following means: on-the-job training, training through self-study of instructional material, or on-site training involving instructors, videos or a hands-on demonstration.


(2) *Test subject material.* The certification tests must adequately and sufficiently cover the following:


(i) The standards established for the service and repair of MVACs and MVAC-like appliances as set forth in ยง 82.36(a) and appendices A, B, C, D, E, and F to this subpart. These standards relate to the recommended service procedures for the containment of refrigerant, extraction equipment, extraction and recycle equipment, and the standard of purity for refrigerant in motor vehicle air conditioners.


(ii) Anticipated future technological developments, such as the introduction of HFC-134a in new motor vehicle air conditioners.


(iii) The environmental consequences of refrigerant release and the adverse effects of stratospheric ozone layer depletion.


(iv) As of August 13, 1992, the requirements imposed by the Administrator under section 609 of the Act.


(3) *Test administration.* Completed tests must be graded by an entity or individual who receives no benefit based on the outcome of testing; a fee may be charged for grading. Sufficient measures must be taken at the test site to ensure that tests are completed honestly by each technician. Each test must provide a means of verifying the identification of the individual taking the test. Programs are encouraged to make provisions for non-English speaking technicians by providing tests in other languages or allowing the use of a translator when taking the test. If a translator is used, the certificate received must indicate that translator assistance was required.


(4) *Proof of certification.* Each certification program must offer individual proof of certification, such as a certificate, wallet-sized card, or display card, upon successful completion of the test. Each certification program must provide a unique number for each certified technician.


(b) In deciding whether to approve an application, the Administrator will consider the extent to which the applicant has documented that its program meets the standards set forth in this section. The Administrator reserves the right to consider other factors deemed relevant to ensure the effectiveness of certification programs. The Administrator may approve a program which meets all of the standards in paragraph (a) of this section except test administration if the program, when viewed as a whole, is at least as effective as a program that does meet all the standards. Such approval shall be limited to training and certification conducted before August 13, 1992. If approval is denied under this section, the Administrator shall give written notice to the program setting forth the basis for his determination.


(c) *Technical revisions.* Directors of approved certification programs must conduct periodic reviews of test subject material and update the material based upon the latest technological developments in motor vehicle air conditioner service and repair. A written summary of the review and any changes made must be submitted to the Administrator every two years.


(d) *Recertification.* The Administrator reserves the right to specify the need for technician recertification at some future date, if necessary.


(e) If at any time an approved program is conducted in a manner not consistent with the representations made in the application for approval of the program under this section, the Administrator reserves the right to revoke approval.


(f) Authorized representatives of the Administrator may require technicians to demonstrate on the business entity's premises their ability to perform proper procedures for recovering and/or recycling refrigerant. Failure to demonstrate or failure to properly use the equipment may result in revocation of the technician's certificate by the Administrator. Technicians whose certification is revoked must be recertified before servicing or repairing any motor vehicle air conditioners.



---

[N] [57 FR 31261, July 14, 1992, as amended at 60 FR 21688, May 2, 1995; 62 FR 68048, Dec. 30, 1997; 86 FR 15595, Mar. 24, 2021]




