# § 189.60-45   American Bureau of Shipping.

(a) The American Bureau of Shipping, with its home office at ABS Plaza, 16855 Northchase Drive, Houston, TX 77060, is hereby designated as an organization duly authorized to issue the “Cargo Ship Safety Construction Certificate” to certain oceanographic research vessels on behalf of the United States of America as provided in Regulation 12, Chapter I, of the International Convention for Safety of Life at Sea, 1974, and Executive Order 12234 and the certificate shall be subject to the requirements in this subpart. The American Bureau of Shipping is authorized to place the official seal of the United States of America on the certificate. This designation and delegation to the American Bureau of Shipping shall be in effect until terminated by proper authority and notice of cancellation is published in the _Federal Register._

(b) At the option of the owner or agent of a vessel on an international voyage and on direct application to the American Bureau of Shipping, the Bureau may issue to such vessel a Cargo Ship Safety Construction Certificate, having a period of validity of not more than 60 months after ascertaining that the vessel: 


(1) Has met the applicable requirements of the Convention; and 


(2) Is currently classed by the Bureau and classification requirements have been dealt with to the satisfaction of the Bureau. 


(c) When the Bureau determines that a vessel to which it has issued a Cargo Ship Safety Construction Certificate no longer complies with the Bureau's applicable requirements for classification, the Bureau shall immediately furnish to the Coast Guard all relevant information, which will be used by the Coast Guard to determine whether or not to withdraw, revoke or suspend the Cargo Ship Safety Construction Certificate. 



---

[N] [CGFR 67-83, 33 FR 1118, Jan. 27, 1968, as amended by CGD 77-081, 46 FR 56204, Nov. 16, 1981; CGD 90-008, 55 FR 30665, July 26, 1990; CGD 96-041, 61 FR 50735, Sept. 27, 1996: USCG-2000-7790, 65 FR 58465, Sept. 29, 2000]




