# § 12.85   Coast Guard boat and associated equipment safety standards.

(a) *Applicability of standards or regulations prescribed by the Commandant, U.S. Coast Guard.* Boats and associated equipment (as hereinafter defined) are subject to U.S. Coast Guard safety regulations or standards when imported or, under certain conditions, brought into the United States after November 1, 1972. Those regulations or standards are prescribed by the Commandant, U.S. Coast Guard, pursuant to sections 5, 7, and 39, Federal Boat Safety Act of 1971 (46 U.S.C. 1454, 1456, 1488), as set forth in 33 CFR parts 181, 183.


(1) The term “boats” includes:


(i) All vessels manufactured or used primarily for noncommercial use.


(ii) All vessels leased, rented, or chartered to another for the latter's noncommercial use.


(iii) All vessels engaged in the carrying of six or fewer passengers (see section 4.80 of this chapter on prohibitions against foreign vessels transporting passengers in the coastwise trade).


(2) For purposes of § 12.85 the term “boat” does not include:


(i) Foreign vessels temporarily using waters subject to U.S. jurisdiction.


(ii) Military or public vessels of the United States, except recreational type public vessels.


(iii) A vessel whose owner is a State or subdivision thereof, which is principally used for governmental purposes, and which is clearly identifiable as such.


(iv) Ships' lifeboats.


(3) The term “associated equipment” means:


(i) Any system, part, or component of a boat as originally manufactured, or a similar part or component manufactured or sold for replacement, repair, or improvement of such system, part, or component (excluding radio equipment).


(ii) Any accessory or equipment for, or appurtenance to, a boat (excluding radio equipment).


(iii) Any marine safety article, accessory, or equipment intended for use by a person on board a boat (excluding radio equipment).


(4) The term “product” as used in this section, includes the terms “boats” and “associated equipment” as defined in paragraphs (a) (1), (2), and (3) of this section.


(b) *Evidence of compliance with boating standards or regulations as condition of* entry. A product for which entry is sought into the Customs territory of the United States will, subject to the exceptions specified in paragraph (c) of this section, be denied entry unless accompanied by evidence of compliance with standards or regulations as follows:


(1) A product subject to standards prescribed in 33 CFR part 183 will have affixed to it a compliance certification label in accordance with the requirements of subpart B, 33 CFR part 181.


(2) A boat hull subject to subpart C, 33 CFR part 181 will have affixed to it a hull identification number affixed by the importer or the original manufacturer. The number shall comply with the format requirements of subpart C, 33 CFR part 181.


(c) *Products not in compliance with standards or regulations: Alternative evidence required as condition of entry and release.* Certain products shall be permitted entry and release without a compliance certification label or hull identification number affixed, as is required by subparts B and C, 33 CFR part 181, if they fall within one of the following categories, and if the conditions for entry and release specified for each category of product are met:


(1) *Products manufactured before standards or regulations in effect.* For certain products manufactured before an applicable standard or regulation was in effect, a declaration, or its electronic equivalent, will be filed in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section. The declaration, or its electronic equivalent, will state that the product was manufactured before the applicable standard or regulation was in effect. If the port director believes that it is necessary in a particular case, he may communicate with the nearest Coast Guard district commander by the most expedient means to request that the Coast Guard determine that alteration of the product is not required.


(2) *Products exempted from standards or regulations by Coast Guard Grant of Exemption.* For certain products specifically exempted from applicable standards or regulations by a Coast Guard Grant of Exemption, a declaration, or its electronic equivalent, will be filed in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. The declaration, or its electronic equivalent, will state that the product has been specifically exempted from applicable standards or regulations by a U.S. Coast Guard Grant of Exemption, issued under the authority of section 9 of the Federal Boat Safety Act of 1971 (46 U.S.C. 1458), and in effect on the date the product was manufactured. The declaration, or its electronic equivalent, will also state that the product complies with all the terms and conditions of the exemption. A copy of the exemption, or its electronic equivalent, certified by the importer or consignee to be a true copy, shall be attached to each declaration, or its electronic equivalent.


(3) *Products to be brought into conformity.* In the case of products that are not in conformity at the time of entry but will be brought into conformity, a declaration, or its electronic equivalent, will be filed in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. The declaration, or its electronic equivalent, will state that the product does not conform with applicable safety standards or regulations, but that the importer or consignee will bring the product into conformity with safety standards or regulations, and will also state that the product will not be sold or offered for sale, or used on waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and on the high seas beyond the territorial seas for a vessel owned in the United States except for the purpose of bringing it into conformity, until the bond has been satisfied with respect to this obligation. To secure entry under this provision, bond must be given in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section.


(4) *Certain products entering the United States for repair or alteration.* In the case of a nonresident of the United States who wishes to enter a product for the purpose of making repairs or alterations to it for a period not exceeding 1 year from the date of entry, a declaration, or its electronic equivalent, will be filed in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. The declaration, or its electronic equivalent, shall state that the importer or consignee is a nonresident of the United States, that the product is being brought in for the purpose of making repairs or alterations to it, that it will not remain in the Customs territory of the United States for more than 1 year following the date of the entry, and that it will not be offered for sale, sold, or used for pleasure in waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States during that time.


(5) *Products owned by certain foreign governments.* In the case of an importer or consignee employed in one of the capacities set forth in this subparagraph, a declaration, or its electronic equivalent, will be filed in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. The declaration, or its electronic equivalent, shall state that the importer or consignee is either a member of the armed forces of a foreign country on assignment in the U.S. or is a member of the personnel of a foreign government on assignment in the U.S. or other individual who comes within the class of persons for whom free entry of boats has been authorized by the Department of State in accordance with general principles of international law, and that he is importing the product for purposes other than resale.


(6) *Certain products entered for tests, experiments, exhibits, or races.* An importer or consignee seeking to enter a product for period not to exceed 1 year, for tests, experiments, exhibits, or races but not for sale in the United States, shall file a declaration, or its electronic equivalent, in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. The declaration, or its electronic equivalent, shall state that the importer or consignee is importing the product solely for the stated purpose and that it will not be sold or operated in the United States, unless the operation is an integral part of the stated use for which the product was imported. The importer or consignee shall attach to the declaration, or its electronic equivalent, a description of use for which the product is being imported, the time period estimated for completion, and disposition to be made of the product after completion. Entry under this paragraph may be authorized for a period not to exceed 1 year from the date of importation. However, this period may be extended at the discretion of the port director for one or more additional periods which, when added to the initial 1-year period, shall not exceed a total of 3 years.


(d) *Declaration requirements.* All declarations submitted must:


(1) Be filed at the time of entry, in duplicate on Form CG-5096, or its electronic equivalent.


(2) Be signed by the importer or consignee.


(3) State the name and U.S. address of the importer or consignee.


(4) State the entry number and date.


(5) Provide the make, model, and hull identification number, if affixed, or date of manufacture if hull identification number not affixed, of any boat, and a description of any equipment or component.


(6) Identify, if known, the city or state in which the product will be principally located.


(7) Be sent by the port director, to the Commandant (G-BBS-1/42), U.S. Coast Guard, Washington, D.C. 20593.


(e) *Release under bond*—(1) *When bond required.* A bond will be required of the importer or consignee on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter, in such amount as the port director deems appropriate, when a declaration is made that a product is to be brought into conformity. When the importer or consignee of a product declares that it will be brought into conformity before being sold or offered for sale, or before being used on waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and on the high seas beyond the territorial seas for a vessel owned in the United States and seeks entry of the product under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the entry shall be accepted only if bond is given for the production of a statement by either the importer or the consignee that the product described in the declaration is in conformity with applicable safety standards or regulations. The statement shall identify the person or firm who has brought the product into conformity with the standards or regulations and shall describe the nature and extent of the work performed.


(2) *Time limitation to produce statement for which bond is obligated.* Within 180 days after entry, the importer or consignee shall deliver to both the port director and the Commandant, U.S. Coast Guard, a copy of the statement for production of which the bond was obligated. If the statement is not delivered to the director of the port of entry of the product within 180 days after the date of entry, the importer or consignee shall deliver or cause to be delivered to the port director the product that was released in accordance with this paragraph.


(3) *Damages to be assessed against bond.* In the event that any product is not redelivered within 5 days following the date required by paragraph (e)(2) of this section, liquidated damages shall be assessed in the full amount of the bond if it is a single entry bond, or if a continuous bond is used, the amount that would have been taken under a single entry bond.


(f) *Products refused entry.* If a product is denied entry under the provisions of this section, the port director shall refuse to release the product for entry into the United States and shall issue a notice of the refusal to the importer or consignee.


(g) *Disposition of products refused entry into the United States; redelivered products.* Products which are denied entry under paragraph (b) of this section, or which are redelivered in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section, and which are not exported under Customs supervision within 90 days from the date of notice of refusal of admission or date of redelivery, shall be disposed of under Customs laws and regulations. However, no such disposition shall result in an introduction into the United States of a product in violation of the Federal Boat Safety Act of 1971 (46 U.S.C. 1451-1489).



---

[N] [T.D. 76-166, 41 FR 23398, June 10, 1976, as amended by T.D. 82-220, 47 FR 52138, Nov. 19, 1982; T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41168, Oct. 19, 1984; T.D. 86-203, 51 FR 42997, Nov. 28, 1986; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61285, Oct. 13, 2015]




