# § 721.11269   Fatty acid modified aromatic polyester polyol (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified generically as fatty acid modified aromatic polyester polyol (PMN P-17-306 and PMN P-17-307) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i) and (iii), (a)(3), (b), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For purposes of § 721.63(b), the concentration is set at 1.0%.


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (f), (g)(1), (g)(2)(i) and (v), and (g)(5). For purposes of § 721.72(e), the concentration is set at 1.0%. For purposes of § 721.72(g)(1), this substance may cause: Internal organ effects; ocular effects. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* It is a significant new use to use an application method that generates a vapor, mist, aerosol, or dust containing the substance resulting in inhalation exposures.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i), are applicable to manufacturers and processors of these substances.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [86 FR 46139, Aug. 18, 2021]




