# ยง 3142.21   Minimum production schedule.

(a) Upon receipt of the supplement to the plan of operations described in ยง 3142.10(b), the authorized officer will examine the information furnished by the lessee and determine if the estimate of the recoverable tar sand reserves is adequate and reasonable. In making this determination, the authorized officer may request, and the lessee must furnish, any information that is the basis of the lessee's estimate of the recoverable tar sand reserves. As part of the authorized officer's determination that the estimate of the recoverable tar sand reserves is adequate and reasonable, the authorized officer may consider, but is not limited to, the following: ore grade, strip ratio, vertical and horizontal continuity, extract process recoverability, and proven or unproven status of extraction technology, terrain, environmental mitigation factors, marketability of products and capital operations costs. The authorized officer will then establish as soon as possible, but prior to the beginning of the eleventh year, based upon the estimate of the recoverable tar sand reserves, a minimum annual tar sand production schedule for the lease or unit operations which will start in the eleventh year of the lease. This minimum production level will escalate in equal annual increments to a maximum of 1 percent of the estimated recoverable tar sand reserves in the twentieth year of the lease and remain at 1 percent each year thereafter.


(b) The minimum annual tar sand production schedule for the lease or unit operations will be set at a level for paying quantities. If the operator or lessee cannot establish production in paying quantities, the lease will terminate at the end of the lease's primary term.






