# ยง 1005.709   Providing information to Borrower and HUD.

(a) Servicers shall provide Section 184 Guaranteed Loan information to Borrowers and arrange for individual loan consultation on request. The Servicer must establish written procedures and controls to assure prompt responses to inquiries. At a minimum, the Servicer must provide contact information to the Borrower in accordance with applicable Tribal, Federal and/or State laws, including:


(1) A written address a Borrower can use to request and submit information; and


(2) A toll-free telephone number a Borrower can use to verbally ask questions and seek information.


(b) All Borrowers must be informed of the system available for obtaining answers to loan inquiries, the Servicer's office from which needed information may be obtained and reminded of the system at least annually.


(c) Within 30 days after the end of each calendar year, the Servicer shall furnish to the Borrower a statement of the interest paid, and of the taxes disbursed from the escrow account during the preceding year.


(d) At the Borrower's request, the Servicer shall furnish a statement of the escrow account sufficient to enable the Borrower to reconcile the account.


(e) Each Servicer shall deliver to the Borrower a written notice of any transfer of the Servicing of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan. The notice must be sent in accordance with applicable Tribal, Federal and/or State laws. Servicers must respond to Borrower inquiries pertaining to the transfer of Servicing in accordance applicable Tribal, Federal and/or State laws.


(f) Servicers must respond to HUD's written or electronic requests for information concerning individual accounts within three business days, or other timeframe established by Section 184 Program Guidance, or the deadline placed by other applicable law, whichever is sooner.






