# ยง 1217.81   Referenda.

(a) *Initial referendum.* The Order shall not become effective unless the Order is approved by a majority of domestic manufacturers and importers voting in the referendum who also represent a majority of the volume of softwood lumber represented in the referendum who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the domestic manufacturing or importation of softwood lumber. A single entity who domestically manufactures and imports softwood lumber may cast one vote in the referendum.


(b) *Subsequent referenda.* The Secretary shall conduct subsequent referenda:


(1) For the purpose of ascertaining whether manufacturers for the U.S. market favor the continuation, suspension, or termination of the Order;


(2) No later than seven years after the Order becomes effective and every seven years thereafter, to determine whether softwood lumber manufacturers for the U.S. market favor the continuation of the Order. The Order shall continue if it is favored by a majority of domestic manufacturers and importers voting in the referendum who also represent a majority of the volume of softwood lumber represented in the referendum who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the domestic manufacturing or importation of softwood lumber;


(3) At the request of the Board established in this Order;


(4) At the request of 10 percent or more of the number of persons eligible to vote in a referendum as set forth under the Order; or


(5) At any time as determined by the Secretary.



---

[N] [76 FR 22755, Apr. 22, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 59427, Aug. 30, 2016; 84 FR 50300, Sept. 25, 2019]




