# § 447.45   Timely claims payment.

(a) *Basis and purpose.* This section implements section 1902(a)(37) of the Act by specifying—


(1) State plan requirements for—


(i) Timely processing of claims for payment; 


(ii) Prepayment and postpayment claims reviews; and 


(2) Conditions under which the Administrator may grant waivers of the time requirements. 


(b) *Definitions. Claim* means (1) a bill for services, (2) a line item of service, or (3) all services for one beneficiary within a bill. 


*Clean claim* means one that can be processed without obtaining additional information from the provider of the service or from a third party. It includes a claim with errors originating in a State's claims system. It does not include a claim from a provider who is under investigation for fraud or abuse, or a claim under review for medical necessity. 


A *shared health facility* means any arrangement in which—


(1) Two or more health care practitioners practice their professions at a common physical location; 


(2) The practitioners share common waiting areas, examining rooms, treatment rooms, or other space, the services of supporting staff, or equipment; 


(3) The practitioners have a person (who may himself be a practitioner)—


(i) Who is in charge of, controls, manages, or supervises substantial aspects of the arrangement or operation for the delivery of health or medical services at the common physical location other than the direct furnishing of professional health care services by the practitioners to their patients; or 


(ii) Who makes available to the practitioners the services of supporting staff who are not employees of the practitioners; and 


(iii) Who is compensated in whole or in part, for the use of the common physical location or related support services, on a basis related to amounts charged or collected for the services rendered or ordered at the location or on any basis clearly unrelated to the value of the services provided by the person; and 


(4) At least one of the practitioners received payments on a fee-for-service basis under titles V, XVIII, and XIX in an amount exceeding $5,000 for any one month during the preceding 12 months or in an aggregate amount exceeding $40,000 during the preceding 12 months. 


*Third party* is defined in § 433.135 of this chapter. 


(c) *State plan requirements.* A State plan must (1) provide that the requirements of paragraphs (d), (e)(2), (f) and (g) of this section are met; and 


(2) Specify the definition of a claim, as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, to be used in meeting the requirements for timely claims payment. The definition may vary by type of service (e.g., physician service, hospital service). 


(d) *Timely processing of claims.* (1) The Medicaid agency must require providers to submit all claims no later than 12 months from the date of service. 


(2) The agency must pay 90 percent of all clean claims from practitioners, who are in individual or group practice or who practice in shared health facilities, within 30 days of the date of receipt. 


(3) The agency must pay 99 percent of all clean claims from practitioners, who are in individual or group practice or who practice in shared health facilities, within 90 days of the date of receipt. 


(4) The agency must pay all other claims within 12 months of the date of receipt, except in the following circumstances: 


(i) This time limitation does not apply to retroactive adjustments paid to providers who are reimbursed under a retrospective payment system, as defined in § 447.272 of this part. 


(ii) If a claim for payment under Medicare has been filed in a timely manner, the agency may pay a Medicaid claim relating to the same services within 6 months after the agency or the provider receives notice of the disposition of the Medicare claim. 


(iii) The time limitation does not apply to claims from providers under investigation for fraud or abuse. 


(iv) The agency may make payments at any time in accordance with a court order, to carry out hearing decisions or agency corrective actions taken to resolve a dispute, or to extend the benefits of a hearing decision, corrective action, or court order to others in the same situation as those directly affected by it. 


(5) The date of receipt is the date the agency receives the claim, as indicated by its date stamp on the claim. 


(6) The date of payment is the date of the check or other form of payment. 


(e) *Waivers.* (1) The Administrator may waive the requirements of paragraphs (d) (2) and (3) of this section upon request by an agency if he finds that the agency has shown good faith in trying to meet them. In deciding whether the agency has shown good faith, the Administrator will consider whether the agency has received an unusually high volume of claims which are not clean claims, and whether the agency is making diligent efforts to implement an automated claims processing and information retrieval system. 


(2) The agency's request for a waiver must contain a written plan of correction specifying all steps it will take to meet the requirements of this section. 


(3) The Administrator will review each case and if he approves a waiver, will specify its expiration date, based on the State's capability and efforts to meet the requirements of this section. 


(f) *Prepayment and postpayment claims review.* (1) For all claims, the agency must conduct prepayment claims review consisting of—


(i) Verification that the beneficiary was included in the eligibility file and that the provider was authorized to furnish the service at the time the service was furnished;


(ii) Checks that the number of visits and services delivered are logically consistent with the beneficiary's characteristics and circumstances, such as type of illness, age, sex, service location;


(iii) Verification that the claim does not duplicate or conflict with one reviewed previously or currently being reviewed;


(iv) Verification that a payment does not exceed any reimbursement rates or limits in the State plan; and


(v) Checks for third party liability within the requirements of § 433.137 of this chapter.


(2) The agency must conduct post-payment claims review that meets the requirements of parts 455 and 456 of this chapter, dealing with fraud and utilization control.


(g) *Reports.* The agency must provide any reports and documentation on compliance with this section that the Administrator may require.



---

[N] [44 FR 30344, May 25, 1979, as amended at 55 FR 1434, Jan. 16, 1990] 




