# ยง 147.1450   State-administered program.

The UIC program for all classes of underground injection wells in the State of Nevada, other than those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Nevada Division of Environmental Protection approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the _Federal Register_ on February 18, 1988; the effective date of this program is October 5, 1988. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application. 


(a) *Incorporation by reference.* The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Nevada. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained at the Nevada Department of Conservation and Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Protection, 201 South Fall Street, Carson City, Nevada 89710. 


Copies may be inspected at the Environmental Protection Agency, Region IX, 215 Fremont Street, San Francisco, California 99105, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(1) Nevada Revised Statutes [NRS], Volume 25, Chapters 445.131 through 445.354, Inclusive. 1987. 


(2) Nevada Revised Statutes [NRS], Volume 29, Chapters 534A.010 through 534A.090, Inclusive. 1987. 


(3) Nevada Revised Statutes [NRS], Volume 28, Chapters 522.010 through 522.190, Inclusive. 1987. 


(4) Nevada Administrative Code [NAC], Underground Injection Control Regulations, Sections 1 through 96.1, Inclusive. July 22, 1987, revised September 3, 1987 (amending NAC Chapter 445). 


(5) Nevada Administrative Code [NAC], Regulations and Rules of Practice and Procedure adopted Pursuant to NRS 534A, Sections 1 through 69, Inclusive. November 12, 1985 (amending NAC Chapter 534A). 


(6) Nevada Administrative Code [NAC], Regulations and Rules of Practice and Procedure adopted Pursuant to NRS 522.010 through 522.625, Inclusive. July 22, 1987 (amending NAC Chapter 522).


(b) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region 9 and the Nevada Department of Conservation and Natural Resources signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on April 6, 1988. 


(c) *Statement of Legal Authority.* Statement and Amendment to the Statement from the Attorney General of the State of Nevada, signed on July 22, 1987 and November 6, 1987 respectively, by the Deputy Attorney General. 


(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the original application or as supplements thereto.



---

[N] [53 FR 39089, Oct. 5, 1988]




