# ยง 60.691   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act or in subpart A of 40 CFR part 60, and the following terms shall have the specific meanings given them.


*Active service* means that a drain is receiving refinery wastewater from a process unit that will continuously maintain a water seal.


*Aggregate facility* means an individual drain system together with ancillary downstream sewer lines and oil-water separators, down to and including the secondary oil-water separator, as applicable.


*Catch basin* means an open basin which serves as a single collection point for stormwater runoff received directly from refinery surfaces and for refinery wastewater from process drains.


*Closed vent system* means a system that is not open to the atmosphere and that is composed of piping, connections, and, if necessary, flow-inducing devices that transport gas or vapor from an emission source to a control device. If gas or vapor from regulated equipment are routed to a process (e.g., to a petroleum refinery fuel gas system), the process shall not be considered a closed vent system and is not subject to the closed vent system standards. 


*Completely closed drain system* means an individual drain system that is not open to the atmosphere and is equipped and operated with a closed vent system and control device complying with the requirements of ยง 60.692-5.


*Control device* means an enclosed combustion device, vapor recovery system or flare.


*Fixed roof* means a cover that is mounted to a tank or chamber in a stationary manner and which does not move with fluctuations in wastewater levels.


*Floating roof* means a pontoon-type or double-deck type cover that rests on the liquid surface.


*Gas-tight* means operated with no detectable emissions.


*Individual drain system* means all process drains connected to the first common downstream junction box. The term includes all such drains and common junction box, together with their associated sewer lines and other junction boxes, down to the receiving oil-water separator.


*Junction box* means a manhole or access point to a wastewater sewer system line.


*No detectable emissions* means less than 500 ppm above background levels, as measured by a detection instrument in accordance with Method 21 in appendix A of 40 CFR part 60.


*Non-contact cooling water system* means a once-through drain, collection and treatment system designed and operated for collecting cooling water which does not come into contact with hydrocarbons or oily wastewater and which is not recirculated through a cooling tower.


*Oil-water separator* means wastewater treatment equipment used to separate oil from water consisting of a separation tank, which also includes the forebay and other separator basins, skimmers, weirs, grit chambers, and sludge hoppers. Slop oil facilities, including tanks, are included in this term along with storage vessels and auxiliary equipment located between individual drain systems and the oil-water separator. This term does not include storage vessels or auxiliary equipment which do not come in contact with or store oily wastewater.


*Oily wastewater* means wastewater generated during the refinery process which contains oil, emulsified oil, or other hydrocarbons. Oily wastewater originates from a variety of refinery processes including cooling water, condensed stripping steam, tank draw-off, and contact process water.


*Petroleum* means the crude oil removed from the earth and the oils derived from tar sands, shale, and coal.


*Petroleum refinery* means any facility engaged in producing gasoline, kerosene, distillate fuel oils, residual fuel oils, lubricants, or other products through the distillation of petroleum, or through the redistillation of petroleum, cracking, or reforming unfinished petroleum derivatives.


*Sewer line* means a lateral, trunk line, branch line, ditch, channel, or other conduit used to convey refinery wastewater to downstream components of a refinery wastewater treatment system. This term does not include buried, below-grade sewer lines. 


*Slop oil* means the floating oil and solids that accumulate on the surface of an oil-water separator. 


*Storage vessel* means any tank, reservoir, or container used for the storage of petroleum liquids, including oily wastewater. 


*Stormwater sewer system* means a drain and collection system designed and operated for the sole purpose of collecting stormwater and which is segregated from the process wastewater collection system. 


*Wastewater system* means any component, piece of equipment, or installation that receives, treats, or processes oily wastewater from petroleum refinery process units. 


*Water seal controls* means a seal pot, p-leg trap, or other type of trap filled with water that has a design capability to create a water barrier between the sewer and the atmosphere. 



---

[N] [53 FR 47623, Nov. 23, 1988, as amended at 60 FR 43259, Aug. 18, 1995]




