# § 716.5   Notification, duration and frequency of inspections.

(a) *Inspection notification*—(1)(i) *Content of notice.* Inspections of facilities may be made only upon issuance of written notice by the United States National Authority (USNA) to the owner and to the operator, occupant or agent in charge of the premises to be inspected. BIS will also provide a separate inspection notification to the inspection point of contact identified in declarations submitted by the facility. If the United States is unable to provide actual written notice to the owner and to the operator, occupant or agent in charge, BIS (or the Federal Bureau of Investigation, if BIS is unable) may post notice prominently at the facility to be inspected. The notice shall include all appropriate information provided by the OPCW to the USNA concerning:


(A) The type of inspection;


(B) The basis for the selection of the facility or location for the type of inspection sought;


(C) The time and date that the inspection will begin and the period covered by the inspection; and


(D) The names and titles of the Inspection Team members.


(ii) *Consent to inspection.* In addition to appropriate information provided by the OPCW in its notification to the USNA, BIS's inspection notification will request that the facility indicate whether it will consent to an inspection, and will state whether an advance team is available to assist the site in preparation for the inspection. If an advance team is available, facilities that request advance team assistance are not required to reimburse the U.S. Government for costs associated with these activities. If a facility does not agree to provide consent to an inspection within four hours of receipt of the inspection notification, BIS will seek an administrative warrant. The current owner of a facility, upon receiving notification of an inspection, is also responsible for informing BIS if the previous owner did not transfer (to the current owner) records for activities that took place under the previous ownership (see § 716.4(e) of the CWCR)—this will allow BIS to contact the previous owner of the facility, to arrange for access to such records, if BIS deems them relevant to the inspection activities.


(iii) The following table sets forth the notification procedures for inspection:


(2) *Timing of notice*—(i) *Schedule 1 facilities.* For declared Schedule 1 facilities, the Technical Secretariat will notify the USNA of an initial inspection not less than 72 hours prior to arrival of the Inspection Team in the United States, and will notify the USNA of a routine inspection not less than 24 hours prior to arrival of the Inspection Team in the United States. The USNA will provide written notice to the owner and to the operator, occupant or agent in charge of the premises within six hours of receiving notification from the OPCW Technical Secretariat or as soon as possible thereafter. BIS will provide Host Team notice to the inspection point of contact of the facility as soon as possible after the OPCW notifies the USNA of the inspection.


(ii) *Schedule 2 plant sites.* For declared Schedule 2 plant sites, the Technical Secretariat will notify the USNA of an initial or routine inspection not less than 48 hours prior to arrival of the Inspection Team at the plant site to be inspected. The USNA will provide written notice to the owner and to the operator, occupant or agent in charge of the premises within six hours of receiving notification from the OPCW Technical Secretariat or as soon as possible thereafter. BIS will provide Host Team notice to the inspection point of contact at the plant site as soon as possible after the OPCW notifies the USNA of the inspection.


(iii) *Schedule 3 and UDOC plant sites.* For declared Schedule 3 and UDOC plant sites, the Technical Secretariat will notify the USNA of a routine inspection not less than 120 hours prior to arrival of the Inspection Team at the plant site to be inspected. The USNA will provide written notice to the owner and to the operator, occupant or agent in charge of the premises within six hours of receiving notification from the OPCW Technical Secretariat or as soon as possible thereafter. BIS will provide Host Team notice to the inspection point of contact of the plant site as soon as possible after the OPCW notifies the USNA of the inspection.


(b) *Period of inspections*—(1) *Schedule 1 facilities.* For a declared Schedule 1 facility, the Convention does not specify a maximum duration for an initial inspection. The estimated period of routine inspections will be as stated in the facility agreement, unless extended by agreement between the Inspection Team and the Host Team Leader, and will be based on the risk to the object and purpose of the Convention posed by the quantities of chemicals produced, the characteristics of the facility and the nature of the activities carried out there. The Host Team Leader will consult with the inspected facility on any request for extension of an inspection prior to making an agreement with the Inspection Team. Activities involving the pre-inspection briefing and preliminary findings are in addition to inspection activities. See § 716.4(c) and (i) of the CWCR for a description of these activities.


(2) *Schedule 2 plant sites.* For declared Schedule 2 plant sites, the maximum duration of initial and routine inspections shall be 96 hours, unless extended by agreement between the Inspection Team and the Host Team Leader. The Host Team Leader will consult with the inspected plant site on any request for extension of an inspection prior to making an agreement with the Inspection Team. Activities involving the pre-inspection briefing and preliminary findings are in addition to inspection activities. See § 716.4(c) and (i) of the CWCR for a description of these activities.


(3) *Schedule 3 and UDOC plant sites.* For declared Schedule 3 or UDOC plant sites, the maximum duration of routine inspections shall be 24 hours, unless extended by agreement between the Inspection Team and the Host Team Leader. The Host Team Leader will consult with the inspected plant site on any request for extension of an inspection prior to making an agreement with the Inspection Team. Activities involving the pre-inspection briefing and preliminary findings are in addition to inspection activities. See § 716.4(c) and (i) of the CWCR for a description of these activities.


(c) *Frequency of inspections.* The frequency of inspections is as follows:


(1) *Schedule 1 facilities.* As provided by the Convention, the frequency of inspections at declared Schedule 1 facilities is determined by the OPCW based on the risk to the object and purpose of the Convention posed by the quantities of chemicals produced, the characteristics of the facility and the nature of the activities carried out at the facility. The frequency of inspections will be stated in the facility agreement.


(2) *Schedule 2 plant sites.* As provided by the Convention and the Act, the maximum number of inspections at declared Schedule 2 plant sites is two per calendar year per plant site. The OPCW will determine the frequency of routine inspections for each declared Schedule 2 plant site based on the Inspection Team's assessment of the risk to the object and purpose of the Convention posed by the relevant chemicals, the characteristics of the plant site, and the nature of the activities carried out there. The frequency of inspections will be stated in the facility agreement, if applicable.


(3) *Schedule 3 plant sites.* As provided by the Convention, no declared Schedule 3 plant site may receive more than two inspections per calendar year and the combined number of inspections of Schedule 3 and UDOC plant sites in the United States may not exceed 20 per calendar year.


(4) *UDOC plant sites.* As provided by the Convention, no declared UDOC plant site may receive more than two inspections per calendar year and the combined number of inspections of Schedule 3 and UDOC plant sites in the United States may not exceed 20 per calendar year.




