# ยง 721.10781   Fatty acid amide hydrochlorides (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified generically as fatty acid amide hydrochlorides (PMNs P-14-89, P-14-90, P-14-91 and P-14-92) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in ยง 721.80. The significant new use is any use other than as a surfactant in asphalt emulsions where the surface water concentrations described under the significant new uses in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section are exceeded.


(ii) [Reserved]


(3) The significant new uses for any use other than as a surfactant in asphalt emulsions:


(i) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified 721.90 (a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N=110 for PMNs P-14-89 and P-14-92; N=240 for PMN P-14-90; N=53 for PMN P-14-91).


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Specific Requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in ยง 721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of these substances.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of ยง 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [80 FR 75816, Dec. 4, 2015]




