# ยง 40.333   What records must employers keep?

(a) As an employer, you must keep the following records for the following periods of time: 


(1) You must keep the following records for five years: 


(i) Records of alcohol test results indicating an alcohol concentration of 0.02 or greater; 


(ii) Records of verified positive drug test results; 


(iii) Documentation of refusals to take required alcohol and/or drug tests (including substituted or adulterated drug test results); 


(iv) SAP reports; and 


(v) All follow-up tests and schedules for follow-up tests. 


(2) You must keep records for three years of information obtained from previous employers under ยง 40.25 concerning drug and alcohol test results of employees. 


(3) You must keep records of the inspection, maintenance, and calibration of EBTs, for two years. 


(4) You must keep records of negative and cancelled drug test results and alcohol test results with a concentration of less than 0.02 for one year. 


(b) You do not have to keep records related to a program requirement that does not apply to you (*e.g.,* a maritime employer who does not have a DOT-mandated random alcohol testing program need not maintain random alcohol testing records). 


(c) You must maintain the records in a location with controlled access. 


(d) A service agent may maintain these records for you. However, you must ensure that you can produce these records at your principal place of business in the time required by the DOT agency. For example, as a motor carrier, when an FMCSA inspector requests your records, you must ensure that you can provide them within two business days. 


(e) If you store records electronically, where permitted by this part, you must ensure that the records are easily accessible, legible, and formatted and stored in an organized manner. If electronic records do not meet these criteria, you must convert them to printed documentation in a rapid and readily auditable manner, at the request of DOT agency personnel.



---

[N] [65 FR 79526, Dec. 19, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 41955, Aug. 9, 2001]




