# ยง 291.619   Direct Sale of Single Family Loans process.

(a) *Sale Notice.* The Secretary will prescribe requirements for a Direct Sale of Single Family Loans through a Sale Notice.


(b) *Sale feasibility.* In all stages of the Direct Sale of Single Family Loans process, HUD may determine whether continuation with the Direct Sale of Single Family Loans is feasible and in HUD's interest, consistent with HUD's fiduciary responsibility to the MMIF and any stated mission objectives.


(c) *Direct Sale of Single Family Loans process.* An individual or entity interested in purchasing Single Family Loans through a Direct Sale of Single Family Loans must:


(1) Meet the Secretary's prescribed requirements for the Direct Sale of Single Family Loans in the Sale Notice;


(2) Submit a letter of interest to the Secretary that includes, at a minimum:


(i) The description of the individual or entity and a statement about how it would be able to satisfy the participant eligibility requirements and mission objectives, if any;


(ii) The geographic area of interest where the party wishes to purchase the loans;


(iii) The individual or entity's goals and how this purchase would assist in achieving these goals through post-sale outcomes;


(iv) The approximate timeframe for the purchase;


(v) The approximate number of loans or, alternatively, the approximate gross sale amount desired; and


(vi) The organizational documents for an entity including, but not limited to organizational documents, any required authorizing resolutions, and disclosure of all nonprofit organization or private entity partnership interests in the Direct Sale of Single Family Loans transaction.


(d) *HUD determination.* Upon receipt of a letter in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, HUD will respond in writing to the submitter to confirm receipt of the letter and, if necessary, request additional information needed for a final determination.


(e) *Secretary's determination to proceed.* (1) If the Secretary makes a final determination to proceed, the Secretary will request from the individual or entity, a business plan proposal from the individual or entity that details its ability to meet any stated mission objectives in the Sale Notice along with its goals and how these goals will be achieved with post-sale outcomes. Business plans must be received by HUD within 30 business days of request.


(2) Upon receipt and review of business plan proposal, HUD will:


(i) Reject the business plan proposal;


(ii) Issue a conditional rejection that would provide the opportunity for a business plan proposal to be amended and resubmitted for approval upon fulfillment of HUD's request; or


(iii) Approve the business plan proposal.


(3) Upon approval of such business plan proposal, HUD and the individual or entity will begin the Direct Sale of Single Family Loans process that includes:


(i) An executed Confidentiality Agreement;


(ii) An executed Bidder Qualification Statement;


(iii) A P-Servicer executed PSA; and


(iv) Review of Single Family Loans from P-Servicer(s) or HUD.


(4) HUD and the individual or entity reviews the ALD and will agree on the Single Family Loan Sale List for the Direct Sale of Single Family Loans.


(f) *Direct Sale of Single Family Loans.* After satisfaction of the requirements in paragraph (d) of this section, HUD will conduct its valuation review, and issue a final price determination and a CAA, containing an estimated settlement date, to the individual or entity. If accepted, a final Settlement date is scheduled, and the Single Family Loan List is appended to the CAA.


(g) *Settlement.* HUD and the Purchaser will execute the CAA for settlement. The remaining settlement and transfer requirements will follow those in ยง 291.613.






