# § 205.1   Grants and cooperative agreements.

(a) As used in this section, the term “award” has the definition in 2 CFR 700.1 and the term “Federal financial assistance” has the definition in Executive Order 13279 (signed by President Bush on December 12, 2002). As used in this section, the following terms have the definitions in 2 CFR 200.1: “pass-through entity,” “recipient,” “subaward,” and “subrecipient” as modified by 2 CFR 700.3 to apply to both nonprofit and for-profit entities.


(b) Faith-based organizations are eligible on the same basis as any other organization to receive any U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) award for which they are otherwise eligible. In the selection of recipients by USAID and subrecipients by pass-through entities, neither USAID nor pass-through entities shall discriminate for, or against, an organization on the basis of the organization's religious character, motives, or affiliation, or lack thereof, or on the basis of conduct that would not be considered grounds to favor or disfavor a similarly situated secular organization. Notices or announcements of award opportunities shall include language to indicate that faith-based organizations are eligible on the same basis as any other organization and subject to the protections and requirements of Federal law.


(c) Nothing in this part shall be construed to preclude USAID from making an accommodation, including for religious exercise, with respect to one or more award requirements on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the Constitution and laws of the United States.


(d) USAID shall not disqualify an organization from participating in any USAID award for which it is eligible on the basis of the organization's indication that it may request an accommodation with respect to one or more award requirements, unless the organization has made clear that the accommodation is necessary to its participation and USAID has determined that it would deny the accommodation.


(e) Organizations that receive direct Federal financial assistance from USAID under any USAID award or subaward may not engage in explicitly religious activities (including activities that involve overt religious content such as worship, religious instruction, or proselytization) as part of the programs or services directly funded with direct Federal financial assistance from USAID. If an organization conducts such activities, the activities must be offered separately, in time or location, from the programs or services funded with direct Federal financial assistance from USAID, and participation must be voluntary for beneficiaries of the programs or services funded with such assistance. Nothing in this part restricts USAID's authority under applicable Federal law to fund activities, such as the provision of chaplaincy services, that can be directly funded by the Government consistent with the Establishment Clause.


(f) A faith-based organization that applies for, or participates in, USAID-funded awards or subawards will retain its autonomy, religious character, and independence, and may continue to carry out its mission consistent with religious freedom protections in Federal law, including the definition, development, practice, and expression of its religious beliefs, provided that it does not use direct Federal financial assistance from USAID to support or engage in any explicitly religious activities (including activities that involve overt religious content such as worship, religious instruction, or proselytization), or in any other manner prohibited by law. Among other things, a faith-based organization that receives Federal financial assistance from USAID may use space in its facilities, without concealing, altering, or removing religious art, icons, scriptures, or other religious symbols. In addition, a faith-based organization that receives Federal financial assistance from USAID retains its authority over its internal governance, and it may retain religious terms in its organization's name, select its board members on a religious basis, and include religious references in its organization's mission statement and other governing documents.


(g) USAID must implement its awards in accordance with the Establishment Clause. Nothing in this part shall be construed as authorizing the use of USAID funds for activities that are not permitted by Establishment Clause jurisprudence or otherwise by law. USAID will consult with the U.S. Department of Justice if, in implementing a specific program involving overseas acquisition, rehabilitation, or construction of structures used for explicitly religious activities, there is any question about whether such funding is consistent with the Establishment Clause. USAID will describe any program implemented after such consultation on its website.


(h) An organization that receives a USAID-funded award or subaward shall not, in providing services or outreach activities related to such services, discriminate against a program beneficiary or potential program beneficiary on the basis of religion, a religious belief, a refusal to hold a religious belief, or a refusal to attend or participate in a religious practice.


(i) No grant document, contract, agreement, covenant, memorandum of understanding, policy, or regulation used by USAID shall require faith-based organizations to provide assurances or notices where the Agency does not require them of secular organizations. Any restrictions on the use of award or subaward funds shall apply equally to faith-based and secular organizations. All organizations that receive USAID awards and subawards, including faith-based organizations, must carry out eligible activities in accordance with all award requirements and other applicable requirements that govern the conduct of USAID-funded activities, including those that prohibit the use of direct Federal financial assistance from USAID to engage in explicitly religious activities. No grant document, contract, agreement, covenant, memorandum of understanding, policy, or regulation used by USAID shall disqualify faith-based organizations from receiving USAID awards on the basis of the organization's religious character, motives, or affiliation, or lack thereof.


(j) A religious organization does not forfeit its exemption from the Federal prohibition on employment discrimination on the basis of religion, set forth in section 702(a) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e-1, when the organization receives Federal financial assistance from USAID.


(k) If a USAID award requires an organization to be a “nonprofit organization” in order to be eligible for funding, the individual solicitation will specifically indicate the requirement for nonprofit status in the eligibility section of the solicitation. Potential applicants should consult with the appropriate USAID program office to determine the scope of any applicable requirements. In USAID awards in which an applicant must show that it is a nonprofit organization, other than programs which are limited to registered Private and Voluntary Organizations, the applicant may do so by any of the following means:


(1) Proof that the Internal Revenue Service currently recognizes the applicant as an organization to which contributions are tax deductible under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code;


(2) A statement from a state taxing body or the State secretary of state certifying that:


(i) The organization is a nonprofit organization operating within the State; and


(ii) No part of its net earnings may lawfully benefit any private shareholder or individual;


(3) A certified copy of the applicant's certificate of incorporation or similar document that clearly establishes the nonprofit status of the applicant; or


(4) Any item described in paragraphs (k)(1) through (3) of this section if that item applies to a State or national parent organization, together with a statement by the State or national parent organization that the applicant is a local nonprofit affiliate.


(l) Decisions about awards of USAID Federal financial assistance must be free from political interference, or even the appearance of such interference, and must be made on the basis of merit, not on the basis of religion or religious belief, or lack thereof.


(m) Nothing in this part shall be construed as authorizing the use of USAID funds for the acquisition, construction, or rehabilitation of religious structures inside the United States.


(n) The Secretary of State may waive the requirements of this section in whole or in part, on a case-by-case basis, where the Secretary determines that such waiver is necessary to further the national security or foreign policy interests of the United States.


(o) Nothing in this section shall be construed in such a way as to advantage, or disadvantage, faith-based organizations affiliated with historic or well-established religions or sects in comparison with other religions or sects.



---

[N] [89 FR 15709, Mar. 4 2024]








