# § 60.39b   Reporting and recordkeeping guidelines and compliance schedules.

(a) For approval, a State plan shall include the reporting and recordkeeping provisions listed in § 60.59b of subpart Eb of this part, as applicable, except for the siting requirements under § 60.59b(a), (b)(5), and (d)(11) of subpart Eb of this part. 


(b) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, not later than December 19, 1996, each State in which a designated facility is located shall submit to EPA a plan to implement and enforce all provisions of this subpart except the revised April 28, 2009 emission limits in § 60.33b(a), (c), and (d). Not later than April 28, 2007, each State in which a designated facility is located shall submit to EPA a plan to implement and enforce all provisions of this subpart, as amended on May 10, 2006. The submittal schedule specified in this paragraph is in accordance with section 129(b)(2) of the Clean Air Act and applies instead of the schedule provided in § 60.23(a)(1) of subpart B of this part.


(c) For approval, a State plan that is submitted prior to May 10, 2006 shall include the compliance schedules specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(5) of this section.


(1) A State plan shall allow designated facilities to comply with all requirements of a State plan (or close) within 1 year after approval of the State plan, except as provided by paragraph (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this section. 


(i) A State plan that allows designated facilities more than 1 year but less than 3 years following the date of issuance of a revised construction or operation permit, if a permit modification is required, or more than 1 year but less than 3 years following approval of the State plan, if a permit modification is not required, shall include measurable and enforceable incremental steps of progress toward compliance. Suggested measurable and enforceable activities are specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A) through (c)(1)(i)(J) of this section. 


(A) Date for obtaining services of an architectural and engineering firm regarding the air pollution control device(s); 


(B) Date for obtaining design drawings of the air pollution control device(s); 


(C) Date for submittal of permit modifications, if necessary; 


(D) Date for submittal of the final control plan to the Administrator. [§ 60.21 (h)(1) of subpart B of this part.]; 


(E) Date for ordering the air pollution control device(s); 


(F) Date for obtaining the major components of the air pollution control device(s); 


(G) Date for initiation of site preparation for installation of the air pollution control device(s); 


(H) Date for initiation of installation of the air pollution control device(s); 


(I) Date for initial startup of the air pollution control device(s); and 


(J) Date for initial performance test(s) of the air pollution control device(s). 


(ii) A State plan that allows designated facilities more than 1 year but up to 3 years after State plan approval to close shall require a closure agreement. The closure agreement must include the date of plant closure. 


(2) If the State plan requirements for a designated facility include a compliance schedule longer than 1 year after approval of the State plan in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (c)(1)(ii) of this section, the State plan submittal (for approval) shall include performance test results for dioxin/furan emissions for each designated facility that has a compliance schedule longer than 1 year following the approval of the State plan, and the performance test results shall have been conducted during or after 1990. The performance test shall be conducted according to the procedures in § 60.38b. 


(3) [Reserved]


(4) A State plan shall require compliance with the municipal waste combustor operator training and certification requirements under § 60.35b according to the schedule specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (c)(4)(iii) of this section. 


(i) [Reserved]


(ii) For designated facilities, the State plan shall require compliance with the municipal waste combustor operator training and certification requirements specified under § 60.54b (a) through (c) of subpart Eb of this part by the date 6 months after the date of startup or 12 months after State plan approval, whichever is later. 


(iii) For designated facilities, the State plan shall require compliance with the requirements specified in § 60.54b (d), (f), and (g) of subpart Eb of this part no later than 6 months after startup or 12 months after State plan approval, whichever is later. 


(A) The requirement specified in § 60.54b(d) of subpart Eb of this part does not apply to chief facility operators, shift supervisors, and control room operators who have obtained full certification from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers on or before the date of State plan approval. 


(B) The owner or operator of a designated facility may request that the Administrator waive the requirement specified in § 60.54b(d) of subpart Eb of this part for chief facility operators, shift supervisors, and control room operators who have obtained provisional certification from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers on or before the initial date of State plan approval. 


(C) The initial training requirements specified in § 60.54b(f)(1) of subpart Eb of this part shall be completed no later than the date specified in paragraph (c)(4)(iii)(C)(*1*), (c)(4)(iii)(C)(*2*), or (c)(4)(iii)(C)(*3*), of this section whichever is later. 


(*1*) The date 6 months after the date of startup of the affected facility; 


(*2*) Twelve months after State plan approval; or 


(*3*) The date prior to the day when the person assumes responsibilities affecting municipal waste combustor unit operation. 


(5) A State plan shall require all designated facilities for which construction, modification, or reconstruction is commenced after June 26, 1987 to comply with the emission limit for mercury specified in § 60.33b(a)(3) and the emission limit for dioxins/furans specified in § 60.33b(c)(1) within 1 year following issuance of a revised construction or operation permit, if a permit modification is required, or within 1 year following approval of the State plan, whichever is later. 


(d) In the event no plan for implementing the emission guidelines is approved by EPA, all designated facilities meeting the applicability requirements under § 60.32b shall be in compliance with all of the guidelines, except those specified under § 60.33b (a)(4), (b)(3), and (d)(3), no later than December 19, 2000. 


(e) Not later than August 25, 1998, each State in which a designated facility is operating shall submit to EPA a plan to implement and enforce all provisions of this subpart specified in § 60.33b(b)(3) and (d)(3) and the emission limit in paragraph (a)(4) that applies before April 28, 2009. 


(f) In the event no plan for implementing the emission guidelines is approved by EPA, all designated facilities meeting the applicability requirements under § 60.32b shall be in compliance with all of the guidelines, including those specified under § 60.33b (a)(4), (b)(3), and (d)(3), no later than August 26, 2002. 


(g) For approval, a revised State plan submitted not later than April 28, 2007 in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, shall include compliance schedules for meeting the revised April 28, 2009 emission limits in § 60.33b(a), (c), and (d) and the revised testing provisions in § 60.38b(b).


(1) Compliance with the revised April 28, 2009 emission limits is required as expeditiously as practicable, but no later than April 28, 2009, except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section.


(2) The owner or operator of an affected facility who is planning an extensive emission control system upgrade may petition the Administrator for a longer compliance schedule and must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Administrator the need for the additional time. If approved, the schedule may exceed the schedule in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, but cannot exceed May 10, 2011.


(h) In the event no plan for implementing the emission guidelines is approved by EPA, all designated facilities meeting the applicability requirements under § 60.32b shall be in compliance with all of the guidelines, including the revised April 28, 2009 emission limits in §§ 60.33b(a), (b), (c), (d), and 60.34b(a), and the revised testing provisions in § 60.38b(b), no later than May 10, 2011.



---

[N] [60 FR 65415, Dec. 19, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 45120, 45125, Aug. 25, 1997; 71 FR 27333, May 10, 2006]







