# § 721.10419   Tetrafluoroethylene chlorotrifluoroethylene copolymer (generic) (P-11-561).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as tetrafluoroethylene chlorotrifluoroethylene copolymer (PMN P-11-561) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance after it has been completely reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k) (manufacture, processing, distribution in commerce, and use of PMN P-11-561 substance only as a polymer in automotive fuel hoses; analysis and reporting and limitations of maximum impurity levels of certain fluorinated impurities).


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.



---

[N] [77 FR 24626, Apr. 25, 2012]




