# ยง 3570.252   Definitions and abbreviations.

The definitions and abbreviations in ยง 3570.53 apply to this subpart unless otherwise provided. In addition, these definitions and abbreviations are used in this subpart:


*Actual capacity.* The demonstrated ability of the Technical Assistance Provider to develop the capacity of Ultimate Recipients in the areas of developing applications for the Community Facilities program, improving the management capabilities of their community facilities, and providing training.


*Administrator.* The Administrator of the Rural Housing Service (RHS).


*Applicant.* Public bodies and private nonprofit corporations, (such as States, counties, cities, townships, and incorporated towns and villages, boroughs, authorities, districts, and Indian tribes on Federal and State reservations) that has applied for, or intends to apply for, a Technical Assistance and Training Grant under this subpart. The applicant must be either a Technical Assistance Provider or an Ultimate Recipient.


*Audit.* An examination of an organization's financial Statements by an independent Certified Public Accountant (CPA), for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the fairness with which the Statements present the financial position, results of operations, and changes in cash flows in conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and for determining whether the Applicant or Ultimate Recipient of Federal government funding has complied with the applicable laws, regulations, and contract for those events reflected in the financial Statements. All audits must meet the requirements of 2 CFR 200.500-200.518.


*Community ties.* The significant ties to the Rural Area that need to be demonstrated by a Nonprofit corporation who is an Ultimate Recipient, by either substantial public funding through taxes, revenue bonds or other local Government sources, and/or substantial voluntary community funding; and, a broadly-based ownership and control by members of the community. It can also be demonstrated by local membership and control characteristics.


*CONACT.* The Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926 *et seq*).


*Conflict of interest.* A situation in which a person or entity has competing personal, professional, or financial interests that make it difficult for the person or business to act impartially. Regarding use of both grant and matching funds, Federal procurement standards prohibit transactions that involve a real or apparent conflict of interest for owners, employees, officers, agents, or their immediate family members having a financial or other interest in the outcome of the Project; or that restrict open and free competition for unrestrained trade. Specifically, Project funds may not be used for services or goods going to, or coming from, a person or entity with a real or apparent Conflict of Interest, including, but not limited to, owner(s) and their immediate family members. An example of Conflict of Interest occurs when the Grantee's employees, board of directors, or the immediate family of either, have the appearance of a professional or personal financial interest in the Applicant receiving the benefits or services of the grant.


*Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).* A widely accepted set of rules, conventions, standards and procedures for reporting financial information, as established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board.


*Indian Tribe.* Any Indian Tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688) [43 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*], which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.


*Jurisdiction.* A unit of government or other entity with similar powers. Examples include, but are not limited to: City, county, district, special purpose district, township, town, borough, village, and State.


*Letter of Conditions.* A legal document presented to the Applicant selected for funding that outlines all conditions that must be agreed to and accepted before final grant approval.


*Low income.* A median household income (MHI) that does not exceed the State Non-Metropolitan Median Household Income (SNMHI) or the Poverty Line, whichever is higher.


*Multi-jurisdictional.* Concerning two or more Jurisdictions.


*Professional services.* Services provided by a person or entity having specialized knowledge and skills to plan, design, prepare procurement, construction, or other technical support documents, administer construction contracts, and/or other related services for a Project.


*Project.* The Technical Assistance that an Applicant is currently planning as described in the Project description in the application, to be financed in whole or in part with Agency assistance.


*Secretary.* The Secretary of Agriculture.


*Technical Assistance.* A function such as supervision, oversight, training, or professional consultation related to an Essential Community Facility that is performed for the benefit of an Ultimate Recipient or proposed Ultimate Recipient, which is a problem solving activity, as determined by the Agency.


*Technical Assistance Provider.* Grantee who will provide technical assistance to Ultimate Recipients.


*Ultimate Recipient.* Entity receiving assistance from the Grantee. If a Nonprofit corporation is either applying for funding as an Ultimate Recipient or is benefitting from the TAT Grant as the Ultimate Recipient, it must demonstrate Community Ties to the Rural Area. These ties may be demonstrated by:


(1) Obtaining substantial public funding through taxes revenue bonds, or other local Government sources, and/or substantial voluntary community funding, or


(2) Having a broadly-based ownership and control by members of the community, or


(3) Demonstrating all of the following characteristics:


(i) Members of the organization are primarily from the local rural community,


(ii) Membership is open to all adults in the local rural community,


(iii) Members of the organization have ultimate control of the proposed community facility; and


(iv) The organization receives the majority of its funding from its members or their volunteer efforts. Public bodies and Indian Tribes that are applying for funding as Ultimate Recipients or are the benefitting from TAT grant funds as the Ultimate Recipient are not required to further demonstrate Community ties to the local Rural Areas.



---

[N] [81 FR 1866, Jan. 14, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 34958, May 1, 2024]






