# 225.7001   Definitions.

As used in this subpart—


*Assembly* means an item forming a portion of a system or subsystem that—


(1) Can be provisioned and replaced as an entity; and


(2) Incorporates multiple, replaceable parts.


*Bearing components* means the bearing element, retainer, inner race, or outer race.






*Component* means any item supplied to the Government as part of an end item or of another component, except that for use in 225.7004-2(b)(6), the term means an article, material, or supply incorporated directly into an end product.




*Covered country* means—


(1) The Democratic People's Republic of North Korea;


(2) The People's Republic of China;


(3) The Russian Federation; and


(4) The Islamic Republic of Iran (10 U.S.C. 4872 and 4875).






*End item,* as used in sections 225.7003 and 225.7018, means the final production product when assembled or completed and ready for delivery under a line item of the contract (10 U.S.C. 4863(m)).


*End product* means supplies delivered under a line item of the contract.


*Hand or measuring tools* means those tools listed in Federal supply classifications 51 and 52, respectively.




*Large medium-speed diesel engines* means diesel engines whose revolutions per minute (RPM) fall between 300 and 1500 RPM with a displacement greater than 1500 cubic inches per cylinder.








*Structural component of a tent*—


(1) Means a component that contributes to the form and stability of the tent (*e.g.,* poles, frames, flooring, guy ropes, pegs); and


(2) Does not include equipment such as heating, cooling, or lighting.


*Subsystem* means a functional grouping of items that combine to perform a major function within an end item, such as electrical power, altitude control, and propulsion.



---

[N] [84 FR 72243, Dec. 31, 2019, as amended at 87 FR 76993, Dec. 16, 2022; 88 FR 6603, Jan. 31, 2023; 88 FR 46902, July 20, 2023; 89 FR 46813, May 30, 2024]




