# ยง 62.14104   Requirements for municipal waste combustor operating practices.

(a) The owner or operator of an affected facility must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from that affected facility any gases that contain carbon monoxide in excess of the emission limits listed in table 3 of this subpart. Table 3 provides emission limits for the carbon monoxide concentration level for each type of affected facility.


(b) The owner or operator of an affected facility must comply with the municipal waste combustor operating practice requirements listed in 40 CFR 60.53b(b) and (c) of subpart Eb. For calculating the steam (or feedwater) flow required under 40 CFR 60.58(i)(6)(i), proceed in accordance with ASME PTC 4.1-1964 (Reaffirmed 1991), Power Test Codes: Test Code for Steam Generating Units (with 1968 and 1969 Addenda). For design, construction, installation, calibration, and use of nozzles and orifices required in 40 CFR 60.58(i)(6)(ii), proceed in accordance with the recommendations in ASME Interim Supplement 19.5 on Instruments and Apparatus: Application, Part II of Fluid Meters, 6th Edition (1971). The Director of the Federal Register approves these incorporations by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Service Center, 22 Law Drive, Post Office Box 2900, Fairfield, NJ 07007. You may inspect a copy at the Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards Air Docket, EPA, Mutual Building, Room 540, 411 West Chapel Hill Street, Durham, NC 27701, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*


---

[N] [63 FR 63202, Nov. 12, 1998, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]




