# § 140.9   Other non-governmental entities and individuals.

(a) *Procedures.* Section 140.9 applies to private voluntary agencies, educational institutions, for-profit firms, other non-governmental entities and private individuals. A non-governmental entity that is not organized under the laws of the United States shall be subject to the review procedures and criteria set forth in § 140.6(a) and (b). A non-governmental entity that is organized under the laws of the United States shall not be subject to such review procedures and criteria. However, an agency providing assistance shall follow such review procedures and criteria, as modified by section § 140.14, if the agency has reasonable grounds to suspect that a proposed U.S. non-governmental entity or a key individual of such entity may be or may have been involved in drug trafficking or may have been convicted of a narcotics offense. Procedures set forth in § 140.6(c) concerning violations identified subsequent to obligation shall apply to both U.S. and foreign non-governmental entities.


(b) *Refunds.* A clause shall be included in grants, contracts, and other agreements with both U.S. and foreign non-governmental entities requiring that assistance provided to or through such an entity that is subsequently found to have been engaged in drug trafficking, as defined in this part, shall be subject to refund or recall.


(c) *Certifications.* Prior to approval of covered assistance, key individuals (as described in § 140.6(a)(3)) in both U.S. and foreign non-governmental entities shall be required to certify that, within the last ten years, they have not been convicted of a narcotics offense, have not been engaged in drug trafficking and have not knowingly assisted, abetted, conspired, or colluded with others in drug trafficking. False certification may subject the signatory to U.S. criminal prosecution under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1001.




