# § 600.308-12   Fuel economy label format requirements—plug-in hybrid electric vehicles.

Fuel economy labels for plug-in hybrid electric vehicles must meet the specifications described in § 600.302, with the exceptions and additional specifications described in this section. This section describes how to label vehicles equipped with gasoline engines. If the vehicle has a diesel engine, all the references to “gas” or “gasoline” in this section are understood to refer to “diesel” or “diesel fuel”, respectively.


(a) Include the following statement instead of the statement specified in § 600.302-12(b)(4): “Actual results will vary for many reasons, including driving conditions and how you drive and maintain your vehicle. The average new vehicle gets *a* MPG and costs $*b* to fuel over 5 years. Cost estimates are based on *c* miles per year at $*d* per gallon and $*e* per kW-hr. Vehicle emissions are a significant cause of global warming and smog.” For *a, b,**c, d,* and *e,* insert the appropriate values established by EPA. For qualifying vehicles, include the following additional sentence: “This is a dual fueled automobile.” See the definition of “dual fueled automobile in § 600.002.


(b) Include the following elements instead of the information identified in § 600.302-12(c)(1):


(1) The heading “Fuel Economy” near the top left corner of the field. Include the statement specified in § 600.312-12(c)(2) to the right of the heading.


(2) An outlined box below the heading with the following information:


(i) The sub-heading “Electricity” if the vehicle's engine starts only after the battery is fully discharged, or “Electricity + Gasoline” if the vehicle uses combined power from the battery and the engine before the battery is fully discharged.


(ii) The expression “Charge Time: *x* hours (240V)” below the sub-heading, where *x* is the time to charge the battery as specified in § 600.311. Change the specified voltage if appropriate as specified in § 600.311.


(iii) The combined fuel economy value for the charge-depleting mode of operation as determined in § 600.311 below the charge time. Include the expression “combined city/highway” below this number.


(iv) An electric plug logo to the left of the combined fuel economy value. For vehicles that use combined power from the battery and the engine before the battery is fully discharged, also include the fuel pump logo.


(v) The units identifier and consumption ratings to the right of the combined fuel economy value as follows:


(A) Include the term “MPGe” in the upper portion of the designated space.


(B) If the vehicle's engine starts only after the battery is fully discharged, identify the vehicle's electricity consumption rate as specified in § 600.311. Below the number, include the expression: “kW-hrs per 100 miles”.


(C) If the vehicle uses combined power from the battery and the engine before the battery is fully discharged, identify the vehicle's gasoline consumption rate as specified in § 600.311; to the right of this number, include the expression: “gallons per 100 miles”. Below the gasoline consumption rate, identify the vehicle's electricity consumption rate as specified in § 600.311; to the right of this number, include the expression: “kW-hrs per 100 miles”.


(3) A second outlined box to the right of the box described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section with the following information:


(i) The sub-heading “Gasoline Only”.


(ii) The combined fuel economy value for operation after the battery is fully discharged as determined in § 600.311 below the sub-heading. Include the expression “combined city/highway” below this number.


(iii) A fuel pump logo to the left of the combined fuel economy value.


(iv) The units identifier and consumption rating to the right of the combined fuel economy value as follows:


(A) Include the term “MPG” in the upper portion of the designated space.


(B) Identify the vehicle's gasoline consumption rate as specified in § 600.311.


Below this number, include the expression: “gallons per 100 miles”.


(4) Insert a horizontal range bar below the boxes specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and


(3) of this section that shows how far the vehicle can drive before the battery is fully discharged, and also how far the vehicle can drive before running out of fuel, as described in § 600.311. Scale the range bar such that the driving range at the point of fully discharging the battery is directly between the two boxes. Identify the driving range up to fully discharging the battery underneath that point on the range bar (e.g., “50 miles”). Use solid black for the gasoline-only portion of the range bar. Include the left-justified expression “Gasoline only” in the gasoline-only portion of the range bar. Similarly, in the electric portion of the range bar, include the left-justified expression “All electric range” if the vehicle's engine starts only after the battery is fully discharged, or “Electricity + Gasoline” if the vehicle uses combined power from the battery and the engine before the battery is fully discharged. Include a vehicle logo at the right end of the range bar. Extend an arrow from the battery portion of the range bar up to the right side of the box described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Similarly, extend an arrow from the gasoline-only portion of the range bar up to the left side of the box described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. Include numbers below the bar showing the scale, with at least three evenly spaced increments to cover operation before the battery is fully discharged. Include one more increment using that same scale into the gasoline-only portion of the range bar. Indicate a broken line toward the right end of the range bar, followed by the vehicle's total driving distance before running out of fuel, as described in § 600.311. Adjust the scale and length of the range bar if the specifications in this paragraph (a)(5) do not work for your vehicle. Include a left-justified heading above the range bar with the expression: “Driving Range”. For vehicles that use combined power from the battery and the engine before the battery is fully discharged, add the following statement below the range bar described in this paragraph (b)(4): “All electric range = x miles”; complete the expression by identifying the appropriate value for driving range starting from a full battery before the engine starts as described in § 600.311.


(c) Include the following statement instead of the one identified in § 600.302-12(c)(5): “This vehicle emits *x* grams CO_2_ per mile. The best emits 0 grams per mile (tailpipe only). Producing and distributing fuel and electricity also create emissions; learn more at fueleconomy.gov.” For *x,* insert the vehicle's composite CO_2_ emission rate as described in § 600.311.



---

[N] [76 FR 39562, July 6, 2011]




