# ยง 662.7   What definitions apply to this program?

(a) Definitions of the following terms as used in this part are contained in 2 CFR part 200, subpart A, or 34 CFR part 77:


(b) The definition of *institution of higher education* as used in this part is contained in 34 CFR 600.4.


(c) The following definitions of other terms used in this part apply to this program:


*Area studies* means a program of comprehensive study of the aspects of a society or societies, including the study of their geography, history, culture, economy, politics, international relations, and languages.


*Binational commission* means an educational and cultural commission established, through an agreement between the United States and either a foreign government or an international organization, to carry out functions in connection with the program covered by this part.


*Dependent* means any of the following individuals who accompany the recipient of a fellowship under this program to his or her training site for the entire fellowship period if the individual receives more than 50 percent of his or her support from the recipient during the fellowship period:


(1) The recipient's spouse.


(2) The recipient's or spouse's children who are unmarried and under age 21.


*J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board* means the presidentially-appointed board that is responsible for supervision of the program covered by this part.



---

[N] [63 FR 46361, Aug. 31, 1998, as amended at 79 FR 76104, Dec. 19, 2014]








