# ยง 550.257   What information on the support vessels, offshore vehicles, and aircraft you will use must accompany the DPP or DOCD?

The following information on the support vessels, offshore vehicles, and aircraft you will use must accompany your DPP or DOCD:


(a) *General.* A description of the crew boats, supply boats, anchor handling vessels, tug boats, barges, ice management vessels, other vessels, offshore vehicles, and aircraft you will use to support your development and production activities. The description of vessels and offshore vehicles must estimate the storage capacity of their fuel tanks and the frequency of their visits to the facilities you will use to conduct your proposed development and production activities.


(b) *Air emissions.* A table showing the source, composition, frequency, and duration of the air emissions likely to be generated by the support vessels, offshore vehicles, and aircraft you will use that will operate within 25 miles of the facilities you will use to conduct your proposed development and production activities.


(c) *Drilling fluids and chemical products transportation.* A description of the transportation method and quantities of drilling fluids and chemical products (see ยง 550.243(b) and (d)) you will transport from the onshore support facilities you will use to the facilities you will use to conduct your proposed development and production activities.


(d) *Solid and liquid wastes transportation.* A description of the transportation method and a brief description of the composition, quantities, and destination(s) of solid and liquid wastes (see ยง 550.248(a)) you will transport from the facilities you will use to conduct your proposed development and production activities.


(e) *Vicinity map.* A map showing the location of your proposed development and production activities relative to the shoreline. The map must depict the primary route(s) the support vessels and aircraft will use when traveling between the onshore support facilities you will use and the facilities you will use to conduct your proposed development and production activities.




