# § 512.582   Beneficiary protections.

(a) *Beneficiary freedom of choice.* (1) A TEAM participant, TEAM collaborators, collaboration agents, downstream collaboration agent and downstream participants must not restrict Medicare beneficiaries' ability to choose to receive care from any provider or supplier.


(2) The TEAM participant and its downstream participants must not commit any act or omission, nor adopt any policy that inhibits beneficiaries from exercising their freedom to choose to receive care from any provider or supplier or from any health care provider who has opted out of Medicare. The TEAM participant and its downstream participants may communicate to TEAM beneficiaries the benefits of receiving care with the TEAM participant, if otherwise consistent with the requirements of this part and applicable law.


(3) As part of discharge planning and referral, TEAM participants must provide a complete list of HHAs, SNFs, IRFs, or LTCHs that are participating in the Medicare program, and that serve the geographic area (as defined by the HHA) in which the patient resides, or in the case of a SNF, IRF, or LTCH, in the geographic area requested by the patient.


(i) This list must be presented to TEAM beneficiaries for whom home health care, SNF, IRF, or LTCH services are medically necessary.


(ii) TEAM participants must specify on the list those post-acute care providers on the list with whom they have a sharing arrangement.


(iii) TEAM participants may recommend preferred providers and suppliers, consistent with applicable statutes and regulations.


(iv) TEAM participants may not limit beneficiary choice to any list of providers or suppliers in any manner other than as permitted under applicable statutes and regulations.


(v) TEAM participants must take into account patient and family preferences for choice of provider and supplier when they are expressed.


(4) TEAM participants may not charge any TEAM collaborator a fee to be included on any list of preferred providers or suppliers, nor may the TEAM participant accept such payments.


(b) *Required beneficiary notification*—(1) *TEAM participant beneficiary notification*—(i) *Notification to beneficiaries.* Each TEAM participant must provide written notification to any TEAM beneficiary that meets the criteria in § 512.535 of his or her inclusion in the TEAM model.


(ii) *Timing of notification.* Prior to discharge from the anchor hospitalization, or prior to discharge from the anchor procedure, as applicable, the TEAM participant must provide the TEAM beneficiary with a beneficiary notification as described in paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section.


(iii) *List of beneficiaries who have received a notification.* The TEAM participant must be able to generate a list of all beneficiaries who have received such notification, including the date on which the notification was provided to the beneficiary, to CMS or its designee upon request.


(iv) *Content of notification.* The beneficiary notification must contain all of the following:


(A) A detailed explanation of TEAM and how it might be expected to affect the beneficiary's care.


(B) Notification that the beneficiary retains freedom of choice to choose providers and services.


(C) Explanation of how patients can access care records and claims data through an available patient portal, if applicable, and how they can share access to their Blue Button® electronic health information with caregivers.


(D) Explanation of the type of beneficiary-identifiable claims data the TEAM participant may receive.


(E) A statement that all existing Medicare beneficiary protections continue to be available to the TEAM beneficiary. These include the ability to report concerns of substandard care to Quality Improvement Organizations or the 1-800-MEDICARE helpline.


(F) A list of the providers, suppliers, and ACOs with whom the TEAM participant has a sharing arrangement. This requirement may be fulfilled by the TEAM participant including in the detailed notification a Web address where beneficiaries may access the list.


(2) *TEAM collaborator notice.* A TEAM participant must require every TEAM collaborator to provide written notice to applicable TEAM beneficiaries of TEAM, including information on the quality and payment incentives under TEAM, and the existence of its sharing arrangement with the TEAM participant.


(i) With the exception of ACOs, PGPs, NPPGPs, and TGPs, a TEAM participant must require every TEAM collaborator that furnishes an item or service to a TEAM beneficiary during an episode to provide written notice to the beneficiary of TEAM, including basic information on the quality and payment incentives under TEAM, and the existence of the TEAM collaborator's sharing arrangement.


(A) The notice must be provided no later than the time at which the beneficiary first receives an item or service from the TEAM collaborator during an episode. In circumstances where, due to the patient's condition, it is not feasible to provide notification at such time, the notification must be provided to the beneficiary or his or her representative as soon as is reasonably practicable.


(B) The TEAM collaborator must be able to provide a list of all beneficiaries who received such a notice, including the date on which the notice was provided to the beneficiary, to CMS upon request.


(ii) A TEAM participant must require every PGP, NPPGP, or TGP that is a TEAM collaborator where a member of the PGP, member of the NPPGP, or member of the TGP furnishes an item or service to a TEAM beneficiary during an episode to provide written notice to the beneficiary of TEAM, including basic information on the quality and payment incentives under TEAM, and the existence of the entity's sharing arrangement.


(A)(*1*) The notice must be provided no later than the time at which the beneficiary first receives an item or service from any member of the PGP, member of the NPPGP, or member of the TGP, and the required PGP, NPPGP, or TGP notice may be provided by that member respectively.


(*2*) In circumstances where, due to the patient's condition, it is not feasible to provide notice at such times, the notice must be provided to the beneficiary or his or her representative as soon as is reasonably practicable.


(B) The PGP, NPPGP, or TGP must be able to provide a list of all beneficiaries who received such a notice, including the date on which the notice was provided to the beneficiary, to CMS upon request.


(iii) A TEAM participant must require every ACO that is a TEAM collaborator where an ACO participant or ACO provider/supplier furnishes an item or service to a TEAM beneficiary during an episode to provide written notice to the beneficiary of TEAM, including basic information on the quality and payment incentives under TEAM, and the existence of the entity's sharing arrangement.


(A)(*1*) The notice must be provided no later than the time at which the beneficiary first receives an item or service from any ACO participant or ACO provider/supplier and the required ACO notice may be provided by that ACO participant or ACO provider/supplier respectively.


(*2*) In circumstances where, due to the patient's condition, it is not feasible to provide notice at such times, the notice must be provided to the beneficiary or his or her representative as soon as is reasonably practicable.


(B) The ACO must be able to provide a list of all beneficiaries who received such a notice, including the date on which the notice was provided to the beneficiary, to CMS upon request.


(3) *Discharge planning notice.* A TEAM participant must provide the beneficiary with a written notice of any potential financial liability associated with non-covered services recommended or presented as an option as part of discharge planning, no later than the time that the beneficiary discusses a particular post-acute care option or at the time the beneficiary is discharged from an anchor procedure or anchor hospitalization, whichever occurs earlier.


(i) If the TEAM participant knows or should have known that the beneficiary is considering or has decided to receive a non-covered post-acute care service or other non-covered associated service or supply, the TEAM participant must notify the beneficiary in writing that the service would not be covered by Medicare.


(ii) If the TEAM participant is discharging a beneficiary to a SNF after an inpatient hospital stay, and the beneficiary is being transferred to or is considering a SNF that would not qualify under the SNF 3-day waiver in § 512.580, the TEAM participant must notify the beneficiary in accordance with paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section that the beneficiary will be responsible for payment for the services furnished by the SNF during that stay, except those services that would be covered by Medicare Part B during a non-covered inpatient SNF stay.


(4) *Access to records and retention.* Lists of beneficiaries that receive notifications or notices must be retained, and access provided to CMS, or its designees, in accordance with § 512.586.


(c) *Availability of services.* (1) The TEAM participant and its downstream participants must continue to make medically necessary covered services available to beneficiaries to the extent required by applicable law. TEAM beneficiaries and their assignees retain their rights to appeal claims in accordance with part 405, subpart I of this chapter.


(2) The TEAM participant and its downstream participants must not take any action to select or avoid treating certain Medicare beneficiaries based on their income levels or based on factors that would render the beneficiary an “at-risk beneficiary” as defined at § 425.20 of this chapter.


(3) The TEAM participant and its downstream participants must not take any action to selectively target or engage beneficiaries who are relatively healthy or otherwise expected to improve the TEAM participant's or downstream participant's financial or quality performance.


(d) *Descriptive TEAM materials and activities.* (1) The TEAM participant and its downstream participants must not use or distribute descriptive TEAM materials and activities that are materially inaccurate or misleading.


(2) The TEAM participant and its downstream participants must include the following statement on all descriptive TEAM materials and activities: “The statements contained in this document are solely those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views or policies of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS). The authors assume responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the information contained in this document.”


(3) The TEAM participant and its downstream participants must retain copies of all written and electronic descriptive TEAM materials and activities and appropriate records for all other descriptive TEAM materials and activities in a manner consistent with § 512.135(c).


(4) CMS reserves the right to review, or have a designee review, descriptive TEAM materials and activities to determine whether or not the content is materially inaccurate or misleading. This review takes place at a time and in a manner specified by CMS once the descriptive TEAM materials and activities are in use by the TEAM participant.






