# § 63.39   Skill requirements.

(a) An applicant for a flight engineer certificate with a class rating must pass a practical test in the class of airplane for which a rating is sought. To pass the practical test for a flight engineer certificate, the applicant must satisfactorily demonstrate the objectives in the areas of operation specified in the Flight Engineer Practical Test Standards for Reciprocating Engine, Turbopropeller, and Turbojet Powered Aircraft (incorporated by reference, see paragraph (c) of this section). The test may only be given in an airplane specified in § 63.37(a).


(b) The applicant must—


(1) Show that the applicant can satisfactorily perform preflight inspection, servicing, starting, pretakeoff, and postlanding procedures;


(2) In flight, show that the applicant can satisfactorily perform the normal duties and procedures relating to the airplane, airplane engines, propellers (if appropriate), systems, and appliances; and


(3) In flight, in an airplane simulator, or in an approved flight engineer training device, show that the applicant can satisfactorily perform emergency duties and procedures and recognize and take appropriate action for malfunctions of the airplane, engines, propellers (if appropriate), systems and appliances.


(c) FAA-S-8081-21A, Flight Engineer Practical Test Standards for Reciprocating Engine, Turbopropeller, and Turbojet Powered Aircraft, November 2023, is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved material is available for inspection at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact FAA, Training and Certification Group, 202-267-1100, *ACSPTSinquiries@faa.gov, www.faa.gov/training_testing.* For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations* or email *fr.inspection@nara.gov.* The material may be obtained from FAA, 800 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20591, 866-835-5322, *www.faa.gov/training_testing.*


---

[N] [Docket No. FAA-2022-1463; Amdt. No.63-46, 89 FR 22519, Apr. 1, 2024]






