# § 1.1371-1   Distributions of money by an eligible terminated S corporation.

(a) *Scope and definitions*—(1) *Scope.* This section provides rules relating to qualified distributions and distributions to which section 301 of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) applies during each taxable year of the ETSC period, including the taxable year in which the ETSC period ends. If an ETSC does not make any qualified distributions during a taxable year, then no distribution by the ETSC is governed by section 1371(f) of the Code or this section. Paragraph (a)(2) of this section contains definitions that apply for purposes of this section. Paragraph (b) of this section contains rules regarding the characterization of a qualified distribution. Paragraph (c) of this section contains rules regarding the characterization of any excess qualified distribution and non-qualified distribution during each taxable year of the ETSC period, including the taxable year in which the ETSC period ends. Paragraph (d) of this section contains examples illustrating the rules of this section. Paragraph (e) of this section contains the applicability date of this section.


(2) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply for purposes of this section—


(i) *AAA.* The term *AAA* means the accumulated adjustments account, within the meaning of section 1368(e)(1)(A) of the Code and § 1.1368-2(a)(1).


(ii) *AAA ratio.* Except as provided in this paragraph or paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section, the term *AAA ratio* means the fraction of which the numerator is historical AAA and the denominator is the sum of historical AAA and historical AE&P. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if the AE&P of the ETSC is less than or equal to zero as of the beginning of a taxable year, then the AAA ratio is one for such year and for all subsequent taxable years of the ETSC period.


(iii) *AE&P.* The term *AE&P* means earnings and profits described in section 316(a)(1) of the Code.


(iv) *AE&P ratio.* Except as provided in this paragraph or paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section, the term *AE&P ratio* means the fraction of which the numerator is historical AE&P, and the denominator is the sum of historical AAA and historical AE&P. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if the AE&P of the ETSC is less than or equal to zero as of the beginning of a taxable year, then the AE&P ratio is zero for such year and all subsequent taxable years of the ETSC period.


(v) *CE&P.* The term *CE&P* means earnings and profits that are described in section 316(a)(2).


(vi) *ETSC.* The term *ETSC* means an eligible terminated S corporation, within the meaning of section 481(d) of the Code and § 1.481-5.


(vii) *ETSC period.* In general, the term *ETSC period* means any taxable year, or portion thereof, of an ETSC beginning on the first day after the post-termination period within the meaning of section 1377(b)(1)(A) of the Code and ending on the date on which the ETSC's AAA balance is zero. Additionally, an ETSC does not have an ETSC period if the ETSC's AAA balance is not greater than zero at the end of its post-termination transition period. See § 1.1371-2 for rules governing the impact of a post-termination period, within the meaning of section 1377(b)(1)(B), on the ETSC period.


(viii) *Excess qualified distribution.* The term *excess qualified distribution* means the portion of a qualified distribution that is not characterized pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section.


(ix) *Historical AAA.* The term *historical AAA* means the AAA of the ETSC as of the beginning of the day on which the revocation of an election under section 1362(a) of the Code is effective pursuant to section 1362(d)(1).


(x) *Historical AE&P.* The term *historical AE&P* means the AE&P of the ETSC as of the beginning of the day on which the revocation of an election under section 1362(a) is effective pursuant to section 1362(d)(1). For purposes of the preceding sentence, if the ETSC's historical AE&P is less than zero, then the historical AE&P is treated as zero.


(xi) *Non-qualified distribution.* The term *non-qualified distribution* means a distribution that is not a qualified distribution and to which section 301 applies.


(xii) *Qualified distribution.* The term *qualified distribution* means a distribution of money by an ETSC during the ETSC period to which, absent the application of section 1371(f) and this section, section 301 would apply. However, if paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section applies to the ETSC, then a qualified distribution to a non-legacy shareholder is treated as a non-qualified distribution.


(b) *Characterization of qualified distribution*—(1) *In general.* Paragraph (b)(2) of this section provides rules regarding the determination of the amount of a qualified distribution that is sourced from AAA and the corollary effects of such a characterization. Paragraph (b)(3) of this section provides rules regarding the determination of the amount of a qualified distribution that is sourced from AE&P and the corollary effects of such a characterization. Paragraph (b)(4) of this section provides rules regarding the characterization of an excess qualified distribution as a separate qualified distribution. The rules in paragraphs (b)(2) through (4) of this section are applied before the application of paragraph (c) of this section.


(2) *Distribution of AAA*—(i) *Amount.* The portion of a qualified distribution that is sourced from an ETSC's AAA is equal to the lesser of:


(A) The product of the qualified distribution and the AAA ratio; and


(B) The ETSC's AAA immediately before the qualified distribution.


(ii) *Reduction or elimination of ETSC's AAA.* The ETSC's AAA is reduced by the amount of the distribution described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section. If, with respect to a qualified distribution, the amount described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section equals or exceeds the amount described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section, then the rules in this paragraph (b) do not apply to any subsequent distributions by the ETSC. Instead, the subsequent distributions are treated in the manner provided in paragraph (c) of this section.


(iii) *Effect on the shareholder.* The amount described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section is applied against and reduces the shareholder's adjusted basis of the shares of stock with respect to which the distribution is made under the principles of section 301(c)(2). If the application of the amount described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section would result in a reduction of basis that exceeds the shareholder's adjusted basis of any share of stock with respect to which the distribution is made, such excess is treated as gain from the sale or exchange of property. The reduction of the shareholder's basis described in this paragraph with respect to a qualified distribution occurs prior to the application of paragraph (c) of this section to the excess qualified distribution, if any, with respect to such qualified distribution.


(3) *Distribution of AE&P*—(i) *Amount.* This paragraph (b)(3) applies if an ETSC's AE&P ratio is greater than zero. If this paragraph (b)(3) applies, the portion of a qualified distribution that is sourced from the ETSC's AE&P is equal to the lesser of:


(A) The product of the qualified distribution and the AE&P ratio; and


(B) The ETSC's AE&P immediately before the qualified distribution. For purposes of the preceding sentence, if the ETSC's AE&P immediately before the qualified distribution is less than zero, then the ETSC's AE&P is treated as zero.


(ii) *Effect on ETSC's AE&P.* The ETSC's AE&P is reduced, as described in section 312(a)(1), by the amount of the distribution described in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section. The AE&P reduction described in this paragraph occurs prior to the application of paragraph (c) of this section, even if a distribution to which paragraph (c) of this section applies (regarding excess qualified distributions and non-qualified distributions) occurs earlier in time than the qualified distribution to which this paragraph applies.


(iii) *Effect on the shareholder.* The amount of the qualified distribution that is sourced from the ETSC's AE&P described in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section is included in the gross income of the shareholder as a dividend under section 301(c)(1).


(iv) *Adjustment to the AAA ratio and the AE&P ratio.* After the application of paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, if the ETSC's AE&P is zero and the ETSC's AAA is greater than zero, then the ETSC's AAA ratio is one and the ETSC's AE&P ratio is zero for all subsequent qualified distributions during:


(A) That taxable year; and


(B) All subsequent taxable years of the ETSC period.


(4) *Excess qualified distribution treated as a separate qualified distribution*—(i) *In general.* After the application of paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section with respect to a qualified distribution, if the ETSC has any remaining AAA, then any amount of excess qualified distribution, with respect to such qualified distribution, is treated as a separate qualified distribution and is analyzed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.


(ii) *No change in characterization of previously characterized portion of qualified distribution.* Paragraph (b)(4)(i) will not change the characterization of any portion of a qualified distribution that was previously characterized pursuant to paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section and will reflect the application of paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section to the portion of the qualified distribution previously characterized.


(c) *Characterization of excess qualified distribution and non-qualified distributions.* After the application of paragraph (b), the excess qualified distributions, if any, and non-qualified distributions, if any, are treated in the manner provided in sections 301(c) and 316.


(d) *Examples.* Paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section (*Examples 1* through *5*) illustrate the rules of this section. For purposes of paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section (*Examples 1* through *5*), X is a calendar year S corporation with a single share of stock outstanding. A, an individual, purchased its share of X stock prior to December 22, 2017, and, except as otherwise indicated, never contributed any amounts to X's capital. A remained the sole shareholder of X when X made a valid revocation on March 15, 2018, pursuant to section 1362(d)(1) and §§ 1.1362-2 and 1.1362-6, of its S election and when that revocation became effective on January 1, 2018. X qualified as an ETSC pursuant to § 1.481-5(b) and its ETSC period began on January 1, 2019. Additionally, X did not make any distributions during its post-termination transition period, within the meaning of section 1377(b)(1)(A). Furthermore, A remains the sole shareholder of X at the time of the distribution(s) described.


(1) *Example 1: Historical AE&P is zero*—(i) *Facts.* At the beginning of January 1, 2018, X had AAA of $100 and AE&P of $0. During 2018, X had $300 of CE&P and made no distributions. At the beginning of January 1, 2019, X has AAA of $100 and AE&P of $300, and A's adjusted basis in its share of X stock is $460. During 2019, the only distribution that X makes is a $60 distribution of money to A on December 27. X's CE&P during 2019 is $150, without diminution by reason of any distributions made during the taxable year.


(ii) *Analysis*—(A) *Calculation of AAA ratio and AE&P ratio.* Pursuant to paragraphs (a)(2)(ix) and (x) of this section, respectively, X's historical AAA and X's historical AE&P are determined as of the beginning of January 1, 2018, the beginning of the day on which the revocation of X's election under section 1362(a) is effective pursuant to section 1362(d)(1). Accordingly, X's historical AAA is $100 and X's historical AE&P is $0. Therefore, X's AAA ratio is 1 ($100/($100 + $0)), and X's AE&P ratio is zero ($0/($100 + $0)).


(B) *Characterization of distribution.* Pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(xii) of this section, the $60 distribution on December 27, 2019, is a qualified distribution because it is a distribution of money by an ETSC during the ETSC period to which section 301 would apply absent the application of section 1371(f) and this section.


(C) *Analysis of qualified distribution*—(*1*) *Distribution of AAA.* Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the portion of the qualified distribution that is sourced from AAA is equal to the lesser of: The product of the qualified distribution and the AAA ratio ($60 × 1, or $60), and X's AAA immediately before the qualified distribution ($100). Therefore, $60 is sourced from AAA. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, after the distribution, X's AAA is reduced by $60 to $40. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, A's basis in its X stock is reduced by $60 to $400.


(*2*) *Distribution of AE&P.* Pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, the portion of the distribution that is sourced from AE&P is equal to the lesser of: The product of the qualified distribution and the AE&P ratio ($60 × 0, or $0), and X's AE&P immediately before the qualified distribution ($300). Therefore, $0 is sourced from AE&P.


(2) *Example 2: Qualified distributions with both historical AAA and historical AE&P*—(i) *Facts.* At the beginning of January 1, 2018, X had AAA of $200 and AE&P of $100. During 2018, X had $0 of CE&P and made no distributions. At the beginning of January 1, 2019, X has AAA of $200 and AE&P of $100, and A's adjusted basis in its share of X stock is $500. During 2019, X makes a $90 distribution of money on February 9 and a $150 distribution of money on June 5. X's CE&P during 2019 is $500, without diminution by reason of any distributions made during the taxable year.


(ii) *Analysis*—(A) *Calculation of AAA ratio and AE&P ratio.* Pursuant to paragraphs (a)(2)(ix) and (x) of this section, respectively, X's historical AAA and X's historical AE&P are determined as of the beginning of January 1, 2018, the beginning of the day on which the revocation of X's election under section 1362(a) is effective pursuant to section 1362(d)(1). Accordingly, X's historical AAA is $200 and X's historical AE&P is $100. Therefore, X's AAA ratio is 0.67 ($200/($200 + $100)), and X's AE&P ratio is 0.33 ($100/($200 + $100)).


(B) *Characterization of distributions.* Pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(xii) of this section, the $90 distribution on February 9, 2019, and the $150 distribution on June 5, 2019, are both qualified distributions because they are distributions of money by an ETSC during the ETSC period to which section 301 would apply absent the application of section 1371(f) and this section.


(C) *Analysis of qualified distributions*—(*1*) *February 9, 2019 distribution*—(*i*) *Distribution of AAA.* Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the portion of the qualified distribution that is sourced from AAA is equal to the lesser of: The product of the qualified distribution and the AAA ratio ($90 × 0.67, or $60), and X's AAA immediately before the qualified distribution ($200). Therefore, $60 is sourced from AAA. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, after the distribution, X's AAA is reduced by $60 to $140. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, A's basis in its X stock is reduced by $60 to $440.


(*ii*) *Distribution of AE&P.* Pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, the portion of the distribution that is sourced from AE&P is equal to the lesser of: the product of the qualified distribution and the AE&P ratio ($90 × 0.33, or $30), and X's AE&P immediately before the qualified distribution ($100). Therefore, $30 is sourced from AE&P. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, after the distribution, X's AE&P is reduced by $30 to $70. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, the $30 distribution is characterized as a dividend.


(*2*) *June 5, 2019 distribution*—(*i*) *Distribution of AAA.* Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the portion of the qualified distribution that is sourced from AAA is equal to the lesser of: The product of the qualified distribution and the AAA ratio ($150 × 0.67, or $100), and X's AAA immediately before the qualified distribution ($140). Therefore, $100 is sourced from AAA. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, after the distribution, X's AAA is reduced by $100 to $40. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, A's basis in its X stock is reduced by $100 to $340.


(*ii*) *Distribution of AE&P.* Pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, the portion of the distribution that is sourced from AE&P is equal to the lesser of: The product of the qualified distribution and the AE&P ratio ($150 × 0.33, or $50), and X's AE&P immediately before the qualified distribution ($70). Therefore, $50 is sourced from AE&P. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, after the distribution, X's AE&P is reduced by $50 to $20. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, the $50 distribution is characterized as a dividend.


(3) *Example 3: Limitation on amount characterized as AAA*—(i) *Facts.* At the beginning of January 1, 2018, X had AAA of $100 and AE&P of $300. During 2018, X had $280 of CE&P and made no distributions. At the beginning of January 1, 2019, X has AAA of $100 and AE&P of $580, and A's adjusted basis in its share of X stock is $450. During 2019, the only distribution that X makes is a $500 distribution of money to A on October 5. X's CE&P during 2019 is $150, without diminution by reason of any distributions made during the taxable year.


(ii) *Analysis*—(A) *Calculation of AAA ratio and AE&P ratio.* Pursuant to paragraphs (a)(2)(ix) and (x) of this section, respectively, X's historical AAA and X's historical AE&P are determined as of the beginning of January 1, 2018, the beginning of the day on which the revocation of X's election under section 1362(a) is effective pursuant to section 1362(d)(1). Accordingly, X's historical AAA is $100 and X's historical AE&P is $300. Therefore, X's AAA ratio is 0.25 ($100/($100 + $300)), and X's AE&P ratio is 0.75 ($300/($100 + $300)).


(B) *Characterization of distribution.* Pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(xii) of this section, the $500 distribution on October 5, 2019, is a qualified distribution because it is a distribution of money by an ETSC during the ETSC period to which section 301 would apply absent the application of section 1371(f) and this section.


(C) *Analysis of qualified distribution*—(*1*) *Distribution of AAA.* Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the portion of the qualified distribution that is sourced from AAA is equal to the lesser of: The product of the qualified distribution and the AAA ratio ($500 × 0.25, or $125), and X's AAA immediately before the qualified distribution ($100). Therefore, $100 is sourced from AAA. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, after the distribution, X's AAA is reduced by $100 to $0. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, A's basis in its X stock is reduced by $100 to $350.


(*2*) *Distribution of AE&P.* Pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, the portion of the distribution that is sourced from AE&P is equal to the lesser of: the product of the qualified distribution and the AE&P ratio ($500 × 0.75, or $375), and X's AE&P immediately before the qualified distribution ($580). Therefore, $375 is sourced from AE&P. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, after the distribution, X's AE&P is reduced by $375 to $205. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, the $375 distribution is characterized as a dividend.


(D) *Effect of qualified distribution on ETSC period.* Pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(vii) of this section, X's ETSC period ends because X's AAA balance is zero following the October 5, 2019 distribution.


(E) *Analysis of excess qualified distribution*—(*1*) *Amount of excess qualified distribution.* Pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(viii) of this section, the amount of the excess qualified distribution is $25, the portion of the qualified distribution ($500) not characterized pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section ($100 AAA distribution + $375 AE&P distribution).


(*2*) *Characterization of excess qualified distribution.* Paragraph (b)(4) of this section does not apply to the excess qualified distribution because X's AAA balance is zero after the application of paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section (see paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(C)(*1*) of this section). Pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, section 301(c) applies to the excess qualified distribution. Pursuant to sections 301(c)(1) and 316, the $25 excess qualified distribution is sourced from CE&P.


(iii) *Subsequent contribution.* The facts are the same as paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, except that at the time of the October 5, 2019 distribution, A's adjusted basis in its X stock is $90. Further, on December 27, 2019, A contributes $100 to X in a transaction described in section 351(a). The analysis in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section remains the same, except that, unlike the second to last sentence of paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(C)(*1*) of this section, A's basis in its X stock is reduced by $90 to $0 and pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, $10 is treated as gain from the sale or exchange of property. Additionally, as a result of the December 27, 2019 contribution of $100, A's basis in its X stock is increased by $100, so that at the end of 2019, A's basis in its X stock is $100.


(4) *Example 4: Limitation on the amount characterized as AE&P*—(i) *Facts.* At the beginning of January 1, 2018, X had AAA of $100 and AE&P of $100. During 2018, X had CE&P of $(75) and made no distributions. At the beginning of January 1, 2019, X has AAA of $100 and AE&P of $25, and A's adjusted basis in its share of X stock is $500. During 2019, the only distributions that X makes are a $100 distribution of money to A on July 9 and a $40 distribution of money to A on September 27. X's CE&P during 2019 is $20, without diminution by reason of any distributions made during the taxable year.


(ii) *Analysis*—(A) *Calculation of AAA ratio and AE&P ratio.* Pursuant to paragraphs (a)(2)(ix) and (x) of this section, respectively, X's historical AAA and X's historical AE&P are determined as of the beginning of January 1, 2018, the beginning of the day on which the revocation of X's election under section 1362(a) is effective pursuant to section 1362(d)(1). Accordingly, X's historical AAA is $100 and X's historical AE&P is $100. Therefore, X's AAA ratio is 0.5 ($100/($100 + $100)), and X's AE&P ratio is 0.5 ($100/($100 + $100)).


(B) *Analysis of July 9, 2019 distribution*—(*1*) *Characterization of distribution.* Pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(xii) of this section, the $100 distribution on July 9, 2019, is a qualified distribution because it is a distribution of money by an ETSC during the ETSC period to which section 301 would apply absent the application of section 1371(f) and this section.


(*2*) *Analysis of qualified distribution*—(*i*) *Distribution of AAA.* Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the portion of the distribution that is sourced from AAA is equal to the lesser of: The product of the qualified distribution and the AAA ratio ($100 × 0.5, or $50), and X's AAA immediately before the qualified distribution ($100). Therefore, $50 is sourced from AAA. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, after the distribution, X's AAA is reduced by $50 to $50. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, A's basis in its X stock is reduced by $50 to $450.


(*ii*) *Distribution of AE&P.* Pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, the portion of the distribution that is sourced from AE&P is equal to the lesser of: The product of the qualified distribution and the AE&P ratio ($100 × 0.5, or $50), and X's AE&P immediately before the qualified distribution ($25). Therefore, $25 is sourced from AE&P. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, after the distribution, X's AE&P is reduced by $25 to $0. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, $25 of the distribution is characterized as a dividend.


(*3*) *Recalculation of AAA and AE&P ratios.* Pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section, because the July 9, 2019 distribution caused X's AE&P to be reduced to zero, the AAA ratio is one and the AE&P ratio is zero for all subsequent qualified distributions during the 2019 taxable year and subsequent taxable years of the ETSC period.


(*4*) *Excess qualified distribution*—(*i*) *Amount of excess qualified distribution.* Pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(viii) of this section, the amount of the excess qualified distribution is $25, the amount of the qualified distribution ($100) not characterized pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section ($50 AAA distribution + $25 AE&P distribution).


(*ii*) *Characterization of excess qualified distribution as a separate qualified distribution.* Pursuant to paragraph (b)(4) of this section, because X has AAA remaining after characterizing the qualified distribution (*see* paragraph (d)(4)(ii)(B)(*2*)(*i*) of this section), the $25 excess qualified distribution is treated as a separate qualified distribution and is analyzed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.


(iii) *Analysis of excess qualified distribution that is treated as a separate qualified distribution.* Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the portion of the distribution that is sourced from AAA is equal to the lesser of: The product of the excess qualified distribution and the AAA ratio ($25 × 1, or $25), and X's AAA immediately before the excess qualified distribution ($50). Therefore, $25 is sourced from AAA. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, after the distribution, X's AAA is reduced by $25 to $25. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, A's basis in its X stock is reduced by $25 to $425. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, because X's AE&P ratio is zero, paragraph (b)(3) of this section does not apply.


(C) *Analysis of September 27, 2019 distribution*—(*1*) *Characterization of the distribution.* Pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(xii) of this section, the $40 distribution on September 27, 2019, is a qualified distribution because it is a distribution of money by an ETSC during the ETSC period to which section 301 would apply absent the application of section 1371(f) and this section.


(*2*) *Analysis of qualified distribution*—(*i*) *Distribution of AAA.* Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the portion of the distribution that is sourced from AAA is equal to the lesser of: The product of the qualified distribution and the AAA ratio ($40 × 1, or $40), and X's AAA immediately before the qualified distribution ($25) (*see* paragraph (d)(4)(ii)(B)(*4*)(*iii*) of this section). Therefore, $25 is sourced from AAA. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, after the distribution, X's AAA is reduced by $25 to $0. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, A's basis in its X stock is reduced by $25 to $400.


(*ii*) *Distribution of AE&P.* Pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, because X's AE&P ratio is zero, paragraph (b)(3) of this section does not apply.


(*3*) *Excess qualified distribution*—(*i*) *Amount of excess qualified distribution.* Pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(viii) of this section, the amount of the excess qualified distribution is $15, the portion of the qualified distribution ($40) not characterized pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section ($25 AAA distribution + $0 AE&P distribution).


(*ii*) *Excess qualified distribution not characterized as a separate qualified distribution.* Pursuant to paragraph (b)(4) of this section, because X has AAA of $0 after characterizing the qualified distribution (*see* paragraph (d)(4)(ii)(C)(*2*)(*i*) of this section), the $15 excess qualified distribution is not treated as a separate qualified distribution.


(iii) *Analysis of excess qualified distribution that is not treated as a separate qualified distribution.* Pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, section 301(c) applies to the excess qualified distribution. Pursuant to sections 301(c)(1) and 316, the $15 excess qualified distribution is sourced from CE&P.


(5) *Example 5: Distributions include non-qualified distributions*—(i) *Facts.* At the beginning of January 1, 2018, X had AAA of $100 and AE&P of $100. During 2018, X had $0 of CE&P and made no distributions. At the beginning of January 1, 2019, X has AAA of $100 and AE&P of $100, and A's adjusted basis in its X stock is $200. During 2019, X makes a $100 distribution of money on June 14; a $300 distribution of property on November 9; and a $200 distribution of money on December 18. X's CE&P during 2019 is $160, without diminution by reason of any distributions made during the taxable year.


(ii) *Analysis*—(A) *Calculation of AAA ratio and AE&P ratio.* Pursuant to paragraphs (a)(2)(ix) and (x) of this section, respectively, X's historical AAA is $100 and X's historical AE&P is $100. Therefore, X's AAA ratio is 0.5 ($100/($100 + $100)), and X's AE&P ratio is 0.5 ($100/($100 + $100)).


(B) *Characterization of distributions.* Pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(xii) of this section, the $100 distribution on June 14, 2019, and the $200 distribution on December 18, 2019, are both qualified distributions because they are distributions of money by an ETSC during the ETSC period to which section 301 would apply absent the application of section 1371(f) and this section. Pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(xi) of this section, the $300 distribution of property on November 9, 2019, is a non-qualified distribution. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the rules of paragraph (b)(2) through (b)(4) of this section apply to the qualified distributions before the rules of paragraph (c) of this section apply to the non-qualified distribution and any excess qualified distributions.


(C) *Analysis of qualified distributions*—(*1*) *June 14, 2019 distribution*—(*i*) *Distribution of AAA.* Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the portion of the distribution that is sourced from AAA is equal to the lesser of: The product of the qualified distribution and the AAA ratio ($100 × 0.5, or $50), and X's AAA immediately before the qualified distribution ($100). Therefore, $50 is sourced from AAA. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, after the distribution, X's AAA is reduced by $50 to $50. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, on June 14, 2019, A's basis in its X stock is reduced by $50 to $150.


(*ii*) *Distribution of AE&P.* Pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, the portion of the distribution that is sourced from AE&P is equal to the lesser of: The product of the qualified distribution and the AE&P ratio ($100 × 0.5, or $50), and X's AE&P immediately before the qualified distribution ($100). Therefore, $50 is sourced from AE&P. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, after the distribution, X's AE&P is reduced by $50 to $50. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, the $50 distribution is characterized as a dividend.


(*iii*) *Amount of excess qualified distribution.* The amount of the excess qualified distribution is $0, the amount of the qualified distribution ($100) not characterized pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section ($50 AAA distribution + $50 AE&P distribution).


(*2*) *December 18, 2019 distribution*—(*i*) *Distribution of AAA.* Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the portion of the distribution that is sourced from AAA is equal to the lesser of: The product of the qualified distribution and the AAA ratio ($200 × 0.5, or $100), and X's AAA immediately before the qualified distribution ($50). Therefore, $50 is sourced from AAA. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, after the distribution, X's AAA is reduced by $50 to $0. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, A must determine its basis as of December 18, 2019, in order to determine the consequences of receiving the $50 AAA distribution. Because the non-qualified distribution on November 9, 2019, which precedes the December 18, 2019 qualified distribution, could have the effect of reducing A's basis, any effect on A's basis from that non-qualified distribution must be analyzed prior to determining the effect of the December 18, 2019 distribution of AAA on A's basis. See paragraphs (d)(5)(ii)(D)(*3*) and (*4*) of this section. Pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(vii) of this section, X's ETSC period ends because X's AAA balance is zero following the December 18, 2019 distribution.


(*ii*) *Distribution of AE&P.* Pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, the portion of the distribution that is sourced from AE&P is equal to the lesser of: The product of the qualified distribution and the AE&P ratio ($200 × 0.5, or $100), and X's AE&P immediately before the qualified distribution ($50). Therefore, $50 is sourced from AE&P. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, after the distribution, X's AE&P is reduced by $50 to $0. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, the $50 distribution is characterized as a dividend.


(*iii*) *Amount of excess qualified distribution.* The amount of the excess qualified distribution is $100, the amount of the qualified distribution ($200) not characterized pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section ($50 AAA distribution + $50 AE&P distribution).


(D) *Analysis of non-qualified and excess qualified distributions*—(*1*) *In general.* The $300 non-qualified distribution on November 9, 2019, and the $100 excess qualified distribution on December 18, 2019, are treated in the manner provided in section 301(c).


(*2*) *Allocation of CE&P.* Pursuant to section 316 and § 1.316-2, X's CE&P is allocated proportionately among the excess qualified and the non-qualified distributions. Therefore, the portion of X's CE&P that is allocated to the November 9, 2019 distribution and the December 18, 2019 distribution is $120 ($160 CE&P × ($300 distribution/$400 total excess qualified and non-qualified distributions during 2019) and $40 ($160 CE&P × ($100 distribution/$400 total excess qualified and non-qualified distributions during 2019), respectively.


(*3*) *November 9, 2019 distribution.* Pursuant to paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(D)(*2*) of this section, $120 of the $300 distribution is characterized as a distribution of CE&P. Pursuant to paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(C)(*2*)(*ii*) of this section, the amount of X's AE&P available to allocate the November 9, 2019 distribution is $0. Therefore, the remaining $180 is characterized pursuant to section 301(c)(2) and (3). Pursuant to paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(C)(*1*)(*i*) of this section, A's basis in its X stock prior to the November 9, 2019 distribution is $150. Therefore, $150 is applied against basis pursuant to section 301(c)(2) (reducing A's basis to $0) and $30 is treated as gain from the sale or exchange of property pursuant to section 301(c)(3).


(*4*) *December 18, 2019 distribution*—(*i*) *Consequences of AAA distribution.* As of December 18, 2019, A's basis in its X stock is $0. See paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(D)(*3*) of this section. Pursuant to paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(C)(*2*)(*i*) of this section, $50 of the distribution is characterized as a distribution of AAA. Because the amount of the distribution of AAA ($50) exceeds A's basis in its X stock ($0), pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, on December 18, 2019, $50 is treated as gain from the sale or exchange of property.


(*ii*) *Characterization of excess qualified distribution.* Pursuant to paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(C)(*2*)(*iii*) of this section, $100 of the December 18, 2019 distribution is an excess qualified distribution. Paragraph (b)(4) of this section does not apply to the excess qualified distribution because X's AAA balance is zero after the application of paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section (see paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(C)(*2*)(*i*) of this section. Pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, section 301(c) applies to the excess qualified distribution. Pursuant to paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(D)(*2*) of this section, $40 of the $100 excess qualified distribution is characterized as a distribution of CE&P. Pursuant to paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(D)(*3*) of this section, X's AE&P as the time of the December 18, 2019 distribution is $0. Therefore, the remaining $60 is characterized pursuant to section 301(c)(2) and (3). Pursuant to paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(D)(*4*)(*i*) of this section, A's basis in its X stock prior to characterization of the excess qualified distribution is $0. Therefore, $60 is treated as gain from the sale or exchange of property pursuant to section 301(c)(3).


(e) *Applicability date.* This section applies to taxable years beginning after October 20, 2020. However, a corporation may choose to apply the rules in §§ 1.481-5, 1.1371-1, and 1.1371-2 in their entirety to taxable years beginning on or before October 20, 2020. If a corporation makes the choice described in the previous sentence, all shareholders of the corporation must report consistently, and the corporation must continue to apply the rules in §§ 1.481-5, 1.1371-1, and 1.1371-2 in their entirety for the corporation's subsequent taxable years.



---

[N] [T.D. 9914, 85 FR 66478, Oct. 20, 2020]




