# ยง 553.201   Requesting OPM approval for reemployment without reduction or termination of annuity in individual cases.

(a) *Request by agency head.* The head of an agency may request OPM to approve individual exceptions on a case-by-case basis to meet temporary hiring needs based on an emergency or other unusual circumstances or when the agency has encountered exceptional difficulty in recruiting or retaining a qualified candidate for a particular position. Authority to submit such a request may not be redelegated to an official below the agency's headquarters level.


(b) *Requirements for all requests.* (1) Each request must identify the individual for whom the exception is requested, the appointing authority to be used, and the position to which he or she will be appointed.


(2) The request must be submitted in accordance with the criteria set out in paragraphs (c), (d), (e), or (f) of this section.


(3) Unless the request is submitted in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, the individual must be off the agency's rolls before submission.


(c) *Requests based on an emergency hiring need.* An agency may request reemployment without penalty for an individual whose services are needed on a temporary basis to respond to an emergency involving a direct threat to life or property. Requests submitted on that basis must meet the following criteria:


(1) *Nature of emergency.* Describe the military threat, natural disaster, or other unforeseen occurrence, the date it occurred, and the expected duration of the emergency response effort.


(2) *Need for the individual's services.* The agency must show either that the individual is uniquely qualified for the emergency response work to be done or that the number of positions to be filled and/or urgency of response justifies making the particular appointment without further delay. OPM will not approve reemployment without penalty under 5 U.S.C. 8344, or 8468 solely to meet normal seasonal workload fluctuations.


(d) *Requests based on severe recruiting difficulty.* Generally, requests for exception will be based on exceptional difficulty in recruiting a qualified candidate for a particular position. Requests submitted on this basis must include a description of the length, breadth, and results of the agency's recruiting efforts for the position and any other factors demonstrating that a legitimate recruiting need cannot be met without the requested waiver. These factors may include, but are not limited to, unusual qualification requirements or working conditions, possibility of job reengineering or contracting, or a need to fill the position without further delay.


(e) *Exceptions based on need to retain a particular individual.* In very rare cases, an exception may be appropriate when an agency needs to retain the services of a particular individual who is uniquely qualified for an ongoing project. Requests submitted on this basis must meet the following criteria:


(1) *Critical nature of project.* The agency must describe the importance of the project to the agency's mission, the potential costs of project failure or delay, legislative or Presidential deadlines, if any, and any other factors demonstrating that the project is unusually critical. Exceptions will not be approved under this paragraph merely to avoid delay in scheduled completion of ongoing work.


(2) *Candidate's unique qualifications.* The agency must describe the knowledges, skills, and abilities possessed by the individual that are essential for successful completion of the project and that could not be acquired by another appointee within a reasonable time.


(3) *Need for retention.* The agency must show good cause to believe that the employee will retire (or, in the case of an individual currently reemployed without an exception, will resign from that position) and that the agency will lose his or her services if the exception is not granted.


(4) *Other staffing options.* While an agency in this situation is not required to conduct outside recruiting, the request for exception must address why the work could not be assigned to other employees involved with the same project.


(f) *Requests based on other unusual circumstances.* An agency may request reemployment without penalty for an individual whose services are needed on a temporary basis due to other unusual circumstances. Agencies must provide justification describing the unusual circumstances.


(g) *Length of exceptions.* OPM may specify a time limit for reemployment without penalty of any individual approved under this subpart. If the agency wishes to continue the exception for an individual beyond the specified time, the request for renewal must demonstrate that the conditions justifying the initial exception still exist.



---

[N] [56 FR 6206, Feb. 14, 1991, as amended at 57 FR 12406, Apr. 10, 1992; 65 FR 19644, Apr. 12, 2000; 72 FR 53412, Sept. 19, 2007]




