# § 513.1   What definitions apply to the regulations in this part?

As used in this part:


(a) *Administrative offset* means the withholding of funds payable by the United States (including funds payable by the United States on behalf of a State government) to any person, or the withholding of funds held by the United States for any person, in order to satisfy a debt owed to the United States.


(b) *Agency* means a department, agency, court, court administrative office, or instrumentality in the executive, judicial, or legislative branch of government, including a government corporation.


(c) *Chairman* means the Chairman of the Commission, or his or her designee.


(d) *Commission* means the National Indian Gaming Commission.


(e) *Creditor agency* means a Federal agency that is owed a debt.


(f) *Day* means calendar day. To count days, include the last day of the period unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal legal holiday.


(g) *Debt and claim* are synonymous and interchangeable. They refer to, among other things, fines, fees, and penalties that a Federal agency has determined are due the United States from any person, organization, or entity, except another Federal agency. For the purposes of administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716 and subpart B of this part, the terms “debt” and “claims” include money, funds, or property owed to a State, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.


(h) *Debtor* means a person, contractor, Tribe, or other entity that owes a debt to the Commission.


(i) *Delinquent debt* means a debt that has not been paid within the time limit prescribed by the applicable Act, law, or contract.


(j) *Disposable pay* means the part of an employee's pay that remains after deductions that must be withheld by law have been made (other than deductions to execute garnishment orders for child support and/or alimony, in accordance with 5 CFR part 581, and for commercial garnishment of federal employees' pay, in accordance with 5 CFR part 582). “Pay” includes current basic pay, special pay, incentive pay, retired pay, and retainer pay.


(k) *Employee* means a current employee of an agency, including a current member of the Armed Forces or Reserve of the Armed Forces of the United States.


(l) *DOJ* means the U.S. Department of Justice.


(m) *FCCS* means the Federal Claims Collection Standards, which are published at 31 CFR parts 900-904.


(n) *FMS* means the Federal Management Service, a bureau of the U.S. Department of the Treasury.


(o) *Paying agency* means the agency that makes payment to an individual who owes a debt to the United States.


(p) *Payroll office* means the office in an agency that is primarily responsible for payroll records and the coordination of pay matters with the appropriate personnel office.


(q) *Person* includes a natural person or persons, profit or non-profit corporation, partnership, association, trust, estate, consortium, tribe, or other entity that owes a debt to the United States, excluding the United States.


(r) *Salary offset* means a payroll procedure to collect debt under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 31 U.S.C. 3716 by deduction(s) at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of an employee, without the employee's consent.


(s) *Tax refund offset* means the reduction of a tax refund by the amount of a past-due legally enforceable debt.




