# ยง 98.358   Definitions.

Except as provided below, all terms used in this subpart have the same meaning given in the CAA and subpart A of this part.


*Biogas* means the combination of CO_2_, CH_4_, and other gases produced by the biological breakdown of organic matter in the absence of oxygen.

*Dry milling* means the process in which shelled corn is milled by dry process, without an initial steeping step.


*Ethanol production* means an operation that produces ethanol from the fermentation of sugar, starch, grain, or cellulosic biomass feedstocks, or the production of ethanol synthetically from petrochemical feedstocks, such as ethylene or other chemicals.


*Food processing* means an operation used to manufacture or process meat, poultry, fruits, and/or vegetables as defined under NAICS 3116 (Meat Product Manufacturing) or NAICS 3114 (Fruit and Vegetable Preserving and Specialty Food Manufacturing). For information on NAICS codes, *see http://www.census.gov/eos/www/naics/.*

*Industrial wastewater* means water containing wastes from an industrial process. Industrial wastewater includes water which comes into direct contact with or results from the storage, production, or use of any raw material, intermediate product, finished product, by-product, or waste product. Examples of industrial wastewater include, but are not limited to, paper mill white water, wastewater from equipment cleaning, wastewater from air pollution control devices, rinse water, contaminated stormwater, and contaminated cooling water.


*Industrial wastewater treatment sludge* means solid or semi-solid material resulting from the treatment of industrial wastewater, including but not limited to biosolids, screenings, grit, scum, and settled solids.


*Wastewater treatment system* means the collection of all processes that treat or remove pollutants and contaminants, such as soluble organic matter, suspended solids, pathogenic organisms, and chemicals from wastewater prior to its reuse or discharge from the facility.


*Wet milling* means the process in which shelled corn is steeped in a dilute solution of sulfurous acid (sulfur dioxide dissolved in water) prior to further processing.


*Weekly average* means the sum of all values measured in a calendar week divided by the number of measurements.



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 81 FR 89267, Dec. 9, 2016]







