# ยง 1101.3   Organization and methods of operation.

(a) Statutory requirements relating to the Council's organization are stated in 12 U.S.C. 3303. 


(b) *Council staff.* Administrative support and substantive coordination for Council activities are provided by a small staff detailed on a full-time basis from the five member agencies. The Executive Secretary and Deputy Executive Secretary of the Council supervise this staff. 


(c) *Agency Liaison Group, Task Forces and Legal Advisory Group.* Most staff support in the substantive areas of the Council's duties is provided by interagency task forces and the Council's Legal Advisory Group (LAG). These task forces and the LAG are responsible for securing the services, as needed, of staff experts from the five agencies; supervising research and other investigative work for the Council; and preparing reports and recommendations for the Council. The Agency Liaison Group (ALG) is responsible for the overall coordination of the respective agencies' staff contributions to Council business. The ALG, the task forces, and the LAG are each composed of Council member agency staff serving the Council on a part-time basis. 


(d) *State Liaison Committee.* Under 12 U.S.C. 3306, the Council has established a State Liaison Committee, composed of five representatives of state financial institutions supervisory agencies. 


(e) *Council address.* Council offices are located at 3501 Fairfax Drive, Room B-7081a, Arlington, VA, 22226-3550.



---

[N] [45 FR 46794, July 11, 1980, as amended at 53 FR 7341, Mar. 8, 1988; 75 FR 71014, Nov. 22, 2010]




