# ยง 600.705   BHP trust fund.

(a) *Establishment of BHP trust fund.* (1) The State must establish a BHP trust fund with an independent entity, or in a segregated account within the State's fund structure.


(2) The State must identify trustees responsible for oversight of the BHP trust fund.


(3) Trustees must specify individuals with the power to authorize withdrawal of funds for allowable trust fund expenditures.


(b) *Non-Federal deposits.* The State may deposit non-Federal funds, including such funds from enrollees, providers or other third parties for standard health plan coverage, into its BHP trust fund. Upon deposit, such funds will be considered BHP trust funds, must remain in the BHP trust fund and meet the standards described in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.


(c) *Allowable trust fund expenditures.* BHP trust funds may only be used to:


(1) Reduce premiums and cost sharing for eligible individuals enrolled in standard health plans under BHP; or


(2) Provide additional benefits for eligible individuals enrolled in standard health plans as determined by the State.


(d) *Limitations.* BHP trust funds may not be expended for any purpose other than those specified in paragraph (c) of this section. In addition, BHP trust funds may not be used for other purposes including but not limited to:


(1) Determining the amount of non-Federal funds for the purposes of meeting matching or expenditure requirements for Federal funding;


(2) Program administration of BHP or any other program;


(3) Payment to providers not associated with BHP services or requirements; or


(4) Coverage for individuals not eligible for BHP.


(e) *Year-to-year carryover of trust funds.* A State may maintain a surplus, or reserve, of funds in its trust through the carryover of unexpended funds from year-to-year. Expenditures from this surplus must be made in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.




