# § 62.213   Official identification.

Some programs offered under this subpart allow for the use of official identification or marks of conformance. A program's specific documented procedure will indicate whether official marks of conformance apply.


(a) Products or services produced under a program authorized under this part may use an official identification mark of approval for that program, such as the “USDA Process Verified” statement and the “USDA Process Verified” shield. Use of program official identification must be in accordance with program requirements.


(b) Use of a program's official identification mark must be approved in writing by USDA prior to use by an applicant.


(c) *USDA Process Verified Program shield.* Products or services produced under an approved USDA PVP may use the “USDA Process Verified” statement and the “USDA Process Verified Program” shield (Figure 1 to paragraph (c)), so long as each is used in direct association with a clear description of the process verified points approved by USDA.


(1) The USDA Process Verified shield must replicate the form and design of the example in Figure 1 and must be printed legibly and conspicuously:


(i) On a white background with a gold trimmed shield, with the term “USDA” in white overlaying a blue upper third of the shield, the term “PROCESS” in black overlaying a white middle third of the shield, and term “VERIFIED” in white overlaying a red lower third of the shield; or


(ii) On a white or transparent background with a black trimmed shield, with the term “USDA” in white overlaying a black upper third of the shield, the term “PROCESS” in black overlaying a white middle third of the shield, and the term “VERIFIED” in white overlaying a black lower third of the shield.




