# § 1.6041A-1   Returns regarding payments of remuneration for services and certain direct sales.

(a) through (c) [Reserved]


(d) *Exceptions to return requirement.* [Reserved]


(1) and (2) [Reserved]


(3) *Foreign transactions*—(i) *In general.* No return shall be required under section 6041A with respect to payments described in this paragraph (d)(3).


(A) Returns of information are not required for payments that a payor can, prior to payment, associate with documentation upon which it may rely to treat as made to a foreign beneficial owner in accordance with § 1.1441-1(e)(1)(ii) or as made to a foreign payee in accordance with § 1.6049-5(d)(1) or presumed to be made to a foreign payee under § 1.6049-5(d)(2), (3), (4), or (5). However, such payments may be reportable under § 1.1461-1(b) and (c). For purposes of this paragraph (d)(3)(i)(A), the provisions in § 1.6049-5(c) (regarding rules applicable to documentation of foreign status and definition of U.S. payor and non-U.S. payor) shall apply. The provisions of § 1.1441-1 shall apply by substituting the term *payor* for the term *withholding agent.*

(B) Returns of information are not required for payments of remuneration for services from sources outside the United States (determined under the provisions of part I, subchapter N, chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations under those provisions) if payments are made outside the United States by a non-U.S. payor or non U.S. middleman. For a definition of non U.S. payor or non-U.S. middleman, see § 1.6049-5(c)(5). For circumstances in which a payment is considered to be made outside the United States, see § 1.6049-5(e). 


(C) Returns of information are not required under sections 6041 or 6041A for amounts paid outside of the United States (within the meaning of § 1.6049-5(e)) as remuneration for services as a direct seller (within the meaning of section 3508) performed outside of the United States or for sales described in section 6041A(b) made outside of the United States of consumer products for resale outside of the United States. 


(ii) *Payor.* The term *payor* has the same meaning as described in § 1.6049-4(a)(2).


(iii) *Joint owners.* Amounts paid to joint owners for which a certificate or documentation is required as a condition for being exempt from reporting under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section are presumed made to U.S. payees who are not exempt recipients if, prior to payment, the payor or middleman cannot reliably associate the payment either with a Form W-9 furnished by one of the joint owners in the manner required in §§ 31.3406(d)-1 through 31.3406(d)-5 of this chapter, or with documentation described in paragraph (d)(3)(i)(A) of this section furnished by each joint owner upon which it can rely to treat each joint owner as a foreign payee or foreign beneficial owner.


(iv) *Conversion into United States dollars of amounts paid in foreign currency.* For rules concerning foreign currency conversion, see § 1.6049-4(d)(3)(i).


(v) *Effective date.* The provisions of this paragraph (d)(3) apply to payments made after December 31, 2000.


(4) *Information returns required under section 6050W for calendar years beginning after December 31, 2010.* (i) For payments made by payment card (as defined in § 1.6050W-1(b)(3)) or through a third party payment network (as defined in § 1.6050W-1(c)(3)) after December 31, 2010, that are required to be reported on an information return under section 6050W (relating to payment card and third party network transactions), the following rule applies. Transactions that otherwise would be reportable under both sections 6041A(a) and 6050W are reported under section 6050W and not section 6041A(a). For provisions relating to information reporting for payment card transactions and third party network transactions, see § 1.6050W-1. Solely for purposes of this paragraph, the de minimis threshold for third party network transactions in § 1.6050W-1(c)(4) is disregarded in determining whether the transaction is subject to reporting under section 6050W.


(ii) *Examples.* The provisions of paragraph (d)(4) of this section are illustrated by the following examples:


(iii) *Effective/applicability date.* Paragraph (d)(4) of this section applies to payments made by payment card or through a third party payment network after December 31, 2010.


(e) [Reserved]


(f) *Statements to be furnished to persons with respect to whom information is required to be furnished*—(1) [Reserved]


(2) *Time for furnishing statement.* [Reserved]


(3) *Contents of statement.* [Reserved]


(g) [Reserved]


(h) *Cross-reference to penalties.* For provisions relating to the penalty provided for failure to file timely a correct information return required under section 6041A(a) or (b), see § 301.6721-1 of this chapter (Procedure and Administration Regulations). For provisions relating to the penalty provided for failure to furnish timely a correct payee statement required under section 6041A(e), see § 301.6722-1 of this chapter. See § 301.6724-1 of this chapter for the waiver of a penalty if the failure is due to reasonable cause and is not due to willful neglect.



---

[N] [T.D. 8734, 62 FR 53474, Oct. 14, 1997, as amended by T.D. 8804, 63 FR 72188, Dec. 31, 1998; T.D. 8856, 64 FR 73412, Dec. 30, 1999; T.D. 8881, 65 FR 32205, May 22, 2000; T.D. 9496, 75 FR 49828, Aug. 16, 2010]




