# ยง 21.268   Employment adjustment allowance.

(a) *General.* A veteran who completes a period of rehabilitation and reaches the point of employability will be paid an employment adjustment allowance for a period of two months at the full-time subsistence allowance rate for the type of program the veteran was last pursuing. (See ยง 21.190(d))


(b) *Reelection of subsistence allowance.* A veteran who has elected payment at the Chapter 30 educational assistance allowance rate may be paid an employment adjustment allowance only if he or she reelects subsistence allowance to become effective no later than the day following completion of the period of rehabilitation to the point of employability.


(c) *Special programs.* An employment adjustment allowance will be paid at the institutional rate of subsistence allowance for veterans in any of the following programs:


(1) On-job training at no or nominal pay in a Federal agency;


(2) Training in the home program;


(3) Independent instructor program;


(4) Cooperative program; or


(5) Self-employment program.


(d) *Combination program.* A veteran who has pursued a combination program will be paid an employment adjustment allowance at the full-time rate for the type of training the veteran was actually pursuing at the completion of the period of rehabilitation to the point of employability.


(e) *Subsequent payments of employment adjustment allowance.* If a veteran has ever received an employment adjustment allowance following rehabilitation to the point of employability, he or she may, nevertheless, receive it again when completing an additional rehabilitation program to the point of employability if: 


(1) The prior determination of rehabilitation to the point of employability is set aside; and 


(2) The veteran is reinducted into a new vocational rehabilitation program as provided in ยง 21.282.


(f) *Special situations.* Effective August 6, 2013, a veteran who has been displaced as the result of a natural or other disaster while being paid an employment adjustment allowance may receive up to an additional two months of employment adjustment allowance, if satisfactorily following a program of employment services.


(g) *Employment adjustment allowance not charged against entitlement.* An employment adjustment allowance will not be charged against the veteran's basic entitlement.



---

[N] [49 FR 40814, Oct. 18, 1984, as amended at 54 FR 4284, Jan. 30, 1989; 57 FR 57108, Dec. 3, 1992; 79 FR 15921, Mar. 24, 2014] 




