# ยง 672.11   State Safety Oversight Agency employees and contractors who conduct safety reviews, inspections, examinations, and other safety oversight activities of rail fixed guideway public transportation systems.

(a) Each SSOA shall designate its employees and contractors that must comply with the applicable training requirements of this part and the Public Transportation Safety Certification Training Program (PTSCTP) curriculum. Each SSOA must designate employees and contractors who conduct reviews, inspections, examinations, and other safety oversight activities of public transportation systems, including appropriate managers and supervisors of such personnel.


(b) Each SSOA shall ensure that each designated individual is enrolled in the PTSCTP within 30 days of the individual's designation. Each SSOA shall ensure the compliance of designated participants with the applicable training requirements of this part and the PTSCTP curriculum.


(c) Employees and contractors designated under paragraph (a) of this section shall complete applicable training requirements of this part and the PTSCTP curriculum within three (3) years of their initial PTSCTP enrollment.


(d) Thereafter, upon completion of the PTSCTP curriculum, designated personnel shall complete recertification every two (2) years. Required recertification training shall consist of two elements:


(1) Element 1: Recertification training defined by FTA, and


(2) Element 2: Recertification training defined by the SSOA, which must include, at a minimum, one (1) hour of safety oversight training.






