# § 460.50   Termination of PACE program agreement.

(a) *Termination of agreement by CMS or State.* CMS or a State administering agency may terminate at any time a PACE program agreement for cause, including, but not limited to the circumstances in paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section.


(b) *Termination due to uncorrected deficiencies.* CMS or the State administering agency may terminate a PACE program agreement if CMS or the State administering agency determines that both of the following circumstances exist:


(1) Either—


(i) There are significant deficiencies in the quality of care furnished to participants; or


(ii) The PACE organization failed to comply substantially with conditions for a PACE program or PACE organization under this part, or with terms of its PACE program agreement, including making payment to an individual or entity that is included on the preclusion list, defined in § 422.2 of this chapter.


(2) Within 30 days of the date of the receipt of written notice of a determination made under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the PACE organization failed to develop and successfully initiate a plan to correct the deficiencies, or failed to continue implementation of the plan of correction.


(c) *Termination due to health and safety risk.* CMS or a State administering agency may terminate a PACE program agreement if CMS or the State administering agency determines that the PACE organization cannot ensure the health and safety of its participants. This determination may result from the identification of deficiencies that CMS or the State administering agency determines cannot be corrected.


(d) *Termination of agreement by PACE organization.* A PACE organization may terminate an agreement after timely notice to CMS, the State administering agency, and participants, as follows:


(1) To CMS and the State administering agency, 90 days before termination.


(2) To participants, 60 days before termination.



---

[N] [64 FR 66279, Nov. 24, 1999, as amended at 81 FR 80561, Nov. 15, 2016; 83 FR 16756, Apr. 16, 2018]




