# § 1.1443-1   Foreign tax-exempt organizations.

(a) *Income includible in computing unrelated business taxable income.* In the case of a foreign organization that is described in section 501(c), amounts paid or effectively connected taxable income allocable to the organization that are includible under section 512 and section 513 in computing the organization's unrelated business taxable income are subject to withholding under §§ 1.1441-1, 1.1441-4, 1.1441-6, and 1.1446-1 through 1.1446-6, in the same manner as payments or allocations of effectively connected taxable income of the same amounts made to any foreign person that is not a tax-exempt organization. Therefore, a foreign organization receiving amounts includible under section 512 and section 513 in computing the organization's unrelated business taxable income may claim an exemption from withholding or a reduced rate of withholding with respect to that income in the same manner as a foreign person that is not a tax-exempt organization. See § 1.1441-9(b)(3) for a presumption that amounts are includible under section 512 and section 513 in computing the organization's unrelated business taxable income in the absence of reliable certification. See also § 1.1446-3(c)(3), applying this presumption in the context of section 1446. 


(b) *Income subject to tax under section 4948*—(1) *In general.* The gross investment income (as defined in section 4940(c)(2)) of a foreign private foundation is subject to withholding under section 1443(b) at the rate of 4 percent to the extent that the income is from sources within the United States and is subject to the tax imposed by section 4948(a) and the regulations under that section. Withholding under this paragraph (b) is required irrespective of the fact that the income may be effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States by the foreign organization. See § 1.1441-9(b)(3) for applicable presumptions that amounts are subject to tax under section 4948. The withholding imposed under this paragraph (b)(1) does not obviate a private foundation's obligation to file any return required by law with respect to such organization, such as the form that the foundation is required to file under section 6033 for the taxable year.


(2) *Reliance on a foreign organization's claim of foreign private foundation status.* For reliance by a withholding agent on a foreign organization's claim of foreign private foundation status, see § 1.1441-9 (b) and (c).


(3) *Applicable procedures.* A withholding agent withholding the 4-percent amount pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall treat such withholding as withholding under section 1441(a) or 1442(a) for all purposes, including reporting of the payment on a Form 1042 and a Form 1042-S pursuant to § 1.1461-1 (b) and (c). Similarly, the foreign private foundation shall treat the 4-percent withholding as withholding under section 1441(a) or 1442(a), including for purposes of claims for refunds and credits.


(4) *Claim of benefits under an income tax treaty.* The withholding procedures applicable to claims of a reduced rate under an income tax treaty are governed solely by the provisions of § 1.1441-6 and not by this section.


(c) *Effective date*—(1) *In general.* This section applies to payments made after December 31, 2000, except that the references in paragraph (a) of this section to effectively connected taxable income and withholding under section 1446 shall apply to partnership taxable years beginning after May 18, 2005, or such earlier time as the regulations under §§ 1.1446-1 through 1.1446-5 apply by reason of an election under § 1.1446-7. 


(2) *Transition rules.* For purposes of this section, the validity of an affidavit or opinion of counsel described in § 1.1443-1(b)(4)(i) in effect prior to January 1, 2001 (see § 1.1443-1(b)(4)(i) as contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised April 1, 1999) is extended until December 31, 2000. However, a withholding agent may choose to not take advantage of the transition rule in this paragraph (c)(2) with respect to one or more withholding certificates valid under the regulations in effect prior to January 1, 2001 (see 26 CFR part 1, revised April 1, 1999) and, therefore, to require withholding certificates conforming to the requirements described in this section (new withholding certificates). For purposes of this section, a new withholding certificate is deemed to satisfy the documentation requirement under the regulations in effect prior to January 1, 2001 (see 26 CFR part 1, revised April 1, 1999). Further, a new withholding certificate remains valid for the period specified in § 1.1441-1(e)(4)(ii), regardless of when the certificate is obtained.



---

[N] [T.D. 8734, 62 FR 53466, Oct. 14, 1997, as amended by T.D. 8804, 63 FR 72186, Dec. 31, 1998; T.D. 8856, 64 FR 73411, Dec. 30, 1999; T.D. 9200, 70 FR 28717, May 18, 2005; T.D. 9394, 73 FR 23074, Apr. 29, 2008]




