# § 435.502   Definitions.

(a) *ANSI* means American National Standards Institute. 


(b) *ASHRAE Handbook* means American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers, Inc., ASHRAE Handbook, 1985 Fundamentals. Volume, 1-P Edition. 


(c) *ASTM* means American Society of Testing and Measurement. 


(d) *British thermal unit (Btu)* means approximately the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of one pound of water from 59 °F to 60 °F. 


(e) *Building* means any new residential structure:


(1) That includes or will include a heating or cooling system, or both, or a domestic hot water system, and


(2) For which a building design is created after the effective date of this rule. 


(f) *Building design* means the development of plans and specifications for human living space. 


(g) *Conservation Optimization Standard for Savings in Federal Residences* means the computerized calculation procedure that is used to establish an energy consumption goal for the design of Federal residential buildings. 


(h) *COSTSAFR* means the Conservation Optimization Standard for Savings in Federal Residences. 


(i) *DOE* means U.S. Department of Energy. 


(j) *Domestic hot water (DHW)* means the supply of hot water for purposes other than space conditioning. 


(k) *Energy conservation measure (ECM)* means a building material or component whose use will affect the energy consumed for space heating, space cooling, domestic hot water or refrigeration. 


(l) *Energy performance standard* means an energy consumption goal or goals to be met without specification of the method, materials, and processes to be employed in achieving that goal or goals, but including statements of the requirements, criteria evaluation methods to be used, and any necessary commentary. 


(m) *Federal agency* means any department, agency, corporation, or other entity or instrumentality of the executive branch of the Federal Government, including the United States Postal Service, the Federal National Mortgage Association, and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation. 


(n) *Federal residential building* means any residential building to be constructed by or for the use of any Federal agency in the Continental U.S., Alaska, or Hawaii that is not legally subject to state or local building codes or similar requirements. 


(o) *Life cycle cost* means the minimum life cycle cost calculated by using a methodology specified in subpart A of 10 CFR part 436. 


(p) *Point system* means the tables that display the effect of the set of energy conservation measures on the design energy consumption and energy costs of a residential building for a particular location, building type and fuel type. 


(q) *Practicable optimum life cycle energy cost* means the energy costs of the set of conservation measures that has the minimum life cycle cost to the Federal government incurred during a 25 year period and including the costs of construction, maintenance, operation, and replacement. 


(r) *Project* means the group of one or more Federal residential buildings to be built at a specific geographic location that are included by a Federal agency in specifications issued or used by a Federal agency for design or construction of the buildings. 


(s) *Prototype* means a fundamental house design based on typical construction assumptions. The nine prototypes in COSTSAFR are: single-section manufactured house, double-section manufactured house, ranch-style house, two-story house, split-level house, mid-unit apartment, end-unit apartment, mid-unit townhouse, end-unit townhouse. 


(t) *Residential building* means a new building that is designed to be constructed and developed for residential occupancy. 


(u) *Set of conservation options* means the combination of envelope design and equipment measures that influences the long term energy use in a building designed to maintain a minimum of ventilation level of 0.7 air changes per hour, including the heating and cooling equipment, domestic hot water equipment, glazing, insulation, refrigerators and air infiltration control measures. 


(v) *Shading coefficient* means the ratio of the heat gains through windows, with or without integral shading devices, to that occurring through unshaded, 
1/8-inch clear glass. 


(w) *Total annual coil load* means the energy for space heating and/or cooling with no adjustment for HVAC equipment efficiency. 



---

[N] [56 FR 3772, Jan. 31, 1991, redesignated at 79 FR 61571, Oct. 14, 2014]




