# § 19.120   Exemption hearings under section 12(h) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

(a) *Scope.* The rules in this section apply to informal hearings that may be held by the Comptroller to determine whether, pursuant to authority in sections 12(h) and (i) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) (15 U.S.C. 78*l*(h) and (i)), to exempt in whole or in part an issuer or a class of issuers from the provisions of section 12(g), or from section 13 or 14 of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78*l*(g), 78m or 78n), or whether to exempt from section 16 of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78p) any officer, director, or beneficial owner of securities of an issuer. The only issuers covered by this section are national banks and Federal savings associations whose securities are registered, or which may be subject to registration, pursuant to section 12(g) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78*l*(g)). The Comptroller may deny an application for exemption without a hearing.


(b) *Application for exemption.* An issuer or an individual (officer, director, or shareholder) may submit a written application for an exemption order to Bank Advisory, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Washington, DC 20219. The application must specify the type of exemption sought and the reasons for the exemption, including an explanation of why an exemption would not be inconsistent with the public interest or the protection of investors. Bank Advisory will inform the applicant in writing whether a hearing will be held to consider the matter.


(c) *Newspaper notice.* Upon being informed that an application will be considered at a hearing, the applicant must publish a notice one time in a newspaper of general circulation in the community where the issuer's main office is located. The notice must state: The name and title of any individual applicants; the type of exemption sought; the fact that a hearing will be held; and a statement that interested persons may submit to Bank Advisory, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Washington, DC 20219 within 30 days from the date of the newspaper notice, written comments concerning the application and a written request for an opportunity to be heard. The applicant must promptly provide a copy of the notice to Bank Advisory and to the national bank's or Federal savings association's shareholders in the same manner as is customary for shareholder communications.


(d) *Informal hearing*—(1) *Conduct of proceeding.* The adjudicative provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, formal rules of evidence, and subpart A of this part do not apply to hearings conducted under this section, except as provided in § 19.100.


(2) *Notice of hearing.* Following the comment period, the Comptroller will send a notice that fixes a date, time, and place for hearing to each applicant and to any person who has requested an opportunity to be heard.


(3) *Presiding officer.* The Comptroller will designate a presiding officer to conduct the hearing. The presiding officer must determine all procedural questions not governed by this section and may limit the number of witnesses and impose time and presentation limitations as are deemed reasonable. At the conclusion of the informal hearing, the presiding officer must issue a recommended decision to the Comptroller as to whether the exemption should be issued. The decision must include a summary of the facts and arguments of the parties.


(4) *Attendance.* Each applicant and any person who has requested an opportunity to be heard may attend the hearing with or without counsel. The hearing will be open to the public. In addition, each applicant and any other hearing participant may introduce oral testimony through such witnesses as the presiding officer may permit.


(5) *Order of presentation.* (i) Each applicant may present an opening statement of a length decided by the presiding officer. Each of the hearing participants, or one among them selected with the approval of the presiding officer, may then present an opening statement. The opening statement should summarize concisely what each applicant and participant intends to show.


(ii) Each applicant will have an opportunity to make an oral presentation of facts and materials or submit written materials for the record. One or more of the hearing participants may make an oral presentation or a written submission.


(iii) After the above presentations, each applicant, followed by one or more of the hearing participants, may make concise summary statements reviewing their position.


(6) *Witnesses.* The obtaining and use of witnesses is the responsibility of the parties afforded the hearing. All witnesses must be present on their own volition, but any person appearing as a witness may be questioned by each applicant, any hearing participant, and the presiding officer. Witnesses must be sworn unless otherwise directed by the presiding officer. By stipulation of the parties or by order of the presiding officer, a court reporter or other person authorized to administer an oath may administer the oath remotely without being in the physical presence of the witness.


(7) *Evidence.* The presiding officer may exclude data or materials deemed to be improper or irrelevant. Formal rules of evidence do not apply. Documentary material must be of a size consistent with ease of handling and filing. The presiding officer may determine the number of copies that must be furnished for purposes of the hearing.


(8) *Electronic presentation.* Based on the circumstances of each hearing, the presiding officer may direct the use of, or any party may elect to use, an electronic presentation during the hearing. If the presiding officer requires an electronic presentation during the hearing, each party will be responsible for their own presentation and related costs unless the parties agree to another manner in which to allocate presentation responsibilities and costs.


(9) *Transcript.* The OCC will arrange a transcript of each proceeding with all expenses, including the furnishing of a copy to the presiding officer by electronic means or otherwise, paid by the applicant or applicants.


(e) *Decision of the Comptroller.* Following the conclusion of the hearing and the submission of the record and the presiding officer's recommended decision to the Comptroller for decision, the Comptroller will notify each applicant and all persons who have so requested in writing of the final disposition of the application. Exemptions granted must be in the form of an order that specifies the type of exemption granted and its terms and conditions.






