# § 75.712   Beneficiary protections: Written notice.

(a) An organization providing social services to beneficiaries under a Department program supported by direct Federal financial assistance must give written notice to a beneficiary or prospective beneficiary of certain protections. Such notice must be given in the manner and form prescribed by the Department. This notice must state that—


(1) The organization may not discriminate against a beneficiary or prospective beneficiary on the basis of religion, a religious belief, a refusal to hold a religious belief, or a refusal to attend or participate in a religious practice;


(2) The organization may not require a beneficiary or prospective beneficiary to attend or participate in any explicitly religious activities that are offered by the organization, and any participation by a beneficiary in such activities must be purely voluntary;


(3) The organization must separate in time or location any privately funded explicitly religious activities from activities supported by direct Federal financial assistance; and


(4) A beneficiary or prospective beneficiary may report an organization's violation of these protections, including any denials of services or benefits by an organization, by contacting or filing a written complaint with the Department.


(b) The written notice described in paragraph (a) of this section must be given to a prospective beneficiary prior to the time they enroll in the program or receive services from the program. When the nature of the service provided or exigent circumstances make it impracticable to provide such written notice in advance of the actual service, an organization must provide the notice at the earliest available opportunity.


(c) The Department may determine that the notice described in paragraph (a) of this section must inform each beneficiary or prospective beneficiary of the option to seek information from the Department as to whether there are any other federally funded organizations in their area that provide the services available under the applicable program.


(d) The notice that an organization uses to notify beneficiaries or prospective beneficiaries of the rights under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section must include language substantially similar to that in appendix C to this part.





---

[N] [89 FR 15703, Mar. 4, 2024]






