# ยง 170.235   Posted pesticide safety information.

(a) *Requirement.* When handlers (except those employed by a commercial pesticide handling establishment) are on an agricultural establishment and, within the last 30 days, a pesticide covered by this subpart has been applied on the establishment or a restricted-entry interval has been in effect, the handler employer shall display, in accordance with this section, pesticide safety information.


(b) *Pesticide safety poster.* A safety poster must be displayed that conveys, at a minimum, the pesticide safety concepts listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (vii) and (b)(2) of this section. Displays conforming to ยง 170.311(a)(3) meet the requirements of this paragraph.


(c) *Emergency medical care information.* (1) The name, address, and telephone number of the nearest emergency medical care facility shall be on the safety poster or displayed close to the safety poster. Displays conforming to ยง 170.311(a)(3)(ix) meet the requirements of this paragraph.


(2) The handler employer shall inform handlers promptly of any change to the information on emergency medical care facilities.


(d) *Location.* (1) The information shall be displayed in a central location on the farm or in the nursery or greenhouse where it can be readily seen and read by handlers.


(2) The information shall be displayed in a location in or near the forest in a place where it can be readily seen and read by handlers and where handlers are likely to congregate or pass by, such as at a decontamination site or an equipment storage site.


(e) *Accessibility.* Handlers shall be informed of the location of the information and shall be allowed access to it.


(f) *Legibility.* The information shall remain legible during the time it is posted.



---

[N] [57 FR 38151, Aug. 21, 1992, as amended at 80 FR 67556, Nov. 2, 2015]




