# ยง 26.5   Terms and definitions.

*Base station.* A station at a specified site authorized to communicate with mobile stations.


*Equivalent isotropically radiated power* (*EIRP*). The product of the power supplied to the antenna and the antenna gain in a given direction relative to an isotropic antenna (absolute or isotropic gain).


*Expendable launch vehicle.* A launch vehicle whose propulsive stages are used only once.


*First stage of a launch.* The first 15 minutes of flight.


*Fixed service.* A radio communication service between specified fixed points.


*Fixed station.* A station in the fixed service.


*Frequency coordination.* The process of obtaining the recommendation of a frequency coordinator for a frequency(ies) that will most effectively meet the applicant's needs while minimizing interference to licensees already operating within a given frequency band.


*Frequency coordinator.* An entity or organization that has been certified by the Commission to recommend frequencies for use by licensees in the Space Launch Services.


*Harmful interference.* For the purposes of resolving conflicts between stations operating under this part, any emission, radiation, or induction which specifically degrades, obstructs, or interrupts the service provided by such stations.


*Itinerant operation.* Operation of a radio station at unspecified locations for varying periods of time.


*Launch vehicle.* A vehicle built to place a payload or human beings from Earth in a suborbital trajectory, in Earth orbit, or otherwise in outer space.


*Mobile service.* A radio communication service between mobile and land stations, or between mobile stations.


*Mobile station.* A station in the mobile service intended to be used while in motion or during halts at unspecified points.


*Reentry vehicle.* A vehicle designed to return from Earth orbit or outer space to Earth substantially intact. A reentry vehicle is regarded as a launch vehicle in the context of a space launch operation only to the extent that it is being used for launch purposes.


*Reusable launch vehicle.* A launch vehicle that is designed to return to Earth substantially intact and may be launched more than one time or that contains vehicle stages that may be recovered by a launch operator for future use.


*Space launch operations.* Any activity that places a launch vehicle, whether an expendable launch vehicle or a reusable launch vehicle or reentry vehicle used for launch, and any payload or human being from Earth in a suborbital trajectory, in Earth orbit, or otherwise in outer space, including pre-launch testing and recovery or reentry of the launch vehicle.


*Telecommand.* The transmission of non-voice signals for the purpose of remotely controlling a device.


*Telemetry.* The transmission of non-voice signals for the purpose of automatically indicating or recording measurements at a distance from the measuring instrument. In the context of space launch operations, telemetry is diagnostic information, transmitted from the launch vehicle to ground controller stations during the flight, which allows the ground controller station to track the performance of the launch vehicle.


*Universal Licensing System* (*ULS*). The consolidated database, application filing system, and processing system for all Wireless Telecommunications Services. The ULS offers Wireless Telecommunications Bureau (WTB) applicants and the general public electronic filing of all applications requests, and full public access to all WTB licensing data.




