# § 652.5   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions will apply:


*Affiliate* means any entity established under authority granted to the Corporation under section 8.3(c)(14) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended.


*Asset-backed securities (ABS)* mean investment securities that provide for ownership of a fractional undivided interest or collateral interests in specific assets of a trust that are sold and traded in the capital markets. For the purpose of this subpart, ABS exclude mortgage-backed securities that are defined below.


*Cash* means cash balances held at Federal Reserve Banks, proceeds from traded-but-not-yet-settled debt, and deposit accounts at Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation-insured banks.


*Diversified investment fund (DIF)* means an investment company registered under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940.


*Farmer Mac, Corporation, you, and your* means the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation and its affiliates.


*FCA, our, us, or we* means the Farm Credit Administration.


*Government-sponsored enterprise (GSE)* means an entity established or chartered by the United States Government to serve public purposes specified by the United States Congress but whose debt obligations are not explicitly guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government.


*Long-Term Standby Purchase Commitment (LTSPC)* is a commitment by Farmer Mac to purchase specified eligible loans on one or more undetermined future dates. In consideration for Farmer Mac's assumption of the credit risk on the specified loans underlying an LTSPC, Farmer Mac receives an annual commitment fee on the outstanding balance of those loans in monthly installments based on the outstanding balance of those loans.


*Market risk* means the risk to your financial condition because the value of your holdings may decline if interest rates or market prices change. Exposure to market risk is measured by assessing the effect of changing rates and prices on either the earnings or economic value of an individual instrument, a portfolio, or the entire Corporation.


*Maturing obligations* means maturing debt and other obligations that may be expected, such as buyouts of long-term standby purchase commitments or repurchases of agricultural mortgage securities.


*Mortgage-backed securities* (MBS) means securities that are either:


(1) Pass-through securities or participation certificates that represent ownership of a fractional undivided interest in a specified pool of residential (excluding home equity loans), multifamily or commercial mortgages, or


(2) A multiclass security (including collateralized mortgage obligations and real estate mortgage investment conduits) that is backed by a pool of residential, multifamily or commercial real estate mortgages, pass through MBS, or other multiclass MBS.


(3) This definition does not include agricultural mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by Farmer Mac itself.


*Non-program investments* means investments other than those in:


(1) “Qualified loans” as defined in section 8.0(9) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended; or


(2) Securities collateralized by “qualified loans.”


*OSMO* means FCA's Office of Secondary Market Oversight.


*Program assets* means on-balance sheet “qualified loans” as defined in section 8.0(9) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended.


*Program obligations* means off-balance sheet “qualified loans” as defined in section 8.0(9) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended.


*Regulatory capital* means your core capital plus an allowance for losses and guarantee claims, as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.


*U.S. Government agency* means an instrumentality of the U.S. Government whose obligations are fully guaranteed as to the payment of principal and interest by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Government.



---

[N] [79 FR 53127, Sept. 8, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 55097, Nov. 2, 2018]




