# § 748.12   Firearms import certificate or import permit.

License applications for certain firearms and related commodities require support documents in accordance with this section.






(a) *Requirement to obtain and submit documentation.* Unless an exception in § 748.9(c) applies, an import certificate or permit is required for license applications for firearms and related commodities, regardless of value, if required by the importing country. For OAS member states, this requirement is consistent with the OAS Model Regulations described in § 742.17 of the EAR. The exporter or reexporter must obtain and submit with the license application the original or a copy of the import certificate or permit before applying for an export or reexport license in situations in which an import certificate or permit is required by the importing country.


(1) *Items subject to requirement.* Firearms and related commodities are those commodities controlled under 0x5zz ECCNs.


(2) *Countries subject to requirement.* (i) OAS member countries include: Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, Uruguay, Venezuela, and any member country that has acceded in accordance with Chapter III of the Charter of the Organization of American States.


(ii) All other countries that require an import certificate or permit.


(3) *Equivalent official document in place of an import certificate or permit.* For those countries that have not yet established or implemented an import certificate procedure, BIS will accept an equivalent official document (*e.g.,* import license or letter of authorization) issued by the government of the importing country as supporting documentation for the export of commodities detailed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(b) *Obtaining the document.* (1) Applicants must request that the importer (*e.g.,* ultimate consignee or purchaser) obtain the import certificate, permit, or an equivalent official document from the government of the importing country, and that it be issued covering the quantities and types of firearms and related items that the applicant intends to export. Upon receipt of this document or a certified copy, the importer must provide the original or a certified copy to the license applicant.


(2) If the government of the importing country will not issue such document, the applicant must supply the information described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(6) through (c)(8) of this section on company letterhead.


(c) *Content of the document.* The document must contain the following information:


(1) Applicant's name and address. The applicant may be either the exporter, supplier, or order party.


(2) Import Certificate Identifier/Number.


(3) Name of the country issuing the certificate or unique country code.


(4) Date the document was issued, in international date format (*e.g.,* 24/12/12 for 24 December 2012, or 3/1/99 for 3 January 1999).


(5) Name of the agency issuing the certificate, address, telephone and facsimile numbers, signing officer name, and signature.


(6) Name of the importer, address, telephone and facsimile numbers, country of residence, representative's name if commercial or government body, citizenship, and signature.


(7) Name of the end user(s), if known and different from the importer, address, telephone and facsimile numbers, country of residence, representative's name if commercial (authorized distributor or reseller) or government body, citizenship, and signature. Note that BIS does not require the identification of each end user when the firearms and related commodities will be resold by a distributor or reseller if unknown at the time of export.


(8) Description of the commodities approved for import including a technical description and total quantity of firearms, parts and components, ammunition and parts.


(9) Expiration date of the document in international date format (*e.g.,* 24/12/12) or the date the items must be imported, whichever is earlier.


(10) Name of the country of export (*i.e.,* United States).


(11) Additional information. Certain countries may require the tariff classification number, by class, under the Brussels Convention (Harmonized Tariff Code) or the specific technical description of a commodity. For example, shotguns may need to be described in barrel length, overall length, number of shots, manufacturer's name and country of manufacture. The technical description is not the Export Control Classification Number (ECCN).


(d) *Procedures for using document with license application*—(1) *Information necessary for license application.* The license application must include the same commodities as those listed on the document.


(2) *Alterations.* After the document is used to support the issuance of a license, no corrections, additions, or alterations may be made on the same document by any person. Any necessary corrections, additions, or alterations should be noted by the applicant in a separate statement on file with the applicant.


(3) *Validity period.* Documents issued by the importing country will be valid until the expiration date on the documents themselves.


(e) *Requirement to obtain an import certificate or permit for other than OAS member states.* If the country to which firearms, parts, components, accessories, and attachments controlled under ECCN 0A501, or ammunition controlled under ECCN 0A505, are being exported or reexported requires that a government-issued certificate or permit be obtained prior to importing the commodity, the exporter or reexporter must obtain and retain on file the original or a copy of that certificate or permit before applying for an export or reexport license unless:


(1) A license is not required for the export or reexport; or


(2) The exporter is required to obtain an import or end-user certificate or other equivalent official document pursuant to paragraphs (a) thorough (d) of this section and has, in fact, complied with that requirement.


(3)(i) The number or other identifying information of the import certificate or permit must be stated on the license application.


(ii) If the country to which the commodities are being exported does not require an import certificate or permit for firearms imports, that fact must be noted on any license application for ECCN 0A501 or 0A505 commodities.



---

[N] [80 FR 13219, Mar. 13, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 4177, Jan. 23, 2020; 86 FR 46594, Aug. 19, 2021; 89 FR 34706, Apr. 30, 2024]




