# § 4233.10   Initial review.

(a) *Determination on completed application.* PBGC will make a determination on an application not later than 270 days after the date such application is deemed completed.


(b) *Incomplete application.* If the application is incomplete, PBGC will issue a written notice to the plan sponsor describing the information missing from the application no later than 14 calendar days after the submission of such application.


(c) *Complete application.* Upon making a determination that an application is complete (*i.e.,* the application includes all the information specified in §§ 4233.5 through 4233.9), PBGC will issue a written notice to the plan sponsor no later than 14 calendar days after the submission of such application. The date of the written notice will mark the beginning of PBGC's 270-day review period under section 4233(a)(1) of ERISA, and the plan sponsor's 30-day notice period under 4233(a)(2) of ERISA.


(d) *Special rule for coordinated applications for partition and benefit suspension.* For a plan requiring both partition and benefit suspensions to remain solvent, PBGC's initial determination that a partition application is complete will be conditioned on the plan sponsor's filing of an application for benefit suspensions with Treasury within 30 days after receiving written notice from PBGC under paragraph (c) of this section. Such a plan is permitted, but not required, to issue a combined notice under § 4233.13(b).


(e) *Informal consultation.* Nothing in this subsection precludes a plan sponsor from contacting PBGC on an informal basis to discuss a potential partition application.



---

[N] [80 FR 35229, June 19, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 79694, Dec. 23, 2015]




