# § 422.572   Timeframes and notice requirements for expedited organization determinations.

(a) *Timeframes*—(1) *Requests for service or item.* Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an MA organization that approves a request for expedited determination must make its determination and notify the enrollee (and the physician involved, as appropriate) of its decision, whether adverse or favorable, as expeditiously as the enrollee's health condition requires, but no later than 72 hours after receiving the request.


(2) *Requests for a Part B drug.* An MA organization that approves a request for expedited determination must make its determination and notify the enrollee (and the physician or prescriber involved, as appropriate) of its decision as expeditiously as the enrollee's health condition requires, but no later than 24 hours after receiving the request. This 24-hour period may not be extended under the provisions in paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Extensions; requests for service or item.* (1) When timeframe may be extended. The MA organization may extend the 72-hour deadline for expedited organization determinations for requests for services or items by up to 14 calendar days if—


(i) The enrollee requests the extension;


(ii) The extension is justified and in the enrollee's interest due to the need for additional medical evidence from a noncontract provider that may change an MA organization's decision to deny an item or service; or


(iii) The extension is justified due to extraordinary, exigent, or other nonroutine circumstances and is in the enrollee's interest.


(2) *Notice of extension.* When the MA organization extends the deadline, it must notify the enrollee in writing of the reasons for the delay and inform the enrollee of the right to file an expedited grievance if he or she disagrees with the MA organization's decision to grant an extension. The MA organization must notify the enrollee of its determination as expeditiously as the enrollee's health condition requires, but no later than upon expiration of the extension.


(c) *Confirmation of oral notice.* If the MA organization first notifies an enrollee of an adverse expedited determination orally, it must mail written confirmation to the enrollee within 3 calendar days of the oral notification.


(d) *How the MA organization must request information from noncontract providers.* If the MA organization must receive medical information from noncontract providers, the MA organization must request the necessary information from the noncontract provider within 24 hours of the initial request for an expedited organization determination. Noncontract providers must make reasonable and diligent efforts to expeditiously gather and forward all necessary information to assist the MA organization in meeting the required timeframe. Regardless of whether the MA organization must request information from noncontract providers, the MA organization is responsible for meeting the timeframe and notice requirements of this section.


(e) *Content of the notice of expedited determination.* (1) The notice of any expedited determination must state the specific reasons for the determination in understandable language.


(2) If the determination is not completely favorable to the enrollee, the notice must—


(i) Inform the enrollee of his or her right to a reconsideration;


(ii) Describe both the standard and expedited reconsideration processes, including the enrollee's right to request, and conditions for obtaining, an expedited reconsideration, and the rest of the appeal process; and


(iii) Comply with any other requirements specified by CMS.


(f) *Effect of failure to provide a timely notice.* If the MA organization fails to provide the enrollee with timely notice of an expedited organization determination as specified in this section, this failure itself constitutes an adverse organization determination and may be appealed.



---

[N] [63 FR 35107, June 26, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 40329, June 29, 2000; 70 FR 4739, Jan. 28, 2005; 80 FR 7961, Feb. 12, 2015; 84 FR 23881, May 23, 2019]




