# ยง 206.21   Interest rate.

(a) *Fixed interest rate.* A fixed interest rate is agreed upon by the borrower and mortgagee.


(b) *Adjustable interest rate.* An initial expected average mortgage interest rate, which defines the mortgagee's margin, is agreed upon by the borrower and mortgagee as of the date of loan closing, or as of the date of rate lock-in, if the expected average mortgage interest rate was locked in prior to closing. The interest rate shall be adjusted in one of two ways depending on the option selected by the borrower, in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section. Whenever an interest rate is adjusted, the new interest rate applies to the entire loan balance. The difference between the initial interest rate and the index figure applicable when the firm commitment is issued shall equal the margin used to determine interest rate adjustments. If the expected average mortgage interest rate is locked in prior to closing, the difference between the expected average mortgage interest rate and the value of the appropriate index at the time of rate lock-in shall equal the margin used to determine interest rate adjustments.


(1) *Annual adjustable interest rate HECMs.* A mortgagee offering an annual adjustable interest rate shall offer a mortgage with an interest rate cap structure that limits the periodic interest rate increases and decreases as follows:


(i) *Types of mortgages insurable.* The types of adjustable interest rate mortgages that are insurable are those for which the interest rate may be adjusted annually by the mortgagee, beginning after one year from the date of the closing.


(ii) *Interest rate index.* Changes in the mortgage interest rate charged on an adjustable interest rate mortgage must correspond to changes in the weekly average yield on U.S. Treasury securities (CMT) adjusted to a constant maturity of one year; to the 30-day average Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR); or to an alternative SOFR tenor approved by the Secretary. The Secretary may publish approved SOFR tenors as alternatives to the 30-day average SOFR tenor through notice. The index type used to calculate the initial mortgage interest rate must be the same index type used to calculate the mortgage interest rate adjustments, except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. Commingling of index types for the mortgage interest rate and adjustments is not otherwise allowed, unless approved by the Secretary. Unless otherwise provided in this section, each periodic adjustment in the mortgage interest rate must correspond to the upward and downward change in the index, except that downward changes in the index will not result in an index figure that is less than zero.


(iii) *Frequency of interest rate changes.* (A) The interest rate adjustments must occur annually, calculated from the date of the closing, except that the first adjustment shall be no sooner than 12 months or later than 18 months.


(B) To set the new interest rate, the mortgagee will determine the change between the initial (*i.e.,* base) index figure and the current index figure, or will add a specific margin to the current index figure. The initial index figure shall be the most recent figure available before the date of mortgage loan origination. The current index figure shall be the most recent index figure available 30 days before the date of each interest rate adjustment.


(iv) *Magnitude of changes.* The adjustable interest rate mortgage initial contract interest rate shall be agreed upon by the mortgagee and the borrower. The first adjustment to the contract interest rate shall take place in accordance with the schedule set forth under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section. Thereafter, for all annual adjustable interest rate mortgages, the adjustment shall be made annually and shall occur on the anniversary date of the first adjustment, subject to the following conditions and limitations:


(A) For all annual adjustable interest rate HECMs, no single adjustment to the interest rate shall result in a change in either direction of more than two percentage points from the interest rate in effect for the period immediately preceding that adjustment. Index changes in excess of two percentage points may not be carried over for inclusion in an adjustment for a subsequent year. Adjustments in the effective rate of interest over the entire term of the mortgage may not result in a change in either direction of more than five percentage points from the initial contract interest rate.


(B) At each adjustment date for annual adjustable interest rate HECMs, changes in the index interest rate, whether increases or decreases, must be translated into the adjusted mortgage interest rate, except that the mortgage may provide for minimum interest rate change limitations and for minimum increments of interest rate changes.


(2) *Monthly adjustable interest rate HECMs.* If a mortgage meeting the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section is offered, the mortgagee may also offer a mortgage which provides for monthly adjustments to the interest rate subject to the following requirements:


(i) *Interest rate index.* Changes in the interest rate charged on an adjustable interest rate mortgage shall correspond to changes in the weekly average yield on U.S. Treasury securities (CMT) adjusted to a constant maturity of one year, to the weekly average yield on CMT adjusted to one-month, or to an alternative SOFR index approved by the Secretary. The index type used to calculate the initial mortgage interest rate must be the same index type used to calculate the mortgage interest rate adjustments, except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. Commingling of index types for the mortgage interest rate and adjustments is not otherwise allowed, unless approved by the Secretary. Unless otherwise provided in this section, each periodic adjustment in the mortgage interest rate must correspond to the upward and downward change in the index, except that downward changes in the index will not result in an index figure that is less than zero.


(ii) *Frequency of interest rate changes.* (A) The interest rate adjustments must occur monthly, calculated from the date of the closing, except that the first adjustment shall be no sooner than 30 days (28 days for February, as applicable) or later than three months from the date of the closing.


(B) To set the new interest rate, the mortgagee will determine the change between the initial (*i.e.,* base) index figure and the current index figure, or will add a specific margin to the current index figure. The initial index figure shall be the most recent figure available before the date of mortgage loan origination. The current index figure shall be the most recent index figure available 30 days (28 days for February, as applicable) before the date of each interest rate adjustment.


(iii) *Magnitude of changes.* The initial mortgage interest rate shall be agreed upon by the mortgagee and the borrower. Adjustments in the effective rate of interest over the entire term of the mortgage (the lifetime adjustment cap) may result in a change in either direction of no more than ten percentage points from the initial contract interest rate. The Secretary may change this lifetime adjustment cap through notice.


(3) *Transition for existing mortgages indexed to LIBOR.* Mortgages with an existing adjustable interest rate indexed to the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) must be transitioned to the spread-adjusted SOFR replacement index approved by the Secretary by the next interest rate adjustment date for the mortgage on or after the Replacement Date. Notice of the transition to the SOFR replacement index must be sent to the borrower in accordance with the mortgage documents. The Secretary will publish through Mortgagee Letter any additional requirements for the transition of existing mortgages.


(c) *Pre-loan disclosure.* (1) At the time the mortgagee provides the borrower with a loan application, a mortgagee shall provide a borrower with a written explanation of all adjustable interest rate features of a mortgage. The explanation must include the following items:


(i) The circumstances under which the rate may increase;


(ii) Any limitations on the increase; and


(iii) The effect of an increase.


(2) Compliance with pre-loan disclosure provisions of 12 CFR part 1026 (Truth in Lending) shall constitute full compliance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(d) *Post-loan disclosure.* At least 25 days before any adjustment to the interest rate may occur, the mortgagee must advise the borrower of the following:


(1) The current index amount;


(2) The date of publication of the index; and


(3) The new interest rate.



---

[N] [82 FR 7117, Jan. 19, 2017, as amended at 88 FR 12828, Mar. 1, 2023]




