# ยง 1042.525   How do I adjust emission levels to account for infrequently regenerating aftertreatment devices?

For engines using aftertreatment technology with infrequent regeneration events that may occur during testing, take one of the following approaches to account for the emission impact of regeneration, or use an alternate methodology that we approve for Category 3 engines:


(a) You may use the calculation methodology described in 40 CFR 1065.680 to adjust measured emission results. Do this by developing an upward adjustment factor and a downward adjustment factor for each pollutant based on measured emission data and observed regeneration frequency as follows:


(1) Adjustment factors should generally apply to an entire engine family, but you may develop separate adjustment factors for different configurations within an engine family. Use the adjustment factors from this section in all testing for the engine family.


(2) You may use carryover or carry-across data to establish adjustment factors for an engine family as described in ยง 1042.235, consistent with good engineering judgment.


(3) Determine the frequency of regeneration, *F,* as described in 40 CFR 1065.680 from in-use operating data or from running repetitive tests in a laboratory. If the engine is designed for regeneration at fixed time intervals, you may apply good engineering judgment to determine *F* based on those design parameters.


(4) Identify the value of *F* in each application for certification for which it applies.


(b) You may ask us to approve an alternate methodology to account for regeneration events. We will generally limit approval to cases where your engines use aftertreatment technology with extremely infrequent regeneration and you are unable to apply the provisions of this section.


(c) You may choose to make no adjustments to measured emission results if you determine that regeneration does not significantly affect emission levels for an engine family (or configuration) or if it is not practical to identify when regeneration occurs. If you choose not to make adjustments under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, your engines must meet emission standards for all testing, without regard to regeneration.



---

[N] [81 FR 74150, Oct. 25, 2016]




