# ยง 300.4   Registered identification numbers.

(a) A registered identification number assigned by the Federal Trade Commission under and in accordance with the provisions of this section may be used upon the stamp, tag, label, or other mark of identification required under the Act to be affixed to a wool product, as and for the name of the person to whom such number has been assigned.


(b) Any manufacturer of a wool product or person subject to section 3 of the Act with respect to such wool product, residing in the United States, may apply to the Federal Trade Commission for a registered identification number for use by the applicant on the stamp, tag, label, or other mark of identification required under the Act.


(c) Registered identification numbers shall be used only by the person or firm to whom they are issued, and such numbers are not transferable or assignable. Registered identification numbers shall be subject to cancellation whenever any such number was procured or has been used improperly or contrary to the requirements of the Acts administered by the Federal Trade Commission, and regulations in this part, or when otherwise deemed necessary in the public interest. Registered identification numbers shall be subject to cancellation if the Commission fails to receive prompt notification of any change in name, business address, or legal business status of a person or firm to whom a registered identification number has been assigned, by application duly executed in the form and manner set out in paragraph (e) of this section, reflecting the current name, business address, and legal business status of the person or firm.


(d) Registered identification numbers assigned under this section may be used on labels required in labeling products subject to the provisions of the Fur Products Labeling Act and Textile Fiber Products Identification Act, and numbers previously assigned by the Commission under such Acts may be used as and for the required name in labeling under this Act. When so used by the person or firm to whom assigned, the use of the numbers shall be construed as identifying and binding the applicant as fully and in all respects as though assigned under the specific Act for which it is used.


(e) Requests for a registered identification number, to update information pertaining to an existing number, or to cancel an existing number shall be made through the Commission's Web site at *https://rn.ftc.gov.* Unless otherwise directed by the Commission or its designee, requests made by other means (including but not limited to email) will not be accepted and approved.



---

[N] [29 FR 6623, May 21, 1964, as amended at 48 FR 12516, Mar. 25, 1983; 63 FR 7516, Feb. 13, 1998; 63 FR 71582, Dec. 28, 1998; 65 FR 75156, Dec. 1, 2000; 82 FR 43691, Sept. 19, 2017]




