# § 1048.235   What emission testing must I perform for my application for a certificate of conformity?

This section describes the emission testing you must perform to show compliance with the emission standards in §§ 1048.101(a) and (b) and 1048.105 during certification. See § 1048.205(q) regarding emission testing related to the field-testing standards. See § 1048.240 and 40 CFR part 1065, subpart E, regarding service accumulation before emission testing.


(a) Test your emission-data engines using the procedures and equipment specified in subpart F of this part.


(b) Select emission-data engines according to the following criteria:


(1) *Exhaust testing.* For each fuel type from each engine family, select an emission-data engine with a configuration that is most likely to exceed the exhaust emission standards, using good engineering judgment. Consider the emission levels of all exhaust constituents over the full useful life of the engine when operated in a piece of equipment.


(2) *Evaporative testing.* For each engine family that includes a volatile liquid fuel, select a test fuel system with a configuration that is most likely to exceed the evaporative emission standards, using good engineering judgment.


(c) We may measure emissions from any of your test engines or other engines from the engine family, as follows:


(1) We may decide to do the testing at your plant or any other facility. If we do this, you must deliver the test engine to a test facility we designate. The test engine you provide must include appropriate manifolds, aftertreatment devices, electronic control units, and other emission-related components not normally attached directly to the engine block. If we do the testing at your plant, you must schedule it as soon as possible and make available the instruments, personnel, and equipment we need.


(2) If we measure emissions on one of your test engines, the results of that testing become the official emission results for the engine. Unless we later invalidate these data, we may decide not to consider your data in determining if your engine family meets applicable requirements.


(3) Before we test one of your engines, we may set its adjustable parameters to any point within the physically adjustable ranges (see § 1048.115(e)).


(4) Before we test one of your engines, we may calibrate it within normal production tolerances for anything we do not consider an adjustable parameter. For example, this would apply where we determine that an engine parameter is not an adjustable parameter (as defined in § 1048.801) but that it is subject to production variability.


(d) You may ask to use carryover emission data from a previous model year instead of doing new tests, but only if all the following are true:


(1) The engine family from the previous model year differs from the current engine family only with respect to model year or other characteristics unrelated to emissions. You may also ask to add a configuration subject to § 1048.225.


(2) The emission-data engine from the previous model year remains the appropriate emission-data engine under paragraph (b) of this section.


(3) The data show that the emission-data engine would meet all the requirements that apply to the engine family covered by the application for certification.


(e) We may require you to test another engine of the same or different configuration in addition to the engine tested under paragraph (b) of this section.


(f) If you use an alternate test procedure under 40 CFR 1065.10 and later testing shows that such testing does not produce results that are equivalent to the procedures specified in subpart F of this part, we may reject data you generated using the alternate procedure.


(g) Measure CO_2_ and CH_4_ with each low-hour certification test using the procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1065 starting in the 2011 and 2012 model years, respectively. Also measure N_2_O with each low-hour certification test using the procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1065 starting in the 2013 model year for any engine family that depends on NOx aftertreatment to meet emission standards. Small-volume engine manufacturers may omit measurement of N_2_O and CH_4_. These measurements are not required for measurements using field-testing procedures. Use the same units and modal calculations as for your other results to report a single weighted value for each constituent. Round the final values as follows:


(1) Round CO_2_ to the nearest 1 g/kW-hr.


(2) Round N_2_O to the nearest 0.001 g/kW-hr.


(3) Round CH_4_ to the nearest 0.001 g/kW-hr.



---

[N] [70 FR 40473, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59235, Oct. 8, 2008; 74 FR 56510, Oct. 30, 2009]




