# § 725.3   Definitions.

Definitions in section 3 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2602), as well as definitions contained in §§ 704.3, 720.3, and 721.3 of this chapter, apply to this part unless otherwise specified in this section. In addition, the following definitions apply to this part: 


*Consolidated microbial commercial activity notice* or *consolidated MCAN* means any MCAN submitted to EPA that covers more than one microorganism (each being assigned a separate MCAN number by EPA) as a result of a prenotice agreement with EPA. 


*Containment and/or inactivation controls* means any combination of engineering, mechanical, procedural, or biological controls designed and operated to restrict environmental release of viable microorganisms from a structure. 


*Director* means the Director of the EPA Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics.


*Exemption request* means any application submitted to EPA under subparts E, F, or G of this part. 


*General commercial use* means use for commercial purposes other than research and development. 


*Genome* means the sum total of chromosomal and extrachromosomal genetic material of an isolate and any descendants derived under pure culture conditions from that isolate.


*Health and safety study of a microorganism* or *health and safety study* means any study of any effect of a microorganism or microbial mixture on health or the environment or on both, including underlying data and epidemiological studies, studies of occupational exposure to a microorganism or microbial mixture, toxicological, clinical, and ecological, or other studies of a microorganism or microbial mixture, and any test performed under the Act. Microorganism identity is always part of a health and safety study of a microorganism.


(1) It is intended that the term “health and safety study of a microorganism” be interpreted broadly. Not only is information which arises as a result of a formal, disciplined study included, but other information relating to the effects of a microorganism or microbial mixture on health or the environment is also included. Any data that bear on the effects of a microorganism on health or the environment would be included.


(2) Examples include:


(i) Tests for ecological or other environmental effects on invertebrates, fish, or other animals, and plants, including: Acute toxicity tests, chronic toxicity tests, critical life stage tests, behavioral tests, algal growth tests, seed germination tests, plant growth or damage tests, microbial function tests, bioconcentration or bioaccumulation tests, and model ecosystem (microcosm) studies.


(ii) Long- and short-term tests of mutagenicity, carcinogenicity, or teratogenicity; dermatoxicity; cumulative, additive, and synergistic effects; and acute, subchronic, and chronic effects.


(iii) Assessments of human and environmental exposure, including workplace exposure, and impacts of a particular microorganism or microbial mixture on the environment, including surveys, tests, and studies of: Survival and transport in air, water, and soil; ability to exchange genetic material with other microorganisms, ability to colonize human or animal guts, and ability to colonize plants.


(iv) Monitoring data, when they have been aggregated and analyzed to measure the exposure of humans or the environment to a microorganism.


(v) Any assessments of risk to health and the environment resulting from the manufacture, processing, distribution in commerce, use, or disposal of the microorganism. 


*Inactivation* means that living microorganisms are rendered nonviable. 


*Institutional Biosafety Committee* means the committees described in the NIH Guidelines in section IV.B.2.


*Intergeneric microorganism* means a microorganism that is formed by the deliberate combination of genetic material originally isolated from organisms of different taxonomic genera. 


(1) The term “intergeneric microorganism” includes a microorganism which contains a mobile genetic element which was first identified in a microorganism in a genus different from the recipient microorganism. 


(2) The term “intergeneric microorganism” does not include a microorganism which contains introduced genetic material consisting of only well-characterized, non-coding regulatory regions from another genus. 


*Introduced genetic material* means genetic material that is added to, and remains as a component of, the genome of the recipient. 


*Manufacture, import, or process for commercial purposes* means:


(1) To import, produce, manufacture, or process with the purpose of obtaining an immediate or eventual commercial advantage for the manufacturer, importer, or processor, and includes, among other things, “manufacture” or “processing” of any amount of a microorganism or microbial mixture: 


(i) For commercial distribution, including for test marketing. 


(ii) For use by the manufacturer, including use for product research and development or as an intermediate. 


(2) The term also applies to substances that are produced coincidentally during the manufacture, processing, use, or disposal of another microorganism or microbial mixture, including byproducts that are separated from that other microorganism or microbial mixture and impurities that remain in that microorganism or microbial mixture. Byproducts and impurities without separate commercial value are nonetheless produced for the purpose of obtaining a commercial advantage, since they are part of the manufacture or processing of a microorganism for commercial purposes.


*Microbial commercial activity notice* or *MCAN* means a notice for microorganisms submitted to EPA pursuant to section 5(a)(1) of the Act in accordance with subpart D of this part. 


*Microbial mixture* means any combination of microorganisms or microorganisms and other chemical substances, if the combination does not occur in nature and is not an article. 


*Microorganism* means an organism classified, using the 5-kingdom classification system of Whittacker, in the kingdoms Monera (or Procaryotae), Protista, Fungi, and the Chlorophyta and the Rhodophyta of the Plantae, and a virus or virus-like particle.


*Mobile genetic element* or *MGE* means an element of genetic material that has the ability to move genetic material within and between organisms. “Mobile genetic elements” include all plasmids, viruses, transposons, insertion sequences, and other classes of elements with these general properties. 


*New microorganism* means a microorganism not included on the Inventory.


*NIH Guidelines* means the National Institutes of Health (NIH) “Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules” (July 5, 1994).


*Non-coding regulatory region* means a segment of introduced genetic material for which:


(1) The regulatory region and any inserted flanking nucleotides do not code for protein, peptide, or functional ribonucleic acid molecules.


(2) The regulatory region solely controls the activity of other regions that code for protein or peptide molecules or act as recognition sites for the initiation of nucleic acid or protein synthesis.


*Small quantities solely for research and development* (or “small quantities solely for purposes of scientific experimentation or analysis or research on, or analysis of, such substance or another substance, including such research or analysis for development of a product”) means quantities of a microorganism manufactured, imported, or processed or proposed to be manufactured, imported, or processed solely for research and development that meet the requirements of § 725.234. 


*Structure* means a building or vessel which effectively surrounds and encloses the microorganism and includes features designed to restrict the microorganism from leaving.


*Submerged standard industrial fermentation* means a fermentation system that meets all of the following conditions:


(1) Enzyme production is conducted under conditions of submerged fermentation (*i.e.,* growth of the microorganism occurs beneath the surface of the liquid growth medium).


(2) Any fermentation of solid plant material or insoluble substrates, to which *T. reesei* fermentation broth is added after the submerged standard industrial fermentation operations used for enzyme production is completed, may be initiated only after the inactivation of the microorganism as delineated in 40 CFR 725.422(d).


*Submission* means any MCAN or exemption request submitted to EPA under this part. 


*Technically qualified individual* means a person or persons:


(1) Who, because of education, training, or experience, or a combination of these factors, is capable of understanding the health and environmental risks associated with the microorganism which is used under his or her supervision, 


(2) Who is responsible for enforcing appropriate methods of conducting scientific experimentation, analysis, or microbiological research to minimize such risks, and 


(3) Who is responsible for the safety assessments and clearances related to the procurement, storage, use, and disposal of the microorganism as may be appropriate or required within the scope of conducting a research and development activity.


*TSCA Experimental Release Application* or *TERA* means an exemption request for a research and development activity, which is not eligible for a full exemption from reporting under § 725.232, 725.234, or 725.238, submitted to EPA in accordance with subpart E of this part. 


*Well-characterized* for introduced genetic material means that the following have been determined:


(1) The function of all of the products expressed from the structural gene(s). 


(2) The function of sequences that participate in the regulation of expression of the structural gene(s). 


(3) The presence or absence of associated nucleotide sequences and their associated functions, where associated nucleotide sequences are those sequences needed to move genetic material including linkers, homopolymers, adaptors, transposons, insertion sequences, and restriction enzyme sites. 



---

[N] [62 FR 17932, Apr. 11, 1997, as amended at 85 FR 13772, Mar. 10, 2020]




