# ยง 27.70   Information exchange.

(a) *Prior notification.* Public safety licensees authorized to operate in the 758-775 MHz and 788-805 MHz bands may notify any licensee authorized to operate in the 746-757 or 776-787 MHz bands that they wish to receive prior notification of the activation or modification of the licensee's base or fixed stations in their area. Thereafter, the 746-757 or 776-787 MHz band licensee must provide the following information to the public safety licensee at least 10 business days before a new base or fixed station is activated or an existing base or fixed station is modified:


(1) Location;


(2) Effective radiated power;


(3) Antenna height; and


(4) Channels available for use.


(b) *Purpose of prior notification.* The prior coordination of base or fixed stations is for informational purposes only. Public safety licensees are not afforded the right to accept or reject the activation of a proposed base or fixed station or to unilaterally require changes in its operating parameters. The principal purposes of notification are to:


(1) Allow a public safety licensee to advise the 746-757 or 776-787 MHz band licensee whether it believes a proposed base or fixed station will generate unacceptable interference;


(2) Permit 746-757 and 776-787 MHz band licensees to make voluntary changes in base or fixed station parameters when a public safety licensee alerts them to possible interference; and,


(3) Rapidly identify the source if interference is encountered when the base or fixed station is activated.



---

[N] [72 FR 27712, May 16, 2007, as amended at 72 FR 48853, Aug. 24, 2007; 79 FR 599, Jan. 6, 2014]




