# ยง 21.312   Reduced work tolerance.

(a) *General.* VA will consider that a veteran with reduced work tolerance is pursuing a rehabilitation program full-time when the amount of time the veteran is devoting to his or her program is as great as the effects of his or her disability (service and nonservice-connected) will permit. 


(b) *Pursuit of a program.* A veteran with reduced work tolerance may pursue a rehabilitation program when the following conditions are met:


(1) Reduced work tolerance has been determined.


(2) Achievement of the goals of the program are reasonably feasible;


(3) The IWRP (Individualized Written Rehabilitation Plan) or other plan provides for completion of the program under Chapter 31. 


(c) *Redetermination of work tolerance.* As necessary, but not less than once yearly, the veteran's work tolerance will be reevaluated. The rate of pursuit required to meet the standard of full-time pursuit will be modified if there is either an increase or decrease in the work tolerance of the veteran. 


(d) *Payment of allowance.* A veteran with a reduced work tolerance will be paid a subsistence allowance, at the full-time rate for the type of program being pursued, when the veteran meets the standard for full-time pursuit established for him or her in the Plan. A veteran with reduced work tolerance, who elects benefits at the Chapter 34 rate, will have to meet normal attendance requirements for that chapter, however. 


(e) *Determining work tolerance.* A VA physician will make all determinations and redeterminations of work tolerance.


