# § 1.405   Responses to petitions; replies.

Except for petitions to amend the FM Television or Air-Ground Tables of Assignments:


(a) Any interested person may file a statement in support of or in opposition to a petition for rule making prior to Commission action on the petition but not later than 30 days after “Public Notice”, as provided for in § 1.403, is given of the filing of such a petition. Such a statement shall be accompanied by proof of service upon the petitioner on or prior to the date of filing in conformity with § 1.47 and shall conform in other aspects with the requirements of §§ 1.49, 1.52, and 1.419(b).


(b) Any interested person may file a reply to statements in support of or in opposition to a petition for rule making prior to Commission action on the petition but not later than 15 days after the filing of such a statement. Such a reply shall be accompanied by proof of service upon the party or parties filing the statement or statements to which the reply is directed on or prior to the date of filing in conformity with § 1.47 and shall conform in other aspects with the requirements of §§ 1.49, 1.52, and 1.419(b).


(c) No additional pleadings may be filed unless specifically requested by the Commission or authorized by it.


(d) The Commission may act on a petition for rule making at any time after the deadline for the filing of replies to statements in support of or in opposition to the petition. Statements in support of or in opposition to a petition for rule making, and replies thereto, shall not be filed after Commission action.



---

[N] [28 FR 12413, Nov. 22, 1963, as amended at 28 FR 14503, Dec. 31, 1963; 45 FR 42621, June 25, 1980; 46 FR 60404, Dec. 9, 1981]




