# ยง 42.402   Definitions.

For purpose of this subpart:


(a) *Title VI* refers to title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000d to 2000d-4. Where appropriate, this term also refers to the civil rights provisions of other federal statutes to the extent that they prohibit discrimination on the ground of race, color or national origin in programs receiving federal financial assistance of the type subject to title VI itself.


(b) *Agency* or *federal agency* refers to any federal department or agency which extends federal financial assistance of the type subject to title VI.


(c) *Program* refers to programs and activities receiving federal financial assistance of the type subject to title VI.


(d) *Assistant Attorney General* refers to the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice.


(e) Where designation of persons by race, color or national origin is required, the following designations shall be used: 


(1) *Black, not of Hispanic Origin.* A person having origins in any of the black racial groups of Africa.


(2) *Hispanic.* A person of Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, Central or South American or other Spanish Culture or origin, regardless of race.


(3) *Asian or Pacific Islander.* A person having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, the Indian Subcontinent, or the Pacific Islands. This area includes, for example, China, Japan, Korea, the Philippine Islands, and Samoa.


(4) *American Indian or Alaskan Native.* A person having origins in any of the original peoples of North America, and who maintain cultural identification through tribal affiliation or community recognition.


(5) *White, not of Hispanic Origin.* A person having origins in any of the original people of Europe, North Africa, or the Middle East. Additional sub-categories based on national origin or primary language spoken may be used where appropriate, on either a national or a regional basis. Paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(5) of this section, inclusive, set forth in this section are in conformity with the OMB Ad Hoc Committee on Race/Ethnic Categories' recommendations. To the extent that said designations are modified by the OMB Ad Hoc Committee, paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(5) of this section, inclusive, set forth in this section shall be interpreted to conform with those modifications.


(f) *Covered employment* means employment practices covered by title VI. Such practices are those which:


(1) Exist in a program where a primary objective of the federal financial assistance is to provide employment, or


(2) Cause discrimination on the basis of race, color or national origin with respect to beneficiaries or potential beneficiaries of the assisted program.




