# ยง 35.7   Electronic filing of tariffs and related materials.

(a) *General rule.* All filings made in proceedings initiated under this part must be made electronically, including tariffs, rate schedules and service agreements, or parts thereof, and material that relates to or bears upon such documents, such as cancellations, amendments, withdrawals, termination, or adoption of tariffs.


(b) *Requirement for signature.* All filings must be signed in compliance with the following:


(1) The signature on a filing constitutes a certification that: the contents are true and correct to the best knowledge and belief of the signer; and that the signer possesses full power and authority to sign the filing.


(2) A filing must be signed by one of the following:


(i) The person on behalf of whom the filing is made;


(ii) An officer, agent, or employee of the company, governmental authority, agency, or instrumentality on behalf of which the filing is made; or,


(iii) A representative qualified to practice before the Commission under ยง 385.2101 of this chapter who possesses authority to sign.


(3) All signatures on the filing or any document included in the filing must comply, where applicable, with the requirements in Part 385 of this chapter with respect to sworn declarations or statements and electronic signatures.


(c) *Format requirements for electronic filing.* The requirements and formats for electronic filing are listed in instructions for electronic filing and for each form. These formats are available through the Commission's website, *https://www.ferc.gov.*

(d) Only filings filed and designated as filings with statutory action dates in accordance with these electronic filing requirements and formats will be considered to have statutory action dates. Filings not properly filed and designated as having statutory action dates will not become effective, pursuant to the Federal Power Act, should the Commission not act by the requested action date.



---

[N] [Order 714, 73 FR 57531, Oct. 3, 2008, as amended by Order 714-A, 79 FR 29076, May 21, 2014; Order 899, 88 FR 74030, Oct. 30, 2023]




