# ยง 801.2   Meaning of terms.

(a) *Construction.* Words used in the singular form in this part shall be considered to imply the plural and vice versa, as appropriate.


(b) *Definitions.* The definitions of terms listed in the part 800 shall have the same meaning when the terms are used in this part 801. For the purposes of this part, the following terms shall have the meanings given for them below.


(1) *Avoirdupois weight.* A unit of weight based on a pound of 16 ounces.


(2) *Barley pearler.* An approved laboratory device used to mechanically dehull kernels of barley or other grain.


(3) *Deviation from standard.* In testing inspection equipment for accuracy, the variation between (i) the individual test result from the equipment that is being tested and (ii) the reference standard or the individual test result from the standard (or National standard) equipment, as applicable.


(4) *Direct comparison method.* An equipment testing procedure wherein transfer standards are tested at the same time and place to compare the performance of two or more units of the same inpsection equipment. One unit of the equipment used in the test shall be standard inspection equipment. (See also sample exchange method).


(5) *Diverter-type mechanical sampler (primary).* An approved device used to obtain representative portions from a flowing stream of grain.


(6) *Diverter-type mechanical sampler (secondary).* An approved device used to subdivide the portions of grain obtained with a diverter-type mechanical sampler (primary).


(7) *Divider.* An approved laboratory device used to mechanically divide a sample of grain into two or more representative portions.


(8) *Dockage tester.* An approved laboratory device used to mechanically separate dockage and/or foreign material from grain.


(9) *Maintenance tolerance.* An allowance established for use in determining whether inspection equipment should be approved for use in performing official inspection services.


(10) *Mean deviation from standard.* In testing inspection equipment for accuracy, the variation between (i) the average for the test results from the equipment that is being tested and (ii) the reference standard or the average of the test results from the standard (or National standard) equipment, as applicable.


(11) *Metric weight.* A unit of weight based on the kilogram of 1,000 grams.


(12) *Moisture meter.* An approved laboratory device used to indicate directly or through conversion and/or correction tables the moisture content of grain including cereal grains and oil seeds.


(13) *National standard inspection equipment.* A designated approved unit of inspection equipment used as the reference in determining the accuracy of standard inspection equipment.


(14) *Official inspection equipment.* Equipment approved by the Service and used in performing official inspection services.


(15) *Sample exchange method.* An equipment testing procedure wherein transfer standards are tested to compare the performance of two or more units of the same inspection equipment installed at different locations. One unit of the equipment used in the test shall be standard inspection equipment. (See also direct comparison method.)


(16) *Sieves.* Approved laboratory devices with perforations for use in separating particles of various sizes.


(17) *Standard inspection equipment.* An approved unit of inspection equipment that is designated by the Service for use in determining the accuracy of official inspection equipment.


(18) *Test weight.* The avoirdupois weight of the grain or other material in a level-full Winchester bushel.


(19) *Test weight apparatus.* An approved laboratory device used to measure the test weight (density) of a sample of grain.


(20) *Transfer standard.* The medium (device or material) by which traceability is transferred from one inspection equipment standard unit to another unit.


(21) *Winchester bushel.* A container that has a capacity of 2,150.42 cubic inches (32 dry quarts).




