# § 19.164   Withdrawal bond.

(a) *Requirement for a withdrawal bond.* Except as provided in § 19.151(d), a person must provide TTB with a withdrawal bond for a distilled spirits plant if the person intends to withdraw spirits from the distilled spirits plant upon determination of the taxes due on the spirits but before payment of the tax. The withdrawal bond must guarantee payment of any taxes due on distilled spirits withdrawn from bonded premises up to the amount of the bond. Such bond will be in addition to the operations bond, and if the distilled spirits are withdrawn under the withdrawal bond, the operations bond will no longer cover liability for payment of the tax on the spirits withdrawn. For purposes of this section, a person includes a corporation, together with all of its controlled subsidiaries, and a controlled subsidiary has the same meaning as in § 19.163(b).


(b) *One bond covering multiple plants.* A person who operates more than one distilled spirits plant within the geographical area serviced by the National Revenue Center may submit to TTB a single withdrawal bond that covers withdrawals from all such distilled spirits plants within that geographic area.


(c) *Penal sum of bonds*—(1) *Penal sum of a bond covering a single plant.* A person who files a withdrawal bond for a single plant must compute the penal sum of such bond in accordance with § 19.166. If the penal sum of such bond is less than the maximum amount, withdrawals from the plant may not exceed the penal sum.


(2) *Penal sum of bond covering multiple plants.* A person who files one withdrawal bond to cover two or more distilled spirits plants must compute the required penal sum for each plant individually in accordance with § 19.166. The penal sum of the withdrawal bond must be equal to, or greater than, the total of the minimum amounts required for the individual plants. The bond must show the amount of coverage allocated to each individual plant as well as the total penal sum for all plants. If the portion of the penal sum allocated to a particular plant is less than the maximum amount prescribed in § 19.166 for a single plant, withdrawals from that plant must not exceed the amount of the penal sum allocated to that plant. The allocation of the penal sum notwithstanding, the entire penal sum of the bond must be available to satisfy all liability for tax on withdrawals from any and all of the covered plants.



---

[N] [T.D. TTB-92, 76 FR 9090, Feb. 16, 2011, as amended by T.D. TTB-146, 82 FR 1121, Jan. 4, 2017]




