# § 1544.103   Form, content, and availability.

(a) *General requirements.* Each security program must:


(1) Provide for the safety of persons and property traveling on flights provided by the aircraft operator against acts of criminal violence and air piracy, and the introduction of explosives, incendiaries, or weapons aboard an aircraft.


(2) Be in writing and signed by the aircraft operator or any person delegated authority in this matter.


(3) Be approved by TSA.


(b) *Availability.* Each aircraft operator having a security program must:


(1) Maintain an original copy of the security program at its corporate office.


(2) Have accessible a complete copy, or the pertinent portions of its security program, or appropriate implementing instructions, at each airport served. An electronic version of the program is adequate.


(3) Make a copy of the security program available for inspection upon request of TSA.


(4) Restrict the distribution, disclosure, and availability of information contained in the security program to persons with a need-to-know as described in part 1520 of this chapter.


(5) Refer requests for such information by other persons to TSA.


(c) *Content.* The security program must include, as specified for that aircraft operator in § 1544.101, the following:


(1) The procedures and description of the facilities and equipment used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.201 regarding the acceptance and screening of individuals and their accessible property, including, if applicable, the carriage weapons as part of State-required emergency equipment.


(2) The procedures and description of the facilities and equipment used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.203 regarding the acceptance and screening of checked baggage.


(3) The procedures and description of the facilities and equipment used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.205 regarding the acceptance and screening of cargo.


(4) The procedures and description of the facilities and equipment used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.207 regarding the screening of individuals and property.


(5) The procedures and description of the facilities and equipment used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.209 regarding the use of metal detection devices.


(6) The procedures and description of the facilities and equipment used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.211 regarding the use of x-ray systems.


(7) The procedures and description of the facilities and equipment used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.213 regarding the use of explosives detection systems.


(8) The procedures used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.215 regarding the responsibilities of security coordinators. The names of the Aircraft Operator Security Coordinator (AOSC) and any alternate, and the means for contacting the AOSC(s) on a 24-hour basis, as provided in § 1544.215.


(9) The procedures used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.217 regarding the requirements for law enforcement personnel.


(10) The procedures used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.219 regarding carriage of accessible weapons.


(11) The procedures used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.221 regarding carriage of prisoners under the control of armed law enforcement officers.


(12) The procedures used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.223 regarding transportation of Federal Air Marshals.


(13) The procedures and description of the facilities and equipment used to perform the aircraft and facilities control function specified in § 1544.225.


(14) The specific locations where the air carrier has entered into an exclusive area agreement under § 1544.227.


(15) The procedures used to comply with the applicable requirements of §§ 1544.229 and 1544.230 regarding fingerprint-based criminal history records checks.


(16) The procedures used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.231 regarding personnel identification systems.


(17) The procedures and syllabi used to accomplish the training required under § 1544.233.


(18) The procedures and syllabi used to accomplish the training required under § 1544.235.


(19) An aviation security contingency plan as specified under § 1544.301.


(20) The procedures used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.303 regarding bomb and air piracy threats.


(21) The procedures used to comply with § 1544.237 regarding flight deck privileges.


(22) The Aircraft Operator Implementation Plan (AOIP) as required under 49 CFR 1560.109.



---

[N] [67 FR 8364, Feb. 22, 2002, as amended at 67 FR 8209, Feb. 22, 2002; 73 FR 64061, Oct. 28, 2008]




