# § 721.9530   Bis(2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidinyl) ester of cycloalkyl spiroketal.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as bis(2,2,6,6-tetramethyl piperidinyl) ester of cycloalkyl spiroketal (PMN P-88-0083) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* For the manufacturing workers only, requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(6)(i), and (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent). For the processing/use workers only, requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), (a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 per cent) and (c). 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(viii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5). The following additional human health hazard statements shall appear on each label and SDS required by this paragraph: This substance may cause: systemic effects, eye irritation. 


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(l). 


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance, as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k).


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule. 



---

[N] [56 FR 40215, Aug. 13, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




