# § 147.10   Guideline H—Drug involvement.

(a) *The concern.* (1) Improper or illegal involvement with drugs raises questions regarding an individual's willingness or ability to protect classified information. Drug abuse or dependence may impair social or occupational functioning, increasing the risk of an unauthorized disclosure of classified information.


(2) Drugs are defined as mood and behavior altering substances, and include:


(i) Drugs, materials, and other chemical compounds identified and listed in the Controlled Substances Act of 1970, as amended (e.g., marijuana or cannabis, depressants, narcotics, stimulants, and hallucinogens), 


(ii) Inhalants and other similar substances.


(3) Drug abuse is the illegal use of a drug or use of a legal drug in a manner that deviates from approved medical direction.


(b) *Conditions that could raise a security concern and may be disqualifying include:* (1) Any drug abuse (see above definition);


(2) Illegal drug possession, including cultivation, processing, manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution;


(3) Diagnosis by a credentialed medical professional (e.g., physician, clinical psychologist, or psychiatrist) of drug abuse or drug dependence; 


(4) Evaluation of drug abuse or drug dependence by a licensed clinical social worker who is a staff member of a recognized drug treatment program; 


(5) Failure to successfully complete a drug treatment program prescribed by a credentialed medical professional. Recent drug involvement, especially following the granting of a security clearance, or an expressed intent not to discontinue use, will almost invariably result in an unfavorable determination.


(c) *Conditions that could mitigate security concerns include:* (1) The drug involvement was not recent;


(2) The drug involvement was an isolated or aberration event; 


(3) A demonstrated intent not to abuse any drugs in the future;


(4) Satisfactory completion of a prescribed drug treatment program, including rehabilitation and aftercare requirements, without recurrence of abuse, and a favorable prognosis by a credentialed medical professional.




