# ยง 570.35   Affirmation of generally recognized as safe (GRAS) status.

(a) The Commissioner, on his own initiative, may affirm that a substance that directly or indirectly becomes a component of food is GRAS under the conditions of its intended use.


(b)(1) If the Commissioner proposes on his own initiative that a substance is entitled to affirmation as GRAS under the conditions of its intended use, he will place all of the data and information on which he relies on public file in the office of the Dockets Management Staff and will publish in the _Federal Register_ a notice giving the name of the substance, its proposed uses, and any limitations proposed for purposes other than safety.


(2) The _Federal Register_ notice will allow a period of 60 days during which any interested person may review the data and information and/or file comments with the Dockets Management Staff. Copies of all comments received shall be made available for examination in the Dockets Management Staff's office. 


(3) The Commissioner will evaluate all comments received. If he concludes that there is convincing evidence that the substance is GRAS under the conditions of its intended use as described in ยง 570.30, he will publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ listing the GRAS conditions of use in this subchapter E.


(4) If, after evaluation of the comments, the Commissioner concludes that there is a lack of convincing evidence that the substance is GRAS under the conditions of its intended use and that it should be considered a food additive subject to section 409 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, he shall publish a notice thereof in the _Federal Register_ in accordance with ยง 570.38.



---

[N] [41 FR 38644, Sept. 10, 1976, as amended at 42 FR 4717, Jan. 25, 1977; 42 FR 15675, Mar. 22, 1977; 42 FR 55207, Oct. 10, 1977; 50 FR 7517, Feb. 22, 1985; 50 FR 16668, Apr. 26, 1985; 54 FR 18281, Apr. 28, 1989; 62 FR 40600, July 29, 1997; 81 FR 55052, Aug. 17, 2016; 88 FR 45066, July 14, 2023] 




