# § 52.1076   Control strategy plans for attainment and rate-of-progress: Ozone.

(a) EPA is approving as a revision to the Maryland State Implementation Plan the 15 Percent Rate of Progress Plan and associated contingency measures for the Cecil County ozone nonattainment area, submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on July 21, 1995.


(b) EPA approves as a revision to the Maryland State Implementation Plan, the Stage II vapor recovery comparability plan for the counties of Allegany, Caroline, Dorchester, Garrett, Kent, Queen Anne's, Somerset, St. Mary's, Talbot, Washington, Wicomico, and Worcester Counties submitted by the Maryland Department of the Environment on November 5, 1997.


(c) EPA approves as a revision to the Maryland State Implementation Plan, the 15 Percent Rate of Progress Plan for the Baltimore ozone nonattainment area, submitted by the Secretary of Maryland Department of the Environment on October 7, 1998. 


(d) EPA approves the Maryland's 15 Percent Rate of Progress Plan for the Maryland portion of the Metropolitan Washington, D.C. ozone nonattainment area, submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on May 5, 1998. 


(e) [Reserved]


(f)(1) EPA approves revisions to the Maryland State Implementation Plan for post 1996 rate of progress plans for milestone years 1999, 2002 and 2005 for the Cecil County portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Trenton ozone nonattainment area. These revisions were submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on December 24, 1997, as revised on April 24 and August 18, 1998, December 21, 1999 and December 28, 2000. 


(2) EPA approves the contingency plans for failure to meet rate of progress in the Cecil County portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Trenton ozone nonattainment area for milestone years 1999, 2002 and 2005. These plans were submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on December 24, 1997, as revised on April 24 and August 18, 1998, December 21, 1999 and December 28, 2000. 


(3) EPA approves revisions to the Maryland State Implementation Plan, submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on March 8, 2004, for the rate-of-progress (ROP) plan for year 2005 for the Cecil County portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Trenton 1-hour ozone nonattainment area. These revisions update Cecil County's 2005 ROP plan's 1990 and 2005 motor vehicle emissions inventories and motor vehicle emissions budgets to reflect the use of the MOBILE6 emissions model, establish motor vehicle emissions budgets of 3.0 tons per day (tpd) of volatile organic compounds and 11.3 tpd of nitrogen oxides, and amend the contingency measures associated with the 2005 ROP plan for Cecil County.


(g) [Reserved] 


(h) EPA approves the attainment demonstration for the Philadelphia area submitted as a revision to the State Implementation Plan by the Maryland Department of the Environment on April 29, 1998, August 18, 1998, December 21, 1999, December 28, 2000, August 31, 2001, and September 2, 2003 including its RACM analysis and determination. EPA is also approving the revised enforceable commitments made to the attainment plan for the Baltimore severe ozone nonattainment area which were submitted on December 28, 2000. The enforceable commitments are to submit measures by October 31, 2001 for additional emission reductions as required in the attainment demonstration test, and to revise the SIP and motor vehicle emissions budgets by October 31, 2001 if the additional measures affect the motor vehicle emissions inventory; and to perform a mid-course review by December 31, 2003. 


(i) EPA approves the following mobile budgets of Maryland's attainment plan for the Philadelphia area: 


(1) [Reserved] 


(2) Similarly, EPA is approving the 2005 attainment demonstration and its current budgets because Maryland has provided an enforceable commitment to submit new budgets as a SIP revision to the attainment plan consistent with any new measures submitted to fill any shortfall, if the new additional control measures affect on-road motor vehicle emissions. 


(j)(1) EPA approves revisions to the Maryland State Implementation Plan for post 1996 rate of progress plans for milestone years 1999, 2002 and 2005 for the Baltimore severe ozone nonattainment area. These revisions were submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on December 24, 1997, as revised on April 24 and August 18, 1998, December 21, 1999 and December 28, 2000. 


(2) EPA approves the contingency plans for failure to meet rate of progress in the Baltimore severe ozone nonattainment area for milestone years 1999, 2002 and 2005. These plans were submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on December 24, 1997, as revised on April 24 and August 18, 1998, December 21, 1999 and December 28, 2000.


(k) EPA approves the attainment demonstration for the Baltimore area submitted as a revision to the State Implementation Plan by the Maryland Department of the Environment on April 29, 1998, August 18, 1998, December 21, 1999, December 28, 2000, August 20, 2001, and September 2, 2003 including its RACM analysis and determination. EPA is also approving the revised enforceable commitments made to the attainment plan for the Baltimore severe ozone nonattainment area which were submitted on December 28, 2000. The enforceable commitments are to submit measures by October 31, 2001 for additional emission reductions as required in the attainment demonstration test, and to revise the SIP and motor vehicle emissions budgets by October 31, 2001 if the additional measures affect the motor vehicle emissions inventory; and to perform a mid-course review by December 31, 2003. 


(l) EPA approves the following mobile budgets of the Baltimore area attainment plan: 


(1) [Reserved] 


(2) Similarly, EPA is approving the 2005 attainment demonstration and its current budgets because Maryland has provided an enforceable commitment to submit new budgets as a SIP revision to the attainment plan consistent with any new measures submitted to fill any shortfall, if the new additional control measures affect on-road motor vehicle emissions. 


(m) EPA approves the State of Maryland's revised 1990 and the 2005 VOC and NO_X_ highway mobile emissions inventories and the 2005 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the one-hour ozone attainment plans for the Baltimore severe ozone nonattainment area and the Cecil County portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Trenton severe ozone nonattainment area. These revisions were submitted by the Maryland Department of the Environment on September 2, 2003. Submission of these revised MOBILE6-based motor vehicle emissions inventories was a requirement of EPA's approval of the attainment demonstration under paragraphs (h) and (k) of this section.


(n) EPA approves revisions to the Maryland State Implementation Plan for Post-1996 Rate of Progress (ROP) Plans for the Baltimore severe 1-hour ozone nonattainment area. These revisions were submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on December 23, 2003 and consist of the following: 


(1) Revisions to the base year 1990 emissions inventory which reflect the use of the MOBILE6 motor vehicle emissions model. These revisions establish motor vehicle emissions inventories for 1990 of 165.14 tons per day of volatile organic compounds (VOC) and 228.21 tons per day of oxides of nitrogen (NO_X_). 


(2) Revisions to the year 2005 motor vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) for transportation conformity purposes, reflecting the use of the MOBILE6 motor vehicle emissions model. These revisions establish a motor vehicle emissions budget of 55 tons per day of volatile organic compounds (VOC) and 144.5 tons per day of oxides of nitrogen (NO_X_). EPA approved new 2005 MOBILE6-based MVEBs for the Baltimore area's 1-hour ozone attainment demonstration on October 27, 2003 (68 FR 61106). Those MVEBs became effective on November 26, 2003. The approved 2005 attainment plan MVEBs budgets are 55.3 tons per day of VOC and 146.9 tons per day of NO_X_. The MVEBs of the 2005 ROP plan are less than the MVEBs in the approved attainment demonstration. These more restrictive MVEBs, contained in the ROP plan, are the applicable MVEBs to be used in transportation conformity demonstrations for the year 2005 for the Baltimore area. 


(3) Revisions to the 2005 ROP plan to reallocate some of the contingency measures established in prior SIP revisions to the control measures portion of the plan. EPA guidance allows states an additional year to adopt new contingency measures to replace those reallocated to the control measures portion of the plan. The State of Maryland's December 23, 2003 SIP revision submittal includes an enforceable commitment to replace those contingency measures reallocated to the control measures portion of the 2005 ROP plan and to submit these additional contingency measures by October 31, 2004.


(o) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2003 to 2005, EPA has determined that the Washington, DC severe 1-hour ozone nonattainment area attained the 1-hour ozone NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of November 15, 2005. EPA also has determined that the Washington, DC severe 1-hour ozone nonattainment area is not subject to the imposition of the section 185 penalty fees.


(p) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2003 to 2005, EPA has determined that that the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Trenton severe 1-hour ozone nonattainment area attained the 1-hour ozone NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of November 15, 2005. EPA also has determined that the Philadelphia-Wilmington-Trenton severe 1-hour ozone nonattainment area is not subject to the imposition of the section 185 penalty fees.


(q) EPA approves revisions to the Maryland State Implementation Plan consisting of the 2008 reasonable further progress (RFP) plan, reasonably available control measures, and contingency measures for the Baltimore 1997 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on June 4, 2007.


(r) EPA approves the following 2008 RFP motor vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) for the Baltimore 1997 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on June 4, 2007:


(s) EPA approves revisions to the Maryland State Implementation Plan consisting of the 2008 reasonable further progress (RFP) plan, reasonably available control measures, and contingency measures for the Maryland portion of the Philadelphia 1997 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on June 4, 2007.


(t) EPA approves the following 2008 RFP motor vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) for the Maryland portion of the Philadelphia 1997 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on June 4, 2007:


(u) EPA approves revisions to the Maryland State Implementation Plan consisting of the 2008 reasonable further progress (RFP) plan, reasonably available control measures, and contingency measures for the Washington DC-MD-VA 1997 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on June 4, 2007.


(v) EPA approves the following 2008 RFP motor vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) for the Washington, DC-MD-VA 1997 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area submitted by the Director of the Virginia Department of Environment Quality on June 12, 2007:


(w) EPA has determined, as of February 28, 2012, that based on 2007 to 2009 and 2008 to 2010 ambient air quality data, the Washington, DC-MD-VA moderate nonattainment area has attained the 1997 8-hour ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS). This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 51.918, suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 1997 8-hour ozone NAAQS.


(x) EPA has determined, as of March 26, 2012, that based on 2008 to 2010 ambient air quality data, Philadelphia-Wilmington-Atlantic City, PA-NJ-MD-DE 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area has attained the 1997 8-hour ozone NAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 51.918, suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 1997 annual 8-hour ozone NAAQS.


(y) Determination—EPA has determined that, as of July 12, 2012, the Baltimore 1-hour ozone nonattainment area has attained the 1-hour ozone standard and that this determination obviates the requirement for Maryland to submit for the Baltimore area the 1-hour ozone contingency measure requirements of section 172(c)(9) of the Clean Air Act.


(z) EPA approves the attainment demonstration portion of the attainment plan for the 1997 8-hour ozone NAAQS for the Philadelphia Area submitted as a revision to the State Implementation Plan by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on June 4, 2007. EPA also approves the 2009 motor vehicle emissions budgets associated with the attainment demonstration for Cecil County, Maryland.


(aa) EPA approves revisions to the Maryland State Implementation Plan consisting of the attainment demonstration required under 40 CFR 51.908 demonstrating attainment of the 1997 ozone NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of June 15, 2010 and the failure to attain contingency measures for the Washington, DC-MD-VA 1997 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on June 4, 2007.


(bb) EPA approves the following 2009 attainment demonstration and 2010 motor vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) for the Washington, DC-MDVA 1997 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on June 4, 2007:


(cc) EPA approves revisions to the Maryland State Implementation Plan consisting of the serious area reasonable further progress (RFP) plan for the Baltimore 1997 8-hour ozone serious nonattainment area, including 2011 and 2012 RFP milestones, updates to the 2008 RFP milestones previously approved by EPA under paragraph (q) of this section, and contingency measures for failure to meet 2012 RFP, submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on July 22, 2013.


(dd) EPA approves the following 2012 RFP motor vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) for the Baltimore 1997 8-hour ozone serious nonattainment area, in tons per day (tpd) of volatile organic compounds (VOC) and nitrogen oxides (NO_X_), submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on July 22, 2013:


(ee) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Maryland portion of the Washington, DC-MD-VA nonattainment area for the 2008 8-hour ozone NAAQS submitted by the Secretary of the Maryland Department of the Environment on February 5, 2018. The maintenance plan includes 2014, 2025, and 2030 motor vehicle emission budgets (MVEBs) for VOC and NO_X_ to be applied to all future transportation conformity determinations and analyses for the entire Washington, DC-MD-VA area for the 2008 8-hour ozone NAAQS. The maintenance plan includes two sets of VOC and NO_X_ MVEBs: The MVEBs without transportation buffers are effective as EPA has determined them adequate for transportation conformity purposes; the MVEBs with transportation buffers will be used only as needed in situations where the conformity analysis must be based on different data, models, or planning assumptions, including, but not limited to, updates to demographic, land use, or project-related assumptions, than were used to create the set of MVEBs without transportation buffers. The technical analyses used to demonstrate compliance with the MVEBs and the need, if any, to use transportation buffers will be fully documented in the conformity analysis and follow the Transportation Planning Board's (TPB) interagency consultation procedures.


(ff) The EPA has determined that the Baltimore, Maryland Moderate nonattainment area attained the 2008 8-hour ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards by the applicable attainment date of July 20, 2018, based upon complete quality-assured and certified data for the calendar years 2015-2017.


(gg) EPA is disapproving Maryland's October 16, 2019, State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision intended to address the Clean Air Act (CAA) section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) interstate transport requirements for the 2015 8-hour ozone national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS).


(hh) EPA approves updates to the 2008 8-Hour Ozone national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS) maintenance plan for the Maryland portion of the Washington, DC-MD-VA 2008 8-Hour Ozone NAAQS Maintenance Area. The updates include revised motor vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) and updates to the applicable onroad and nonroad mobile emissions for VOC and NO_X_ for the years 2025 and 2030. EPA also approves the allocation of a portion of the safety margins for VOC and NO_X_ in the ozone maintenance plan to the 2025 and 2030 MVEBs. The revised MVEBs for VOC and NO_X_ applies to all future transportation conformity determinations and analyses for the entire Washington, DC-MD-VA Maintenance Area for the 2008 8-Hour Ozone NAAQS.





---

[N] [62 FR 40458, July 29, 1997]


