# 247.271-1   Policy.

(a) *Annual contracts.* Normally—


(1) Use requirements contracts to acquire services for the—


(i) Preparation of personal property for shipment or storage; and


(ii) Performance of intra-area movement.


(2) Award contracts on a calendar year basis.


(3) Provide for option years.


(4) Award contracts, or exercise option years, before November 1 of each year, if possible.


(b) *Areas of performance.* Define clearly in the solicitation each area of performance.


(1) Establish one or more areas; however, hold the number to a minimum consistent with local conditions.


(2) Each schedule may provide for the same or different areas of performance. Determine the areas as follows—


(i) Use political boundaries, streets, or any other features as lines of demarcation. Consider such matters as—


(A) Total volume;


(B) Size of overall area; and


(C) The need to service isolated areas of high population density.


(ii) Specifically identify frequently used terminals, and consider them as being included in each area of performance described in the solicitation.


(c) *Maximum requirements-minimum capability.* The contracting officer must—


(1) Establish realistic quantities on the Estimated Quantities Report in DoD 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation, Part IV;


(2) Ensure that the Government's minimum acceptable daily capability—


(i) Will at least equal the maximum authorized individual weight allowance as prescribed by the Joint Federal Travel Regulations; and


(ii) Will encourage maximum participation of small business concerns as offerors.



---

[N] [56 FR 36466, July 31, 1991, as amended at 65 FR 50145, Aug. 17, 2000. Redesignated at 75 FR 51417, Aug. 20, 2010]




