# ยง 308.175   Measure of awards.

(a) *General rule.* Awards will be based on rates customarily charged by persons engaged in the business of acting as attorneys, agents, and expert witnesses, even if the services were made available without charge or at a reduced rate, provided that no award under this subpart for the fee of an attorney or agent may exceed $125 per hour. No award to compensate an expert witness may exceed the highest rate at which the FDIC pays expert witnesses. An award may include the reasonable expenses of the attorney, agent, or expert witness as a separate item, if the attorney, agent, or expert witness ordinarily charges clients separately for such expenses. Fees and expenses awarded under 5 U.S.C. 504(a)(4) related to defending against an excessive demand shall be paid only as a consequence of appropriations paid in advance.


(b) *Determination of reasonableness of fees.* In determining the reasonableness of the fee sought for an attorney, agent, or expert witness, the administrative law judge shall consider the following: 


(1) If the attorney, agent, or expert witness is in private practice, his or her customary fee for like services, or, if he or she is an employee of the applicant, the fully allocated cost of the services; 


(2) The prevailing rate for similar services in the community in which the attorney, agent, or expert witness ordinarily performs services; 


(3) The time actually spent in the representation of the applicant; 


(4) The time reasonably spent in light of the difficulty or complexity of the issues in the proceeding; and 


(5) Such other factors as may bear on the value of the services provided. 


(c) *Awards for studies.* The reasonable cost of any study, analysis, test, project, or similar matter prepared on behalf of an applicant may be awarded to the extent that the charge for the service does not exceed the prevailing rate payable for similar services, and the study or other matter was necessary for preparation of the applicant's case and not otherwise required by law or sound business or financial practice. 



---

[N] [56 FR 37975, Aug. 9, 1991, as amended at 64 FR 62102, Nov. 16, 1999]




