# ยง 191.7   Report submission requirements.

(a) *General.* Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (e) of this section, an operator must submit each report required by this part electronically to the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration at *http://portal.phmsa.dot.gov/pipeline* unless an alternative reporting method is authorized in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.


(b) *Exceptions:* An operator is not required to submit a safety-related condition report (ยง 191.25) electronically.


(c) *Safety-related conditions.* An operator must submit concurrently to the applicable State agency a safety-related condition report required by ยง 191.23 for intrastate pipeline transportation or when the State agency acts as an agent of the Secretary with respect to interstate transmission facilities.


(d) *Alternative Reporting Method.* If electronic reporting imposes an undue burden and hardship, an operator may submit a written request for an alternative reporting method to the Information Resources Manager, Office of Pipeline Safety, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, PHP-20, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE, Washington DC 20590. The request must describe the undue burden and hardship. PHMSA will review the request and may authorize, in writing, an alternative reporting method. An authorization will state the period for which it is valid, which may be indefinite. An operator must contact PHMSA at 202-366-8075, or electronically to *informationresourcesmanager@dot.gov* or make arrangements for submitting a report that is due after a request for alternative reporting is submitted but before an authorization or denial is received.


(e) *National Pipeline Mapping System (NPMS).* An operator must provide the NPMS data to the address identified in the NPMS Operator Standards manual available at *www.npms.phmsa.dot.gov* or by contacting the PHMSA Geographic Information Systems Manager at (202) 366-4595.



---

[N] [75 FR 72905, Nov. 26, 2010, as amended at by Amdt. 191-23, 80 FR 12777, Mar. 11, 2015]




