# ยง 98.423   Calculating CO

(a) Except as allowed in paragraph (b) of this section, calculate the annual mass of CO_2_ captured, extracted, imported, or exported through each flow meter in accordance with the procedures specified in either paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section. If multiple flow meters are used, you shall calculate the annual mass of CO_2_ for all flow meters according to the procedures specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.


(1) For each mass flow meter, you shall calculate quarterly the mass of CO_2_ in a CO_2_ stream in metric tons by multiplying the mass flow by the composition data, according to Equation PP-1 of this section. Mass flow and composition data measurements shall be made in accordance with ยง 98.424 of this subpart.


(2) For each volumetric flow meter, you shall calculate quarterly the mass of CO_2_ in a CO_2_ stream in metric tons by multiplying the volumetric flow by the concentration and density data, according to Equation PP-2 of this section. Volumetric flow, concentration and density data measurements shall be made in accordance with ยง 98.424 of this section.


(3) To aggregate data, use either Equation PP-3a or PP-3b in this paragraph, as appropriate.


(i) For facilities with production process units, DAC process units, or production wells that capture or extract a CO_2_ stream and either measure it after segregation or do not segregate the flow, calculate the total CO_2_ supplied in accordance with equation PP-3a to paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section.




(ii) For facilities with production process units or DAC process units that capture a CO_2_ stream and measure it ahead of segregation, calculate the total CO_2_ supplied in accordance with equation PP-3b to paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section.




(b) As an alternative to paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section for CO_2_ that is supplied in containers, calculate the annual mass of CO_2_ supplied in containers delivered by each CO_2_ stream in accordance with the procedures specified in either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section. If multiple CO_2_ streams are used to deliver CO_2_ to containers, you shall calculate the annual mass of CO_2_ supplied in containers delivered by all CO_2_ streams according to the procedures specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(1) For each CO_2_ stream that delivers CO_2_ to containers, for which mass is measured, you shall calculate CO_2_ supply in containers using Equation PP-1 of this section.


(2) For each CO_2_ stream that delivers to containers, for which volume is measured, you shall calculate CO_2_ supply in containers using Equation PP-2 of this section.


(3) To aggregate data, sum the mass of CO_2_ supplied in containers delivered by all CO_2_ streams in accordance with Equation PP-3a of this section.


(c) Importers or exporters that import or export CO_2_ in containers shall calculate the total mass of CO_2_ imported or exported in metric tons based on summing the mass in each CO_2_ container using weigh bills, scales, or load cells according to Equation PP-4 of this section.



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 79169, Dec. 17, 2010; 78 FR 71977, Nov. 29, 2013; 89 FR 31943, Apr. 25, 2024]




