# § 22.953   Content and form of applications for Cellular Unserved Area authorizations.

Applications for authority to operate a new Cellular system or to modify an existing Cellular system must comply with the specifications in this section.


(a) *New Systems.* In addition to information required by subpart B of this part and by FCC Form 601, applications for an Unserved Area authorization to operate a Cellular system must comply with all applicable requirements set forth in part 1 of this chapter, including the requirements specified in §§ 1.913, 1.923, and 1.924, and must include the information listed below. Geographical coordinates must be correct to ±1 second using the NAD 83 datum.


(1) *Exhibit I—Geographic Information System (GIS) map files.* Geographic Information System (GIS) map files must be submitted showing the entire proposed CGSA, the new cell sites (transmitting antenna locations), and the service area boundaries of additional and modified cell sites that extend into Unserved Area being claimed as CGSA. *See* § 22.911. The FCC will specify the file format required for the GIS map files, which are to be submitted electronically via the Universal Licensing System (ULS).


(2) *Exhibit II—Reduced-size PDF map.* This map must be 8
1/2 × 11 inches (if possible, a proportional reduction of a 1:500,000 scale map). The map must have a legend, a distance scale, and correctly labeled latitude and longitude lines. The map must be clear and legible. The map must accurately show the entire proposed CGSA, the new cell sites (transmitting antenna locations), the service area boundaries of additional and modified cell sites that extend beyond the CGSA, and the relevant portions of the CMA boundary. *See* § 22.911.


(3) *Exhibit III—Technical Information.* In addition, upon request by an applicant, licensee, or the FCC, a Cellular applicant or licensee of whom the request is made shall furnish the antenna type, model, the name of the antenna manufacturer, antenna gain in the maximum lobe, the beam width of the maximum lobe of the antenna, a polar plot of the horizontal gain pattern of the antenna, antenna height to tip above ground level, the height of the center of radiation of the antenna above the average terrain, the maximum effective radiated power, and the electric field polarization of the wave emitted by the antenna when installed as proposed to the requesting party within ten (10) days of receiving written notification.


(4)-(10) [Reserved]


(11) *Additional information.* The FCC may request information not specified in FCC Form 601 or in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section as necessary to process an application.


(b) *Existing systems—major modifications.* Licensees making major modifications pursuant to § 1.929(a) and (b) of this chapter must file FCC Form 601 and comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) *Existing systems—minor modifications.* Licensees making minor modifications pursuant to § 1.929(k) of this chapter must file FCC Form 601 or FCC Form 603, provided, however, that a resulting reduction in coverage within the CGSA is not subject to this requirement. *See* § 1.947(b). *See also* § 22.169. If the modification involves a contract SAB extension into or from the Gulf of Mexico Exclusive Zone, it must include a certification that the required written consent has been obtained. *See* §§ 22.912(c) and 22.950.



---

[N] [79 FR 72152, Dec. 5, 2014, as amended at 82 FR 17584, Apr. 12, 2017]




