# ยง 150.13   Incorporations by reference.

(a) *General.* This part prescribes certain standards and procedures which are not set forth in full text in the rule. Those standards and procedures are hereby incorporated by reference and were approved for incorporation by reference by the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51.


(b) *Changes to incorporated matter.* Incorporated matter which is subject to subsequent change is incorporated by reference according to the specific reference and to the identification statement. Adoption of any subsequent change in incorporated matter that affects compliance with standards and procedures of this part will be made under 14 CFR part 11 and 1 CFR part 51. 


(c) *Identification statement.* The complete title or description which identifies each published matter incorporated by reference in this part is as follows: 


(d) *Availability for purchase.* Published material incorporated by reference in this part may be purchased at the price established by the publisher or distributor at the following mailing addresses. 


(e) *Availability for inspection.* A copy of each publication incorporated by reference in this part is available for public inspection at the following locations: 


(1) FAA Office of the Chief Counsel, Rules Docket, AGC-200, Federal Aviation Administration Headquarters Building, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591.


(2) The respective Regional Offices of the Federal Aviation Administration as follows. The most current mailing address, phone numbers, and States covered by each region are available on the FAA's Web site at *http://www.faa.gov/arp/index.cfm?nav = hq.*

(i) New England Regional Office, 12 New England Executive Park, Burlington, Massachusetts 01803.


(ii) Eastern Regional Office, Airports Division, 1 Aviation Plaza, Jamaica, NY 11434-4809.


(iii) Southern Regional Office, Federal Aviation Administration, ATTN: ASO-600, P.O. Box 20636, Atlanta, GA 30320-0631.


(iv) Great Lakes Regional Office, 2300 East Devon, Des Plaines, Illinois 60018.


(v) Central Regional Office, Federal Aviation Administration, ACE-600, 901 Locust, Kansas City, MO 64106-2325.


(vi) Southwest Regional Office, Federal Aviation Administration, 2601 Meacham Blvd., Fort Worth, TX 76137-4298.


(vii) Northwest Mountain Regional Office, Federal Aviation Administration, Airports Division, 1601 Lind Avenue SW., Suite 315, Renton, WA 98055-4056.


(viii) Western Pacific Regional Office, 15000 Aviation Boulevard, Hawthorne, California (P.O. Box 92007, Worldway Postal Center, Los Angeles) 90009.


(ix) Alaskan Regional Office, 222 W. 7th Avenue #14, Anchorage, AK 9951. 


(3) National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*


---

[N] [Doc. No. 18691, 49 FR 49269, Dec. 18, 1984, as amended by Amdt. 150-2, 54 FR 39295, Sept. 25, 1989; 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004; Amdt. 150-4, 69 FR 57625, Sept. 24, 2004; 72 FR 68475, Dec. 5, 2007]




