# ยง 41.30   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions in ยง 41.2, the following definitions apply to proceedings under this subpart unless otherwise clear from the context:


*Applicant* means either the applicant in a national application for a patent or the applicant in an application for reissue of a patent.


*Evidence* means something (including testimony, documents and tangible objects) that tends to prove or disprove the existence of an alleged fact, except that for the purpose of this subpart *Evidence* does not include dictionaries, which may be cited before the Board.


*Owner* means the owner of the patent undergoing *ex parte* reexamination under ยง 1.510 of this title.


*Proceeding* means either a national application for a patent, an application for reissue of a patent, an *ex parte* reexamination proceeding, or a trial before the Patent Trial and Appeal Board. Appeal to the Board in an *inter partes* reexamination proceeding is controlled by subpart C of this part.


*Record* means the items listed in the content listing of the Image File Wrapper of the official file of the application or reexamination proceeding on appeal or the official file of the Office if other than the Image File Wrapper, excluding amendments, Evidence, and other documents that were not entered. In the case of an issued patent being reissued or reexamined, the *Record* further includes the *Record* of the patent being reissued or reexamined.



---

[N] [69 FR 50003, Aug. 12, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 72296, Nov. 22, 2011; 77 FR 46630, Aug. 6, 2012]




