# ยง 3173.13   Requirements for approved facility measurement points.

(a) For an existing facility in service on or before January 17, 2017, an operator must start using an FMP number for reporting production to ONRR on its OGOR for the fourth production month after the BLM assigns the FMP number(s), and every month thereafter. (For example, for a facility that is assigned an FMP number on January 15, 2016, the effective date of the FMP is the May production report.) For a new facility in service after January 17, 2017, an operator must start using an FMP number for reporting production to ONRR on its OGOR for the first production month after the BLM assigns the FMP number(s), and every month thereafter. (For example, for a facility that is assigned an FMP number on January 15, 2016, the effective date of the FMP is the February production report.)


(b)(1) The operator must file a Sundry Notice that describes any changes or modifications made to the FMP within 30 days after the change. This requirement does not apply to temporary modifications (*e.g.,* for maintenance purposes). These include any changes and modifications to the information listed on an application submitted under ยง 3173.12.


(2) The description must include details such as the primary element, secondary element, LACT/CMS meter, tank number(s), and wells or facilities using the FMP.


(3) The Sundry Notice must specify what was changed and the effective date, and include, if appropriate, an amended site facility diagram (see ยง 3173.11).




