# § 1710.151   Required findings for all loans.

(a) *Area coverage.* Adequate electric service will be made available to the widest practical number of rural users in the borrower's service area during the life of the loan. See § 1710.103.


(b) *Feasibility.* The loan is feasible and it will be repaid on time according to the terms of the mortgage, note, and loan contract. At any time after the original determination of feasibility, the Administrator may require the borrower to demonstrate that the loan remains feasible if there have been, or are anticipated to be, material changes in the borrower's costs, loads, rates, rate disparity, revenues, or other relevant factors from the time that feasibility was originally determined. See § 1710.112 and subpart G of this part.


(c) *Security.* RUS will have a first lien on the borrower's total system or other adequate security, and adequate financial and managerial controls will be included in loan documents. See § 1710.113.


(d) *Interim financing.* For loans that include funds to replace interim financing, there is satisfactory evidence that the interim financing was used for purposes approved by RUS and that the loan meets all applicable requirements of this part. 


(e) *Facilities for nonrural areas.* Whenever a borrower proposes to use loan funds for the improvement, expansion, construction, or acquisition of electric facilities for non-RE Act beneficiaries, there is satisfactory evidence that such funds are necessary and incidental to furnishing or improving electric service for RE Act beneficiaries. See § 1710.104.


(f) *Facilities to be included in rate base.* In states having jurisdiction, the borrower has provided satisfactory evidence based on the information available, such as an opinion of counsel, that the state regulatory authority will not exclude from the borrower's rate base any of the facilities included in the loan request, or otherwise prevent the borrower from charging rates sufficient to repay with interest the debt incurred for the facilities. Such evidence may be based on, but not necessarily limited to, the provisions of applicable state laws; the rules and policies of the state authority; precedents in other similar cases; statements made by the state authority; any assurances given to the borrower by the state authority; and other relevant information and experience. 




