# § 2412.2   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part—


*Individual* means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.


*Maintain* includes maintain, collect, use, or disseminate.


*Record* means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by the Authority, the General Counsel, the IG, or the Panel including, but not limited to, information regarding the individual's education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history, that contains the individual's name, or the identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as a finger or voice print or a photograph.


*Request for access* to a record means a request made under the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1).


*Request for amendment or correction* of a record means a request made under the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(2).


*Request for an accounting* means a request made under the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3).


*Requester* means an individual who makes an existence-of-records request, a request for access, a request for amendment or correction, or a request for an accounting under the Privacy Act.


*Routine use* means, with respect to the disclosure of a record, the use of such record for a purpose which is compatible with the purpose for which it was collected.


*System of records* means a group of any records under the control of the Authority, the General Counsel, the IG, or the Panel from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying particular assigned to the individual.






