# § 92.251   Property standards.

(a) *New construction projects*—(1) *State and local codes, ordinances, and zoning requirements.* Housing that is newly constructed with HOME funds must meet all applicable State and local codes, ordinances, and zoning requirements. HOME-assisted new construction projects must meet State or local residential and building codes, as applicable or, in the absence of a State or local building code, the International Residential Code or International Building Code (as applicable to the type of housing) of the International Code Council. The housing must meet the applicable requirements upon project completion.


(2) *HUD requirements.* All new construction projects must also meet the requirements described in this paragraph:


(i) *Accessibility.* The housing must meet the accessibility requirements of 24 CFR part 8, which implements Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), and Titles II and III of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12131-12189) implemented at 28 CFR parts 35 and 36, as applicable. Covered multifamily dwellings, as defined at 24 CFR 100.201, must also meet the design and construction requirements at 24 CFR 100.205, which implements the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619).


(ii) [Reserved]


(iii) *Disaster mitigation.* Where relevant, the housing must be constructed to mitigate the impact of potential disasters (e.g., earthquakes, hurricanes, flooding, and wildfires), in accordance with State and local codes, ordinances, or other State and local requirements, or such other requirements as HUD may establish.


(iv) *Written cost estimates, construction contracts and construction documents.* The participating jurisdiction must ensure the construction contract(s) and construction documents describe the work to be undertaken in adequate detail so that inspections can be conducted. The participating jurisdiction must review and approve written cost estimates for construction and determining that costs are reasonable.


(v) *Construction progress inspections.* The participating jurisdiction must conduct progress and final inspections of construction to ensure that work is done in accordance with the applicable codes, the construction contract, and construction documents.


(vi) *Broadband infrastructure.* For new commitments made after January 19, 2017 for a new construction housing project of a building with more than 4 rental units, the construction must include installation of broadband infrastructure, as this term is defined in 24 CFR 5.100, except where the participating jurisdiction determines and, in accordance with § 92.508(a)(3)(iv), documents the determination that:


(A) The location of the new construction makes installation of broadband infrastructure infeasible; or


(B) The cost of installing the infrastructure would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of its program or activity or in an undue financial burden.


(b) *Rehabilitation projects.* All rehabilitation that is performed using HOME funds must meet the requirements of this paragraph (b).


(1) *Rehabilitation standards.* The participating jurisdiction must establish rehabilitation standards for all HOME- assisted housing rehabilitation activities that set forth the requirements that the housing must meet upon project completion. The participating jurisdiction's description of its standards must be in sufficient detail to determine the required rehabilitation work including methods and materials. The standards may refer to applicable codes or they may establish requirements that exceed the minimum requirements of the codes. The rehabilitation standards must address each of the following:


(i) *Health and safety.* The participating jurisdiction's standards must identify life-threatening deficiencies that must be addressed immediately if the housing is occupied.


(ii) *Major systems.* Major systems are: structural support; roofing; cladding and weatherproofing (e.g., windows, doors, siding, gutters); plumbing; electrical; and heating, ventilation, and air conditioning. For rental housing, the participating jurisdiction's standards must require the participating jurisdiction to estimate (based on age and condition) the remaining useful life of these systems, upon project completion of each major systems. For multifamily housing projects of 26 units or more, the participating jurisdiction's standards must require the participating jurisdiction to determine the useful life of major systems through a capital needs assessment of the project. For rental housing, if the remaining useful life of one or more major system is less than the applicable period of affordability, the participating jurisdiction's standards must require the participating jurisdiction to ensure that a replacement reserve is established and monthly payments are made to the reserve that are adequate to repair or replace the systems as needed. For homeownership housing, the participating jurisdiction's standards must require, upon project completion, each of the major systems to have a remaining useful life for a minimum of 5 years or for such longer period specified by the participating jurisdiction, or the major systems must be rehabilitated or replaced as part of the rehabilitation work.


(iii) *Lead-based paint.* The participating jurisdiction's standards must require the housing to meet the lead-based paint requirements at 24 CFR part 35.


(iv) *Accessibility.* The participating jurisdiction's standards must require the housing to meet the accessibility requirements in 24 CFR part 8, which implements Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), and Titles II and III of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12131-12189) implemented at 28 CFR parts 35 and 36, as applicable. Covered multifamily dwellings, as defined at 24 CFR 100.201, must also meet the design and construction requirements at 24 CFR 100.205, which implements the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619). Rehabilitation may include improvements that are not required by regulation or statute that permit use by a person with disabilities.


(v) [Reserved]


(vi) *Disaster mitigation.* Where relevant, the participating jurisdiction's standards must require the housing to be improved to mitigate the impact of potential disasters (e.g., earthquake, hurricanes, flooding, and wildfires) in accordance with State and local codes, ordinances, and requirements.


(vii) *State and local codes, ordinances, and zoning requirements.* The participating jurisdiction's standards must require the housing to meet all applicable State and local codes, ordinances, and requirements or, in the absence of a State or local building code, the International Existing Building Code of the International Code Council.


(viii) *HUD housing standards.* The standards of the participating jurisdiction must be such that, upon completion, the HOME-assisted project and units will be decent, safe, sanitary, and in good repair. This means that the HOME-assisted project and units will meet the standards in 24 CFR 5.703, except that the carbon monoxide detection requirements at 24 CFR 5.703(b)(2) and (d)(6) shall not apply. For all HOME-assisted projects and units, the requirements at 24 CFR 5.705 through 5.713 do not apply. At minimum, the participating jurisdiction's rehabilitation standards must require correction of the specific deficiencies published in the _Federal Register_ for HOME-assisted projects and units. For SRO housing, 24 CFR 5.703(d) shall only apply to the extent that the SRO unit contains the room or facility referenced in 24 CFR 5.703(d).


(ix) *Capital Needs Assessments.* For multifamily rental housing projects of 26 or more total units, the participating jurisdiction must determine all work that will be performed in the rehabilitation of the housing and the long-term physical needs of the project through a capital needs assessment of the project.


(x) *Broadband infrastructure.* For new commitments made after January 19, 2017 for a substantial rehabilitation project of a building with more than 4 rental units, any substantial rehabilitation, as defined in 24 CFR 5.100, must provide for installation of broadband infrastructure, as this term is also defined in 24 CFR 5.100, except where the participating jurisdiction determines and, in accordance with § 92.508(a)(3)(iv), documents the determination that:


(A) The location of the substantial rehabilitation makes installation of broadband infrastructure infeasible;


(B) The cost of installing broadband infrastructure would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of its program or activity or in an undue financial burden; or


(C) The structure of the housing to be substantially rehabilitated makes installation of broadband infrastructure infeasible.


(2) *Construction documents and cost estimates.* The participating jurisdiction must ensure that the work to be undertaken will meet the participating jurisdiction's rehabilitation standards. The construction documents (i.e., written scope of work to be performed) must be in sufficient detail to establish the basis for a uniform inspection of the housing to determine compliance with the participating jurisdiction's standards. The participating jurisdiction must review and approve a written cost estimate for rehabilitation after determining that costs are reasonable.


(3) *Frequency of inspections.* The participating jurisdiction must conduct an initial property inspection to identify the deficiencies that must be addressed. The participating jurisdiction must conduct progress and final inspections to determine that work was done in accordance with work write-ups.


(c) *Acquisition of standard housing.* (1) Existing housing that is acquired with HOME assistance for rental housing, and that was newly constructed or rehabilitated less than 12 months before the date of commitment of HOME funds, must meet the property standards of paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of this section, as applicable, of this section for new construction and rehabilitation projects. The participating jurisdiction must document this compliance based upon a review of approved building plans and Certificates of Occupancy, and an inspection that is conducted no earlier than 90 days before the commitment of HOME assistance.


(2) All other existing housing that is acquired with HOME assistance for rental housing must meet the rehabilitation property standards requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. The participating jurisdiction must document this compliance based upon an inspection that is conducted no earlier than 90 days before the commitment of HOME assistance. If the property does not meet these standards, HOME funds cannot be used to acquire the property unless it is rehabilitated to meet the standards of paragraph (b) of this section.


(3) Existing housing that is acquired for homeownership (e.g., downpayment assistance) must be decent, safe, sanitary, and in good repair. The participating jurisdiction must establish standards to determine that the housing is decent, safe, sanitary, and in good repair. At minimum, the standards must provide that the housing meets all applicable State and local housing quality standards and code requirements and the housing does not contain the specific deficiencies established by HUD based on the applicable standards in 24 CFR 5.703 and published in the _Federal Register_ for HOME assisted projects and units. The participating jurisdiction must inspect the housing and document this compliance based upon an inspection that is conducted no earlier than 90 days before the commitment of HOME assistance. If the housing does not meet these standards, the housing must be rehabilitated to meet the standards of this paragraph (c)(3) or it cannot be acquired with HOME funds.


(d) [Reserved]


(e) *Manufactured housing.* Construction of all manufactured housing including manufactured housing that replaces an existing substandard unit under the definition of “reconstruction” must meet the Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards codified at 24 CFR part 3280. These standards preempt State and local codes which are not identical to the federal standards for the new construction of manufactured housing. Participating jurisdictions providing HOME funds to assist manufactured housing units must comply with applicable State and local laws or codes. In the absence of such laws or codes, the installation must comply with the manufacturer's written instructions for installation of manufactured housing units. All new manufactured housing and all manufactured housing that replaces an existing substandard unit under the definition of “reconstruction” must be on a permanent foundation that meets the requirements for foundation systems as set forth in 24 CFR 203.43f(c)(i). All new manufactured housing and all manufactured housing that replaces an existing substandard unit under the definition of “reconstruction” must, at the time of project completion, be connected to permanent utility hook-ups and be located on land that is owned by the manufactured housing unit owner or land for which the manufactured housing owner has a lease for a period at least equal to the applicable period of affordability. In HOME-funded rehabilitation of existing manufactured housing the foundation and anchoring must meet all applicable State and local codes, ordinances, and requirements or in the absence of local or state codes, the Model Manufactured Home Installation Standards at 24 CFR part 3285. Manufactured housing that is rehabilitated using HOME funds must meet the property standards requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, as applicable. The participating jurisdiction must document this compliance in accordance with inspection procedures that the participating jurisdiction has established pursuant to § 92.251, as applicable.


(f) *Ongoing property condition standards: Rental housing and housing occupied by tenants receiving HOME tenant-based rental assistance*—(1) *Ongoing property standards.* The participating jurisdiction must establish property standards for rental housing (including manufactured housing) that apply throughout the affordability period and for housing occupied by tenants receiving HOME tenant-based rental assistance. The standards must require that owners maintain the housing as decent, safe, sanitary, and in good repair. The participating jurisdiction's description of its property standards must be in sufficient detail to establish the basis for a uniform inspection of HOME rental projects and housing occupied by tenants receiving HOME tenant-based rental assistance. The participating jurisdiction's ongoing property standards must address each of the following:


(i) *Compliance with State and local codes, ordinances, and requirements.* The participating jurisdiction's standards must require the housing to meet all applicable State and local code requirements and ordinances. In the absence of existing applicable State or local code requirements and ordinances, at a minimum, the participating jurisdiction's ongoing property standards must provide that the property does not contain the specific deficiencies established by HUD based on the applicable standards in 24 CFR 5.703 and published in the _Federal Register_ for rental housing (including manufactured housing) and housing occupied by tenants receiving HOME tenant-based rental assistance. The requirements in 24 CFR 5.705 through 5.713 do not apply to the participating jurisdiction's ongoing property standards.


(ii) *Health and safety.* The participating jurisdiction's standards must require the housing to be free of all health and safety defects. The standards must identify life-threatening deficiencies that the owner must immediately correct and the time frames for addressing these deficiencies.


(iii) *Lead-based paint.* The participating jurisdiction's standards must require the housing to meet the lead-based paint requirements in 24 CFR part 35.


(2) Projects to which HOME funds were committed before January 24, 2015 must meet all applicable State or local housing quality standards or code requirements, and if there are no such standard or code requirements, the housing must meet the housing quality standards in 24 CFR 982.401.


(3) *Inspections.* The participating jurisdiction must undertake ongoing property inspections, in accordance with § 92.504(d).


(4) *Corrective and remedial actions.* The participating jurisdiction must have procedures for ensuring that timely corrective and remedial actions are taken by the project owner to address identified deficiencies.


(5) *Inspection procedures.* The participating jurisdiction must establish written inspection procedures inspections. The procedures must include detailed inspection checklists, description of how and by whom inspections will be carried out, and procedures for training and certifying qualified inspectors. The procedures must also describe how frequently the property will be inspected, consistent with this section, § 92.209, and § 92.504(d).



---

[N] [78 FR 44670, July 24, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 92635, Dec. 20, 2016; 88 FR 30496, May 11, 2023]




