# ยง 1205.500   Terms defined.

As used throughout this subpart, unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall mean: 


(a) *ASCS* means the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. 


(b) *Cotton Board* means the administrative body established pursuant to the Cotton Research and Promotion Order. 


(c) *CCC* means the Commodity Credit Corporation. 


(d) *Current value of Cotton* means the gross price per pound of lint cotton received by the producer for cotton as shown on the producers' settlement document before deductions are made for weight penalties, buyer's commission or brokerage fees, marketing fees, the $1 per bale cotton research and promotion assessment, picking charges, ginning charges, warehouse receiving charges, warehouse storage charges, transportation charges or any other charges, plus any amount received by a producer in the form of a loan deficiency payment with respect to such cotton.


(e) *Form A* means Cotton Producer's Note, Form CCC Cotton A. 


(f) *Gin code number* means the identification number assigned to each cotton gin by the Cotton Division, Agricultural Marketing Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 


(g) *Handle* means to harvest, gin, warehouse, compress, purchase, market, transport, or otherwise acquire ownership or control of cotton. 


(h) *Handler* means any person who handles cotton, including CCC. 


(i) *Marketing* means any sale of cotton, or the pledging of cotton to CCC as collateral for a price support loan. 


(j) *Marketing year* means a consecutive 12-month period ending on July 31. 


(k) *Person* means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any other entity, whether governmental or private. 


(l) *Producer* means any person who owns or shares in a cotton crop (or in the proceeds thereof) as landowner, landlord, tenant, or sharecropper. 


(m) *Secretary* means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the U.S. Department of Agriculture to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.


(n) *Loan deficiency payment* means any payment on Upland cotton made by the Commodity Credit Corporation to a producer in accordance with 7 CFR 713.55.


(o) *Importer* means any person who enters, or withdraws from warehouse, cotton for consumption in the customs territory of the United States and *import* means any such entry.


(p) *Customs Service* means the United States Customs Service of the United States Department of Treasury.


(q) *Cotton* means: 


(1) All Upland cotton harvested in the United States, and, except as used in section 7(e) of the Act, includes cottonseed of such cotton and the products derived from such cotton and its seed, and 


(2) Imports of Upland cotton, including the Upland cotton content of the products derived thereof. The term *cotton* shall not, however, include:


(i) Any entry of imported cotton by an importer which has a value or weight less than a de minimis amount established in regulations issued by the Secretary and 


(ii) Industrial products as that term is defined by regulation.


(r) *Industrial products* means cotton-containing products which are classified in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States under classifications other than textile classifications. Certain cotton-containing textile products under textile classifications shall also be considered to be industrial products, and are therefore not included in the table appearing in these regulations as products subject to assessment. Such products include, but are not limited to textile fabrics coated, impregnated, covered, or laminated, with other materials, textile piping and tubing, and belting materials.



---

[N] [42 FR 35974, July 13, 1977, as amended at 50 FR 10932, Mar. 19, 1985; 51 FR 6098, Feb. 20, 1986; 51 FR 37705, Oct. 24, 1986; 57 FR 29185, July 1, 1992]




