# § 355.61   How are key words in this part defined?

*Animal waste* means feces, urine, or other excrement, digestive emission, urea, or similar substances emitted by animals (including any form of livestock, poultry, or fish). This term includes animal waste that is mixed or commingled with bedding, compost, feed, soil, or any other material typically found with such waste.


*CERCLA* means the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended.


*CERCLA hazardous substance* means a substance defined in section 101(14) of CERCLA and listed in Table 302.4 of 40 CFR 302.4.


*Chief Executive Officer of the Tribe* means the person who is recognized by the Bureau of Indian Affairs as the chief elected administrative officer of the Tribe.


*Environment* includes water, air, and land and the interrelationship that exists among and between water, air, and land and all living things.


*EPCRA* means the Emergency Planning and Community Right-To-Know Act of 1986.


*Extremely hazardous substance (EHS)* means a substance listed in Appendices A and B of this part.


*Facility* means all buildings, equipment, structures, and other stationary items that are located on a single site or on contiguous or adjacent sites and that are owned or operated by the same person (or by any person that controls, is controlled by, or under common control with, such person). *Facility* includes manmade structures, as well as all natural structures in which chemicals are purposefully placed or removed through human means such that it functions as a containment structure for human use. For purposes of emergency release notification, the term includes motor vehicles, rolling stock, and aircraft.


*Farm* means a site or area (including associated structures) that—


(1) Is used for—


(i) The production of a crop; or


(ii) The raising or selling of animals (including any form of livestock, poultry, or fish); and


(2) Under normal conditions, produces during a farm year any agricultural products with a total value equal to not less than $1,000.


*Hazardous chemical* means any hazardous chemical as defined under 29 CFR 1910.1200(c), except that this term does not include:


(1) Any food, food additive, color additive, drug, or cosmetic regulated by the Food and Drug Administration.


(2) Any substance present as a solid in any manufactured item to the extent exposure to the substance does not occur under normal conditions of use.


(3) Any substance to the extent it is used:


(i) For personal, family, or household purposes, or is present in the same form and concentration as a product packaged for distribution and use by the general public. Present in the same form and concentration as a product packaged for distribution and use by the general public means a substance packaged in a similar manner and present in the same concentration as the substance when packaged for use by the general public, whether or not it is intended for distribution to the general public or used for the same purpose as when it is packaged for use by the general public;


(ii) In a research laboratory or hospital or other medical facility under the direct supervision of a technically qualified individual; or


(iii) In routine agricultural operations or is a fertilizer held for sale by a retailer to the ultimate customer.


*Indian Country* means Indian country defined in 18 U.S.C. 1151 as:


(1) All land within the limits of any Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the United States government, notwithstanding the issuance of any patent, and, including rights-of-way running through the reservation;


(2) All dependent Indian communities within the borders of the United States whether within the original or subsequently acquired territory thereof, and whether within or without the limits of a State; and


(3) All Indian allotments, the Indian titles to which have not been extinguished, including rights-of-way running through the same.


*Indian Tribe or Tribe* means those Tribes federally recognized by the Secretary of the Interior.


*LEPC* means the Local Emergency Planning Committee appointed by the State Emergency Response Commission.


*Medium or media* means the environment (*i.e.*, air, water, land).


*Mixture* means, for the purposes of 40 CFR part 355, a heterogeneous association of substances where the various individual substances retain their identities and can usually be separated by mechanical means. This definition includes, for the purposes of 40 CFR part 355, solutions but does not include alloys or amalgams.


*Non-reactive solid* means any substance listed in Appendix A or B of this part with two threshold planning quantity values, the higher TPQ being 10,000 pounds.


*Person* means any individual, trust, firm, joint stock company, corporation (including a government corporation), partnership, association, State, municipality, commission, political subdivision of a State, or interstate body.


*Reactive solid* means any extremely hazardous substance denoted with “a” in the “Notes” column in Appendix A or B of this part.


*Release* means any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping, or disposing into the environment (including the abandonment or discarding of barrels, containers, and other closed receptacles) of any hazardous chemical, EHS, or CERCLA hazardous substance.


*Reportable quantity* means, for any CERCLA hazardous substance, the quantity established in Table 302.4 of 40 CFR 302.4, for such substance. For any EHS, reportable quantity means the quantity established in Appendices A and B of this part for such substance. Unless and until superseded by regulations establishing a reportable quantity for newly listed EHSs or CERCLA hazardous substances, a weight of 1 pound shall be the reportable quantity.


*SERC* means the State Emergency Response Commission for the State in which the facility is located except where the facility is located in Indian Country, in which case, SERC means the Emergency Response Commission for the Tribe under whose jurisdiction the facility is located. In the absence of a SERC for a State or Indian Tribe, the Governor or the chief executive officer of the tribe, respectively, shall be the SERC. Where there is a cooperative agreement between a State and a Tribe, the SERC shall be the entity identified in the agreement.


*Solution* means any aqueous or organic solutions, slurries, viscous solutions, suspensions, emulsions, or pastes.


*State* means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands, any other territory or possession over which the United States has jurisdiction and Indian Country.


*Threshold planning quantity* means, for a substance listed in Appendices A and B of this part, the quantity listed in the column “threshold planning quantity” for that substance.



---

[N] [73 FR 65462, Nov. 3, 2008, as amended at 73 FR 76960, Dec. 18, 2008; 77 FR 16688, Mar. 22, 2012; 83 FR 37466, Aug. 1, 2018; 84 FR 27542, June 13, 2019]







