# § 63.1453   How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations, work practice standards, design standards, and operation and maintenance requirements that apply to me?

(a) *Filterable particulate matter emission limits.* For each affected source subject to a particulate matter emission limit in § 63.1444 or § 63.1446 as applies to you, you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) For each copper concentrate dryer, smelting vessel, slag cleaning vessel, copper converter department, anode refining department, and combination of anode refining department and Hoboken converter process fugitive capture system subject to a filterable particulate matter emission limit in § 63.1444 or § 63.1446 as applies to you, you must demonstrate continuous compliance by meeting the conditions in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) or paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (iv) through (vii) of this section.


(i) Maintain the average concentration of filterable particulate matter in the gases discharged from the affected source at or below the applicable emission limit. If a particulate matter continuous emissions monitoring system (PM CEMS) is used, you must demonstrate continued compliance according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1)(iv) through (vii) of this section.


(ii) Monitor the operating parameter(s) established during the performance test according to the requirements in §§ 63.1450(a) and 63.1452 and collect, reduce, and record the monitoring data for each of the operating limit parameters according to the applicable requirements of this subpart.


(iii) Conduct subsequent performance tests following your initial performance test no less frequently than once per year according to the performance test procedures in § 63.1450(a). New operating limits may be established during subsequent performance tests as long as the performance tests demonstrate compliance with the emission limits.


(iv) Install, operate, and maintain a PM CEMS to measure and record PM concentrations and gas stream flow rates for the exhaust gases discharged to the atmosphere from each affected source subject to the emissions limit in this paragraph (a)(1). A single PM CEMS may be used for the combined exhaust gas streams from multiple affected sources at a point before the gases are discharged to the atmosphere. For each PM CEMS used to comply with this paragraph (a)(1), you must meet the requirements in this paragraph (a)(1)(iv) and paragraphs (a)(1)(v) through (vii) of this section.


(v) You must install, certify, operate, and maintain the PM CEMS according to EPA Performance Specification 11 in appendix B to 40 CFR part 60, and the quality assurance requirements of Procedure 2 in appendix F to 40 CFR part 60.


(vi) You must conduct an initial performance evaluation of the PM CEMS according to the requirements of Performance Specification 11 in appendix B to 40 CFR part 60. Thereafter, you must perform the performance evaluations as required by Procedure 2 in appendix F to 40 CFR part 60.


(vii) You must perform quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests for the PM CEMS according to Procedure 2 in appendix F to 40 CFR part 60.


(2) For each smelting vessel, slag cleaning vessel, and copper converter department subject to the nonsulfuric acid particulate matter emission limit in § 63.1444 as applies to you, you must demonstrate continuous compliance by meeting the conditions in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) Maintain the average concentration of nonsulfuric acid particulate matter in the process off-gas discharged from the affected source at or below 6.2 mg/dscm.


(ii) Monitor the operating parameter established during the performance tests according to the requirements in §§ 63.1450(b) and 63.1452 and collect, reduce, and record the monitoring data for each of the operating limit parameters according to the applicable requirements of this subpart.


(iii) Conduct subsequent performance tests following your initial performance test no less frequently than once per year according to the performance test procedures in § 63.1450(b). New operating limits may be established during subsequent performance tests as long as the performance tests demonstrate compliance with the emission limits.


(b) *Copper converter department capture systems.* You must demonstrate continuous compliance of the copper converter department capture system by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) Operate the copper converter department capture system at all times during blowing at or above the lowest values or settings established for the operating limits and demonstrated to achieve the opacity limit according to the applicable requirements of this subpart;


(2) Inspect and maintain the copper converter department capture system according to the applicable requirements in § 63.1447 and recording all information needed to document conformance with these requirements;


(3) Monitor the copper converter department capture system according to the requirements in § 63.1452(a) and collecting, reducing, and recording the monitoring data for each of the operating limit parameters according to the applicable requirements of this subpart; and


(4) Conduct subsequent performance tests according to the requirements of § 63.1450(c) following your initial performance test no less frequently than once per year to demonstrate that the opacity of any visible emissions exiting the roof monitors or roof exhaust fans on the building housing the copper converter department does not exceed 4 percent opacity.


(c) *Baghouses.* For each baghouse subject to the operating limit for the bag leak detection system alarm in § 63.1444(i) or § 63.1446(c), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) Maintain the baghouse such that the bag leak detection system alarm does not sound for more than 5 percent of the operating time during any semiannual reporting period. To determine the percent of time the alarm sounded use the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) Alarms that occur due solely to a malfunction of the bag leak detection system are not included in the calculation.


(ii) Before November 12, 2024, alarms that occur during startup, shutdown, or malfunction are not included in the calculation if the condition is described in the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, and you operated the source during such periods in accordance with § 63.6(e)(1). On or after November 12, 2024, alarms that occur due solely to a malfunction of the bag leak detection system are not included in the calculation.


(iii) Count 1 hour of alarm time for each alarm when you initiated procedures to determine the cause of the alarm within 1 hour.


(iv) Count the actual amount of time you took to initiate procedures to determine the cause of the alarm if you did not initiate procedures to determine the cause of the alarm within 1 hour of the alarm.


(v) Calculate the percentage of time the alarm on the bag leak detection system sounds as the ratio of the sum of alarm times to the total operating time multiplied by 100.


(2) Maintain records of the times the bag leak detection system alarm sounded, and for each valid alarm, the time you initiated corrective action, the corrective action(s) taken, and the date on which corrective action was completed.


(3) Inspect and maintain each baghouse according to the requirements in § 63.1452(b)(2) and recording all information needed to document conformance with these requirements. If you increase or decrease the sensitivity of the bag leak detection system beyond the limits specified in § 63.1452(b)(1)(vi), you must include a copy of the required written certification by a responsible official in the next semiannual compliance report.


(d) *Venturi wet scrubbers.* For each venturi wet scrubber subject to the operating limits for pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate in § 63.1444(j) or § 63.1446(d), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by meeting the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) Maintain the hourly average pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate at levels no lower than those established during the initial or subsequent performance test;


(2) Inspect and maintain each venturi wet scrubber CPMS according to § 63.1452(c) and recording all information needed to document conformance with these requirements; and


(3) Collect and reduce monitoring data for pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate according to § 63.1452(e) and recording all information needed to document conformance with these requirements.


(e) *Other control devices.* For each control device other than a baghouse or venturi wet scrubber subject to the operating limits for site-specific operating parameters in § 63.1444(k) or § 63.1446(e), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by meeting the requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section:


(1) Maintain the hourly average rate at levels no lower than those established during the initial or subsequent performance test;


(2) Inspect and maintain each CPMS operated according to § 63.1452(d) and record all information needed to document conformance with these requirements; and


(3) Collect and reduce monitoring data for selected parameters according to § 63.1452(e) and recording all information needed to document conformance with these requirements.


(f) *Fugitive dust sources.* For each fugitive dust source subject to work practice standards in § 63.1445, you must demonstrate continuous compliance by implementing all of fugitive control measures specified for the source in your written fugitive dust control plan.


(g) *Mercury emissions.* For each affected source subject to mercury emissions limit in § 63.1444 as applies to you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to the requirements in paragraph (g)(1) or paragraphs (g)(2) and (3) of this section.


(1) Maintain the average concentration of mercury discharged from the facility at or below the emission limit in § 63.1444 monitored by a mercury continuous emissions monitoring system (Hg CEMS). If the Hg CEMS is used, you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) Install and operate a Hg CEMS in accordance with Performance Specification 12A (PS 12A) of appendix B to 40 CFR part 60.


(ii) Maintain each Hg CEMS according to the quality assurance requirements in Procedure 5 of appendix F to 40 CFR part 60. The relative accuracy testing of Hg CEMS must be conducted at normal operating conditions.


(iii) Use a span value for any Hg CEMS that represents the mercury concentration corresponding to approximately two times the emissions standard and may be rounded up to the nearest multiple of 5 µg/m3 of total mercury or higher level if necessary to include Hg concentrations which may occur.


(iv) Determine the average on a 6-hour rolling basis.


(v) Install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously measuring and recording the exhaust gas flow rate to the atmosphere.


(2) Monitor the operating parameter established during the performance tests according to the requirements in §§ 63.1450(d) and 63.1452 and collecting, reducing, and recording the monitoring data for each of the operating limit parameters according to the applicable requirements of this subpart.


(3) Conduct subsequent performance tests following your initial performance test no less frequently than once per year according to the performance test procedures in § 63.1450(d). New operating limits may be established during subsequent performance tests as long as the performance tests demonstrate compliance with the emission limits.


(h) *Process fugitive filterable particulate matter and lead from roofline vents.* For emissions from roofline vents associated with the smelting vessels, slag cleaning vessels, copper converter department, and anode refining department subject to a filterable particulate matter emission limit in § 63.1444(h), and for emissions from the combination of roofline vents associated with the Peirce-Smith converter department, Inco flash furnace, and anode refining department subject to a lead emission limit in § 63.1444(p), you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to the requirements in paragraph (h)(1) or (2) and paragraph (h)(3) of this section. For the applicable design standards in § 63.1444(p), you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to the requirements in paragraphs (h)(4) through (6) of this section.


(1) *Operating parameter.* You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the established site-specific operating limit for a parameter, like opacity, based on values measured during the performance test you conduct to demonstrate initial compliance. If the operating parameter is visible emissions (VE) at each roofline vent, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) Perform daily VE observations of each roofline vent according to the procedures of Method 22 of appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60. You must conduct the Method 22 test while the affected source is operating under normal conditions. The duration of each Method 22 test must be at least 15 minutes.


(ii) If VE are observed during any daily test conducted using Method 22 of appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60, you must promptly conduct an opacity test, according to the procedures of Method 9 of appendix A-4 to 40 CFR part 60. ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 9 with the specified conditions in § 63.1450(c)(3)(i)(A) through (E).


(iii) You may decrease the frequency of Method 22 testing from daily to weekly for a roofline vent if one of the conditions in paragraph (h)(1)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section is met.


(A) No VE are observed in 30 consecutive daily Method 22 tests for any roofline vent; or


(B) No opacity greater than the site-specific operating limit is observed during any of the tests under Method 9 of appendix A-4 to 40 CFR part 60 for any roofline vent.


(iv) If VE are observed during any weekly test and opacity greater than the site-specific operating limit is observed in the subsequent test under Method 9 of appendix A-4 to 40 CFR part 60, you must promptly initiate and complete corrective actions according to your operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan (OM&M) plan, resume testing of that roof vent following Method 22 of appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60, on a daily basis, as described in paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section, and maintain that schedule until one of the conditions in paragraph (h)(1)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section is met, at which time you may again decrease the frequency of Method 22 testing to a weekly basis.


(v) If greater than the site-specific opacity operating limit is observed during any test conducted using Method 9 of appendix A-4 to 40 CFR part 60, you must report these deviations by following the requirements in § 63.1455.


(2) Monitor the site-specific operating parameter established during the performance tests according to the requirements in § 63.1450(e) for filterable particulate matter and § 63.1450(g) for lead if applicable, and § 63.1452, collect, reduce, and record the monitoring data for each of the operating limit parameters according to the applicable requirements of this subpart.


(3) Conduct subsequent performance tests following your initial performance test no less frequently than once per year according to the performance test procedures in § 63.1450(e) for filterable particulate matter and § 63.1450(g) for lead if applicable. New operating limits may be established during subsequent performance tests as long as the performance tests demonstrate compliance with the emission limits.


(4) For your flash furnace capture system, you must inspect the hooding, walls, and damper quarterly.


(5) For your fuming ladle capture system, you must inspect the hooding, walls, and ladle during maintenance periods.


(6) For your anode furnace secondary hood capture and control system, you must inspect the hood, walls, and damper during maintenance periods, and operate anode furnace secondary hood system at all times the anode furnaces are operating.


(i) *Benzene, toluene, chlorine, hydrogen chloride, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons excluding naphthalene, naphthalene, and dioxins/furans emissions.* For each affected source subject to the benzene, toluene, chlorine, hydrogen chloride, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons excluding naphthalene, naphthalene, and dioxins/furans emission limits in table 2 to this subpart, you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraphs (i)(1) and (2) to this section.


(1) You must monitor the site-specific operating parameter established during the performance tests according to the requirements in § 63.1450(f) and collect, reduce, and record the monitoring data for each of the operating limit parameters according to the applicable requirements of this subpart.


(2) You must demonstrate continuous compliance by conducting subsequent performance tests following your initial performance test at least once every five years according to the performance test procedures in § 63.1450(f). New operating limits may be established during subsequent performance tests as long as the performance tests demonstrate compliance with the emission limits.






