# § 240.0-1   Definitions.

(a) As used in the rules and regulations in this part, prescribed by the Commission pursuant to Title I of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (48 Stat. 881-905; 15 U.S.C. chapter 2B), unless the context otherwise specifically requires: 


(1) The term *Commission* means the Securities and Exchange Commission. 


(2) The term *act* means Title I of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 


(3) The term *section* refers to a section of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 
1

(4) The term *rules and regulations* refers to all rules and regulations adopted by the Commission pursuant to the act, including the forms for registration and reports and the accompanying instructions thereto. 


(5) The term *electronic filer* means a person or an entity that submits filings electronically pursuant to Rules 100 and 101 of Regulation S-T (§§ 232.100 and 232.101 of this chapter, respectively).


(6) The term *electronic filing* means a document under the federal securities laws that is transmitted or delivered to the Commission in electronic format. 


(b) Unless otherwise specifically stated, the terms used in this part shall have the meaning defined in the act. 


(c) A rule or regulation which defines a term without express reference to the act or to the rules and regulations, or to a portion thereof, defines such term for all purposes as used both in the act and in the rules and regulations, unless the context otherwise specifically requires. 


(d) Unless otherwise specified or the context otherwise requires, the term *prospectus* means a prospectus meeting the requirements of section 10(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended. 



---

[N] [13 FR 8178, Dec. 22, 1948, as amended at 13 FR 9321, Dec. 31, 1948; 19 FR 6730, Oct. 20, 1954; 58 FR 14682, Mar. 18, 1993; 62 FR 36459, July 8, 1997] 




