# § 1050.202   Allowable acceptance of gifts.

(a) An employee may accept and retain gifts from foreign governments where the gift is tendered or received as a souvenir or mark of courtesy, and is of minimal value. Initial responsibility for determining the value of a gift lies with the employee. 


(b) Subject to the prior approval requirements described in § 1050.204(a) of this part, an employee may accept gifts of more than minimal value, tendered as a souvenir or mark of courtesy, where it appears that refusal of the gift would likely cause offense or embarrassment or otherwise adversely affect the foreign relations of the United States. Otherwise, an employee, when offered a gift of more than minimal value from a foreign government, other than a gift designated in paragraph (c) of this section, should advise the donor that acceptance of such gifts by the employee is contrary to the policy of the United States. If a gift described in this paragraph is accepted by an employee and not immediately returned thereby, it shall be deemed to have been accepted on behalf of the United States. Upon acceptance it becomes the property of the United States. Within 60 days after acceptance by the employee, the gift shall be deposited with the Directorate of Administration for disposal or official Departmental use as determined by the Directorate of Administration, in accordance with § 1050.302 of this part, and an appropriate statement shall be filed by the employee in accordance with § 1050.301(a) of this part.


(c) Subject to the prior approval requirements described in § 1050.204(a) of this part, an employee may accept and retain gifts of more than minimal value: 


(1) Where the gift is in the nature of an educational scholarship. 


(2) Where the gift is in the form of medical treatment.


(d) An employee may accept gifts (whether or not of minimal value) of travel or expenses for travel (such as transportation, food, lodging, or entertainment) taking place entirely outside of the United States where the provision of such travel or expenses is in accordance with diplomatic custom or treaty and where the Head of the employee's Office grants prior written approval. A spouse or dependent may accept gifts of travel or travel expenses when accompanying the employee, provided this is done with the prior written approval of the Head of the employee's Office. The Head of the employee's Office shall consult with the appropriate General Counsel in connection with granting approval under this paragraph. Travel or expenses for travel may not be accepted merely for the personal benefit, pleasure, enjoyment, or financial enrichment of the individual involved. An appropriate statement shall be filed in accordance with § 1050.301(b) of this part. When *any portion* of the travel (such as the origination or termination of a flight) is within the United States, it may not be paid for by a foreign government, except as set forth in paragraph (e) of this section. 


(e) Pursuant to section 652 of the DOE Organization Act, an employee may accept gifts from the International Atomic Energy Agency or other energy-related international organizations (e.g., the Nuclear Energy Agency and the International Energy Agency) covering transportation expenses to or from a foreign country in connection with scientific or technical assistance projects of such agencies for which the Department of Energy has lead U.S. Government agency responsibility. Such gifts may be accepted only with the prior written approval of the Head of the employee's Office, who is hereby delegated authority to accept such gifts in accordance with section 652.




