# § 368.3   Applying for a certificate of registration.

(a) If you wish to obtain a certificate of registration under this part, you must electronically file an application that includes the following:


(1) Form MCSA-1—URS online application.


(2) Form BOC-3—Designation of Agents—Motor Carriers, Brokers and Freight Forwarders or indicate on the application that the applicant will use a process agent service that will submit the Form BOC-3 electronically.


(b) The FMCSA will only process your application for a Certificate of Registration if it meets the following conditions:


(1) The application must be completed in English;


(2) The information supplied must be accurate and complete in accordance with the instructions to Form MCSA-1, the URS online application, and Form BOC-3.


(3) The application must include all the required supporting documents and applicable certifications set forth in the instructions to Form MCSA-1, the URS online application, and Form BOC-3.

(c) If you fail to furnish the complete application as described under paragraph (b) of this section your application may be rejected. 


(d) If you submit false information under this section, you will be subject to applicable Federal penalties. 


(e) [Reserved]


(f) Form MCSA-1 is the URS online application and is available, including complete instructions, from the FMCSA website at *https://www.fmcsa.dot.gov/urs*.



---

[N] [67 FR 12660, Mar. 19, 2002, as amended by 78 FR 52648, Aug. 23, 2013; 80 FR 63706, Oct. 21, 2015; 88 FR 80179, Nov. 17, 2023]


