# ยง 2002.9   Proactive disclosures of records.

(a) You may review records that section 552(a)(2) of FOIA requires the OIG to make available to the public in the electronic reading rooms identified in paragraph (b) of this section. That is the preferable method; however, you may also ask to review those documents that are in hardcopy at the Headquarters offices at HUD's Library, 451 Seventh Street SW, Suite 8141, Washington, DC 20410. This request should be coordinated through Office of Legal Counsel, Office of Inspector General, Suite 8254. Local offices may coordinate local requests for hardcopy reviews.


(b) As required by 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2), the OIG makes records created on or after November 1, 1996, available through its Electronic FOIA Reading Room, located at *https://www.hudoig.gov/foia.* These records include:


(1) Copies of all records, regardless of form or format that have been released to any person under this part: and


(i) Because of the nature of their subject matter, the agency determines that the records have become or are likely to become the subject of subsequent requests for substantially the same records; or


(ii) Have been requested three or more times.


(2) Report for the preceding fiscal year submitted to the U.S. Attorney General and the Director of the Office of Government Information Services as required by 5 U.S.C. 552(e) and the raw statistical data used in each report. This report will be made available:


(i) Without charge, license, or registration requirement;


(ii) In an aggregated, searchable format; and


(iii) In a format that may be downloaded in bulk.


(c) The OIG also makes other documents, such as audits and semiannual reports, available to the public at *https://www.hudoig.gov/.*

