# § 301.6011-11   Required use of electronic form for certain returns for tax-advantaged bonds.

(a) *Return for credit payments to issuers of qualified bonds.* (1) An issuer of a qualified bond required to file a return for credit payments on Form 8038-CP, *Return for Credit Payments to Issuers of Qualified Bonds,* must file the return electronically if the issuer is required to file at least 10 returns (as determined under paragraph (d) of this section) during the calendar year.


(2) Returns filed electronically must be completed in accordance with applicable revenue procedures, publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, including postings to the *IRS.gov* website.


(b) *Exclusions from electronic-filing requirements*—(1) *Waivers.* The Commissioner may grant waivers of the requirements of this section in cases of undue hardship. One principal factor in determining hardship will be the amount, if any, by which the cost of filing the return electronically in accordance with this section exceeds the cost of filing a paper return. An issuer's request for a waiver must be submitted in accordance with applicable revenue procedures, publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, including postings to the *IRS.gov* website. The waiver request must specify the type of filing (that is, the return required to be filed electronically under this section), the name of the issuer, the name of the bond issue, the issue date of the tax-advantaged bond (as defined in § 1.150-1(b) of this chapter), and any other information specified in the applicable revenue procedures, publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, including postings to the *IRS.gov* website.


(2) *Exemptions.* The Commissioner may provide an exemption from the electronic-filing requirement of paragraph (a)(1) of this section through revenue procedures, publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, including postings to the *IRS.gov* website, to promote effective and efficient tax administration. A submission claiming an exemption must be made in accordance with applicable revenue procedures, publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, including postings to the *IRS.gov* website.


(3) *Additional Exclusion.* If the IRS's systems do not support electronic filing, taxpayers will not be required to file a return electronically under this section.


(c) *Meaning of terms.* The following definitions apply for purposes of this section:


(1) *Magnetic media or electronic form.* The terms *magnetic media or electronic form* mean any media or form permitted under applicable regulations, revenue procedures, or publications. These generally include electronic filing, as well as magnetic tape, tape cartridge, diskette, and other media specifically permitted under the applicable regulations, procedures, publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance.


(2) *Qualified bond.* The term *qualified bond* means a tax-advantaged bond that is a taxable bond that provides a refundable Federal tax credit payable directly to the issuer of the bond under former section 6431 or any other tax-advantaged bond (as defined in § 1.150-1(b) of this chapter) that provides a refundable Federal tax credit payment to an issuer of such bond.


(3) *Return for credit payments to issuers of qualified bonds.* The term *return for credit payments to issuers of qualified bonds* means a Form 8038-CP, *Return for Credit Payments to Issuers of Qualified Bonds,* or such other form prescribed by the Commissioner for the purpose of filing a return for credit payment with respect to a qualified bond.


(d) *Calculating the number of returns*—(1) *Aggregation of returns.* For purposes of this section, an issuer of a tax-advantaged bond is required to file at least 10 returns if, during the calendar year, the issuer is required to file at least 10 returns of any type, including information returns (for example, Forms W-2 and Forms 1099), income tax returns, employment tax returns, and excise tax returns.


(2) *Corrected returns.* (i) If an original return covered by this section is required to be filed electronically, any corrected return corresponding to that original return must also be filed electronically.


(ii) If an original return covered by this section is permitted to be filed on paper and is filed on paper, any corrected return corresponding to that original return must be filed on paper.


(e) *Applicability date.* The rules of this section apply to returns for tax-advantaged bonds filed after December 31, 2023.





---

[N] [T.D. 9972, 88 FR 11770, Feb. 23, 2023]










