# ยง 36.4401   Definitions.

The following definitions of terms apply to this subpart:


*2101(a) grant:* A grant authorized under 38 U.S.C. 2101(a).


*2101(b) grant:* A grant authorized under 38 U.S.C. 2101(b).


*Adapt:* To make a housing unit suitable to, or fit for, the residential living needs of an eligible individual.


*Aggregate amount of assistance available:* The amounts specified at 38 U.S.C. 2102(d) as adjusted in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 2102(e).


*Beneficial property interest:* An interest deemed by the Secretary as one that provides (or will provide) an eligible individual a meaningful right to occupy a housing unit as a residence.


*Braces:* Orthopedic appliances, including prosthetic devices, used for support.


*Construction-related cost:* An expense incurred for the purpose of or directly related to building, modifying, or adapting a housing unit by using specially adapted housing grant proceeds.


*Disability:* A compensable physical impairment, as determined by a Department of Veterans Affairs rating decision, that meets the criteria of 38 U.S.C. 2101(a)(2) or (b)(2).


*Eligible individual:* For specially adapted housing purposes, a person who has served or is currently serving in the active military, naval, or air service, and who has been determined by the Secretary to be eligible for benefits pursuant to 38 U.S.C. chapter 21.


*Eligible individual's family:* Persons related to an eligible individual by blood, marriage, or adoption.


*Housing unit:* Any residential unit, including all necessary land, improvements, and appurtenances, together with such movable or special fixtures and necessary adaptations as are authorized by 38 U.S.C. 1717 and 2101. For the purposes of this definition, *movable facilities* is defined as such exercising equipment and other aids as may be allowed or required by the Chief Medical Director or designee; *necessary land* is defined as any plot of land the cost and area of which are not disproportionate to the type of improvements thereon and which is in keeping with the locality; and *special fixtures and necessary adaptations* is defined as construction features which are specially designed to overcome the physical limitations of the individual beneficiary and which are allowed or required by the Chief Medical Director or designee as necessary by nature of the qualifying disability.


*Ownership interest:* An undivided property interest that the Secretary determines is a satisfactory:


(1) Fee simple estate;


(2) Life estate;


(3) Functional equivalent of a life estate, such as that created by a valid trust, a long-term lease, or a land installment contract that will convert to a fee simple estate upon satisfaction of the contract's terms and conditions;


(4) Ownership of stock or membership in a cooperative housing corporation entitling the eligible individual to occupy for dwelling purposes a single family residential unit in a development, project, or structure owned or leased by such corporation;


(5) Lease, under the terms of a valid and enforceable Memorandum of Understanding between a tribal organization and the Secretary; or


(6) Beneficial property interest in a housing unit located outside the United States.


*Preconstruction cost:* An authorized expense incurred by an eligible individual in anticipation of receiving final approval for a specially adapted housing grant.


*Reimburse:* To pay specially adapted housing grant funds directly to an eligible individual (or an eligible individual's estate) for preconstruction costs or for construction-related costs.


*Reside:* To occupy (including seasonal occupancy) as one's residence.


*Secretary:* The Secretary of the United States Department of Veterans Affairs or any employee or agent authorized in ยง 36.4409 of this part to act on behalf of the Secretary.


*Specially adapted housing grant:* A 2101(a) grant, 2101(b) grant, or TRA grant made to an eligible individual in accordance with the requirements of 38 U.S.C. chapter 21 and this subpart.


*Temporary residence adaptations grant or TRA grant:* A grant, the specific requirements and amount of which are outlined in 38 U.S.C. 2102A and 2102(d).


