# ยง 1466.30   Definitions.

In addition to the terms defined in ยง 1466.3, the definitions in this section apply to this subpart:


*Eligible entity* means, as determined by NRCS:


(1) A third-party private entity the primary business of which is related to agriculture;


(2) A nongovernmental organization with experience working with agricultural producers; or


(3) A governmental organization.


*Grant agreement* means a document describing a relationship between NRCS and a State or local government, or other recipient whenever the principal purpose of the relationship is the transfer of a thing of value to a recipient in order to accomplish a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by Federal law and substantial Federal involvement is not anticipated.


*Grant Review Board* consists of representatives of NRCS staff as determined by the Chief.


*On-Farm Conservation Innovation Trial (OFCIT) agreement* means an agreement that governs the relationship between NRCS and the participant for the purposes of OFCIT implementation. An OFCIT agreement may be between either NRCS and a producer or NRCS and an eligible entity.


*On-farm conservation research* means an investigation conducted to answer a specified conservation-related question using a statistically valid design, while employing farm-scale equipment on farm fields.


*Project* means the activities as defined within the scope of the grant agreement or cooperative agreement.


*Project director* means the individual responsible for the technical direction and management of the project as designated in the application.


*Technical Peer Review Panel* means a panel consisting of Federal and non-Federal technical advisors who possess expertise in a discipline or disciplines deemed important to provide a technical evaluation of project proposals submitted under the funding opportunity announcement.




