# ยง 266.201   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions in 40 CFR 260.10, the following definitions apply to this subpart:


*Active range* means a military range that is currently in service and is being regularly used for range activities.


*Chemical agents and munitions* are defined as in 50 U.S.C. section 1521(j)(1).


*Director* is as defined in 40 CFR 270.2.


*Explosives or munitions emergency response specialist* is as defined in 40 CFR 260.10.


*Explosives or munitions emergency* is as defined in 40 CFR 260.10.


*Explosives or munitions emergency response* is as defined in 40 CFR 260.10.


*Inactive range* means a military range that is not currently being used, but that is still under military control and considered by the military to be a potential range area, and that has not been put to a new use that is incompatible with range activities.


*Military* means the Department of Defense (DOD), the Armed Services, Coast Guard, National Guard, Department of Energy (DOE), or other parties under contract or acting as an agent for the foregoing, who handle military munitions.


*Military munitions* is as defined in 40 CFR 260.10.


*Military range* means designated land and water areas set aside, managed, and used to conduct research on, develop, test, and evaluate military munitions and explosives, other ordnance, or weapon systems, or to train military personnel in their use and handling. Ranges include firing lines and positions, maneuver areas, firing lanes, test pads, detonation pads, impact areas, and buffer zones with restricted access and exclusionary areas.


*Unexploded ordnance (UXO)* means military munitions that have been primed, fused, armed, or otherwise prepared for action, and have been fired, dropped, launched, projected, or placed in such a manner as to constitute a hazard to operations, installation, personnel, or material and remain unexploded either by malfunction, design, or any other cause.




