# § 721.5547   Antimony double oxide.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified generically as antimony double oxide (PMNs P-95-677 and P-95-724) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(3)(ii), and (g)(5). The label and SDS as required by this paragraph shall also include the following statements: These substances may cause lung toxicity. When using these substances avoid any applications of these substances which could cause inhalation exposures. When using these substances keep in liquid form only.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (f), (v)(1), (v)(2), (w)(1), (w)(2), (x)(1), (x)(2), (y)(1), and (y)(2). Manufacturing, processing or use in any form which could cause inhalation exposures.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [63 FR 3431, Jan. 22, 1998]




