# § 1.7874-6   Stock transferred by members of the EAG.

(a) *Scope.* This section provides rules regarding whether transferred stock is treated as held by members of the EAG for purposes of applying section 7874(c)(2)(A) and § 1.7874-1. Paragraph (b) of this section sets forth the general rule under which transferred stock is not treated as held by members of the EAG for purposes of applying section 7874(c)(2)(A) and § 1.7874-1. Paragraph (c) of this section provides exceptions to the general rule. Paragraph (d) of this section provides rules regarding the treatment of partnerships, and paragraph (e) of this section provides rules regarding transactions related to the acquisition. Paragraph (f) of this section provides definitions. Paragraph (g) of this section provides examples illustrating the application of the rules of this section. Paragraph (h) of this section provides dates of applicability.


(b) *General rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, transferred stock is not treated as held by members of the EAG for purposes of applying section 7874(c)(2)(A) and § 1.7874-1. Transferred stock that is not treated as held by members of the EAG for purposes of applying section 7874(c)(2)(A) and § 1.7874-1 is included in the numerator and the denominator of the ownership fraction. See § 1.7874-5(a).


(c) *Exceptions.* Transferred stock is treated as held by members of the EAG for purposes of applying section 7874(c)(2)(A) and § 1.7874-1 if paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section applies. Transferred stock that is treated as held by members of the EAG for purposes of applying section 7874(c)(2)(A) and § 1.7874-1 is excluded from the numerator of the ownership fraction and, depending upon the application of § 1.7874-1(c), may be excluded from the denominator of the ownership fraction. See § 1.7874-1(b) and (c).


(1) *Transfers involving a U.S.-parented group.* This paragraph (c)(1) applies if the following conditions are satisfied:


(i) Before the domestic entity acquisition, the transferring corporation is a member of a U.S.-parented group.


(ii) After the domestic entity acquisition, each of the transferring corporation (or its successor), any person that holds transferred stock, and the foreign acquiring corporation are members of a U.S.-parented group the common parent of which—


(A) Before the domestic entity acquisition, was a member of the U.S.-parented group described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section; or


(B) Is a corporation that was formed in a transaction related to the domestic entity acquisition, provided that, immediately after the corporation was formed (and without regard to any related transactions), the corporation was a member of the U.S.-parented group described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section.


(2) *Transfers involving a foreign-parented group.* This paragraph (c)(2) applies if the following conditions are satisfied:


(i) Before the domestic entity acquisition, the transferring corporation and the domestic entity are members of the same foreign-parented group.


(ii) After the domestic entity acquisition, the transferring corporation—


(A) Is a member of the EAG; or


(B) Would be a member of the EAG absent one or more transfers (other than by issuance), in a transaction (or series of transactions) after and related to the domestic entity acquisition, of stock of the foreign acquiring corporation by one or more members of the foreign-parented group described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.


(d) *Treatment of partnerships*—(1) *Stock held by a partnership.* For purposes of this section, each partner in a partnership, as determined without regard to the application of paragraph (d)(2) of this section, is treated as holding its proportionate share of the stock held by the partnership, as determined under the rules and principles of sections 701 through 777.


(2) *Partnership treated as corporation.* For purposes of this section, if one or more members of an affiliated group, as determined after the application of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, own, in the aggregate, more than 50 percent (by value) of the interests in a partnership, the partnership will be treated as a corporation that is a member of the affiliated group.


(e) *Treatment of transactions related to the acquisition.* Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(B) and (c)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, all transactions that are related to a domestic entity acquisition are taken into account in applying this section.


(f) *Definitions.* In addition to the definitions provided in § 1.7874-12, the following definitions apply for purposes of this section.


(1) A *foreign-parented group* means an affiliated group that has a foreign corporation as the common parent corporation. A *member of the foreign-parented group* is an entity included in the foreign-parented group.


(2) *Transferred stock*—(i) *In general.* Transferred stock means stock of the foreign acquiring corporation described in section 7874(a)(2)(B)(ii) that is received by a transferring corporation and, in a transaction (or series of transactions) related to the domestic entity acquisition, is subsequently transferred.


(ii) *Special rule.* This paragraph (f)(2)(ii) applies in certain cases in which a transferring corporation receives stock of the foreign acquiring corporation described in section 7874(a)(2)(B)(ii) that has the same terms as other stock of the foreign acquiring corporation that is received by the transferring corporation in a transaction (or series of transactions) related to the domestic entity acquisition or that is owned by the transferring corporation prior to the domestic entity acquisition (the stock described in this sentence, collectively, *fungible stock*). Pursuant to this paragraph (f)(2)(ii), if, in a transaction (or series of transactions) related to the domestic entity acquisition, the transferring corporation subsequently transfers less than all of the fungible stock, a pro rata portion of the stock subsequently transferred is treated as consisting of stock of the foreign acquiring corporation described in section 7874(a)(2)(B)(ii). The pro rata portion is based, at the time of the subsequent transfer, on the relative fair market value of the fungible stock that is stock of the foreign acquiring corporation described in section 7874(a)(2)(B)(ii) to the fair market value of all the fungible stock.


(3) A *transferring corporation* means a corporation that is a former domestic entity shareholder or former domestic entity partner.


(4) A *U.S.-parented group* means an affiliated group that has a domestic corporation as the common parent corporation. A *member of the U.S.-parented group* is an entity included in the U.S.-parented group, including the common parent corporation.


(g) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the application of this section.


(h) *Applicability dates.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (h), this section applies to domestic entity acquisitions completed on or after September 22, 2014. Paragraphs (d)(2) and (f)(2)(ii) of this section apply to domestic entity acquisitions completed on or after April 4, 2016. Taxpayers, however, may elect either to apply paragraph (c)(2) of this section to domestic entity acquisitions completed before September 22, 2014, or to consistently apply paragraphs (c)(2), (d)(2), and (f)(2)(ii) of this section and § 1.7874-1(c)(2)(iii) and (g) to domestic entity acquisitions completed before April 4, 2016.



---

[N] [T.D. 9834, 83 FR 32548, July 12, 2018]




