# § 525.1   General.

(a) *Purpose.* This regulation prescribes policies and procedures governing entry of persons, ships, and aircraft into the Kwajalein Missile Range (KMR), Kwajalein Atoll, Marshall Islands. 


(b) *Scope.* (1) This regulation is applicable to all persons, ships and aircraft desiring entry into KMR. 


(2) The entry authorizations issued under this authority are limited to KMR and do not apply to entry to any other areas of the Marshall Islands. 


(3) In addition to the controls covered by this regulation movement within the Kwajalein Missile Range, the territorial sea thereof and airspace above, is subject to local control by the Commander, Kwajalein Missile Range, and as installation commander. 


(4) This regulation is not applicable to entry authorized by the President of the United States pursuant to the United Nations (U.N.) Charter and to Article 13 of the Trusteeship Agreement for the Former Japanese Mandated Islands. 


(c) *Explanation of terms*—(1) *Department of Defense.* A department of the executive branch of the U.S. Government which includes the Departments of the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force. 


(2) *Entry Authorization.* Authorization by designated authority for a person, a ship, or an aircraft to enter Kwajalein Missile Range, the surrounding territorial sea, and the airspace above. 


(3) *National Range Commander.* The Commander, Ballistic Missile Defense Systems Command, is the National Range Commander.


(4) *Commander. KMR.* The Commander of the Kwajalein Missile Range is located at Kwajalein Island, Republic of the Marshall Islands. 


(5) *Excluded person.* A person who has been notified by the National Range Commander or the Commander, KMR, that authority for said person to enter Kwajalein Missile Range or to remain in Kwajalein Missile Range has been denied or revoked. 


(6) *Unauthorized person.* A person who does not hold a currently valid entry authorization for the Kwajalein Missile Range and does not possess entry rights under authority of paragraph 4-1.a. 


(7) *Aliens.* Persons who are neither citizens of, nor nationals of, nor aliens to the United States of America. 


(8) *Permanent resident aliens.* Persons who are not citizens of the United States of America but who have entered the United States under an immigrant quota. 


(9) *Military installation.* A military (Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and/or Coast Guard) activity ashore, having a commanding officer, and located in an area having fixed boundaries, within which all persons are subject to military control and to the immediate authority of a commanding officer. 


(10) *Public ship or aircraft.* A ship, boat, or aircraft owned by or belonging to a Government and not engaged in commercial activity. 


(11) *Kwajalein Missile Range.* Kwajalein Missile Range is defined as all those defense sites in the Kwajalein Atoll, Marshall Islands, including airspace and adjacent territorial waters, to which the United States Government has exclusive rights and entry control by agreement with the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands and the Republic of the Marshall Islands. 


(12) *Territorial waters.* In accordance with title 19, chapter 3, section 101 of the Code of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands territorial waters mean, “that part of the sea comprehended within the envelope of all arcs of circles having a radius of three marine miles drawn from all points of the barrier reef, fringing reef, or other reef system of the Trust Territory, measured from the low water line, or, in the absence of such a reef system, the distance to be measured from the low water line of any island, islet, reef, or rocks within the jurisdiction of the Trust Territory.” 


(13) *Kwajalein Missile Range Airspace.* The air lying above the Kwajalein Atoll, including that above the territorial waters.


(14) *Trust Territory Republic of the Marshall Islands Registry.* Registration of a ship or aircraft in accordance with the laws of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands or the Republic of the Marshall Islands.


(15) *U.S. Registry.* Registration of a ship or aircraft in accordance with the laws and regulations of the United States.


(16) *U.S. Armed Forces.* Military personnel of the Department of Defense and the United States Coast Guard.


(17) *Principal.* A resident of Kwajalein Missile Range who is authorized to have his or her dependent(s) reside or visit with him (her) on Kwajalein Missile Range.


(18) *Dependent.* (i) Spouse of principal.


(ii) Unmarried child of principal less than 21 years of age.


(iii) Sponsored individual meeting the dependency criteria of section 152, Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 152), and approved by the Commander, Kwajalein Missile Range. 




