# § 60.661   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, all terms not defined here shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of part 60, and the following terms shall have the specific meanings given them.


*Batch distillation operation* means a noncontinuous distillation operation in which a discrete quantity or batch of liquid feed is charged into a distillation unit and distilled at one time. After the initial charging of the liquid feed, no additional liquid is added during the distillation operation.


*Boiler* means any enclosed combustion device that extracts useful energy in the form of steam.


*By compound* means by individual stream components, not carbon equivalents.


*Continuous recorder* means a data recording device recording an instantaneous data value at least once every 15 minutes.


*Distillation operation* means an operation separating one or more feed stream(s) into two or more exit stream(s), each exit stream having component concentrations different from those in the feed stream(s). The separation is achieved by the redistribution of the components between the liquid and vapor-phase as they approach equilibrium within the distillation unit.


*Distillation unit* means a device or vessel in which distillation operations occur, including all associated internals (such as trays or packing) and accessories (such as reboiler, condenser, vacuum pump, steam jet, etc.), plus any associated recovery system.


*Flame zone* means the portion of the combustion chamber in a boiler or process heater occupied by the flame envelope.


*Flow indicator* means a device which indicates whether gas flow is present in a vent stream.


*Halogenated vent stream* means any vent stream determined to have a total concentration (by volume) of compounds containing halogens of 20 ppmv (by compound) or greater.


*Incinerator* means any enclosed combustion device that is used for destroying organic compounds and does not extract energy in the form of steam or process heat.


*Process heater* means a device that transfers heat liberated by burning fuel to fluids contained in tubes, including all fluids except water that is heated to produce steam.


*Process unit* means equipment assembled and connected by pipes or ducts to produce, as intermediates or final products, one or more of the chemicals in § 60.667. A process unit can operate independently if supplied with sufficient fuel or raw materials and sufficient product storage facilities.


*Product* means any compound or chemical listed in § 60.667 that is produced for sale as a final product as that chemical, or for use in the production of other chemicals or compounds. By-products, co-products, and intermediates are considered to be products.


*Recovery device* means an individual unit of equipment, such as an absorber, carbon adsorber, or condenser, capable of and used for the purpose of recovering chemicals for use, reuse, or sale.


*Recovery system* means an individual recovery device or series of such devices applied to the same vent stream.


*Total organic compounds* (TOC) means those compounds measured according to the procedures in § 60.664(b)(4). For the purposes of measuring molar composition as required in § 60.664(d)(2)(i); hourly emissions rate as required in § 60.664(d)(5) and § 60.664(e); and TOC concentration as required in § 60.665(b)(4) and § 60.665(g)(4), those compounds which the Administrator has determined do not contribute appreciably to the formation of ozone are to be excluded. The compounds to be excluded are identified in Environmental Protection Agency's statements on ozone abatement policy for State Implementation Plans (SIP) revisions (42 FR 35314; 44 FR 32042; 45 FR 32424; 45 FR 48942).


*TRE index value* means a measure of the supplemental total resource requirement per unit reduction of TOC associated with an individual distillation vent stream, based on vent stream flow rate, emission rate of TOC net heating value, and corrosion properties (whether or not the vent stream is halogenated), as quantified by the equation given under § 60.664(e).


*Vent stream* means any gas stream discharged directly from a distillation facility to the atmosphere or indirectly to the atmosphere after diversion through other process equipment. The vent stream excludes relief valve discharges and equipment leaks including, but not limited to, pumps, compressors, and valves.



---

[N] [55 FR 26942, June 29, 1990, as amended at 89 FR 43105, May 16, 2024]




