# § 1468.39   Violations and remedies.

(a) *Easement violations.* (1) In the event of a violation of the easement involving the landowner, the landowner will be given reasonable notice and an opportunity to voluntarily correct the violation within 30 days of the date of the notice, or such additional time as NRCS determines is necessary to correct the violation at the landowner's expense.


(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1) of this section, NRCS reserves the right to enter upon the easement or 30-year area at any time to remedy deficiencies or easement violations. Such entry may be made at the discretion of NRCS when such actions are deemed necessary to protect important wetland functions and values or other rights of the United States under the easement. The landowner will be liable for any costs incurred by the United States as a result of the landowner's failure to comply with easement obligations.


(3) If there is failure to comply with easement obligations, the easement will remain in effect, and NRCS may, in addition to any other remedy available to the United States, retain any payment otherwise required to be paid under this part and require the refund of any payment previously made under this part.


(b) *30-year contract or wetland reserve easement restoration agreements violations.* (1) If NRCS determines that a landowner is in violation of the terms of a 30-year contract or wetland reserve easement restoration agreement, or documents incorporated by reference into the 30-year contract or wetland reserve easement restoration agreement, the landowner will be given reasonable notice and an opportunity to voluntarily correct the violation within 30 days of the date of the notice, or such additional time as NRCS determines is necessary to correct the violation. If the violation continues, NRCS may terminate the 30-year contract or wetland reserve easement restoration agreement.


(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a 30-year contract or wetland reserve easement restoration agreement termination is effective immediately upon a determination by the NRCS that the landowner has—


(i) Submitted false information,


(ii) Filed a false claim, or


(iii) Engaged in any act for which a finding of ineligibility for payments is permitted under this part.


(3) If NRCS terminates a 30-year contract or wetland reserve easement restoration agreement, the landowner will forfeit all rights for future payments under the 30-year contract or wetland reserve easement restoration agreement, and must refund all or part, as determined by NRCS, of the payments received, plus interest.




