# § 21.72   Rehabilitation to the point of employability.

(a) *General.* Rehabilitation to the point of employability may include the services needed to:


(1) Evaluate and improve the veteran's ability to undertake training; 


(2) Train the veteran to the level generally recognized as necessary for entry into employment in a suitable occupational objective. Where a particular degree, diploma, or certificate is generally necessary for entry into the occupation, e.g., an MSW for social work, the veteran shall be trained to that level.


(b) *When duration of training may exceed general requirements*—(1) *Employment handicap.* If the amount of training necessary to qualify for employment in a particular occupation in a geographical area where a veteran lives or will seek employment exceeds the amount generally needed for employment in that occupation, the Department of Veterans Affairs will provide, or arrange for the necessary additional training.


(2) *Serious employment handicap.* The Department of Veterans Affairs will assist a veteran with a serious employment handicap to train to a higher level than is usually required to qualify in a particular occupation, when one of the following conditions exist:


(i) The veteran is preparing for a type of work in which he or she will be at a definite disadvantage in competing with nondisabled persons for jobs or business, and the additional training will help to offset the competitive disadvantage;


(ii) The number of feasible occupations are restricted, and additional training will enhance the veteran's employability in one of those occupations; 


(iii) The number of employment opportunities within feasible occupations are restricted.


(c) *Responsibility for estimating duration of training.* (1) The Counseling Psychologist (CP) or Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor (VRC) shall estimate the duration of training and the estimate shall be incorporated in the IWRP (Individualized Written Rehabilitation Plan). When the period of training is estimated to exceed 48 months, the concurrence of the Veteran Readiness and Employment (VR&E) Officer is required, prior to approving the IWRP, under conditions listed in § 21.78.


(2) The estimated duration of the period of training required to complete an original or amended IWRP may be extended when necessary. Authorization of an extension is the responsibility of the CP or VRC, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section. Any extension which will result in use of more than 48 months of entitlement must meet conditions described in § 21.78.


(d) *Extension of training by the vocational rehabilitation specialist.* (1) The VRS (Vocational Rehabilitation Specialist) may authorize an extension of up to six months of the period of vocational rehabilitation training authorized by the IWRP when: 


(i) The veteran is in *rehabilitation to the point of employability* status under § 21.190;


(ii) The veteran has completed more than half of the prescribed training;


(iii) The veteran is making satisfactory progress;


(iv) The extension is necessary to complete training; 


(v) Training can be completed within six months; and


(vi) The extension will not result in use of more than 48 months of entitlement under Chapter 31 alone or in combination with other programs identified in § 21.4020.


(2) If the conditions listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section are not met, and an extension is needed to complete the program, the case will be referred to the CP or VRC for a determination.



---

[N] [49 FR 40814, Oct. 18, 1984, as amended at 81 FR 26131, May 2, 2016; 87 FR 8742, Feb. 16, 2022]




