# ยง 2.248   Petitions for amendments: Time limits for processing.

(a) *Acknowledgement of receipt.* The acknowledgement of receipt of a petition required by ยง 2.72(c) shall be dispatched not later than ten (10) working days after receipt of the petition by the system manager responsible for the system containing the challenged record, unless a decision on the petition has been previously dispatched.


(b) *Decision on petition.* A petition for amendment shall be processed promptly. A determination whether to accept or reject the petition for amendment shall be made within thirty (30) working days after receipt of the petition by the system manager responsible for the system containing the challenged record.


(c) *Suspension of time limit.* The thirty (30) day time limit for a decision on a petition shall be suspended if it is necessary to notify the petitioner, pursuant to ยง 2.72(d), that additional information in support of the petition is required. Running of the thirty (30) day time limit shall resume on receipt of the additional information by the system manager responsible for the system containing the challenged record.


(d) *Extensions of time.* (1) The thirty (30) day time limit for a decision on a petition may be extended if the official responsible for making a decision on the petition determines that an extension is necessary for one of the following reasons:


(i) A decision on the petition requires analysis of voluminous record or records;


(ii) Some or all of the challenged records must be collected from facilities other than the facility at which the official responsible for making the decision is located.


(iii) Some or all of the challenged records are of concern to another bureau of the Department or another agency of the Federal Government whose assistance and views are being sought in processing the request.


(2) If the official responsible for making a decision on the petition determines that an extension is necessary, the official shall promptly inform the petitioner of the extension and the date on which a decision is expected to be dispatched.



---

[N] [40 FR 44505, Sept. 26, 1975, as amended at 48 FR 56586, Dec. 22, 1983; 53 FR 3750, Feb. 9, 1988]




