# ยง 20.9   Class 2 lamps.

(a) *Safety.* (1) Unless special features of the lamp prevent ignition of explosive mixtures of methane and air by the broken bulb or other igniting sources within the lamp, the bulb and all spark-producing parts must be enclosed in explosion-proof compartments. 


(2) Explosion-proof compartments will be tested while filled and surrounded with explosive mixtures of Pittsburgh natural gas 
1 and air. A sufficient number of tests of each compartment will be made to prove that there is no danger of ignition of the mixture surrounding the lamp by explosions within the compartment. The lamp will not pass the above tests, even though the surrounding explosive mixtures are not ignited, if external flame is observed, if excessive pressures are developed, or if excessive distortion of any part of the compartment takes place. 


(3) Glass-enclosed parts of such compartments must be guarded and be of extra-heavy glass to withstand pick blows, and be adequately protected by shrouds or by an automatic cut-out that opens the lamp circuit if the enclosure is broken. 


(4) When an explosion-proof enclosure consists of two or more parts that are held together securely by bolts or some suitable means to permit assembly, the flanges comprising the joints between parts shall have surfaces with metal-to-metal contact, except enclosures requiring glass, in which case glass-to-metal joints are permitted. Gaskets, if adequate, may be used to obtain a firm seat for the glass but not elsewhere. Rubber, putty, and plaster of paris are not acceptable as material for gaskets. For enclosures having an unoccupied volume (air space) of more than 60 cubic inches the width of the joint measured along the shortest flame path from the inside to the outside of the enclosure shall not be less than 1 inch. When the unoccupied volume (air space) is less than 60 cubic inches, this path shall not be less than three-fourths inch. 


(b) *Locks and seals* (*lighting attachment*). Explosion-proof compartments shall be equipped with seals or locks that prevent unauthorized and unsafe opening of the compartments in a mine. 


(c) *Locks or seals* (*battery*). The battery shall be enclosed in a locked or sealed container that will prevent exposure of live terminals. 


(d) *Temperature of lamp.* The temperature of the lamp under conditions of use shall not be such that a person may be burned in handling it. 


(e) *Cable and connection.* (1) The cable or cord connecting the lamp to its battery shall be of high-grade design and materials, comparable to the specially recommended trailing cables as listed by MSHA, and shall be not more than 15 feet in length. 


(2) The cable (or cord) shall be adequately protected at the battery end by a fuse in the locked battery box or housing. The cable (or cord) and the fuse shall be considered parts of the lamp, and specifications for them shall be submitted by the lamp manufacturer. 


(3) The method of terminating the cable (or cord) at the lamp and at the battery housing shall be adequate, but in no case shall the cable or cord be detachable.


