# § 409.87   Blood deductible.

(a) *General provisions.* (1) As used in this section, packed red cells means the red blood cells that remain after plasma is separated from whole blood.


(2) A unit of packed red cells is treated as the equivalent of a unit of whole blood.


(3) Medicare does not pay for the first 3 units of whole blood or units of packed red cells that a beneficiary receives, during a calendar year, as an inpatient of a hospital or CAH or SNF, or on an outpatient basis under Medicare Part B.


(4) The deductible does not apply to other blood components such as platelets, fibrinogen, plasma, gamma globulin, and serum albumin, or to the cost of processing, storing, and administering blood.


(5) The blood deductible is in addition to the inpatient hospital deductible and daily coinsurance.


(6) The Part A blood deductible is reduced to the extent that the Part B blood deductible has been applied. For example, if a beneficiary had received one unit under Medicare Part B, and later in the same benefit period received three units under Medicare Part A, Medicare Part A would pay for the third of the latter units. (As specified in § 410.161 of this chapter, the Part B blood deductible is reduced to the extent a blood deductible has been applied under Medicare Part A.)


(b) *Beneficiary's responsibility for the first 3 units of whole blood or packed red cells*—(1) *Basic rule.* Except as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the beneficiary is responsible for the first 3 units of whole blood or packed red cells. He or she has the option of paying the hospital's or CAH's charges for the blood or packed red cells or arranging for it to be replaced.


(2) *Exception.* The beneficiary is not responsible for the first 3 units of whole blood or packed red cells if the provider obtained that blood or red cells at no charge other than a processing or service charge. In that case, the blood or red cells is deemed to have been replaced.


(c) *Provider's right to charge for the first 3 units of whole blood or packed red cells*—(1) *Basic rule.* Except as specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a provider may charge a beneficiary its customary charge for any of the first 3 units of whole blood or packed red cells. 


(2) *Exception.* A provider may not charge the beneficiary for the first 3 units of whole blood or packed red cells in any of the following circumstances: 


(i) The blood or packed red cells has been replaced. 


(ii) The provider (or its blood supplier) receives, from an individual or a blood bank, a replacement offer that meets the criteria specified in paragraph (d) of this section. The provider is precluded from charging even if it or its blood supplier rejects the replacement offer. 


(iii) The provider obtained the blood or packed red cells at no charge other than a processing or service charge and it is therefore deemed to have been replaced. 


(d) *Criteria for replacement of blood.* A blood replacement offer made by a beneficiary, or an individual or a blood bank on behalf of a beneficiary, discharges the beneficiary's obligation to pay for deductible blood or packed red cells if the replacement blood meets the applicable criteria specified in Food and Drug Administration regulations under 21 CFR part 640, i.e.— 


(1) The replacement blood would not endanger the health of a beneficiary; and 


(2) The prospective donor's health would not be endangered by making a blood donation. 



---

[N] [48 FR 12541, Mar. 25, 1983, as amended at 56 FR 8840, Mar. 1, 1991; 57 FR 36014, Aug. 12, 1992; 58 FR 30666, 30667, May 26, 1993]




