# ยง 610.52   Maintenance.

(a) Maintenance during the durability evaluation can best be considered in three separate categories:


(1) Normal scheduled vehicle maintenance,


(2) Unscheduled vehicle maintenance, and


(3) Retrofit maintenance.


(b) Normal scheduled vehicle maintenance is the periodic service specified in the original owner's manual supplied to the owner at the time of new vehicle purchase.


(1) Normal periodic engine oil changes, vehicle lubrication, and oil filter changes, as specified in the original owner's manual, will be performed during durability mileage accumulation.


(2) For purposes of this part, the following items of normally scheduled vehicle maintenance will not be performed during the durability mileage accumulation:


(i) Normal tune-up items:


(A) Spark plugs.


(B) Condenser.


(C) Rotor.


(D) Distributor cap.


(ii) Air Cleaner element.


(iii) PCV Inspection.


(iv) Dwell and timing check.


(v) Charging circuit check.


(3) Periodic maintenance items specified in the original owner's manual, other than those listed above, may be performed if found to be necessary by the Administrator.


(c) *Unscheduled maintenance.* Because the vehicles used for durability evaluation in this program will probably have considerable mileage accumulation and unknown maintenance prior to inclusion in the program, it can be anticipated that certain vehicle and engine failures may occur, which may be unrelated to the retrofit device. Unscheduled maintenance will be performed only in those cases where a significant and obvious driveability problem has been reported by the driver of the vehicle.


(1) Correction of the following problems will be made as soon as the problems occur:


(i) Tire replacement (same size and type).


(ii) Vehicle body repairs (remote from engine and retrofit).


(iii) Windshield wipers. 


(iv) Fluid levels unrelated to retrofit. 


(v) Brakes. 


(vi) Hoses unrelated to retrofit. 


(vii) Belts unrelated to retrofit. 


(viii) Suspension failures. 


(ix) Wheel alignment. 


(x) Steering. 


(xi) Wheel bearings. 


(xii) Non-engine electrical system. 


(xiii) Drivetrain components (U-joints, axles, transmission adjustments, etc.) 


(2) Other unscheduled maintenance of the engine or drivetrain may be made as directed by the Administrator. Upon notification of a need for unscheduled maintenance, the Administrator may decide that before and after maintenance fuel economy tests are required. 


(d) *Retrofit maintenance.* Maintenance of the retrofit device will normally not be performed during the accumulation of durability mileage of 15,000 miles. However, certain retrofit devices may require periodic maintenance that is directly related to device function. An example is the periodic addition of fluid to the reservoir of a vapor injector. The Administrator will determine whether periodic maintenance will be allowed, based on his review of available information including the device manufacturer's maintenance instructions to the consumer. 


(e) A log of all maintenance shall be kept for every vehicle. These logs will be summarized in the final report by the Administrator. 




