# ยง 12.67   When may the Service donate forfeited or abandoned property?

(a) The Service may donate forfeited or abandoned fish, wildlife, or plants, for scientific, educational, or public display purposes, when consistent with applicable law. The donation may be made to any person, government agency (including foreign government agencies) or public organization, as defined in ยง 10.12 of this subchapter. The donee must have the demonstrated ability to provide adequate care and security for the fish, wildlife, or plants.


(b) A transfer document between the Service and the person, government agency (foreign or domestic), or public organization receiving the fish, wildlife, or plants, must be completed before any donation of fish, wildlife, or plants takes place. Form SF-123, Transfer Order Surplus Personal Property, should be used for transfers with agencies or persons outside of the Department of the Interior, and Form DI-104, Transfer of Property, should be used for transfers with agencies within the Department of the Interior. The donation is subject to the following conditions:


(1) The transfer document must state the purpose for which the fish, wildlife, or plants will be used.


(2) Any attempt by the recipient to use the donation for any purpose other than that specifically stated on the transfer document entitles the Service to immediately repossess the fish, wildlife, or plants or their offspring.


(3) The recipient may be required to pay all of the costs associated with the transfer of the fish, wildlife, or plants, or their offspring, including the costs of care, storage, transportation, and return to the Service, if applicable.


(4) The recipient may not sell the fish, wildlife, or plants, or their offspring.


(5) The recipient may be required to show the Form SF-123, DI-104, or any other transfer document that was received.


(6) The recipient is subject to the prohibitions, restrictions, conditions, or requirements that may apply to a particular species of fish, wildlife, or plant imposed by Federal, State, Tribal, or foreign law or regulation.


(7) Any attempt to retransfer a donation without the prior authorization of the Service entitles the Service to immediately repossess the fish, wildlife, or plants, or their offspring.


(8) At all reasonable times, upon prior notice, the recipient must provide authorized Service officers access to the location where the donation is kept for the purposes of inspecting the donation and all associated records pertaining to the donation.


(9) Any donation is subject to the conditions specified in the transfer document, including, without limitation, any time periods, and any violation of these specific conditions entitles the Service to immediately repossess the fish, wildlife, or plants, or their offspring.


(c) The Service will not donate live fish, wildlife, or plants for human consumption.






