# § 25.11   Authority, purposes, and scope.

(a) *Authority.* The authority for this part is 12 U.S.C. 21, 22, 26, 27, 30, 36, 93a, 161, 215, 215a, 481, 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1814, 1816, 1828(c), 1835a, 2901 through 2908, 3101 through 3111, and 5412(b)(2)(B).


(b) *Purposes.* This part implements the requirement in the Community Reinvestment Act (12 U.S.C. 2901 *et seq.*) (CRA) that the appropriate Federal banking agency assess a bank's or savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of the local communities in which the bank or savings association is chartered, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the bank or savings association, and to take this record into account in the agency's evaluation of an application for a deposit facility by the bank or savings association. Accordingly, this part:


(1) Establishes the framework and criteria by which the appropriate Federal banking agency assesses a bank's or savings association's record of responding to the credit needs of its entire community, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the bank or savings association; and


(2) Provides that the appropriate Federal banking agency takes that record into account in considering certain applications.


(c) *Scope*—(1) *General.* (i) This subpart, subparts B through E of this part, and appendices A through G to this part apply to all banks and savings associations except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section. Subpart F of this part only applies to banks.


(ii) With respect to this subpart, subparts B through E of this part, and appendices A through F to this part:


(A) The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) has the authority to prescribe the regulations in this part for national banks, Federal savings associations, Federal branches of foreign banks, and State savings associations and has the authority to enforce the regulations in this part for national banks, Federal branches of foreign banks, and Federal savings associations; and


(B) The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) has the authority to enforce the regulations in this part for State savings associations.


(2) *Federal branches and agencies.* (i) This part applies to all insured Federal branches and to any Federal branch that is uninsured that results from an acquisition described in section 5(a)(8) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3103(a)(8)).


(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, this part does not apply to uninsured Federal branches, limited Federal branches, or Federal agencies, as those terms are defined or used in part 28 of this chapter.


(3) *Certain special purpose banks and savings associations.* This part does not apply to special purpose banks or special purpose savings associations that do not perform commercial or retail banking services by granting credit to the public in the ordinary course of business, other than as incident to their specialized operations. These banks or savings associations include banker's banks, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 24(Seventh), and banks or savings associations that engage only in one or more of the following activities: providing cash management controlled disbursement services or serving as correspondent banks or savings associations, trust companies, or clearing agents.



---

[N] [89 FR 7165, Feb. 1, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 7166, Feb. 1, 2024]






