# ยง 355.22   Validation of documentation.

(a) Documentation for any mailed or nonmailed terrestrial plant which is required to have documentation under 50 CFR part 17 or part 23 at the time of importation, must be validated by an inspector prior to movement of such plant from the Customs inspection area at the port of entry. The original documentation must be surrendered to the inspector at the time of validation.


(b) Documentation for any mailed or nonmailed terrestrial plant which is listed in 50 CFR 17.12 or 23.23 and which is required to have documentation under 50 CFR part 17 or part 23 at the time of exportation or reexportation, must be validated at the port of export or reexport by an inspector prior to the exportation or reexportation of such plant. 
5 The original and one copy of the documentation must be submitted for validation, and the copy must be surrendered to the inspector at the time of validation.


(c) Documentation for a plant shall be validated under this section upon endorsement of the documentation by an inspector when he or she determines that the plant was apparently eligible for importation, exportation, or reexportation in accordance with the provisions of this part and the provisions of 50 CFR chapter I relating to the Act and Convention.


(d) To obtain validation of documentation, the importer, exporter, or reexporter, or agent thereof, shall make available to an inspector: 


(1) All shipping documents (including bills of lading, waybills, packing lists, and invoices):


(2) All documents required by the Act and Convention; and 


(3) The plant being imported, exported, or reexported. 



---

[N] [49 FR 42912, Oct. 25, 1984, as amended at 59 FR 67611, Dec. 30, 1994; 70 FR 57995, Oct. 5, 2005]




