# ยง 94.101   Purpose and scope; future guidance; construction and severability; compliance date.

(a) *Purpose and scope.* This subpart implements the provisions of VOCA, at 34 U.S.C. 20103, which, as of July 8, 2016, authorize the Director to make an annual grant to the chief executive of each State for the financial support of eligible crime victim assistance programs. VOCA sets out the statutory requirements governing these grants, and this subpart should be read in conjunction with it. Grants under this program also are subject to the government-wide grant rules in 2 CFR part 200, as implemented by the Department of Justice at 2 CFR part 2800, and the DOJ Grants Financial Guide.


(b) *Future guidance.* The Director may, pursuant to 34 U.S.C. 20110(a), prescribe guidance for grant recipients and sub-recipients under this program on the application of this subpart.


(c) *Construction and severability.* Any provision of this subpart held to be invalid or unenforceable by its terms, or as applied to any person or circumstance, shall be construed so as to give it the maximum effect permitted by law, unless such holding shall be one of utter invalidity or unenforceability, in which event such provision shall be deemed severable from this part and shall not affect the remainder thereof or the application of such provision to other persons not similarly situated or to other, dissimilar circumstances.


(d) *Compliance date.* This subpart applies to all grants under this program made by OVC after August 8, 2016, except for funds that the SAA obligated before August 8, 2016 (*i.e.* pre-award funds under grants made in 2016). SAAs may permit the use of funds that are unobligated as of August 8, 2016 for activities permitted by this subpart, but not by the Guidelines.



---

[N] [81 FR 44528, July 8, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 3656, Jan. 20, 2023]




