# § 133.186   Sap sago cheese.

(a) *Description.* (1) Sap sago cheese is the food prepared by the procedure set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section or by any other procedure which produces a finished cheese having the same physical and chemical properties. The cheese is pale green in color and has the shape of a truncated cone. The maximum moisture content is 38 percent by weight, as determined by the method described in § 133.5. Sap sago cheese is not less than 5 months old.


(2) One or more of the dairy ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is allowed to become sour, and is heated to boiling temperature, with stirring. Sufficient sour whey is added to precipitate the casein. The curd is removed, spread out in boxes, and pressed, and while under pressure is allowed to drain and ferment. It is ripened for not less than 5 weeks. The ripened curd is dried and ground; salt and dried clover of the species *Melilotus coerulea* are added. The mixture is shaped into truncated cones and ripened. The optional ingredient in paragraph (b)(2) of this section may be added during this procedure.


(b) *Optional ingredients.* The following safe and suitable ingredients may be used:


(1) *Dairy ingredients.* Nonfat milk, as defined in § 133.3.


(2) *Other optional ingredients.* Buttermilk.


(c) *Nonmenclature.* The name of the food is “sap sago cheese”.


(d) *Label declaration.* Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter.



---

[N] [54 FR 32058, Aug. 4, 1989, as amended at 58 FR 2895, Jan. 6, 1993]




