# ยง 167.85   Reporting requirements.

(a) *Who must report.* Each producer operating an establishment must submit the reports required by this section concerning any pesticide, active ingredient, or device produced at each establishment. Custom blenders are not required to report production to the Agency.


(b) *Information required.* The pesticide report shall include the following: (1) Name and address of the establishment; (2) amount of each pesticidal product: (i) Produced during the past year; (ii) sold or distributed during the past year; (iii) estimated to be produced during the current year. The report shall only include those pesticidal products actually produced at the reporting establishment. Reports submitted by foreign-producing establishments shall cover only those pesticidal products exported to the United States.


(c) *How to report.* The reports required by this section must be made on forms supplied by the Agency. It is the ultimate responsibility of companies to obtain, complete, and submit the form each year.


(d) *When to report.* A producer operating an establishment must submit an initial report no later than 30 days after the first registration of each establishment the producer operates. Thereafter, the producer must submit an annual report on or before March 1 of each year, even if the producer has produced no pesticidal product for that reporting year.



---

[N] [53 FR 35058, Sept. 8, 1988; 54 FR 32638, Aug. 9, 1989, as amended at 58 FR 34203, June 23, 1993]




