# ยง 107.30   Recordkeeping requirements.

(a) All persons receiving assistance through any program or activity of the Department involving the provision of housing and related activities subject to Executive Order 11063 shall maintain racial, religious, national origin and sex data required by the Department in connection with its programs and activities. 


(b) All lenders participating in Departmental mortgage insurance programs, home improvement loan programs, GNMA mortgage purchase programs, or special mortgage assistance programs, shall maintain data regarding the race, religion, national origin and sex of each applicant and joint applicant for assistance with regard to residential property and related facilities. Racial data shall be noted in the following categories: American Indian/Alaskan Native, Asian/Pacific Islander, Black, White, Hispanic. If an applicant or joint applicant refuses to voluntarily provide the information or any part of it, that fact shall be noted and the information shall be obtained, to the extent possible, through observation. Applications shall be retained for a period of at least twenty-five (25) months following the date the record was made.


(c) If an investigation or compliance review under this part reveals a failure to comply with any of the requirements of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, the respondent shall have the burden of establishing its compliance with this part and with the equal housing opportunity requirements of the Executive order.



---

[N] [45 FR 59514, Sept. 9, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 52442, Dec. 24, 1985]




