# ยง 985.2   Definitions.

(a) The terms *Department, Fair Market Rent, HUD, Secretary,* and *Section 8,* as used in this part, are defined in 24 CFR 5.100.


(b) The definitions in 24 CFR 982.4 apply to this part. As used in this part:


*Confirmatory review* means an on site review performed by HUD to verify the management performance of an PHA.


*Corrective action plan* means a HUD-required written plan that addresses PHA program management deficiencies or findings identified by HUD through remote monitoring or on-site review, and that will bring the PHA to an acceptable level of performance.


*MTCS* means Multifamily Tenant Characteristics System. MTCS is the Department's national database on participants and rental units in the Section 8 rental certificate, rental voucher, and moderate rehabilitation programs and in the Public and Indian Housing programs.


*PHA* means a Housing Agency.


*PHA's quality control sample* means an annual sample of files or records drawn in an unbiased manner and reviewed by an PHA supervisor (or by another qualified person other than the person who performed the original work) to determine if the work documented in the files or records conforms to program requirements. The minimum size of the PHA's quality control sample is as follows:


*Performance indicator* means a standard set for a key area of Section 8 program management against which the PHA's performance is measured to show whether the PHA administers the program properly and effectively. (See ยง 985.3.)


*SEMAP certification* means the PHA's annual certification to HUD, on the form prescribed by HUD, concerning its performance in key Section 8 program areas.


*SEMAP deficiency* means any rating of 0 points on a SEMAP performance indicator.


*SEMAP profile* means a summary prepared by HUD of an PHA's ratings on each SEMAP indicator, its overall SEMAP score, and its overall performance rating (high performer, standard, troubled).



---

[N] [63 FR 48555, Sept. 10, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 40497, July 26, 1999]






