# ยง 336.2   Authority, purpose and scope.

(a) *Authority.* This part is adopted pursuant to section 12(f) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1822, and the rulemaking authority of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) found at 12 U.S.C. 1819. This part is in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other statutes or regulations which may apply to standards for ethical conduct or fitness for employment with the FDIC and is consistent with the goals and purposes of 18 U.S.C. 201, 203, 205, 208, and 209.


(b) *Purpose.* The purpose of this part is to state the minimum standards of fitness and integrity required of individuals who provide service to or on behalf of the FDIC and provide procedures for implementing these requirements.


(c) *Scope.* (1) This part applies to applicants for employment with the FDIC under title 5 of the U.S. Code appointing authority in either the excepted or competitive service, including Special Government Employees. This part applies to all appointments, regardless of tenure, including intermittent, temporary, time-limited and permanent appointments.


(2) In addition, this part applies to all employees of the FDIC who serve under an appointing authority under chapter 21 of title 5 of the U.S. Code.


(3) Further, this part applies to any individual who, pursuant to a contract or any other arrangement, performs functions or activities of the Corporation, under the direct supervision of an officer or employee of the Corporation.




