# § 471.34   Pretreatment standards for existing sources (PSES).

Except as provided in 40 CFR 403.7 and 403.13, any existing source subject to this subpart which introduces pollutants into a publicly owned treatment works must comply with 40 CFR part 403 and by August 23, 1988 achieve the following pretreatment standards for existing sources (PSES). The mass of wastewater pollutants in nickel-cobalt forming wastewater introduced into a POTW shall not exceed the following values: 


(a) *Rolling spent neat oils—subpart C—PSES.* There shall be no discharge of process wastewater pollutants. 


(b) *Rolling spent emulsions.*

(c) *Rolling contact cooling water.*

(d) *Tube Reducing Spent Lubricant—subpart C—PSES.* (1) There shall be no discharge of process wastewater pollutants except as provided under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(2) Process wastewater pollutants may be discharged, with no allowance for any pollutants discharged, provided the facility owner or operator demonstrates, on the basis of analytical methods set forth in or approved pursuant to 40 CFR part 136, that the concentrations of nitrosamine compounds in the wastewater discharged from the tube reducing process do not exceed 0.050 mg/l of N-nitrosodimethylamine, 0.020 mg/l of N-nitrosodiphenylamine, and 0.020 mg/l of N-nitrosodi-n-propylamine.


(3) The demonstration required under paragraph (d)(2) of this section shall be made once per month until the demonstration has been made for all three nitrosamine compounds for six consecutive months, after which time the demonstration may be made once per quarter. If a sample is found to contain any of the foregoing nitrosamine compounds at concentrations greater than those specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the actions described in paragraph (d)(4) of this section shall be taken, and the demonstration required under paragraph (d)(2) of this section shall be made once per month until it has been made for all three nitrosamine compounds for six consecutive months.


(4) If sampling results show that any of the foregoing nitrosamine compounds is present in the process wastewater at concentrations greater than those specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the facility owner or operator shall ensure that, within thirty days of receiving written notification of the sampling results, there is no further discharge of tube reducing spent lubricant wastewater until the owner or operator: 


(i) Performs a subsequent analysis which demonstrates that the concentrations of the foregoing nitrosamine compounds do not exceed the levels specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section; or 


(ii) Substitutes a new tube reducing lubricant and thereafter complies with the requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section; or 


(iii) Determines the source of the pollutant whose concentration exceeded the level specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section and demonstrates to the satisfaction of the POTW control authority that such source has been eliminated.


(5) The concentration limits specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section apply at the point of discharge from the tube reducing process. However, sampling after the tube reducing wastewater has been commingled with other wastewaters is permitted if: 


(i) Any dilution caused by the other wastewaters is taken into account in determining the appropriate (*i.e.*, lower) allowable discharge concentration; and 


(ii) An analytical method of sufficient sensitivity is used to measure the levels of each of the foregoing nitrosamine compounds in the wastewaters being sampled.


(e) *Drawing spent neat oils—subpart C—PSES.* There shall be no discharge of process wastewater pollutants. 


(f) *Drawing spent emulsions.*

(g) *Extrusion spent lubricants—subpart C—PSES.* There shall be no discharge of process wastewater pollutants.


(h) *Extrusion press or solution heat treatment contact cooling water.*

(i) *Extrusion press hydraulic fluid leakage.*

(j) *Forging equipment cleaning wastewater.*

(k) *Forging contact cooling water.*

(l) *Forging press hydraulic fluid leakage.*

(m) *Forging spent lubricants—subpart C—PSES.* There shall be no discharge of process wastewater pollutants.


(n) *Stationary casting contact cooling water.*

(o) *Vacuum melting steam condensate—subpart C—PSES.* There shall be no allowance for the discharge of wastewater pollutants.


(p) *Metal powder production atomization wastewater.*

(q) *Annealing and solution heat treatment contact cooling water—subpart C—PSES.* There shall be no allowance for the discharge of wastewater pollutants.


(r) *Wet air pollution control scrubber blowdown.*

(s) *Surface treatment spent baths.*

(t) *Surface treatment rinse.*

(u) *Alkaline cleaning spent baths.*

(v) *Alkaline cleaning rinse.*

(w) *Molten salt rinse.*

(x) *Ammonia rinse.*

(y) *Sawing or grinding spent emulsions.*

(z) *Sawing or grinding rinse.*

(aa) *Steam cleaning condensate.*

(bb) *Hydrostatic Tube Testing and Ultrasonic Testing Wastewater—subpart C—PSES.* There shall be no allowance for the discharge of process wastewater pollutants. 


(cc) *Degreasing Spent Solvents—subpart C—PSES.* There shall be no discharge of process wastewater pollutants. 


(dd) *Dye Penetrant Testing Wastewater.*

(ee) *Electrocoating rinse.*

(ff) *Miscellaneous wastewater sources.*


---

[N] [50 FR 34270, Aug. 23, 1985; 51 FR 2885, Jan. 22, 1986, as amended at 54 FR 11349, Mar. 17, 1989; 54 FR 13606, Apr. 4, 1989]




