# § 721.11570   Aliphatic urethane methacrylate (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as aliphatic urethane methacrylate (PMN P-20-94) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in §  721.63(a)(4), (5) and (6), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for §  721.63(a)(4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For purposes of §  721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50 (or 1,000 for spray applications). For purposes of §  721.63(a)(6), the airborne form(s) of the substance include particulate. The provisions of this paragraph (a)(2)(i) do not apply when both of the following conditions are met:


(A) The substance was manufactured with no greater than 3.5% acrylate feedstock by weight, and


(B) Any residual isocyanate in the substance is present at no greater than 0.1% by weight.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in §  721.80(o).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (d) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [86 FR 55707, Oct. 7, 2021]










