# ยง 1620.5   Administrative claim; evidence and information to be submitted.

(a) *Death.* In support of a claim based on death, the claimant may be required to submit the following evidence or information:


(1) An authenticated death certificate or other competent evidence showing cause of death, date of death, and age of the decedent.


(2) Decedent's employment or occupation at time of death, including his or her monthly or yearly salary or earnings (if any), and the duration of his or her last employment or occupation.


(3) Full names, addresses, birth date, kinship and marital status of the decedent's survivors, including identification of those survivors who were dependent on support provided by the decedent at the time of death.


(4) Degree of support afforded by the decedent to each survivor dependent on him or her for support at the time of death.


(5) Decedent's general physical and mental condition before death.


(6) Itemized bills for medical and burial expenses incurred by reason of the incident causing death, or itemized receipts of payment for such expenses.


(7) If damages for pain and suffering before death are claimed, a physician's detailed statement specifying the injuries suffered, duration of pain and suffering, any drugs administered for pain, and the decedent's physical condition in the interval between injuries and death.


(8) True and correct copies of relevant medical treatment records, laboratory and other tests, including X-Rays, MRI, CT scans and other objective evidence of medical evaluation and diagnosis, treatment of injury/illness, and prognosis, if any had been made.


(9) Any other evidence or information that may have a bearing on either the responsibility of the United States for the death or the amount of damages claimed.


(b) *Personal injury.* In support of a claim for personal injury, including pain and suffering, the claimant may be required to submit the following evidence or information:


(1) A written report by the attending physician or dentist setting forth the nature and extent of the injury, nature and extent of treatment, any degree of temporary or permanent disability, the prognosis, period of hospitalization, and any diminished earning capacity. If damages for pain and suffering are claimed, a physician's detailed statement specifying the duration of pain and suffering, a listing of drugs administered for pain, and the claimant's general physical condition.


(2) True and correct copies of relevant medical treatment records, laboratory and other tests including X-Rays, MRI, CT scans and other objective evidence of medical evaluation and diagnosis, treatment injury/illness and prognosis.


(3) The claimant may be required to submit to a physical or mental examination by a physician employed by CSB or another Federal agency. On written request, CSB will make available to the claimant a copy of the report of the examining physician employed by the United States, provided the claimant has furnished CSB with the information noted in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section. In addition, the claimant must have made or agrees to make available to CSB all other physicians' reports previously or thereafter made of the physical or mental condition that is subject matter of his or her claim.


(4) Itemized bills for medical, dental, and hospital expenses incurred, and/or itemized receipts of payment for such expenses.


(5) If the prognosis reveals the necessity for future treatment, a statement of the expected treatment and the expected expense for such treatment.


(6) If a claim is made for loss of time from employment, a written statement from his or her employer showing actual time lost from employment, whether he or she is a full-time or part-time employee, and wages or salary actually lost.


(7) If a claim is made for loss of income and the claimant is self-employed, documentary evidence showing the amount of earnings actually lost.


(8) Any other evidence or information that may have a bearing on either the responsibility of the United States for the personal injury or the damages claimed.


(c) *Property damage.* In support of a claim for damage to or loss of property, real or personal, the claimant may be required to submit the following evidence or information:


(1) Proof of ownership of the property.


(2) A detailed statement of the amount claimed with respect to each item of property.


(3) An itemized receipt of payment for necessary repairs or itemized written estimates of the cost of such repairs.


(4) A statement listing date of purchase, purchase price, and salvage value.


(5) Photographs or video footage documenting the damage, including photographs showing the condition of the property at issue both before and after the alleged negligence or wrongful act or omission.


(6) Any other evidence or information that may have a bearing on either the responsibility of the United States for the damage to or loss of property or the damages claimed.




