# § 173.186   Matches.

(a) Matches must be of a type which will not ignite spontaneously or undergo marked decomposition when subjected for 8 consecutive hours to a temperature of 93 °C (200 °F).


(b) *Definitions.* (1) *Fusee matches* are matches the heads of which are prepared with a friction-sensitive igniter composition and a pyrotechnic composition which burns with little or no flame, but with intense heat.


(2) *Safety matches* are matches combined with or attached to the box, book or card that can be ignited by friction only on a prepared surface.


(3) *Strike anywhere* matches are matches that can be ignited by friction on a solid surface.


(4) *Wax “Vesta”* matches are matches that can be ignited by friction either on a prepared surface or on a solid surface.


(c) Safety matches and wax “Vesta” matches must be tightly packed in securely closed inner packagings to prevent accidental ignition under conditions normally incident to transportation, and further packed in outer fiberboard, wooden, or other equivalent-type packagings. These matches in outer packagings not exceeding 23 kg (50 pounds) gross weight are not subject to any other requirement (except marking) of this subchapter. These matches may be packed in the same outer packaging with materials not subject to this subchapter.


(d) Strike-anywhere matches may not be packed in the same outer packaging with any material other than safety matches or wax “Vesta” matches, which must be packed in separate inner packagings.


(e) *Packagings.* Strike-anywhere matches must be tightly packed in securely closed chipboard, fiberboard, wooden, or metal inner packagings to prevent accidental ignition under conditions normally incident to transportation. Each inner packaging may contain no more than 700 strike-anywhere matches and must be packed in outer steel drums (1A1, 1A2), aluminum drums (1B1, 1B2), other metal drums (1N1, 1N2), steel jerricans (3A1, 3A2), aluminum jerricans (3B1, 3B2), steel (4A), aluminum (4N), other metal (4N) boxes, wooden (4C1, 4C2), plywood (4D), reconstituted wood (4F) or fiberboard (4G) boxes, plywood (1D) or fiber (1G) drums. Gross weight of fiberboard boxes (4G) must not exceed 30 kg (66 pounds). Gross weight of other outer packagings must not exceed 45 kg (100 pounds).



---

[N] [Amdt. 173-224, 55 FR 52643, Dec. 21, 1990, as amended at 69 FR 76157, Dec. 20, 2004; 78 FR 1088, Jan. 7, 2013]




