# § 721.11509   Alkane, diisocyanato-(isocyanatoalkyl)- (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance generically identified as alkane, diisocyanato-(isocyanatoalkyl)- (PMN P-18-320) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Workplace protection.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(3) through (6), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 1,000. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(6), the airborne form(s) of the substance include particulate (including solids or liquid droplets).


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(o).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (e) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [86 FR 30200, June 7, 2021]




