# ยง 400.208   Issuance of the Guarantee.

(a) The Board's decisions to approve any application for, and extend an offer of, guarantee under ยง 400.207 is conditioned upon:


(1) The Lender and Borrower obtaining any required regulatory or judicial approvals;


(2) The Lender and Borrower being legally authorized to enter into the loan under the terms and conditions submitted to the Board in the application;


(3) The Board's receipt of the Loan Documents and any related instruments, in form and substance satisfactory to the Board, and the Guarantee, all properly executed by the Lender, Borrower, and any other required party other than the Board; and 


(4) No material adverse change in the Borrower's ability to repay the loan between the date of the Board's approval and the date the Guarantee is to be issued.


(b) The Board may withdraw its approval of an application and rescind its offer of Guarantee if the Board determines that the Lender or the Borrower cannot, or is unwilling to, provide adequate documentation and proof of compliance with paragraph (a) of this section within the time provided for in the offer.


(c) Only after receipt of all the documentation, required by this section, will the Board sign and deliver the Guarantee.


(d) A Borrower receiving a loan guaranteed by the Board under this Program shall pay a one-time guarantee fee of 0.5 percent of the amount of the principal of the loan. This fee must be paid no later than one year from the issuance of the Guarantee.



---

[N] [64 FR 57933, Oct. 27, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 70294, Nov. 22, 2000; 66 FR 53080, Oct. 19, 2001]




