# ยง 922.71   Definitions.

In addition to those definitions found at ยง 922.11, the following definitions apply to this subpart:


*Motorized personal watercraft* means a vessel, usually less than 16 feet in length, which uses an inboard, internal combustion engine powering a water jet pump as its primary source of propulsion. The vessel is intended to be operated by a person or persons sitting, standing or kneeling on the vessel, rather than within the confines of the hull. The length is measured from end to end over the deck excluding sheer, meaning a straight line measurement of the overall length from the foremost part of the vessel to the aftermost part of the vessel, measured parallel to the centerline. Bow sprits, bumpkins, rudders, outboard motor brackets, and similar fittings or attachments, are not included in the measurement. Length is stated in feet and inches.


*Oceangoing ship* means a private, commercial, government, or military vessel of 300 gross registered tons or more, not including cruise ships.


*Pelagic finfish* are defined as: Northern anchovy (*Engraulis mordax*), barracudas (*Sphyraena spp.*), billfishes (family *Istiophoridae*), dolphinfish (*Coryphaena hippurus*), Pacific herring (*Clupea pallasi*), jack mackerel (*Trachurus symmetricus*), Pacific mackerel (*Scomber japonicus*), salmon (*Oncorhynchus spp.*), Pacific sardine (*Sardinops sagax*), blue shark (*Prionace glauca*), salmon shark (*Lamna ditropis*), shortfin mako shark (*Isurus oxyrinchus*), thresher sharks (*Alopias spp.*), swordfish (*Xiphias gladius*), tunas (family *Scombridae*), and yellowtail (*Seriola lalandi*).


*Stowed and not available for immediate use* means not readily accessible for immediate use, e.g., by being securely covered and lashed to a deck or bulkhead, tied down, unbaited, unloaded, or partially disassembled (such as spear shafts being kept separate from spear guns).



---

[N] [74 FR 3260, Jan. 16, 2009, as amended at 88 FR 965, Jan. 6, 2023]




