# § 438.364   External quality review results.

(a) *Information that must be produced.* The State must ensure that the EQR results in an annual detailed technical report that summarizes findings on access and quality of care, including:


(1) A description of the manner in which the data from all activities conducted in accordance with § 438.358 were aggregated and analyzed, and conclusions were drawn as to the quality, timeliness, and access to the care furnished by the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP.


(2) For each EQR-related activity conducted in accordance with § 438.358:


(i) Objectives;


(ii) Technical methods of data collection and analysis;


(iii) The data and a description of data obtained, including validated performance measurement, any outcomes data and results from quantitative assessments, for each activity conducted in accordance with § 438.358(b)(1)(i), (ii) and (iv) of this subpart; and


(iv) Conclusions drawn from the data.


(3) An assessment of each MCO's, PIHP's, or PAHP's-strengths and weaknesses for the quality, timeliness, and access to health care services furnished to Medicaid beneficiaries.


(4) Recommendations for improving the quality of health care services furnished by each MCO, PIHP, or PAHP, including how the State can target goals and objectives in the quality strategy, under § 438.340, to better support improvement in the quality, timeliness, and access to health care services furnished to Medicaid beneficiaries.


(5) Methodologically appropriate, comparative information about all MCOs, PIHPs, or PAHPs, consistent with guidance included in the EQR protocols issued in accordance with § 438.352(e).


(6) An assessment of the degree to which each MCO, PIHP, or PAHP has addressed effectively the recommendations for quality improvement made by the EQRO during the previous year's EQR.


(7) The names of the MCOs exempt from external quality review by the State, including the beginning date of the current exemption period, or that no MCOs are exempt, as appropriate.




(b) *Revision.* States may not substantively revise the content of the final EQR technical report without evidence of error or omission.


(c) *Availability of information.* (1) The State must contract with a qualified EQRO to produce and submit to the State an annual EQR technical report in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. The State must finalize the annual technical report by April 30th of each year.


(2) The State must—


(i) Post the most recent copy of the annual EQR technical report on the website required-under § 438.10(c)(3) by April 30th of each year and notify CMS, in a form and manner determined by CMS, within 14 calendar days of the Web posting.


(ii) Provide printed or electronic copies of the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section, upon request, to interested parties such as participating health care providers, enrollees and potential enrollees of the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP, beneficiary advocacy groups, and members of the general public.


(iii) Maintain at least the previous 5 years of EQR technical reports on the on the website required under § 438.10(c)(3).


(3) The State must make the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section available in alternative formats for persons with disabilities, when requested.


(d) *Safeguarding patient identity.* The information released under paragraph (c) of this section may not disclose the identity or other protected health information of any patient.



---

[N] [81 FR 27853, May 6, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 72842, Nov. 13, 2020; 89 FR 41279, May 10, 2024]






