# § 5.5   Notification of intent.

(a) *Notification of intent.* A potential applicant for an original, new, or subsequent license, must file a notification of its intent to do so in the manner provided for in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.


(b) *Requirement to notify.* In order for a non-licensee to notify the Commission that it intends to file an application for an original, new, or subsequent license, or for an existing licensee to notify the Commission whether or not it intends to file an application for a new or subsequent license, a potential license applicant must file with the Secretary of the Commission in accordance with filing procedures posted on the Commission's Web site at *http://www.ferc.gov*, a letter that contains the following information:


(1) The potential applicant or existing licensee's name and address.


(2) The project number, if any.


(3) The license expiration date, if any.


(4) An unequivocal statement of the potential applicant's intention to file an application for an original license, or, in the case of an existing licensee, to file or not to file an application for a new or subsequent license.


(5) The type of principal project works licensed, if any, such as dam and reservoir, powerhouse, or transmission lines.


(6) The location of the project by state, county, and stream, and, when appropriate, by city or nearby city.


(7) The installed plant capacity, if any.


(8) The names and mailing addresses of:


(i) Every county in which any part of the project is located, and in which any Federal facility that is used or to be used by the project is located;


(ii) Every city, town, or similar political subdivision;


(A) In which any part of the project is or is to be located and any Federal facility that is or is to be used by the project is located, or


(B) That has a population of 5,000 or more people and is located within 15 miles of the existing or proposed project dam;


(iii) Every irrigation district, drainage district, or similar special purpose political subdivision:


(A) In which any part of the project is or is proposed to be located and any Federal facility that is or is proposed to be used by the project is located; or


(B) That owns, operates, maintains, or uses any project facility or any Federal facility that is or is proposed to be used by the project;


(iv) Every other political subdivision in the general area of the project or proposed project that there is reason to believe would be likely to be interested in, or affected by, the notification; and


(v) Affected Indian tribes.


(c) *Requirement to distribute.* Before it files any application for an original, new, or subsequent license, a potential license applicant proposing to file a license application pursuant to this part or to request to file a license application pursuant to part 4 of this chapter and, as appropriate, part 16 of this chapter (*i.e.,* the “traditional process”), including an application pursuant to § 4.34(i) *alternative procedures* of this chapter must distribute to appropriate Federal, state, and interstate resource agencies, Indian tribes, local governments, and members of the public likely to be interested in the proceeding the notification of intent provided for in paragraph (a) of this section.


(d) *When to notify.* An existing licensee or non-licensee potential applicant must notify the Commission as required in paragraph (b) of this section at least five years, but not more than five and one-half years, before the existing license expires.


(e) *Non-Federal representatives.* A potential license applicant may at the same time it files its notification of intent and distributes its pre-application document, request to be designated as the Commission's non-Federal representative for purposes of consultation under section 7 of the Endangered Species Act and the joint agency regulations thereunder at 50 CFR part 402, Section 305(b) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act and the implementing regulations at 50 CFR 600.920. A potential license applicant may at the same time request authorization to initiate consultation under section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act and the implementing regulations at 36 CFR 800.2(c)(4).


(f) *Procedural matters.* The provisions of subpart F of part 16 of this chapter apply to projects to which this part applies.


(g) *Construction of regulations.* The provisions of this part and parts 4 and 16 shall be construed in a manner that best implements the purposes of each part and gives full effect to applicable provisions of the Federal Power Act.



---

[N] [Order 2002, 68 FR 51121, Aug. 25, 2003; 68 FR 69957, Dec. 16, 2003, as amended by Order 737, 75 FR 43402, July 26, 2010]




