# ยง 884.215   Lease requirements.

The Lease shall contain all required provisions specified in paragraph (b) of this section and none of the prohibited provisions listed in paragraph (c) of this section. In addition to the provisions specified in paragraph (b), the lease shall also contain a provision or addendum that tenants will receive notification at least 30 days before an eviction for nonpayment of rent is filed.




(a) *Term of lease.* The term of the Lease shall be for not less than one year. The Lease may (or, in the case of a Lease for a term of more than one year, shall) contain a provision permitting termination upon 30 days advance written notice by either party. 


(b) *Required provisions.* The Lease between the Owner (Lessor) and the Family (Lessee) shall contain the following provisions: 


(c) *Prohibited provisions.* Lease clauses which fall within the classifications listed below shall not be included in any Lease. 


(1) *Confession of judgment.* Prior consent by tenant to any lawsuit the landlord may bring against him in connection with the Lease and to a judgment in favor of the landlord. 


(2) *Distraint for rent or other charges.* Authorization to the landlord to take property of the tenant and hold it as a pledge until the tenant performs any obligation which the landlord has determined the tenant has failed to perform. 


(3) *Exculpatory clause.* Agreement by tenant not to hold the landlord or landlord's agents liable for any acts or omissions whether intentional or negligent on the part of the landlord or the landlord's authorized representative or agents. 


(4) *Waiver of legal notice to tenant prior to actions for eviction or money judgments.* Agreement by tenant that the landlord may institute suit without any notice to the tenant that the suit has been filed. 


(5) *Waiver of legal proceedings.* Authorization to the landlord to evict the tenant or hold or sell the tenant's possessions whenever the landlord determines that a breach or default has occurred, without notice to the tenant or any determination by a court of the rights and liabilities of the parties. 


(6) *Waiver of jury trial.* Authorization to the landlord's lawyer to appear in court for the tenant and to waive the tenant's right to a trial by jury. 


(7) *Waiver of right to appeal judicial error in legal proceedings.* Authorization to the landlord's lawyer to waive the tenant's right to appeal on the ground of judicial error in any suit or the tenant's right to file a suit in equity to prevent the execution of a judgment. 


(8) *Tenant chargeable with costs of legal actions regardless of outcome.* Agreement by the tenant to pay attorney's fees or other legal costs whenever the landlord decides to take action against the tenant even though the court finds in favor of the tenant. (Omission of such clause does not mean that the tenant as a party to a lawsuit may not be obligated to pay attorney's fee or other costs if he loses the suit.) 



---

[N] [45 FR 6909, Jan. 30, 1980, as amended at 89 FR 101303, Dec. 13, 2024]










