# § 201.132   Conduct of the hearing.

(a) *Order of presentation.* Normally the order of presentation at the hearing will be alphabetical in each of the following categories:


(1) MarAd statistical material.


(2) Shipper interests, United States and foreign government departments.


(3) Applicants.


(4) Intervenors.


(5) Public counsel.


(b) *Burden of proof.* The burden of proof shall be (1) upon an applicant for any form of government aid or grant; and (2) upon a proponent for the issuance of any rule or order within the jurisdiction of the Administration. The burden of going forward with rebuttal evidence in proceedings involving matters under paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section shall fall upon opposing intervenors. Whenever an intervenor is permitted by the presiding officer to raise or advance a new issue in the proceeding, the burden of proof as to such issue shall fall upon such intervenor. If the burden of proof is met as to such new issue, the other parties shall have the burden of going forward with rebuttal evidence in such regard.


(c) *Requirement for submission of corrected copies of exhibits.* Each party shall present three fully corrected copies of its exhibits to be offered in evidence, one for the docket and two for the presiding officer.


(d) *Offer of exhibits in evidence.* The exhibits and written testimony sponsored by each witness shall be offered in evidence at the close of his direct examination to the extent practicable. After ruling upon motions to strike they shall be received in evidence subject to cross-examination. The presiding officer, in his discretion, may defer such ruling until after completion of cross-examination.


(e)(1) *Cross-examination.* Cross-examination shall be limited to the scope of the direct examination and, except for Public Counsel and counsel for public bodies which have intervened as their interests may appear, to witnesses whose testimony is adverse to the party desiring to cross-examine—this being intended specifically to prohibit so-called “friendly cross-examination”. Cross-examination, which is not necessary to test the truth and completeness of the direct testimony and exhibits, will not be permitted.


(2) *Re-cross-examination.* Second rounds of cross-examination normally will not be permitted unless it is necessary to cover new matters raised by a subsequent examination. Cross-examination of any particular witness shall be limited to one attorney for each party and shall not include subjects which are not germane to the interest represented by the cross-examiner.


(f) *Oral motions.* Oral presentation on any motion or objection shall be limited to the party or parties making the motion or objection and the party or parties against which the motion or objection is directed and Public Counsel. Such presentation shall also be limited to one attorney for each party.


(g) *Official notice; public document items.* Whenever there is offered (in whole or in part) a public document, such as an official report, decision, opinion, or published scientific or economic statistical data issued by any of the executive departments (or their subdivisions), legislative agencies or committees, or administrative agencies of the Federal Government (including Government-owned corporations), or a similar document issued by a State or its agencies, and such document (or part thereof) has been shown by the offerer to be reasonably available to the public, such document need not be produced or marked for identification, but may be offered for official notice as a public document item by specifying the document or relevant part thereof.


(h) *Oral argument at hearings.* A request for oral argument at the close of testimony will be granted or denied by the presiding officer in his discretion.




