# § 485.542   Condition of participation: Emergency preparedness.

The REH must comply with all applicable Federal, state, and local emergency preparedness requirements. The REH must establish and maintain an emergency preparedness program that meets the requirements of this section. The emergency preparedness program must include, but not be limited to, the following elements:


(a) *Emergency plan.* The REH must develop and maintain an emergency preparedness plan that must be reviewed, and updated at least every 2 years. The plan must do the following:


(1) Be based on and include a documented, facility-based and community-based risk assessment, utilizing an all-hazards approach.


(2) Include strategies for addressing emergency events identified by the risk assessment.


(3) Address patient population, including, but not limited to, the type of services the REH has the ability to provide in an emergency; and continuity of operations, including delegations of authority and succession plans.


(4) Include a process for cooperation and collaboration with local, tribal, regional, state, and Federal emergency preparedness officials' efforts to maintain an integrated response during a disaster or emergency situation.


(b) *Policies and procedures.* The REH must develop and implement emergency preparedness policies and procedures, based on the emergency plan set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, risk assessment at paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and the communication plan at paragraph (c) of this section. The policies and procedures must be reviewed and updated at least every 2 years. At a minimum, the policies and procedures must address the following:


(1) The provision of subsistence needs for staff and patients, whether they evacuate or shelter in place, include, but are not limited to—


(i) Food, water, medical, and pharmaceutical supplies;


(ii) Alternate sources of energy to maintain:


(A) Temperatures to protect patient health and safety and for the safe and sanitary storage of provisions;


(B) Emergency lighting;


(C) Fire detection, extinguishing, and alarm systems; and


(D) Sewage and waste disposal.


(2) A system to track the location of on-duty staff and sheltered patients in the REH's care during an emergency. If on-duty staff or sheltered patients are relocated during the emergency, the REH must document the specific name and location of the receiving facility or other location.


(3) Safe evacuation from the REH, which includes the following:


(i) Consideration of care and treatment needs of evacuees.


(ii) Staff responsibilities.


(iii) Transportation.


(iv) Identification of evacuation location(s).


(v) Primary and alternate means of communication with external sources of assistance.


(4) A means to shelter in place for patients, staff, and volunteers who remain in the REH.


(5) A system of medical documentation that does the following:


(i) Preserves patient information.


(ii) Protects confidentiality of patient information.


(iii) Secures and maintains the availability of records.


(6) The use of volunteers in an emergency and other staffing strategies, including the process and role for integration of state and federally designated health care professionals to address surge needs during an emergency.


(7) The role of the REH under a waiver declared by the Secretary, in accordance with section 1135 of the Act, in the provision of care and treatment at an alternate care site identified by emergency management officials.


(c) *Communication plan.* The REH must develop and maintain an emergency preparedness communication plan that complies with Federal, state, and local laws and must be reviewed and updated at least every 2 years. The communication plan must include all of the following:


(1) Names and contact information for the following:


(i) Staff.


(ii) Entities providing services under arrangement.


(iii) Patients' physicians.


(iv) Volunteers.


(2) Contact information for the following:


(i) Federal, state, tribal, regional, and local emergency preparedness staff.


(ii) Other sources of assistance.


(3) Primary and alternate means for communicating with the following:


(i) REH's staff.


(ii) Federal, state, tribal, regional, and local emergency management agencies.


(4) A method for sharing information and medical documentation for patients under the REH's care, as necessary, with other health care providers to maintain the continuity of care.


(5) A means, in the event of an evacuation, to release patient information as permitted under 45 CFR 164.510(b)(1)(ii).


(6) A means of providing information about the general condition and location of patients under the facility's care as permitted under 45 CFR 164.510(b)(4).


(7) A means of providing information about the REH's needs, and its ability to provide assistance, to the authority having jurisdiction, the Incident Command Center, or designee.


(d) *Training and testing.* The REH must develop and maintain an emergency preparedness training and testing program that is based on the emergency plan set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, risk assessment at paragraph (a)(1) of this section, policies and procedures at paragraph (b) of this section, and the communication plan at paragraph (c) of this section. The training and testing program must be reviewed and updated at least every 2 years.


(1) *Training program.* The REH must do all of the following:


(i) Provide initial training in emergency preparedness policies and procedures to all new and existing staff, individuals providing on-site services under arrangement, and volunteers, consistent with their expected roles.


(ii) Provide emergency preparedness training at least every 2 years.


(iii) Maintain documentation of all emergency preparedness training.


(iv) Demonstrate staff knowledge of emergency procedures.


(v) If the emergency preparedness policies and procedures are significantly updated, the REH must conduct training on the updated policies and procedures.


(2) *Testing.* The REH must conduct exercises to test the emergency plan at least annually. The REH must do the following:


(i) Participate in a full-scale exercise that is community-based every 2 years.


(A) When a community-based exercise is not accessible, conduct a facility-based functional exercise every 2 years; or


(B) If the REH experiences an actual natural or man-made emergency that requires activation of the emergency plan, the REH is exempt from engaging in its next required community-based or individual, facility-based functional exercise following the onset of the emergency event.


(ii) Conduct an additional exercise at least every 2 years, opposite the year the full-scale or functional exercise under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section is conducted, that may include, but is not limited to the following:


(A) A second full-scale exercise that is community-based, or an individual, facility-based functional exercise; or


(B) A mock disaster drill; or


(C) A tabletop exercise or workshop that is led by a facilitator and includes a group discussion using a narrated, clinically-relevant emergency scenario, and a set of problem statements, directed messages, or prepared questions designed to challenge an emergency plan.


(iii) Analyze the REH's response to and maintain documentation of all drills, tabletop exercises, and emergency events and revise the REH's emergency plan, as needed.


(e) *Emergency and standby power systems.* The REH must implement emergency and standby power systems based on the emergency plan set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.


(1) *Emergency generator location.* The generator must be located in accordance with the location requirements found in the Health Care Facilities Code (NFPA 99 and Tentative Interim Amendments TIA 12-2, TIA 12-3, TIA 12-4, TIA 12-5, and TIA 12-6), Life Safety Code (NFPA 101 and Tentative Interim Amendments TIA 12-1, TIA 12-2, TIA 12-3, and TIA 12-4), and NFPA 110, when a new structure is built or when an existing structure or building is renovated.


(2) *Emergency generator inspection and testing.* The REH must implement emergency power system inspection and testing requirements found in the Health Care Facilities Code, NFPA 110, and the Life Safety Code.


(3) *Emergency generator fuel.* REHs that maintain an onsite fuel source to power emergency generators must have a plan for how it will keep emergency power systems operational during the emergency, unless it evacuates.


(f) *Integrated healthcare systems.* If an REH is part of a healthcare system consisting of multiple separately certified healthcare facilities that elects to have a unified and integrated emergency preparedness program, the REH may choose to participate in the healthcare system's coordinated emergency preparedness program. If elected, the unified and integrated emergency preparedness program must—


(1) Demonstrate that each separately certified facility within the system actively participated in the development of the unified and integrated emergency preparedness program.


(2) Be developed and maintained in a manner that takes into account each separately certified facility's unique circumstances, patient populations, and services offered.


(3) Demonstrate that each separately certified facility is capable of actively using the unified and integrated emergency preparedness program and is in compliance.


(4) Include a unified and integrated emergency plan that meets the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2), (3), and (4) of this section. The unified and integrated emergency plan must also be based on and include the following:


(i) A documented community-based risk assessment, utilizing an all-hazards approach.


(ii) A documented individual facility-based risk assessment for each separately certified facility within the health system, utilizing an all-hazards approach.


(5) Include integrated policies and procedures that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, a coordinated communication plan and training and testing programs that meet the requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, respectively.


(g) *Incorporation by reference.* The material listed in this paragraph (g) is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, CMS must publish a document in the _Federal Register_ and the material must be available to the public. All approved material is available for inspection at CMS and the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact CMS at: CMS Information Resource Center, 7500 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD, email: *scott.cooper@cms.hhs.gov* or call (410) 786-9465. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email: *fr.inspection@nara.gov*, or go to: *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html*. The material may be obtained from the following source(s) in this paragraph (g):


(1) National Fire Protection Association, 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA 02169, *www.nfpa.org*, 1.617.770.3000.


(i) NFPA 99, Health Care Facilities Code, 2012 edition, issued August 11, 2011.


(ii) Technical interim amendment (TIA) 12-2 to NFPA 99, issued August 11, 2011.


(iii) TIA 12-3 to NFPA 99, issued August 9, 2012.


(iv) TIA 12-4 to NFPA 99, issued March 7, 2013.


(v) TIA 12-5 to NFPA 99, issued August 1, 2013.


(vi) TIA 12-6 to NFPA 99, issued March 3, 2014.


(vii) NFPA 101, Life Safety Code, 2012 edition, issued August 11, 2011.


(viii) TIA 12-1 to NFPA 101, issued August 11, 2011.


(ix) TIA 12-2 to NFPA 101, issued October 30, 2012.


(x) TIA 12-3 to NFPA 101, issued October 22, 2013.


(xi) TIA 12-4 to NFPA 101, issued October 22, 2013.


(xii) NFPA 110, Standard for Emergency and Standby Power Systems, 2010 edition, including TIAs to chapter 7, issued August 6, 2009.


(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [87 FR 72293, Nov. 23, 2022; 88 FR 299, Jan. 4, 2023]






