# § 54.2000   Terms and definitions.

*Administrator.* The term “Administrator” means the Universal Service Administrative Company.


*Applicant.* An “applicant” is a school, library, or consortium of schools and/or libraries that applies to participate in the Schools and Libraries Cybersecurity Pilot Program.


*Billed entity.* A “billed entity” is the entity that remits payment to service providers for services rendered to eligible schools, libraries, or consortia of eligible schools and libraries.


*Commission.* The term “Commission” means the Federal Communications Commission (FCC).


*Connected device.* The term “connected device” means a laptop or desktop computer, or a tablet.


*Consortium.* A “consortium” is any local, Tribal, statewide, regional, or interstate cooperative association of schools and/or libraries eligible for Schools and Libraries Cybersecurity Pilot Program support that seeks competitive bids for eligible services or funding for eligible services on behalf of some or all of its members. A consortium may also include health care providers eligible under subpart G of this part, and public sector (governmental) entities, including, but not limited to, state colleges and state universities, state educational broadcasters, counties, and municipalities, although such entities are not eligible for support.


*Cyber incident.* An occurrence that actually or potentially results in adverse consequences to an information system or the information that the system processes, stores, or transmits and that may require a response action to mitigate or eliminate the consequences.


*Cyber threat.* A circumstance or event that has or indicates the potential to exploit vulnerabilities and to adversely impact organizational operations, organizational assets (including information and information systems), individuals, other organizations, or society.


*Cyberattac*k. An attempt to gain unauthorized access to system services, resources, or information, or an attempt to compromise system or information integrity.


*Doxing.* The act of compiling or publishing personal information about an individual on the internet, typically with malicious intent.


*Educational purposes.* For purposes of this subpart, activities that are integral, immediate, and proximate to the education of students, or in the case of libraries, integral, immediate, and proximate to the provision of library services to library patrons, qualify as “educational purposes.”


*Elementary school.* An “elementary school” means an elementary school as defined in 20 U.S.C. 7801(18), a non-profit institutional day or residential school, including a public elementary charter school, that provides elementary education, as determined under state law.


*Library.* A “library” includes:


(1) A public library;


(2) A public elementary school or secondary school library;


(3) A Tribal library;


(4) An academic library;


(5) A research library, which for the purpose of this subpart means a library that:


(i) Makes publicly available library services and materials suitable for scholarly research and not otherwise available to the public; and


(ii) Is not an integral part of an institution of higher education; and


(6) A private library, but only if the state in which such private library is located determines that the library should be considered a library for the purposes of this definition.


*Library consortium.* A “library consortium” is any local, statewide, Tribal, regional, or interstate cooperative association of libraries that provides for the systematic and effective coordination of the resources of schools, and public, academic, and special libraries and information centers, for improving services to the clientele of such libraries. For the purposes of this subpart, references to library will also refer to library consortium.


*National School Lunch Program.* The “National School Lunch Program” is a program administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture and state agencies that provides free or reduced price lunches to economically disadvantaged children. A child whose family income is between 130 percent and 185 percent of applicable family size income levels contained in the nonfarm poverty guidelines prescribed by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) is eligible for a reduced price lunch. A child whose family income is 130 percent or less of applicable family size income levels contained in the nonfarm income poverty guidelines prescribed by OMB is eligible for a free lunch.


*Pilot participant.* A “Pilot participant” is an eligible school, library, or consortium of eligible schools and/or libraries selected to participate in the Schools and Libraries Cybersecurity Pilot Program.


*Pre-discount price.* The “pre-discount price” means, in this subpart, the price the service provider agrees to accept as total payment for its eligible services and equipment. This amount is the sum of the amount the service provider expects to receive from the eligible school, library, or consortium, and the amount it expects to receive as reimbursement from the Schools and Libraries Cybersecurity Pilot Program for the discounts provided under this subpart.


*Secondary school.* A “secondary school” means a secondary school as defined in 20 U.S.C. 7801(38), a non-profit institutional day or residential school, including a public secondary charter school, that provides secondary education, as determined under state law except that the term does not include any education beyond grade 12.


*Tribal.* An entity is “Tribal” if it is a school operated by or receiving funding from the Bureau of Indian Education (BIE), or if it is a school or library operated by any Tribe, Band, Nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska native village, regional corporation, or village corporation (as defined in, or established pursuant to, the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*) that is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.






