# ยง 683.420   What procedures apply to the resolution of findings arising from audits, investigations, monitoring, and oversight reviews?

(a) *Resolution of subrecipient-level findings.* (1) The Governor or direct grant recipient is responsible for resolving findings that arise from the monitoring reviews, investigations, other Federal monitoring reviews, and audits (including under 2 CFR part 200) of subrecipients awarded funds through title I of WIOA or the Wagner-Peyser Act.


(i) A State or direct grant recipient must utilize the written monitoring and audit resolution, debt collection and appeal procedures that it uses for other Federal grant programs.


(ii) If a State or direct grant recipient does not have such written procedures, it must prescribe standards and procedures to be used for this grant program.


(2) For subrecipients awarded funds through a recipient of grant funds under subtitle D of title I of WIOA, the direct recipient of the grant funds must have written monitoring and resolution procedures in place that are consistent with 2 CFR part 200.


(b) *Resolution of State and other direct recipient-level findings.* (1) The Secretary is responsible for resolving findings that arise from Federal audits, monitoring reviews, investigations, incident reports, and audits under 2 CFR part 200 for direct recipients of Federal awards under title I of WIOA and the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by WIOA title III.


(2) The Secretary will use the Department audit resolution process, consistent with 2 CFR part 200 (and Department modifications at 2 CFR part 2900), and Grant Officer Resolution provisions of ยง 683.440, as appropriate.


(3) A final determination issued by a Grant Officer under this process may be appealed to the Department of Labor Office of Administrative Law Judges under the procedures at ยง 683.800.


(c) *Resolution of nondiscrimination findings.* Findings arising from investigations or reviews conducted under nondiscrimination laws will be resolved in accordance with WIOA sec. 188 of WIOA and the Department of Labor nondiscrimination regulations implementing sec. 188 of WIOA, codified at 29 CFR part 38.




