# § 1004.100   Acknowledgement and review of report.

(a) *Acknowledgement.* The OIG will inform the QIO of the date it received the QIO's report and recommendation.


(b) *Review.* The OIG will review the QIO report and recommendation to determine whether—


(1) The QIO has followed the regulatory requirements of this part; and


(2) A violation has occurred.


(c) *Rejection of the QIO recommendation.* If the OIG decides that a sanction is not warranted, it will notify the QIO that recommended the sanction, the affected practitioner or other person, and the licensing board informed by the QIO of the sanction recommendation that the recommendation is rejected.


(d) *Decision to sanction.* If the OIG decides that a violation of obligations has occurred, it will determine the appropriate sanction by considering—


(1) The recommendation of the QIO;


(2) The type of offense;


(3) The severity of the offense;


(4) The previous sanction record of the practitioner or other person;


(5) The availability of alternative sources of services in the community;


(6) Any prior problems the Medicare or State health care programs have had with the practitioner or other person; and


(7) Any other matters relevant to the particular case.


(e) *Exclusion sanction.* If the QIO submits a recommendation for exclusion to the OIG, and a determination is not made by the 120th day after actual receipt by the OIG, the exclusion sanction recommended will become effective and the OIG will provide notice in accordance with § 1004.110(f).


(f) *Monetary penalty.* If the QIO recommendation is to assess a monetary penalty, the 120-day provision does not apply and the OIG will provide notice in accordance with § 1004.110 (a)-(e).



---

[N] [60 FR 63640, Dec. 12, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 23143, Apr. 29, 1997]




