# § 53.97   Constructive sale price; affiliated corporations.

(a) *In general.* Sections 4216(b) (3) and (4) of the Code establish procedures for determining a constructive sale price under section 4216(b)(1)(C) of the Code for sales between corporations that are members of the same “affiliated group”, as that term is defined in section 1504(a) of the Code.


(b) *Sales to which section 4216(b)(3) of the Code applies.* Section 4216(b)(3) of the Code provides a procedure for determining a constructive sale price under section 4216(b)(1)(C) of the Code in those instances where:


(1) A manufacturer, producer or importer regularly sells a taxable article to a wholesale distributor which is a member of the same affiliated group as the manufacturer, producers or importer, and


(2) The wholesale distributor regularly sells such article to one or more independent retailers, but does not regularly sell to wholesale distributors. Under such circumstances the constructive sale price for the article shall be an amount equal to 90 percent of the lowest price for which the distributor regularly sells the article in arm's-length transactions to such independent retailers. Once the constructive sale price has been determined, no adjustment shall be made for inclusions or exclusions under section 4216(a) of the Code or price readjustments under section 6416(b)(1) of the Code. If both sections 4216(b)(3) and 4216(b)(4) of the Code apply with respect to the sale of an article, the constructive sale price for such article shall be the lower of the prices computed under sections 4216(b)(3) and 4216(b)(4).


(c) *Sales to which section 4216(b)(4) of the Code applies.* Section 4216(b)(4) of the Code provides a procedure for determining a constructive sale price under section 4216(b)(1)(C) of the Code in those instance where:


(1) A manufacturer, producer, or importer regularly sells (except for tax-free sales) a taxable article only to a wholesale distributor which is a member of the same affiliated group as the manufacturer, producer, or importer,


(2) The distributor regularly sells (except for tax-free sales) such article only to retail dealers, and


(3) The normal method of sales for such articles within the industry is to sell such articles in arm's-length transactions to wholesale distributors.


(4) Under section 4216(b)(4) of the Code, the constructive sale price of such article shall be the median price at which the distributor, at the time of the sale by the manufacturer, resells the article to retail dealers, reduced by a percentage of such price equal to the percentage which:


(i) The difference between the median price for which comparable articles are sold to wholesale distributors, in the ordinary course of trade, by manufacturers of producers thereof, and the median price at which such wholesale distributors in arm's-length transactions sell such comparable articles to retailers, is of


(ii) The median price at which such wholesale distributors in arm's-length transactions sell such comparable articles to retailers.


(iii) For purposes of this paragraph, the “median price” for which an article is sold at a particular level of distribution is the price midway between the highest and lowest prices charged vendees at the particular level of distribution. Where only one price is charged at a level of distribution, “median price” is equivalent to “actual price”. All sale prices referred to in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section are prices that must reflect the inclusions and exclusions set forth in section 4216(a) of the Code. However, once a constructive sale price has been determined under these paragraphs, no further adjustment of such price is allowed.


(d) *Application of section 4216(b)(4) of the Code.* The application of section 4216(b)(4) of the Code and paragraph (c) of this section may be illustrated by the following example:


(e) *Determination of “lowest price”.* In addition to other considerations, in determining a “lowest price” for purposes of sections 4216(b) (1) and (3) of the Code and § 53.97, such price shall be determined:


(1) Without requiring that a given percentage of sales be made at that price (provided that the volume of sales made at that price is great enough to indicate that those sales have not been engaged in primarily to establish a lower tax base), and


(2) Without including any charge for a fixed amount that the purchaser has an unconditional right to recover on the basis of a contractual arrangement existing at the time of sale.


(f) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section and paragraphs (3) and (4) of section 4216(b) of the Code, the term “regularly sells” has the same meaning as that accorded the term “regular sales” in § 53.96(b)(3), and the term “normal method of sales in the industry” has the same meaning as accorded that term in § 53.96(b)(4).



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-308, 56 FR 303, Jan. 3, 1991, as amended by T.D. ATF-312, 56 FR 31083, July 9, 1991]




