# § 71.40   Caregiver benefits.

(a) *General Caregiver benefits.* VA will provide to General Caregivers all of the benefits listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) Continued instruction, preparation, training, and technical support. Caregivers will have access to each of the following services, which may be provided through:


(i) Online and in-person educational sessions.


(ii) Use of telehealth and other available technologies.


(iii) Teaching techniques, strategies, and skills for caring for the eligible or covered veteran.


(2) Information concerning the supportive services available to caregivers under paragraph (a) of this section and other public, private, and nonprofit agencies that offer support to caregivers.


(3) Counseling and other services, as described under § 71.50.


(4) Respite care to eligible and covered veterans in support of the caregiver that is medically and age appropriate for the eligible or covered veteran (including 24-hour per day in-home respite care).


(b) *Secondary Family Caregiver benefits.* VA will provide to Secondary Family Caregivers all of the benefits listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section.


(1) General Caregiver benefits described in paragraph (a) of this section, except that respite care under paragraph (a)(4) is limited to veterans enrolled in the VA health care system. Respite care may be provided during a Family Caregiver's training, as described under § 71.25(d).


(2) Wellness contacts to review the eligible veteran's well-being, adequacy of personal care services being provided by the Family Caregiver(s), and the well-being of the Family Caregiver(s). This wellness contact will occur, in general, at a minimum of once every 120 days, and at least one visit must occur in the eligible veteran's home on an annual basis. Failure of the eligible veteran and Family Caregiver to participate in any wellness contacts pursuant to this paragraph will result in revocation pursuant to § 71.45, Revocation and Discharge of Family Caregivers.


(3) Continuing instruction, preparation, and training to maintain or improve the personal care services provided to the eligible veteran.


(4) Ongoing technical support, consisting of information and assistance to address, in a timely manner, the routine, emergency, and specialized needs of the caregiver in providing personal care services to the eligible veteran.


(5) Counseling, which for the purposes of paragraph (b) of this section includes individual and group therapy, individual counseling, and peer support groups. Counseling does not include the provision of medication, inpatient psychiatric care, or other medical procedures related to mental health treatment. Counseling does not have to be in connection with the treatment of a disability for which the eligible veteran is receiving treatment from VA. 


(6) Primary and Secondary Family Caregivers are eligible for beneficiary travel under 38 CFR part 70 if the eligible veteran is eligible for beneficiary travel under 38 CFR part 70. 


(c) *Primary Family Caregiver benefits.* VA will provide to Primary Family Caregivers all of the benefits listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section.


(1) Secondary Family Caregiver benefits, as listed under paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) Respite care includes 24-hour-per day care of the eligible veteran commensurate with the care provided by the Family Caregiver to permit extended respite. Respite care will be available for at least 30 days per year and may exceed 30 days per year if clinically appropriate and if requested by the Primary Family Caregiver. Respite care provided shall be medically and age-appropriate and include in-home care.


(3) Primary Family Caregivers are eligible for enrollment in the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Department of Veterans Affairs (CHAMPVA) pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 1781, unless they are entitled to care or services under a health-plan contract (as defined in 38 U.S.C. 1725(f)).


(4) Primary Family Caregivers will receive a monthly stipend for each month's participation as a Primary Family Caregiver.


(i) *Stipend amount.* (A) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4)(i)(C) of this section, if the eligible veteran meets the requirements of § 71.20(a), the Primary Family Caregiver's monthly stipend is the amount set forth in paragraph (c)(4)(i)(A)(*1*) or (*2*) of this section.


(*1*) The Primary Family Caregiver's monthly stipend is calculated by multiplying the monthly stipend rate by 0.625.


(*2*) If VA determines that the eligible veteran is unable to self-sustain in the community, the Primary Family Caregiver's monthly stipend is calculated by multiplying the monthly stipend rate by 1.00.


(B) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4)(i)(C) of this section, for five years beginning on October 1, 2020, if the eligible veteran meets the requirements of § 71.20(b) or (c), (*i.e.,* is a legacy participant or a legacy applicant), the Primary Family Caregiver's monthly stipend is calculated based on the clinical rating in 38 CFR 71.40(c)(4)(i) through (iii) (2019) and the definitions applicable to such paragraphs under 38 CFR 71.15 (2019). If the sum of all of the ratings assigned is:


(*1*) 21 or higher, then the Primary Family Caregiver's monthly stipend is calculated by multiplying the monthly stipend rate by 1.00.


(*2*) 13 to 20, then the Primary Family Caregiver's monthly stipend is calculated by multiplying the monthly stipend rate by 0.625.


(*3*) 1 to 12, then the Primary Family Caregiver's monthly stipend is calculated by multiplying the monthly stipend rate by 0.25.


(C) For five years beginning on October 1, 2020, if the eligible veteran meets the requirements of § 71.20(a) and (b) or (c), the Primary Family Caregiver's monthly stipend is the amount the Primary Family Caregiver is eligible to receive under paragraph (c)(4)(i)(A) or (B) of this section, whichever is higher. If the higher monthly stipend rate is the amount the Primary Family Caregiver is eligible to receive under paragraph (c)(4)(i)(A) of this section, the stipend rate will be adjusted and paid in accordance with paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(C)(*2*)(*i*) of this section.


(D) Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(4)(i)(A) through (C) of this section, for five years beginning on October 1, 2020, if the eligible veteran meets the requirements of § 71.20(b), the Primary Family Caregiver's monthly stipend is not less than the amount the Primary Family Caregiver was eligible to receive as of the day before October 1, 2020 (based on the eligible veteran's address on record with the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers on such date) so long as the eligible veteran resides at the same address on record with the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers as of the day before October 1, 2020. If the eligible veteran relocates to a different address, the stipend amount thereafter is determined pursuant to paragraph (c)(4)(i)(A), (B), or (C) of this section and adjusted in accordance with paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section.


(ii) *Adjustments to stipend payments.* (A) Adjustments to stipend payments that result from OPM's updates to the General Schedule (GS) Annual Rate for grade 4, step 1 for the locality pay area in which the eligible veteran resides take effect prospectively following the date the update to such rate is made effective by OPM.


(B) Adjustments to stipend payments that result from the eligible veteran relocating to a new address are effective the first of the month following the month in which VA is notified that the eligible veteran has relocated to a new address. VA must receive notification within 30 days from the date of relocation. If VA does not receive notification within 30 days from the date of relocation, VA will seek to recover overpayments of benefits under this paragraph (c)(4) back to the latest date on which the adjustment would have been effective if VA had been notified within 30 days from the date of relocation, as provided in § 71.47.


(C) The Primary Family Caregiver's monthly stipend may be adjusted pursuant to the reassessment conducted by VA under § 71.30.


(*1*) If the eligible veteran meets the requirements of § 71.20(a) only (and does not meet the requirements of § 71.20(b) or (c)), the Primary Family Caregiver's monthly stipend is adjusted as follows:


(*i*) In the case of a reassessment that results in an increase in the monthly stipend payment, the increase takes effect as of the date of the reassessment.


(*ii*) In the case of a reassessment that results in a decrease in the monthly stipend payment, the decrease takes effect as of the effective date provided in VA's final notice of such decrease to the eligible veteran and Primary Family Caregiver. The effective date of the decrease will be no earlier than 60 days after VA provides advanced notice of its findings to the eligible veteran and Primary Family Caregiver.


(*2*) If the eligible veteran meets the requirements of § 71.20(b) or (c), the Primary Family Caregiver's monthly stipend may be adjusted as follows:


(*i*) In the case of a reassessment that results in an increase in the monthly stipend payment, the increase takes effect as of the date of the reassessment. The Primary Family Caregiver will also be paid the difference between the amount under paragraph (c)(4)(i)(A) of this section that the Primary Family Caregiver is eligible to receive and the amount the Primary Family Caregiver was eligible to receive under paragraph (c)(4)(i)(B) or (D) of this section, whichever the Primary Family Caregiver received for the time period beginning on October 1, 2020 up to the date of the reassessment, based on the eligible veteran's address on record with the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers on the date of the reassessment and the monthly stipend rate on such date. If there is more than one reassessment for an eligible veteran during the five-year period beginning on October 1, 2020, the retroactive payment described in the previous sentence applies only if the first reassessment during the five-year period beginning on October 1, 2020 results in an increase in the monthly stipend payment, and only as the result of the first reassessment during the five-year period. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, if the first reassessment during the five-year period beginning on October 1, 2020 was completed by VA before March 25, 2022, and such reassessment did not result in an increase in the monthly stipend payment, the retroactive payment described in this paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(C)(*2*)(*i*) applies to the first reassessment initiated by VA on or after March 25, 2022 that applies the criteria in 38 U.S.C. 1720G(a)(2)(C)(ii) and (iii) in place of the definition of “need for supervision, protection, or instruction” that was invalidated by *Veteran Warriors, Inc.* v. *Sec'y of Veterans Affairs,* 29 F.4th 1320, 1342-43 (Fed. Cir. 2022), if such reassessment results in an increase in the monthly stipend payment, and only as a result of such reassessment.


(*ii*) In the case of a reassessment that results in a decrease in the monthly stipend payment and the eligible veteran meets the requirements of § 71.20(a), the new stipend amount under paragraph (c)(4)(i)(A) of this section takes effect as of the effective date provided in VA's final notice of such decrease to the eligible veteran and Primary Family Caregiver. The effective date of the decrease will be no earlier than 60 days after October 1, 2025. On October 1, 2025, VA will provide advanced notice of its findings to the eligible veteran and Primary Family Caregiver.


(D) Adjustments to stipend payments for the first month will take effect on the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section. Stipend payments for the last month will end on the date specified in § 71.45.


(iii) *No employment relationship.* Nothing in this section shall be construed to create an employment relationship between the Secretary and an individual in receipt of assistance or support under this part.


(iv) *Periodic assessment.* In consultation with other appropriate agencies of the Federal government, VA shall periodically assess whether the monthly stipend rate meets the requirements of 38 U.S.C. 1720G(a)(3)(C)(ii) and (iv). If VA determines that adjustments to the monthly stipend rate are necessary, VA shall make such adjustments through future rulemaking.


(5) Primary Family Caregivers are eligible for financial planning services as that term is defined in § 71.15. Such services will be provided by entities authorized pursuant to any contract entered into between VA and such entities.


(6) Primary Family Caregivers are eligible for legal services as that term is defined in § 71.15. Such services will be provided by entities authorized pursuant to any contract entered into between VA and such entities.


(d) *Effective date of benefits under the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers.* Except for paragraphs (b)(6) and (c)(3) and (4) of this section, caregiver benefits under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section are effective upon approval and designation under § 71.25(f). Caregiver benefits under paragraphs (b)(6) and (c)(3) and (4) are effective on the latest of the following dates:


(1) The date the joint application that resulted in approval and designation of the Family Caregiver is received by VA.


(2) The date the eligible veteran begins receiving care at home.


(3) The date the Family Caregiver begins providing personal care services to the eligible veteran at home.


(4) In the case of a new Family Caregiver applying to be the Primary Family Caregiver for an eligible veteran, the day after the effective date of revocation or discharge of the previous Primary Family Caregiver for the eligible veteran (such that there is only one Primary Family Caregiver designated for an eligible veteran at one time).


(5) In the case of a new Family Caregiver applying to be a Secondary Family Caregiver for an eligible veteran who already has two Secondary Family Caregivers approved and designated by VA, the day after the effective date of revocation or discharge of a previous Secondary Family Caregiver for the eligible veteran (such that there are no more than two Secondary Family Caregivers designated for an eligible veteran at one time).


(6) In the case of a current or previous Family Caregiver reapplying with the same eligible veteran, the day after the date of revocation or discharge under § 71.45, or in the case of extended benefits under § 71.45(b)(1)(iii), (b)(2)(iii), (b)(3)(iii)(A) or (B), and (b)(4)(iv), the day after the last date on which such Family Caregiver received caregiver benefits.


(7) The day after the date a joint application is denied.



---

[N] [76 FR 26172, May 5, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 1377, Jan. 9, 2015; 85 FR 46296, July 31, 2020; 86 FR 52618, Sept. 22, 2021; 87 FR 57608, Sept. 21, 2022]




