# ยง 764.103   General security requirements.

(a) Security requirements specific to each loan program are outlined in subparts D through I of this part.


(b) All loans must be secured by assets having a security value of at least 100 percent of the loan amount, except for EM loans as provided in subpart I of this part. If the applicant's assets do not provide adequate security, the Agency may accept:


(1) A pledge of security from a third party; or


(2) Interests in property not owned by the applicant (such as leases that provide a mortgageable value, water rights, easements, mineral rights, and royalties).




(c) An additional amount of security will be required, if available, to reach a 125 percent security margin. Total loan security in excess of what is needed to achieve a security margin of 125 percent will only be taken when it is not practicable to separate the security, or if necessary to satisfy the requirements of ยง 764.254(b)(2)(i). Loans that do not require additional security are down payment loans, MLs, youth loans, and FOs for the purchase of a farm where the applicant provides a cash down payment equal to 5 percent or greater of the purchase price. Non-real estate assets will not be taken as additional security for any loan where real estate serves as adequate security.




(d) The Agency will choose the best security available when there are several alternatives that meet the Agency's security requirements.


(e) The Agency will take a lien on all assets that are not essential to the farming operation and are not being converted to cash to reduce the loan amount when each such asset, or aggregate value of like assets (such as stocks), has a value in excess of $15,000. The value of this security is not included in the Agency's additional security requirement stated in paragraph (c) of this section. This requirement does not apply to downpayment loans, CL, ML, or youth loans.



---

[N] [72 FR 63298, Nov. 8, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 74345, Dec. 8, 2008; 75 FR 54015, Sept. 3, 2010; 78 FR 3835, Jan. 17, 2013; 86 FR 43391, Aug. 9, 2021; 89 FR 65039, Aug. 8, 2024]




