# § 92.9   Exceptions to notice, hearing, written response, and final decision.

(a) *Exceptions.* The procedural requirements of 5 U.S.C. 5514 do not apply to recovery by way of retroactive deductions for administrative adjustments associated with the Federal benefits program. In such cases the content of the notification to employees is stated in § 92.9(b).


(b) *Simplified procedures to be followed.* In the event that a retroactive deduction from pay or allowances is required to recover an insufficiency of deductions arising through normal processing delays, and those insufficient deductions did not occur in more than four pay periods, rather than following the specific procedures required by 5 U.S.C. 5514(a)(2), and set forth in §§ 92.11 through 92.17 of this part, the DOT creditor operating element shall issue in advance of the collection a simplified notice to the employee that:


(1) Because of the employee's election for changes in voluntary payroll deduction, corresponding deductions shall be imposed on the employee's salary to cover the period between the effective date of the election and the first regular withholding. The employee may dispute the amount of the retroactive collection by notifying his or her accounting or finance officer; or


(2) Due to a normal ministerial adjustment in pay or allowances which could not be placed into effect immediately, future pay will be reduced to permit the DOT creditor operating element to recover any excess pay or allowances received by the employee. The employee may dispute the amount of the retroactive collection by notifying his or her accounting or finance officer.


(c) *Limitation on exceptions.* The exceptions described in paragraph (a) of this section shall not include a recovery required to be made for any reason other than routine processing delays in putting the change into effect, even if the period of time for which the amounts must be retroactively recovered is less than four pay periods. If normal processing delays exceed four pay periods, then the full procedures prescribed under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and §§ 92.11 through 92.17 of this part will be extended to the employee.



---

[N] [53 FR 4171, Feb. 12, 1988, as amended at 53 FR 51279, Dec. 21, 1988]




