# § 319.56-11   Importation of dried, cured, or processed fruits, vegetables, nuts, and legumes.

(a) Dried, cured, or processed fruits and vegetables (except frozen fruits and vegetables), including cured figs and dates, raisins, nuts, and dried beans and peas, may be imported without permit, phytosanitary certificate, or other compliance with this subpart, except as specifically provided otherwise in this section or elsewhere in this part.


(b) *Acorns and chestnuts*—(1) *From countries other than Canada and Mexico; treatment required.* Acorns and chestnuts intended for purposes other than propagation, except those grown in and shipped from Canada and Mexico, must be imported into the United States under permit, and subject to all the requirements of § 319.56-3, and must be treated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter. 
2

(2) *From Canada and Mexico.* Acorns and chestnuts grown in and shipped from Canada and Mexico for purposes other than propagation may be imported in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.


(3) *For propagation.* Acorns and chestnuts from any country may be imported for propagation only in accordance with the applicable requirements in §§ 319.37-1 through 319.37-23.


(c) *Macadamia nuts.* Macadamia nuts in the husk or shell are prohibited importation into the United States unless the macadamia nuts were produced in, and imported from, St. Eustatius.



---

[N] [72 FR 39501, July 18, 2007, as amended at 75 FR 4252, Jan. 26, 2010; 83 FR 11866, Mar. 19, 2018]




