# ยง 381.3   Reporting information and procedure.

(a) *Reports of cargo preference shipments.* Each department or agency subject to the Cargo Preference Act of 1954, except the Department of Defense for which separate regulations will be issued, shall furnish to the Office of National Cargo and Compliance, Maritime Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation, Washington, DC 20590, within 20 working days of the date of loading for shipments originating in the United States or within 30 working days for shipments originating outside the United States, the following information concerning each shipment of preference cargo:


(1) Identification of the sponsoring U.S. Government agency or department;


(2) Name of vessel;


(3) Vessel flag of registry;


(4) Date of loading;


(5) Port of loading;


(6) Port of final discharge;


(7) Commodity description;


(8) Gross weight in pounds;


(9) Total ocean freight revenue in U.S. dollars.


(b) *Format of reports.* The information listed in paragraph (a) of this section shall be furnished to the Maritime Administration in a format prepared by the reporting department or agency and approved by the Maritime Administrator, Department of Transportation as suitable for the purpose of carrying out his responsibility under section 901(b)(2) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as amended, pursuant to the authority delegated to him thereunder by the Secretary of Transportation under section 3 of Department Organization Order 10-8, 36 FR 1223. Where obtainable, a properly notated and legible copy of the ocean bill of lading in English will suffice. Reporting formats shall be submitted for approval by April 30, 1971.


(c) *Shipments made subject to the Act.* In those instances where a shipment has been made that was not known to be subject to the Cargo Preference Act of 1954 when it was made, but subsequent events cause it to be subject to that Act, the agency taking the action that caused the shipment to be subject to the Act shall furnish to the Office of National Cargo and Compliance the information listed in paragraph (a) of this section in the approved reporting form.



---

[N] [G.O. 103, 36 FR 6894, Apr. 10, 1971, as amended at 57 FR 13047, Apr. 15, 1992]




