# ยง 28.61   Burden and degree of proof.

(a) In appealable actions, as defined by 5 U.S.C. 7701(a), agency action must be sustained by the Board if: 


(1) It is a performance-based action and is supported by substantial evidence; or 


(2) It is brought under any other provision of law, rule, or regulation as defined by 5 U.S.C. 7701(a) and is supported by a preponderance of evidence. 


(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the agency's decision shall not be sustained if the petitioner: 


(1) Shows harmful error in the application of the agency's procedures in arriving at such decision; 


(2) Shows that the decision was based on any prohibited personnel practice described in 4 CFR 2.5; or 


(3) Shows that the decision was not in accordance with law. 


(c) In any other action within the Board's jurisdiction, the petitioner shall have the responsibility of presenting the evidence in support of the action and shall have the burden of proving the allegations of the appeal by a preponderance of the evidence. 


(d) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply: 


*Harmful error* means error by the agency in the application of its procedures which, in the absence or cure of the error, might have caused the agency to reach a conclusion different from the one reached.


*Preponderance of the evidence* means that degree of relevant evidence which a reasonable person, considering the record as a whole, would accept as sufficient to support a conclusion that the matter asserted is more likely to be true than not true. 


*Substantial evidence* means that degree of relevant evidence which a reasonable person, considering the record as a whole, might accept as adequate to support a conclusion, even though other reasonable persons might disagree. This is a lower standard of proof than preponderance of the evidence. 



---

[N] [58 FR 61992, Nov. 23, 1993, as amended at 68 FR 69302, Dec. 12, 2003]




