# § 165.1184   Safety Zone; Coast Guard Use of Force Training Exercises, San Pablo Bay, CA.

(a) *Location.* This safety zone will apply to the navigable waters in the San Pablo Bay, and will encompass an area beginning at position 38°01′44″ N, 122°27′06″ W; 38°04′36″ N, 122°22′06″ W; 38°00′35″ N, 122°26′07″ W; 38°03′00″ N, 122°20′20″ W (NAD 83) and back to the starting point.


(b) *Enforcement.* The Coast Guard will notify the public via a Broadcast Notice to Mariners prior to the activation of this safety zone. The safety zone will be activated on average two times per month, but could be activated up to six times per month. It will be in effect for approximately three hours from 9 a.m. to 11:59 p.m. If the exercises conclude prior to the scheduled termination time, the Coast Guard will cease enforcement of this safety zone and will announce that fact via Broadcast Notice to Mariners. Persons and vessels may also contact the Coast Guard to determine the status of the safety zone on VHF-16 or the 24-hour Command Center via telephone at (415) 399-3547.


(c) *Definitions.* As used in this section, designated representative means a Coast Guard Patrol Commander, including a Coast Guard coxswain, petty officer, or other officer operating a Coast Guard vessel and a Federal, State, and local officer designated by or assisting the Captain of the Port San Francisco (COTP) in the enforcement of the safety zone.


(d) *Regulations.* (1) Under the general regulations in § 165.23, entry into, transiting, or anchoring within the safety zone is prohibited unless authorized by the COTP or the COTP's designated representative.


(2) The safety zone is closed to all vessel traffic, except as may be permitted by the COTP or the COTP's designated representative.


(3) Vessel operators desiring to enter or operate within the safety zone must contact the COTP or the COTP's representative to obtain permission to do so. Vessel operators given permission to enter or operate in the safety zone must comply with all directions given to them by the COTP or the COTP's designated representative. Persons and vessels may request permission to enter the safety zone on VHF-16 or the 24-hour Command Center via telephone at (415) 399-3547.



---

[N] [USCG-2009-0324, 76 FR 25550, May 5, 2011]




