# § 655.181   Revocation.

(a) *Basis for DOL revocation.* The OFLC Administrator may revoke a temporary agricultural labor certification approved under this subpart, if the OFLC Administrator finds:


(1) The issuance of the temporary agricultural labor certification was not justified due to fraud or misrepresentation in the application process, including because the certification was issued in error to a debarred employer, including a successor in interest, during the period of debarment as set forth in § 655.182(c)(2);


(2) The employer substantially violated a material term or condition of the approved temporary agricultural labor certification, as defined in § 655.182;


(3) The employer failed to cooperate with a DOL investigation or with a DOL official performing an investigation, inspection, audit (as discussed in § 655.180), or law enforcement function under 8 U.S.C. 1188, 29 CFR part 501, or this subpart; or


(4) The employer failed to comply with one or more sanctions or remedies imposed by WHD, or with one or more decisions or orders of the Secretary or a court order secured by the Secretary under 8 U.S.C. 1188, 29 CFR part 501, or this subpart.


(b) *DOL procedures for revocation*—(1) *Notice of Revocation.* If the OFLC Administrator makes a determination to revoke an employer's temporary agricultural labor certification, the OFLC Administrator will send to the employer (and its attorney or agent) a Notice of Revocation. The Notice will contain a detailed statement of the grounds for the revocation, and it will inform the employer of its right to submit rebuttal evidence or to appeal as provided in this paragraph (b)(1) and in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. If the employer does not file rebuttal evidence or an appeal within 14 calendar days of the date of the Notice of Revocation, the Notice is the final agency action and will take effect immediately at the end of the 14-day period.


(2) *Rebuttal.* The employer may submit evidence to rebut the grounds stated in the Notice of Revocation within 14 calendar days of the date the Notice is issued. If rebuttal evidence is timely filed by the employer, the OFLC Administrator will inform the employer of the OFLC Administrator's final determination on the revocation within 14 calendar days of receiving the rebuttal evidence. If the OFLC Administrator determines that the certification should be revoked, the OFLC Administrator will inform the employer of its right to appeal as provided in this paragraph (b)(2) and in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. If the employer does not appeal the OFLC Administrator's final determination within 10 calendar days, it will become the final agency action.


(3) *Appeal.* An employer may appeal a Notice of Revocation, or a final determination of the OFLC Administrator after the review of rebuttal evidence, according to the appeal procedures of § 655.171. In such cases, the appeal must be received by the Chief ALJ, and the OFLC Administrator, within the time periods established in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.


(4) *Stay.* The timely filing of rebuttal evidence or an administrative appeal will stay the revocation pending the outcome of those proceedings.


(5) *Decision.* If the temporary agricultural labor certification is revoked, the OFLC Administrator will send a copy of the final agency action to DHS and the Department of State (DOS).


(c) *Employer's obligations in the event of revocation.* If an employer's temporary agricultural labor certification is revoked, the employer is responsible for:


(1) Reimbursement of actual inbound transportation and subsistence expenses, as if the worker meets the requirements for payment under § 655.122(h)(1);


(2) The worker's outbound transportation and subsistence expenses, as if the worker meets the requirements for payment under § 655.122(h)(2);


(3) Payment to the worker of the amount due under the three-fourths guarantee as required by § 655.122(i); and


(4) Any other wages, benefits, and working conditions due or owing to the worker under this subpart.



---

[N] [87 FR 61791, Oct. 12, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 34064, Apr. 29, 2024]




