# § 232.6   Mandatory loan disclosures.

(a) *Required information.* With respect to any extension of consumer credit (including any consumer credit originated or extended through the internet) to a covered borrower, a creditor shall provide to the covered borrower the following information before or at the time the borrower becomes obligated on the transaction or establishes an account for the consumer credit:


(1) A statement of the MAPR applicable to the extension of consumer credit;


(2) Any disclosure required by Regulation Z, which shall be provided only in accordance with the requirements of Regulation Z that apply to that disclosure; and


(3) A clear description of the payment obligation of the covered borrower, as applicable. A payment schedule (in the case of closed-end credit) or account-opening disclosure (in the case of open-end credit) provided pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section satisfies this requirement.


(b) *One-time delivery; multiple creditors.* (1) The information described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(3) of this section are not required to be provided to a covered borrower more than once for the transaction or the account established for consumer credit with respect to that borrower.


(2) *Multiple creditors.* If a transaction involves more than one creditor, then only one of those creditors must provide the disclosures in accordance with this section. The creditors may agree among themselves which creditor may provide the information described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(3) of this section.


(c) *Statement of the MAPR*—(1) *In general.* A creditor may satisfy the requirement of paragraph (a)(1) of this section by describing the charges the creditor may impose, in accordance with this part and subject to the terms and conditions of the agreement, relating to the consumer credit to calculate the MAPR. Paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall not be construed as requiring a creditor to describe the MAPR as a numerical value or to describe the total dollar amount of all charges in the MAPR that apply to the extension of consumer credit.


(2) *Method of providing a statement regarding the MAPR.* A creditor may include a statement of the MAPR applicable to the consumer credit in the agreement with the covered borrower involving the consumer credit transaction. Paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall not be construed as requiring a creditor to include a statement of the MAPR applicable to an extension of consumer credit in any advertisement relating to the credit.


(3) *Model statement.* A statement substantially similar to the following statement may be used for the purpose of paragraph (a)(1) of this section: “Federal law provides important protections to members of the Armed Forces and their dependents relating to extensions of consumer credit. In general, the cost of consumer credit to a member of the Armed Forces and his or her dependent may not exceed an annual percentage rate of 36 percent. This rate must include, as applicable to the credit transaction or account: The costs associated with credit insurance premiums; fees for ancillary products sold in connection with the credit transaction; any application fee charged (other than certain application fees for specified credit transactions or accounts); and any participation fee charged (other than certain participation fees for a credit card account).”


(d) *Methods of delivery*—(1) *Written disclosures.* The creditor shall provide the information required by paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) of this section in writing in a form the covered borrower can keep.


(2) *Oral disclosures.* (i) *In general.* The creditor also shall orally provide the information required by paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) of this section.


(ii) *Methods to provide oral disclosures.* A creditor may satisfy the requirement in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section if the creditor provides—


(A) The information to the covered borrower in person; or


(B) A toll-free telephone number in order to deliver the oral disclosures to a covered borrower when the covered borrower contacts the creditor for this purpose.


(iii) *Toll-free telephone number on application or disclosure.* If applicable, the toll-free telephone number must be included on—


(A) A form the creditor directs the consumer to use to apply for the transaction or account involving consumer credit; or


(B) A written disclosure the creditor provides to the covered borrower, pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section.


(e) *When disclosures are required for refinancing or renewal of covered loan.* The refinancing or renewal of consumer credit requires new disclosures under this section only when the transaction for that credit would be considered a new transaction that requires disclosures under Regulation Z.




