# ยง 423.21   Responsibilities.

(a) You are responsible for finding, being aware of, and obeying all applicable laws and regulations, as well as notices and postings of closed and special use areas established by an authorized official under subpart B and subpart E of this part 423.


(b) You are responsible for the use of any device, vehicle, vessel, or aircraft you own, lease, or operate on Reclamation facilities, lands, or waterbodies. You may be issued a citation for a violation of regulations, including non-compliance with limitations, restrictions, closures, or special use areas applicable to the use of any device, vehicle, vessel, or aircraft as provided in this part as the owner, lessee, or operator.


(c) You are responsible for the use and treatment of Reclamation facilities, lands, and waterbodies, and the cultural resources, wildlife, and other natural resources located thereon, by you and those for whom you are legally responsible. This presumption is sufficient to issue a citation to you for violation of provisions of these regulations by you or by those for whom you are legally responsible.


(d) The regulations governing permits, other use authorizations, and fees on Reclamation lands that are found in subpart D of this part 423 apply to your use of Reclamation facilities, lands, and waterbodies.


(e) You must furnish identification information upon request by a law enforcement officer.


(f) You must pay applicable fees established by Federal, State, or local government recreation management entities, or contracted vendors for activities on Reclamation facilities, lands, and waterbodies such as, but not limited to, camping, boating, parking, day-use, or visitor tours.



---

[N] [73 FR 75349, Dec. 11, 2008, as amended at 88 FR 80991, Nov. 21, 2023]






