# ยง 47.24   Rehearing, reargument, reconsideration of orders, reopening of hearings, reopening after default.

(a) *Petitions to rehear, reargue, and reconsider.* A petition for rehearing or reargument of the proceeding, or for reconsideration of the order, shall be made by petition to the Secretary filed with the Hearing Clerk within 20 days after the date of service of the order. Every such petition shall state specifically the matters claimed to have been erroneously decided and the alleged errors. If the Secretary concludes that the questions raised by the petition have been sufficiently considered in the issuance of the order, the Secretary shall dismiss the petition without service on the other party. Otherwise, the Secretary shall direct that a copy of the petition be served upon such party by the Hearing Clerk. The filing of a petition to rehear or reargue a proceeding, or to reconsider an order, shall automatically operate to set aside the order pending final action on the petition. Only one petition to rehear, reargue, or reconsider will be accepted from each party, except when a mathematical or typographical error appears in either the original decision and order or in the decision on reconsideration.


(b) *Petition to reopen.* A petition to reopen the hearing to take further evidence may be filed with the examiner at any time prior to the issuance of the final order. Every such petition shall state briefly the nature and purpose of the evidence to be adduced, shall show that such evidence is not merely cumulative, and shall set forth a good reason why such evidence was not adduced at the hearing. Every such petition shall be served by the Hearing Clerk on the other party in the proceeding.


(c) *Procedure for disposition of petitions.* Within 20 days following the service of any petition provided for in this section, the other party to the proceeding may file with the Hearing Clerk an answer thereto. In the event that any such petition is granted the applicable rules of practice shall be followed.


(d) *Reopening after default.* The party in default in the filing of an answer or reply required or authorized under this part may petition to reopen the proceeding at any time prior to the expiration of 20 days from the date of service of the default order. If, in the judgment of the examiner, after notice to and consideration of the views of the other party(ies), there is good reason for granting such relief, the party in default will be allowed 20 days from the date of the order reopening the proceeding to file an answer.



---

[N] [10 FR 2209, Feb. 27, 1945, as amended at 56 FR 175, Jan. 3, 1991; 60 FR 8462, Feb. 14, 1995; 64 FR 38108, July 15, 1999; 65 FR 29941, May 10, 2000]




