# § 100.1106   Special Local Regulation; Mavericks Surf Competition.

(a) *Location.* This special local regulation establishes a regulated area on the waters of Half Moon Bay, located in the vicinity of Pillar Point, excluding the waters within Pillar Point Harbor. This regulated area is defined in paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) *Enforcement period.* This section will be enforced between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. on Competition day, which if defined wave and wind conditions are met, will occur for one day between November 1 of each year and March 31 of the following year. Notice of the specific enforcement date of this section will be announced via Broadcast Notice to Mariners and issued in writing by the Coast Guard in a Boating Public Safety Notice at least 24 hours in advance of Competition day.


(c) *Definitions.* As used in this section—


*Competition day* means the one day between November 1 of each year and March 31 of the following year that Mavericks Surf Competition will be held. The Mavericks Surf Competition will only be held if 15 to 20 foot waves are sustained for over 24 hours and are combined with mild easterly winds of no more than 5 to10 knots.


*Competitor* means a surfer enrolled in the Maverick's Surf Competition.


*Patrol Commander* or *PATCOM* means a Coast Guard Patrol Commander, including a Coast Guard coxswain, petty officer, or other officer, or a Federal, State, or local officer designated by the Captain of the Port San Francisco (COTP), to assist in the enforcement of the special local regulation.


*Regulated area* means the area in which the Maverick's Surf Competition will take place. This area is bounded by an arc extending 1000 yards from Sail Rock (37°29′34″ N., 122°30′02″ W.) excluding the waters within Pillar Point Harbor. All coordinates are North American Datum 1983. Within the regulated area, at least two zones will be established and marked by buoys on the day of the competition. Due to the dynamic and changing nature of the surf, the exact size and location of the zones will not be made public until the competition day. The zones will be prominently marked by at least 8 buoys, placed and maintained in place throughout the course of the event by the event sponsor in a pattern approved by the PATCOM. In addition, the USCG will notify the public of the zone locations via Broadcast Notice to Mariners on the day of the event.


*Spectator vessel* means any vessel or person, including human-powered craft, which is not designated by the sponsor as a support vessel.


*Support vessel* means a vessel, including jet skis, which is designated and conspicuously marked by the sponsor to provide direct support to the competitors. Support vessels must be pre-designated and approved to serve as such for this event by the OCMI prior to the competition.


*Zone 1* means the competition area within the regulated area. Zone 1 will generally be located to the northwest of a line drawn between Sail Rock (37°29′34″ N., 122°30′02″ W.) and Pillar Point Entrance Lighted Gong Buoy 1 (37°29′10.410″ N., 122°30′21.904″ W.).


*Zone 2* means the area within the regulated area where the Coast Guard may direct the movement of all vessels, including restricting vessels from this area. Zone 2 will generally be located to the southeast of a line drawn between Sail Rock (37°29′34″ N., 122°30′02″ W.) and Pillar Point Entrance Lighted Gong Buoy 1 (37°29′10.410″ N., 122°30′21.904″ W.).


(d) *Special Local Regulations.* The following regulations apply between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. on the competition day.


(1) Only support vessels may be authorized by the Patrol Commander (PATCOM) to enter Zone 1 during the competition.


(2) Entering the water in Zone 1 by any person other than the competitors is prohibited. Competitors may enter the water in Zone 1 from authorized support vessels only.


(3) Spectator vessels and support vessels within Zone 2 must maneuver as directed by PATCOM. Given the changing nature of the surf in the vicinity of the competition, PATCOM may close Zone 2 to all vessels due to hazardous conditions. Due to weather and sea conditions, the Captain of the Port may deny access to Zone 2 and the remainder of the regulated area to all vessels other than competitors and support vessels on the day of the event


(4) Entering the water in Zone 2 by any person is prohibited.


(5) Rafting and anchoring of vessels are prohibited within the regulated area.


(6) Only vessels authorized by the PATCOM will be permitted to tow other watercraft within the regulated area.


(7) Spectator and support vessels in Zones 1 and 2 must operate at speeds which will create minimum wake, in general, 7 miles per hour or less.


(8) When hailed or signaled by the PATCOM by a succession of sharp, short signals by whistle or horn, the hailed vessel must come to an immediate stop and comply with the lawful directions issued. Failure to comply with a lawful direction may result in additional operating restrictions, citation for failure to comply, or both.


(9) During the events, vessel operators may contact the PATCOM on VHF-FM channel 23A.



---

[N] [USCG-2015-0427, 82 FR 53417, Nov. 16, 2017]




