# § 63.1575   What reports must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit each report in Table 43 of this subpart that applies to you.


(b) Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule, you must submit each report by the date in Table 43 of this subpart and according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) The first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.1563 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.1563.


(2) The first compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date follows the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.1563.


(3) Each subsequent compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.


(4) Each subsequent compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period.


(5) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to part 70 or 71 of this chapter, and if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to § 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or § 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) of this chapter, you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.


(c) The compliance report must contain the information required in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) Company name and address. 


(2) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the accuracy of the content of the report. 


(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. 


(4) If there are no deviations from any emission limitation that applies to you and there are no deviations from the requirements for work practice standards, a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limitations or work practice standards during the reporting period and that no continuous emission monitoring system or continuous opacity monitoring system was inoperative, inactive, malfunctioning, out-of-control, repaired, or adjusted. 


(d) For each deviation from an emission limitation and for each deviation from the requirements for work practice standards that occurs at an affected source where you are not using a continuous opacity monitoring system or a continuous emission monitoring system to comply with the emission limitation or work practice standard in this subpart, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section and the information in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) The total operating time of each affected source during the reporting period and identification of the sources for which there was a deviation.


(2) Information on the number, date, time, duration, and cause of deviations (including unknown cause, if applicable).


(3) Information on the number, duration, and cause for monitor downtime incidents (including unknown cause, if applicable, other than downtime associated with zero and span and other daily calibration checks). 


(4) The applicable operating limit or work practice standard from which you deviated and either the parameter monitor reading during the deviation or a description of how you deviated from the work practice standard.


(e) For each deviation from an emission limitation occurring at an affected source where you are using a continuous opacity monitoring system or a continuous emission monitoring system to comply with the emission limitation, you must include the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section, and in paragraphs (e)(2) through (13) of this section.


(1) [Reserved]


(2) The date and time that each continuous opacity monitoring system or continuous emission monitoring system was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks. 


(3) The date and time that each continuous opacity monitoring system or continuous emission monitoring system was out-of-control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8). 


(4) An estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over the emission limit during the deviation, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(5) A summary of the total duration of the deviation during the reporting period (recorded in minutes for opacity and hours for gases and in the averaging period specified in the regulation for other types of emission limitations), and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period. 


(6) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period and into those that are due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.


(7) A summary of the total duration of downtime for the continuous opacity monitoring system or continuous emission monitoring system during the reporting period (recorded in minutes for opacity and hours for gases and in the averaging time specified in the regulation for other types of standards), and the total duration of downtime for the continuous opacity monitoring system or continuous emission monitoring system as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period. 


(8) A breakdown of the total duration of downtime for the continuous opacity monitoring system or continuous emission monitoring system during the reporting period into periods that are due to monitoring equipment malfunctions, non-monitoring equipment malfunctions, quality assurance/quality control calibrations, other known causes, and other unknown causes. 


(9) An identification of each HAP that was monitored at the affected source. 


(10) A brief description of the process units. 


(11) The monitoring equipment manufacturer(s) and model number(s). 


(12) The date of the latest certification or audit for the continuous opacity monitoring system or continuous emission monitoring system. 


(13) A description of any change in the continuous emission monitoring system or continuous opacity monitoring system, processes, or controls since the last reporting period. 


(f) You also must include the information required in paragraphs (f)(1) through (2) of this section in each compliance report, if applicable. 


(1) A copy of any performance test or performance evaluation of a CMS done during the reporting period on any affected unit, if applicable. The report must be included in the next semiannual compliance report. The copy must include a complete report for each test method used for a particular kind of emission point tested. For additional tests performed for a similar emission point using the same method, you must submit the results and any other information required, but a complete test report is not required. A complete test report contains a brief process description; a simplified flow diagram showing affected processes, control equipment, and sampling point locations; sampling site data; description of sampling and analysis procedures and any modifications to standard procedures; quality assurance procedures; record of operating conditions during the test; record of preparation of standards; record of calibrations; raw data sheets for field sampling; raw data sheets for field and laboratory analyses; documentation of calculations; and any other information required by the test method. For data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert*) at the time of the test, you must submit the results in accordance with paragraph (k)(1)(i) of this section by the date that you submit the compliance report, and instead of including a copy of the test report in the compliance report, you must include the process unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested, and the date that such performance test was conducted in the compliance report. For performance evaluations of CMS measuring relative accuracy test audit (RATA) pollutants that are supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the evaluation, you must submit the results in accordance with paragraph (k)(2)(i) of this section by the date that you submit the compliance report, and you must include the process unit where the CMS is installed, the parameter measured by the CMS, and the date that the performance evaluation was conducted in the compliance report. All other performance test and performance evaluation results (*i.e.,* those not supported by EPA's ERT) must be reported in the compliance report.


(2) Any requested change in the applicability of an emission standard (*e.g.,* you want to change from the PM standard to the Ni standard for catalytic cracking units or from the HCl concentration standard to percent reduction for catalytic reforming units) in your compliance report. You must include all information and data necessary to demonstrate compliance with the new emission standard selected and any other associated requirements.


(g) You may submit reports required by other regulations in place of or as part of the compliance report if they contain the required information. 


(h) [Reserved]


(i) If the applicable permitting authority has approved a period of planned maintenance for your catalytic cracking unit according to the requirements in paragraph (j) of this section, you must include the following information in your compliance report. 


(1) In the compliance report due for the 6-month period before the routine planned maintenance is to begin, you must include a full copy of your written request to the applicable permitting authority and written approval received from the applicable permitting authority. 


(2) In the compliance report due after the routine planned maintenance is complete, you must include a description of the planned routine maintenance that was performed for the control device during the previous 6-month period, and the total number of hours during those 6 months that the control device did not meet the emission limitations and monitoring requirements as a result of the approved routine planned maintenance. 


(j) If you own or operate multiple catalytic cracking units that are served by a single wet scrubber emission control device (e.g., a Venturi scrubber), you may request the applicable permitting authority to approve a period of planned routine maintenance for the control device needed to meet requirements in your operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan. You must present data to the applicable permitting authority demonstrating that the period of planned maintenance results in overall emissions reductions. During this pre-approved time period, the emission control device may be taken out of service while maintenance is performed on the control device and/or one of the process units while the remaining process unit(s) continue to operate. During the period the emission control device is unable to operate, the emission limits, operating limits, and monitoring requirements applicable to the unit that is operating and the wet scrubber emission control device do not apply. The applicable permitting authority may require that you take specified actions to minimize emissions during the period of planned maintenance. 


(1) You must submit a written request to the applicable permitting authority at least 6 months before the planned maintenance is scheduled to begin with a copy to the EPA Regional Administrator. 


(2) Your written request must contain the information in paragraphs (j)(2)(i) through (v) of this section. 


(i) A description of the planned routine maintenance to be performed during the next 6 months and why it is necessary. 


(ii) The date the planned maintenance will begin and end. 


(iii) A quantified estimate of the HAP and criteria pollutant emissions that will be emitted during the period of planned maintenance. 


(iv) An analysis showing the emissions reductions resulting from the planned maintenance as opposed to delaying the maintenance until the next unit turnaround. 


(v) Actions you will take to minimize emissions during the period of planned maintenance. 


(k) *Electronic submittal of performance test and CEMS performance evaluation data.* For performance tests or CEMS performance evaluations conducted on and after February 1, 2016, if required to submit the results of a performance test or CEMS performance evaluation, you must submit the results according to the procedures in paragraphs (k)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) Unless otherwise specified by this subpart, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test as required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance tests following the procedure specified in either paragraph (k)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(i) For data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site (*http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/index.html*) at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI). (CEDRI can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*).) Performance test data must be submitted in a file format generated through use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file format consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT Web site. If you claim that some of the performance test information being submitted is confidential business information (CBI), you must submit a complete file generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT Web site, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive or other commonly used electronic storage media to the EPA. The electronic storage media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT or alternate file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph (k)(1)(i).


(ii) For data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance test to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13.


(2) Unless otherwise specified by this subpart, within 60 days after the date of completing each CEMS performance evaluation required by § 63.1571(a) and (b), you must submit the results of the performance evaluation following the procedure specified in either paragraph (k)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(i) For performance evaluations of continuous monitoring systems measuring relative accuracy test audit (RATA) pollutants that are supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site at the time of the evaluation, you must submit the results of the performance evaluation to the EPA via the CEDRI. (CEDRI is accessed through the EPA's CDX.) Performance evaluation data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate file format consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT Web site. If you claim that some of the performance evaluation information being submitted is CBI, you must submit a complete file generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT Web site, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive or other commonly used electronic storage media to the EPA. The electronic storage media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT or alternate file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph (k)(2)(i).


(ii) For any performance evaluations of continuous monitoring systems measuring RATA pollutants that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site at the time of the evaluation, you must submit the results of the performance evaluation to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13.


(l) *Extensions to electronic reporting deadlines.* (1) If you are required to electronically submit a report through the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) in the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX), and due to a planned or actual outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date that the submission is due, you will be or are precluded from accessing CEDRI or CDX and submitting a required report within the time prescribed, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or caused a delay in reporting. You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying the date(s) and time(s) the CDX or CEDRI were unavailable when you attempted to access it in the 5 business days prior to the submission deadline; a rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the EPA system outage; describe the measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and identify a date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported. In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved. The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(2) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX and a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date the submission is due, the owner or operator may assert a claim of force majeure for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. For the purposes of this section, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (*e.g.,* hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (*e.g.,* large scale power outage). If you intend to assert a claim of force majeure, you must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or caused a delay in reporting. You must provide to the Administrator a written description of the force majeure event and a rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event; describe the measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and identify a date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported. In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the force majeure event occurs. The decision to accept the claim of force majeure and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.



---

[N] [67 FR 17773, Apr. 11, 2002, as amended at 80 FR 75278, Dec. 1, 2015; 83 FR 60724, Nov. 26, 2018]




