# ยง 54.3   Definitions.

(a) As used in this part, 


*Current licensing basis* (CLB) is the set of NRC requirements applicable to a specific plant and a licensee's written commitments for ensuring compliance with and operation within applicable NRC requirements and the plant-specific design basis (including all modifications and additions to such commitments over the life of the license) that are docketed and in effect. The CLB includes the NRC regulations contained in 10 CFR parts 2, 19, 20, 21, 26, 30, 40, 50, 51, 52, 54, 55, 70, 72, 73, 100 and appendices thereto; orders; license conditions; exemptions; and technical specifications. It also includes the plant-specific design-basis information defined in 10 CFR 50.2 as documented in the most recent final safety analysis report (FSAR) as required by 10 CFR 50.71 and the licensee's commitments remaining in effect that were made in docketed licensing correspondence such as licensee responses to NRC bulletins, generic letters, and enforcement actions, as well as licensee commitments documented in NRC safety evaluations or licensee event reports.


*Integrated plant assessment* (IPA) is a licensee assessment that demonstrates that a nuclear power plant facility's structures and components requiring aging management review in accordance with ยง 54.21(a) for license renewal have been identified and that the effects of aging on the functionality of such structures and components will be managed to maintain the CLB such that there is an acceptable level of safety during the period of extended operation. 


*Nuclear power plant* means a nuclear power facility of a type described in 10 CFR 50.21(b) or 50.22.


*Renewed combined license* means a combined license originally issued under part 52 of this chapter for which an application for renewal is filed in accordance with 10 CFR 52.107 and issued under this part.


*Time-limited aging analyses,* for the purposes of this part, are those licensee calculations and analyses that: 


(1) Involve systems, structures, and components within the scope of license renewal, as delineated in ยง 54.4(a); 


(2) Consider the effects of aging; 


(3) Involve time-limited assumptions defined by the current operating term, for example, 40 years; 


(4) Were determined to be relevant by the licensee in making a safety determination; 


(5) Involve conclusions or provide the basis for conclusions related to the capability of the system, structure, and component to perform its intended functions, as delineated in ยง 54.4(b); and 


(6) Are contained or incorporated by reference in the CLB. 


(b) All other terms in this part have the same meanings as set out in 10 CFR 50.2 or Section 11 of the Atomic Energy Act, as applicable.



---

[N] [60 FR 22491, May 8, 1995, as amended at 72 FR 49560, Aug. 28, 2007]




