# § 1230.2   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to the terms used in this part:


*Charter acts* mean the Federal National Mortgage Association Charter Act and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act, which are codified at 12 U.S.C. 1716 through 1723i and 12 U.S.C. 1451 through 1459, respectively.


*Compensation* means any payment of money or the provision of any other thing of current or potential value in connection with employment. Compensation includes all direct and indirect payments of benefits, both cash and non-cash, granted to or for the benefit of any executive officer, including, but not limited to, payments and benefits derived from an employment contract, compensation or benefit agreement, fee arrangement, perquisite, stock option plan, post-employment benefit, or other compensatory arrangement.


*Enterprise* means the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (collectively, Enterprises) and, except as provided by the Director, any affiliate thereof.


*Executive officer* means:


(1) With respect to an Enterprise:


(i) The chairman of the board of directors, chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating officer, president, vice chairman, any executive vice president, any senior vice president, any individual in charge of a principal business unit, division, or function, and any individual who performs functions similar to such positions whether or not the individual has an official title; and


(ii) Any other officer as identified by the Director;


(2) With respect to a Bank:


(i) The president, the chief financial officer, and the three other most highly compensated officers; and


(ii) Any other officer as identified by the Director.


(3) With respect to the Office of Finance:


(i) The chief executive officer, chief financial officer, and chief operating officer; and


(ii) Any other officer identified by the Director.


*Reasonable and comparable* means compensation that is:


(1) *Reasonable*—compensation, taken in whole or in part, that would be appropriate for the position and based on a review of relevant factors including, but not limited to:


(i) The duties and responsibilities of the position;


(ii) Compensation factors that indicate added or diminished risks, constraints, or aids in carrying out the responsibilities of the position; and


(iii) Performance of the regulated entity, the specific employee, or one of the entity's significant components with respect to achievement of goals, consistency with supervisory guidance and internal rules of the entity, and compliance with applicable law and regulation.


(2) *Comparable*—compensation that, taken in whole or in part, does not materially exceed compensation paid at institutions of similar size and function for similar duties and responsibilities.


*Regulated entity* means any Enterprise and any Federal Home Loan Bank.




