# § 1437.501   Applicability; definition of “tropical region” and additional definitions.

(a) This subpart applies to covered tropical crops in the tropical region, as those terms are defined in this subpart. Benefits under this part may be extended to those crops only to the extent that they are otherwise eligible for assistance under this part. Covered crops do not include “value loss” crops, as defined elsewhere in this part. For those crops that are covered by this subpart, loss and payment determinations for NAP covered in this part are determined by the rules that otherwise apply to NAP subject to the modifications provided by this subpart. The rules that otherwise apply include, but are not limited to, limitations on payments that are specified in part 1400 of this chapter.


(b) For purposes of this subpart:


(1) *Tropical region* includes, as may be further limited by the Deputy Administrator: Hawaii, American Samoa, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States. Other areas may be included as determined by the Deputy Administrator to be required by law. References to specific areas elsewhere in this subpart will not limit the ability of the Deputy Administrator to limit the geographic scope of this subpart.


(2) *Covered tropical crops* means those crops and commodities in the tropical region governed by this subpart, those being all crops and commodities in the tropical region that are otherwise eligible for generating a benefit claim under this part, except for value-loss crops as defined elsewhere in this part.


(c) The Deputy Administrator may adjust requirements for assistance so as to provide a fair transition from previous rules for crop covered by this subpart to those provisions which are provided for in this subpart.



---

[N] [71 FR 52739, Sept. 7, 2006, as amended at 78 FR 21019, Apr. 9, 2013; 79 FR 74583, Dec. 15, 2014]




