# § 447.299   Reporting requirements.

(a) Beginning with the first quarter of Federal fiscal year 1993, each State must submit to CMS the quarterly aggregate amount of its disproportionate share hospital payments made to each individual public and private provider or facility. States' reports must present a complete, accurate, and full disclosure of all of their DSH programs and expenditures.


(b) Each State must report the aggregate information specified under paragraph (a) of this section on a quarterly basis in accordance with procedures established by CMS.


(c) Beginning with each State's Medicaid State plan rate year 2005, for each Medicaid State plan rate year, the State must submit to CMS, at the same time as it submits the completed audit required under § 455.304 of this chapter, the following information for each DSH hospital to which the State made a DSH payment in order to permit verification of the appropriateness of such payments:


(1) *Hospital name.* The name of the hospital that received a DSH payment from the State, identifying facilities that are institutes for mental disease (IMDs) and facilities that are located out-of-state.


(2) *Estimate of hospital-specific DSH limit.* The State's estimate of eligible uncompensated care for the hospital receiving a DSH payment for the year under audit based on the State's methodology for determining such limit.


(3) *Medicaid inpatient utilization rate.* The hospital's Medicaid inpatient utilization rate, as defined in Section 1923(b)(2) of the Act, if the State does not use alternative qualification criteria described in paragraph (c)(5) of this section.


(4) *Low income utilization rate.* The hospital's low income utilization rate, as defined in Section 1923(b)(3) of the Act if the State does not use alternative qualification criteria described in paragraph (c)(5) of this section.


(5) *State defined DSH qualification criteria.* If the State uses an alternate broader DSH qualification methodology as authorized in Section 1923(b)(4) of the Act, the value of the statistic and the methodology used to determine that statistic.


(6) *IP/OP Medicaid fee-for-service (FFS) basic rate payments.* The total annual amount paid to the hospital under the State plan, including Medicaid FFS rate adjustments, but not including DSH payments or supplemental/enhanced Medicaid payments, for inpatient and outpatient hospital services furnished to Medicaid individuals, as determined in accordance with § 447.295(d).


(7) *IP/OP Medicaid managed care organization payments.* The total annual amount paid to the hospital by Medicaid managed care organizations for inpatient hospital and outpatient hospital services furnished to Medicaid individuals, as determined in accordance with § 447.295(d).


(8) *Supplemental/enhanced Medicaid IP/OP payments.* Indicate the total annual amount of supplemental/enhanced Medicaid payments made to the hospital under the State plan. These amounts do not include DSH payments, regular Medicaid FFS rate payments, and Medicaid managed care organization payments.


(9) *Total Medicaid IP/OP Payments.* Provide the total sum of items identified in § 447.299(c)(6), (7) and (8).


(10) *Total cost of care for Medicaid IP/OP services.* The total annual costs incurred by each hospital for furnishing inpatient hospital and outpatient hospital services to Medicaid individuals as determined in accordance with § 447.295(d). The total annual costs are determined on a hospital-specific basis, not a service-specific basis. For purposes of this section, costs—


(i) Are defined as costs net of third-party payments, including, but not limited to, payments by Medicare and private insurance.


(ii) Must capture the total burden on the hospital of treating Medicaid patients as determined in accordance with § 447.295(d), not including payment by Medicaid. Thus, costs must be determined in the aggregate and not by estimating the cost of individual patients. For example, if a hospital treats two Medicaid patients at a cost of $2,000 and receives a $500 payment from a third party for each individual, the total cost to the hospital for purposes of this section is $1,000, regardless of whether the third-party payment received for one patient exceeds the cost of providing the service to that individual.


(11) *Total Medicaid Uncompensated Care.* The total amount of uncompensated care attributable to Medicaid inpatient and outpatient services. The amount should be the result of subtracting the amount identified in § 447.299(c)(9) from the amount identified in § 447.299(c)(10). The uncompensated care costs of providing Medicaid physician services cannot be included in this amount.


(12) *Uninsured IP/OP revenue.* Total annual payments received by the hospital by or on behalf of individuals with no source of third party coverage for inpatient and outpatient hospital services they receive. This amount does not include payments made by a State or units of local government, for services furnished to indigent patients.


(13) *Total Applicable Section 1011 Payments.* Federal Section 1011 payments for uncompensated inpatient and outpatient hospital services provided to Section 1011 eligible aliens with no source of third party coverage for the inpatient and outpatient hospital services they receive.


(14) *Total cost of IP/OP care for the uninsured.* Indicate the total costs incurred for furnishing inpatient hospital and outpatient hospital services to individuals with no source of third party coverage for the hospital services they receive.


(15) *Total uninsured IP/OP uncompensated care costs.* Total annual amount of uncompensated IP/OP care for furnishing inpatient hospital and outpatient hospital services to individuals with no source of third party coverage for the hospital services they receive.


(i) The amount should be the result of subtracting paragraphs (c)(12) and (c)(13), from paragraph (c)(14) of this section.


(ii) The uncompensated care costs of providing physician services to the uninsured cannot be included in this amount.


(iii) The uninsured uncompensated amount also cannot include amounts associated with unpaid co-pays or deductibles for individuals with third party coverage for the inpatient and/or outpatient hospital services they receive or any other unreimbursed costs associated with inpatient and/or outpatient hospital services provided to individuals with those services in their third party coverage benefit package.


(iv) The uncompensated care costs do not include bad debt or payer discounts related to services furnished to individuals who have health insurance or other third party payer.


(16) *Total annual uncompensated care costs.* The total annual uncompensated care cost equals the total cost of care for furnishing inpatient hospital and outpatient hospital services to Medicaid individuals as determined in accordance with § 447.295(d), and to individuals with no source of third-party coverage for the hospital services they receive, less the sum of regular Medicaid FFS rate payments, Medicaid managed care organization payments, supplemental/enhanced Medicaid payments, uninsured revenues, and section 1011 payments for inpatient and outpatient hospital services. This should equal the sum of paragraphs (c)(9), (12), and (13) of this section subtracted from the sum of paragraphs (c)(10) and (14) of this section.


(17) *Disproportionate share hospital payments.* Indicate total annual payment adjustments made to the hospital under Section 1923 of the Act.


(18) *Medicaid provider number.* The provider identification number assigned by the Medicaid program.


(19) *Medicare provider number.* The provider identification number assigned by the Medicare program.


(20) *Total hospital cost.* The total annual costs incurred by each hospital for furnishing inpatient hospital and outpatient hospital services.


(21) *Financial impact of audit findings.* The total annual amount associated with each audit finding. If it is not practicable to determine the actual financial impact amount, state the estimated financial impact for each audit finding identified in the independent certified audit that is not otherwise reflected in data elements described in this paragraph (c). For purposes of this paragraph (c), audit finding means an issue identified in the independent certified audit required under § 455.304 of this chapter concerning the methodology for computing the hospital-specific DSH limit or the DSH payments made to the hospital, including, but not limited to, compliance with the hospital-specific DSH limit as defined in paragraph (c)(16) of this section. Audit findings may be related to missing or improper data, lack of documentation, non-compliance with Federal statutes or regulations, or other deficiencies identified in the independent certified audit. Actual financial impact means the total amount associated with audit findings calculated using the documentation sources identified in § 455.304(c) of this chapter. Estimated financial impact means the total amount associated with audit findings calculated on the basis of the most reliable available information to quantify the amount of an audit finding in circumstances where complete and accurate information necessary to determine the actual financial impact is not available from the documentation sources identified in § 455.304(c) of this chapter.


(22) *Reporting.* States must report DSH payments made to all hospitals under the authority of the approved Medicaid State plan. This includes both in-State and out-of-State hospitals. For out-of-State hospitals, States must report, at a minimum, the information identified in § 447.299(c)(1) through (c)(6), (c)(8), (c)(9), (c)(17), (c)(18), and (c)(19).


(d) Each State must maintain, in readily reviewable form, supporting documentation that provides a detailed description of each DSH program, the legal basis of each DSH program, and the amount of DSH payments made to each individual public and private provider or facility each quarter. This information must be made available to Federal reviewers upon request.


(e) If a State fails to comply with the reporting requirements contained in this section, future grant awards will be reduced by the amount of FFP CMS estimates is attributable to the expenditures made to the disproportionate share hospitals as to which the State has not reported properly, until such time as the State complies with the reporting requirements. Deferrals and/or disallowances of equivalent amounts may also be imposed with respect to quarters for which the State has failed to report properly. Unless otherwise prohibited by law, FFP for those expenditures will be released when the State complies with all reporting requirements.


(f) DSH payments found in the independent certified audit process under part 455, subpart D, of this chapter to exceed hospital-specific cost limits are provider overpayments which must be returned to the Federal Government in accordance with the requirements in part 433, subpart F, or redistributed by the State to other qualifying hospitals, if redistribution is provided for under the approved State plan. Overpayment amounts returned to the Federal Government must be separately reported on the Form CMS-64 as a decreasing adjustment which corresponds to the fiscal year DSH allotment and Medicaid State plan rate year of the original DSH expenditure claimed by the State.


(g) As applicable, States must report any overpayment redistribution amounts on the Form CMS-64 within 2 years from the date of discovery that a hospital-specific limit has been exceeded, as determined under § 433.316(f) of this chapter in accordance with a redistribution methodology in the approved Medicaid State plan. The State must report redistribution of DSH overpayments on the Form CMS-64 as separately identifiable decreasing adjustments reflecting the return of the overpayment as specified in paragraph (f) of this section and increasing adjustments representing the redistribution by the State. Both adjustments must correspond to the fiscal year DSH allotment and Medicaid State plan rate year of the related original DSH expenditure claimed by the State.



---

[N] [46 FR 47971, Sept. 30, 1981, as amended at 73 FR 77950, Dec. 19, 2008; 74 FR 18657, Apr. 24, 2009; 77 FR 31512, May 29, 2012; 78 FR 57313, Sept. 18, 2013; 82 FR 16122, Apr. 3, 2017; 85 FR 72909, Nov. 16, 2020; 89 FR 13946, Feb. 23, 2024]




