# § 72.05-5   Definitions.

(a) *Safety areas* will be considered as including the following spaces:


(1) Control stations, i.e., spaces containing the emergency source of power, and those spaces in which a continuous watch is maintained and in which navigating, radio, or fire-control equipment is located. (1)


(2) Passenger and crew stairway and elevator enclosures. (2)


(3) Passenger and crew communicating corridors. (3)


(4) Open decks and enclosed promenades in way of lifeboat embarkation or lowering positions. (4) (See also paragraph (l) of this section.)


(b) *Accommodation spaces* will be considered as including the following spaces:


(1) Public spaces, such as halls, dining rooms, messrooms, lounges, cafes, and other similar spaces normally accessible during the voyage. (5) through (7) (Depending upon size and furnishings.)


(2) Public sales rooms and similar spaces. (6) or (7) (Depending on size.)


(3) Staterooms, including passenger and crew rooms, barber shops, beauty parlors, offices, dispensaries, etc. (5) or (6) (Depending on furnishings.)


(4) Washrooms and toilet spaces, both public and private. (8)


(5) Isolated lockers and small storerooms in accommodation areas. (6)


(6) Isolated serving pantries, etc., in accommodation areas, with incombustible furnishings. (8)


(7) Operating rooms. (8)


(8) Small laundries containing only tubs and washing machines, with no facilities for drying other than small electric driers. (8)


(9) Small cleaning gear lockers containing only slop sinks, and having no room for stowing materials other than a broom, mop, cleaning powder, soap, etc. (8) 


(10) Large cleaning gear lockers having considerable stowage space. (6) or (9)


(c) *Service spaces* will be considered as including the following spaces:


(1) Motion picture projection rooms and film stowage rooms. (6) or (9)


(2) Galleys, main pantries, and storerooms, including alleyways and stairs, part of and for the exclusive use of such spaces. (9)


(3) Diet kitchens. (6) or (9) (Depending on furnishing.)


(4) Work shops (not part of machinery spaces, galleys, etc.), large laundries, drying rooms, mail and baggage rooms, etc. (9)


(5) Garbage disposal and stowage rooms, and trash stowage rooms. (9)


(6) Paint and lamp rooms, and similar spaces containing highly combustible materials. (9)


(d) *Machinery spaces*—will be considered as including the following spaces:


(1) Main machinery spaces, including trunks and casings, alleyways, gratings, and stairways, part of and for the exclusive use of these spaces, auxiliary machinery spaces containing internal combustion machinery or other oil burning, heating, or pumping units, and fuel oil filling stations. (10)


(2) Auxiliary machinery spaces containing only pumps, tanks, electrical machinery, ventilation or air conditioning equipment, resistors, steering machinery, stabilizer machinery, etc. (12) (Where such spaces contain considerable stowage space for combustibles.) (10)


(e) *Cargo spaces* will be considered as including the following spaces:


(1) Cargo holds, lockers, and trunks, both accessible and inaccessible and including refrigerated cargo spaces and cargo oil tanks intended for the alternate carriage of dry cargo. (11)


(2) Cargo oil tanks if not intended for the alternate carriage of dry cargo. (12)


(f) *Miscellaneous spaces* will be considered as including the following spaces:


(1) Fuel and water tanks and voids. (12)


(2) Open decks and enclosed promenades except in way of lifeboat embarkation and lowering positions. (13) (See also paragraph (l) of this section.)


(3) Shaft alleys when separated from machinery spaces, and containing no space assigned for the stowage of combustibles. (12)


(g) A *standard fire test* is one which develops in the test furnace a series of time-temperature relationships as follows:


(h) *Main vertical zones* are those sections, the mean length of which does not, in general, exceed 131 feet on any one deck, into which the hull, superstructure, and deckhouses are required to be divided by fire-resisting bulkheads.


(i) Where the term *steel or other equivalent metal* is used in this part, it is intended to require a material which, by itself or due to insulation provided, has structural and integrity qualities equivalent to steel at the end of the applicable fire exposure.


(j) Working spaces will be considered as only those service and machinery spaces where personnel are normally employed as contrasted to those where personnel may occasionally visit or be employed for short periods of time.


(k) Passenger or crew corridors over 8 feet in width will be considered as public spaces for the purpose of this subpart.


(l) Spaces which might be considered as open decks due to the presence of permanent openings to the weather in one or more sides, or where any or all sides may be completely open to the weather, will be considered as interior or enclosed spaces for the purpose of this subpart if any spot on the overhead is more than 15 feet from the nearest opening to the weather. This requirement shall only apply to those portions of the space as are under a deck or canopy, but it shall not be considered as a restriction against permanent opening or a restriction against the materials used for a canopy. This paragraph shall not apply to open or enclosed promenades having a nominal width of 15 feet or less.


(m) Where balconies are installed opening into a space, the following general requirements shall be met:


(1) For the purpose of meeting main vertical zone bulkhead spacing, the length of the space to which the balcony is open will be considered as being increased by an amount equal to the gross area of the balcony divided by the average width of the space.


(2) Where balconies are formed by penetrating one or more decks, the bulkheads in the upper portion of the space are, in effect, part of a stepped or recessed deck and should be treated as such for fire control purposes. In this regard, particular attention should be given to the protection of openings with proper doors of the type indicated in § 72.05-25(b)(9).


(3) Two means of escape shall be provided for each balcony, at least one of which shall be independent of the space to which the balcony is open.




