# § 266.80   Applicability and requirements.

(a) Are spent lead-acid batteries exempt from hazardous waste management requirements? If you generate, collect, transport, store, or regenerate lead-acid batteries for reclamation purposes, you may be exempt from certain hazardous waste management requirements. Use the following table to determine which requirements apply to you. Alternatively, you may choose to manage your spent lead-acid batteries under the “Universal Waste” rule in 40 CFR part 273.


(b) If I store spent lead-acid batteries before I reclaim them but not through regeneration, which requirements apply? The requirements of paragraph (b) of this section apply to you if you store spent lead-acid batteries before you reclaim them, but you don't reclaim them through regeneration. The requirements are slightly different depending on your RCRA permit status.


(1) For Interim Status Facilities, you must comply with:


(i) Notification requirements under section 3010 of RCRA.


(ii) All applicable provisions in subpart A of part 265 of this chapter.


(iii) All applicable provisions in subpart B of part 265 of this chapter except § 265.13 (waste analysis).


(iv) All applicable provisions in subparts C and D of part 265 of this chapter.


(v) All applicable provisions in subpart E of part 265 of this chapter except §§ 265.71 and 265.72 (dealing with the use of the manifest and manifest discrepancies).


(vi) All applicable provisions in subparts F through L of part 265 of this chapter.


(vii) All applicable provisions in parts 270 and 124 of this chapter.


(viii) All applicable provisions in part 267 of this chapter.


(2) For Permitted Facilities:


(i) Notification requirements under section 3010 of RCRA.


(ii) All applicable provisions in subpart A of part 264 of this chapter.


(iii) All applicable provisions in subpart B of part 264 of this chapter (but not § 264.13 (waste analysis).


(iv) All applicable provisions in subparts C and D of part 264 of this chapter.


(v) All applicable provisions in subpart E of part 264 of this chapter (but not § 264.71 or § 264.72 (dealing with the use of the manifest and manifest discrepancies).


(vi) All applicable provisions in subparts F through L of part 264 of this chapter.


(vii) All applicable provisions in parts 270 and 124 of this chapter.


(viii) All applicable provisions in part 267 of this chapter.



---

[N] [63 FR 71229, Dec. 24, 1998, as amended at 71 FR 40277, July 14, 2006; 75 FR 13007, Mar. 18, 2010; 75 FR 1261, Jan. 8, 2010; 81 FR 85727, Nov. 28, 2016; 81 FR 85827, Nov. 28, 2016]




