# § 15f.5   How do I request that USDA consider my complaint under these procedures?

In order for USDA to consider your complaint under these procedures, a Section 741 Complaint Request must be docketed with the Docketing Clerk in the USDA OCR.


(a) *Do I have to file a “Section 741 Complaint Request” if USDA is already working on my complaint? Do I have to file again?* If USDA OCR already reviewed or is working on your complaint, you will receive a notice by March 1, 1999, indicating that your complaint automatically has been docketed as a Section 741 Complaint Request for consideration under these procedures. The notice will provide you with the docket number assigned your Request and will give you further instructions with respect to what options you have or what actions you must take.


(b) *What if USDA is not working on my complaint? If I think USDA has reviewed or is working on my complaint, but do not receive a letter by March 1, 1999, what should I do?* If USDA is not already working on your complaint, or you do not receive a letter from USDA by March 1, 1999, or within 30 days thereafter, you should file a Section 741 Complaint Request with the Docketing Clerk at USDA OCR.


(c) *How long do I have to file my Section 741 Complaint Request?* You have until October 21, 2000 to file your Section 741 Complaint Request. If you did not receive a notice form USDA by October 21, 2000, that your Section 741 Complaint Request had been docketed automatically under paragraph (a) of this section, and you did not file a Section 741 Complaint Request prior to October 21, 2000, under paragraph (b) of this section, then any Section 741 Complaint Request received by USDA after October 21, 2000, will not be accepted.



---

[N] [63 FR 67394, Dec. 4, 1998, as amended at 68 FR 7412, Feb. 14, 2003]




