# § 2525.430   What steps are necessary to transfer an education award?

(a) *Request for transfer.* Before transferring an education award to a Designated Recipient, AmeriCorps must receive a request from the transferring Eligible Individual, including:


(1) The Eligible Individual's written authorization to transfer the education award, the year in which the education award was earned, and the specific amount of the education award to be transferred;


(2) Identifying information for the Designated Recipient who is to receive the transferred education award;


(3) A certification that the transferring Eligible Individual and the Designated Recipient have completed or satisfy the requirements of § 2525.410.


(b) *Notification to Designated Recipient.* Upon receipt of a request, including all required information listed in paragraph (a) of this section, AmeriCorps will contact the Designated Recipient to:


(1) Notify the Designated Recipient, or their legal guardian, of the proposed transfer;


(2) Confirm the Designated Recipient's identity;


(3) Confirm that the Designated Recipient is a citizen, national, or lawful permanent resident of the United States; and


(4) Give the Designated Recipient the opportunity to accept or reject the proposed transferred education award.


(c) *Acceptance by Designated Recipient.* To accept an education award, a Designated Recipient, or their legal guardian, must certify that the Designated Recipient is eligible under § 2525.410. Upon receipt of the Designated Recipient's acceptance and verification of the Designated Recipient's eligibility, AmeriCorps will create an account in the National Service Trust for the Designated Recipient, if an account does not already exist, and the accepted amount will be deducted from the transferring Eligible Individual's account and credited to the Designated Recipient's account.


(d) *Timing of transfer.* AmeriCorps must receive the request from the transferring Eligible Individual before the date the education award expires.


(e) *Refusal.* The Designated Recipient can refuse to accept the transferred education award under § 2525.470.


(f) *Revocation.* The Eligible Individual can revoke part or all of the remaining balance of the transfer that has not yet been requested for use under §§ 2525.480 and 2525.485.






