# ยง 1004.7   Responses by authorizing officials: Form and content.

(a) *Form of grant.* Records requested pursuant to ยง 1004.4 will be made available promptly, when they are identified and determined to be nonexempt under this Regulation, the FOIA, and where the applicable fees are $15 or less or where it has been determined that the payment of applicable fees should be waived. Where the applicable fees exceed $15, the records may be made available before all charges are paid. 


(b) *Form of denial.* A reply denying a request for a record will be in writing. It will be signed by a FOIA Officer or the Denying Official pursuant to ยง 1004.5 (b) or (c) and will include:


(1) *Reason for denial.* A statement of the reason for denial, containing a reference to the specific exemption under the FOIA authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of how the exemption applies to the record withheld, and a statement of why a discretionary release is not appropriate. The amount of information deleted and the applicable exemption will be indicated on the released portion of the record, unless the indication would harm an interest protected by the exemption.


(2) *Persons responsible for denial.* A statement setting forth the name and the title or position of each Denying Official and identifying the portion of the denial for which each Denying Official is responsible. 


(3) *Segregation of nonexempt material.* A statement or notation addressing the issue of whether there is any segregable nonexempt material in the documents or portions thereof identified as being denied. 


(4) *Adequacy of search.* Although a determination that no such record is known to exist is not a denial, the requester will be informed that a challenge may be made to the adequacy of the search by appealing within 90 calendar days to the Office of Hearings and Appeals.


(5) *Administrative appeal.* A statement that the determination to deny documents made within the statutory time period may be appealed within 90 calendar days to the Office of Hearings and Appeals.



---

[N] [53 FR 15661, May 3, 1988, as amended at 79 FR 22858, Apr. 25, 2014; 81 FR 94920, Dec. 27, 2016]




