# ยง 2400.7   Procedures for appealing.

(a) *Submission of appeal.* (1) If a request to provide notification of a personal record, or to access or amend a personal record, is denied either in whole or in part, or if no determination is made within the period prescribed by this part, then the requester may appeal in writing to the Chairman by mailing an appeal letter to the following address: Privacy Appeal, OSHRC, One Lafayette Centre, 1120 20th Street NW, Ninth Floor, Washington, DC 20036-3457.


(2) To be considered timely, the requester must submit the appeal letter within 30 calendar days of the date of denial, or within 90 calendar days of his or her request if the appeal is from a failure of the Privacy Officer to make a determination. The appeal letter should include, as applicable:


(i) Reasonable identification of the system to which notification was sought, the personal record to which access was sought, or the amendment that was requested.


(ii) A statement of the OSHRC action or failure to act being appealed and the relief sought.


(iii) A copy of the request, the notification of denial, and any other related correspondence.


(b) *Final decisions.* The Chairman must make a final decision no later than 30 working days from the date of the request, but the Chairman may extend this time period for good cause. The requester, however, must be notified of the extension within the initial 30 working-day period, and the extension may not exceed 90 calendar days from the date of the request. Any personal record found on appeal to be incomplete, inaccurate, irrelevant, or untimely, shall within 30 working days of the date of such findings be appropriately amended.


(c) *Decision requirements.* The decision of the Chairman constitutes the final decision of OSHRC on the right of the requester to be notified of, or to access or amend, a personal record. The decision on the appeal shall be in writing and, in the event of a denial, shall set forth the reasons for such denial and state the individual's right to obtain judicial review in a district court of the United States. An indexed file of the agency's decisions on appeal shall be maintained by the Privacy Officer.




