# § 107.307   General.

(a) When the Associate Administrator and the Office of Chief Counsel have reason to believe that a person is knowingly engaging or has knowingly engaged in conduct which is a violation of the Federal hazardous material transportation law or any provision of this subchapter or subchapter C of this chapter, or any exemption, special permit, or order issued thereunder, for which the Associate Administrator or the Office of Chief Counsel exercise enforcement authority, they may—


(1) Issue a warning letter, as provided in § 107.309;


(2) Initiate proceedings to assess a civil penalty, as provided in either § 107.310 or § 107.311;


(3) Issue an order directing compliance, regardless of whether a warning letter has been issued or a civil penalty assessed; and


(4) Seek any other remedy available under the Federal hazardous material transportation law.


(b) In the case of a proceeding initiated for failure to comply with an exemption or special permit, the allegation of a violation of a term or condition thereof is considered by the Associate Administrator and the Office of Chief Counsel to constitute an allegation that the special permit holder or party to the special permit is failing, or has failed to comply with the underlying regulations from which relief was granted by the special permit.



---

[N] [Amdt. 107-11, 48 FR 2651, Jan. 20, 1983, as amended by Amdt. 107-32, 59 FR 49131, Sept. 26, 1994; Amdt. 107-36, 61 FR 7183, Feb. 26, 1996; 66 FR 45377, Aug. 28, 2001; 70 FR 73162, Dec. 9, 2005]




