# § 608.4   What definitions apply?

(a) *General definitions.* The following terms used in this part are defined in 2 CFR part 200, subpart A, or 34 CFR 77.1:


(b) *Other definitions.* The following definitions also apply to this part:


*Accredited* means the status of public recognition which a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association grants to an institution which meets certain established qualifications and educational standards.


*Graduate* means a student who has attended an institution for at least three semesters and fulfilled academic requirements for undergraduate studies in not more than five consecutive school years.


*Junior or community college* means an institution of higher education that—


(i) Admits as regular students persons who are beyond the age of compulsory school attendance in the State in which the institution is located and who have the ability to benefit from the training offered by the institution;


(ii) Does not provide an educational program for which it awards a bachelor's degree or an equivalent degree; and


(iii) Provides an educational program of not less than 2 years that is acceptable for full credit toward such a degree; or offers a 2-year program in engineering, mathematics, or the physical or biological sciences, designed to prepare a student to work as a technician or at the semiprofessional level in engineering, scientific, or other technological fields requiring the understanding and application of basic engineering, scientific, or mathematical principles of knowledge.


*Pell Grant* means the grant program authorized by Title IV-A-1 of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended.


*Preaccredited* means a status, also called candidacy status, that a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association, recognized by the Secretary to grant that status, has accorded an unaccredited institution that is making reasonable progress toward accreditation.


*School year* means the period of time from July 1 of one calendar year through June 30 of the subsequent calendar year. (A “school year” is equivalent to an “award year” under the Pell Grant Program.)



---

[N] [58 FR 38713, July 20, 1993, as amended at 79 FR 76101, Dec. 19, 2014]




