# § 144.61   Definitions of terms as used in this subpart.

(a) *Plugging and abandonment plan* means the plan for plugging and abandonment prepared in accordance with the requirements of §§ 144.28 and 144.51.


(b) *Current plugging cost estimate* means the most recent of the estimates prepared in accordance with § 144.62 (a), (b) and (c).


(c) *Parent corporation* means a corporation which directly owns at least 50 percent of the voting stock of the corporation which is the injection well owner or operator; the latter corporation is deemed a *subsidiary* of the parent corporation.


(d) The following terms are used in the specifications for the financial test for plugging and abandonment. The definitions are intended to represent the common meanings of the terms as they are generally used by the business community.


*Assets* means all existing and all probable future economic benefits obtained or controlled by a particular entity.


*Current assets* means cash or other assets or resources commonly identified as those which are reasonably expected to be realized in cash or sold or consumed during the normal operating cycle of the business.


*Current liabilities* means obligations whose liquidation is reasonably expected to require the use of existing resources properly classifiable as current assets or the creation of other current liabilities.


*Independently audited* refers to an audit performed by an independent certified public accountant in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.


*Liabilities* means probable future sacrifices of economic benefits arising from present obligations to transfer assets or provide services to other entities in the future as a result of past transactions or events.


*Net working capital* means current assets minus current liabilities.


*Net worth* means total assets minus total liabilities and is equivalent to owner's equity.


*Tangible net worth* means the tangible assets that remain after deducting liabilities; such assets would not include intangibles such as goodwill and rights to patents or royalties.




