# § 51.880   U.S. Extra Fancy Table.

“U.S. Extra Fancy Table” consists of bunches of well developed grapes of one variety, except when designated as assorted varieties, which are uniform in appearance, well colored, and which meet the following requirements:


(a) Basic requirements for berries:


(1) Mature;


(2) Firm;


(3) Firmly attached to capstem;


(4) Not weak;


(5) Not shriveled at capstem;


(6) Not shattered;


(7) Not split or crushed;


(8) Not wet.


(b) Basic requirements for bunches:


(1) Fairly well filled;


(2) Not excessively tight for the variety.


(c) Basic requirements for stems:


(1) Well developed and strong;


(2) Not dry and brittle;


(3) At least yellowish-green in color except for Cardinal, Robin, Exotic, and Beauty Seedless varieties.


(d) Berries free from:


(1) Decay;


(2) Waterberry;


(3) Sunburn;


(4) Almeria Spot.


(e) Stems free from:


(1) Mold;


(2) Decay.


(f) Berries not damaged by:


(1) Any other cause.


(g) Bunches not damaged by:


(1) Shot berries;


(2) Dried berries;


(3) Other defective berries;


(4) Trimming away of defective berries;


(5) Any other cause.


(h) Stems not damaged by:


(1) Freezing;


(2) Any other cause.


(i) Size:


(1) For berries: Exclusive of shot berries and dried berries, not less than 90 percent, by count, of the berries on each bunch shall have the minimum diameters indicated for varieties as follows:


(i) Ribier, Cardinal, Robin, Exotic, Queen, Italia Muscat, and other similar varieties thirteen-sixteenths of an inch.


(ii) Other varieties eleven-sixteenths of an inch.


(2) For bunches:


(i) Not less than one-half pound.


(j) For tolerances see § 51.886.



---

[N] [36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, and amended at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]




