# 1845.7101-4   Types of deletions from contractor property records.

Contractors shall report the types of deletions from contract property records as described in this section.


(a) *Lost, damaged or destroyed.* Deletion amounts that result from relief from responsibility under FAR 45.503 granted during the reporting period.


(b) *Transferred in Place.* Deletion amounts that result from transfer of property to a follow-on prime contract or other prime contract with the same contractor.


(c) *Transferred to NASA Center accountability.* Deletion amounts that result from transfer of accountability to the NASA Center responsible for the contract, whether or not items are physically moved.


(d) *Transferred to another NASA Center.* Deletion amounts that result from transfer of accountability to a NASA Center other than the one responsible for the contract, whether or not items are physically moved. 


(e) *Transferred to another Government agency.* Deletion amounts that result from transfer of property to another Government agency. 


(f) *Purchased at cost/returned for credit.* Deletion amounts that result from contractor purchase or retention of contractor acquired property as provided in FAR 45.605-1, or from contractor returns to suppliers under FAR 45.605-2. 


(g) *Disposed of through plant clearance process.* Deletions other than transfers within the Federal Government, e.g., donations to eligible recipients, sold at less than cost, or abandoned/directed destruction, or trade-ins. 


(h) *Other.* Types of deletion other than those reported in paragraph (a) through (g) of this section such as those resulting from reclassifications (e.g. from equipment to agency-peculiar property).



---

[N] [65 FR 54816, Sept. 11, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 41806, Aug. 9, 2001; 67 FR 68535, Nov. 12, 2002]




