# § 682.701   Definitions of terms used in this subpart.

The following definitions apply to terms used in this subpart:


*Designated Departmental Official:* An official of the Department of Education to whom the Secretary has delegated the responsibility for initiating and pursuing disqualification or limitation, suspension, or termination proceedings.


*Disqualification.* The removal of a lender's eligibility for an indefinite period of time by the Secretary on review of limitation, suspension, or termination action taken against the lender by a guaranty agency.


*Limitation.* The continuation of a lender's or third-party servicer's eligibility subject to compliance with special conditions established by agreement with the Secretary or a guaranty agency, as applicable, or imposed as the result of a limitation or termination proceeding.


*Suspension.* The removal of a lender's eligibility, or a third-party servicer's eligibility to contract with a lender or guaranty agency, for a specified period of time or until the lender or servicer fulfills certain requirements.


*Termination.* (1) The removal of a lender's eligibility for an indefinite period of time—


(i) By a guaranty agency; or


(ii) By the Secretary, based on an action taken by the Secretary, or a designated Departmental official under § 682.706; or


(2) The removal of a third-party servicer's eligibility to contract with a lender or guaranty agency for an indefinite period of time by the Secretary based on an action taken by the Secretary, or a designated Departmental official under § 682.706.



---

[N] [57 FR 60323, Dec. 18, 1992, as amended at 59 FR 22457, Apr. 29, 1994; 78 FR 65822, Nov. 1, 2013]




