# ยง 721.11484   Alkanediol, polymer with 5-isocyanato-1-(isocyanatomethyl)-1,3,3-trimethylcyclohexane, alkylaminoalkyl methacrylate-, and dialkylheteromonocycle-blocked (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkanediol, polymer with 5-isocyanato-1-(isocyanatomethyl)-1,3,3-trimethylcyclohexane, alkylaminoalkyl methacrylate-, and dialkylheteromonocycle-blocked (PMN P-18-237) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substance after they have been reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* It is a significant new use to manufacture, process, or use the PMN substance in any manner or method that generates dust, spray, vapor, mist, or aerosol.


(ii) *Releases to water.* Requirements as specified in ยง 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4) and (c)(4) where N=1.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in ยง 721.125(a) through (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of ยง 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [85 FR 57973, Sept. 17, 2020]




