# § 26.18   Discovery.

(a) *General.* The parties are encouraged to engage in voluntary discovery procedures, which may commence at any time after an answer has been filed. Parties may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the claim or defense of any party, including the existence, description, nature, custody, condition, and location of any books, documents, or other tangible things and the identity and location of persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter. For good cause, the hearing officer may order discovery of any matter relevant to the subject matter involved in the action. To be relevant, information need not be admissible at the hearing, if the discovery appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Each party shall bear its own expenses associated with discovery. Discovery may include:


(1) Requests for production of documents as set forth in § 26.19;


(2) Depositions as set forth in § 26.20;


(3) Written interrogatories as set forth in § 26.21; and


(4) Requests for admissions as set forth in § 26.22.


(b) *Supplementation of responses.* A party who has responded to a request for discovery with a response is under a duty to timely amend a prior response to an interrogatory, request for production, or request for admission if so ordered by the hearing officer, or if the party learns that the response is in some material respect incomplete or incorrect and if the additional or corrective information has not otherwise been made known to the other parties during the discovery process or in writing.


(c) *Requesting an order.* In connection with any discovery procedure, by motion addressed to the hearing officer and upon a showing of a good faith attempt to resolve the issue without the hearing officer's intervention, either party may:


(1) Request an order compelling a response with respect to any objection to or other failure to respond to the discovery requested or any part thereof, or any failure to respond as specifically requested, or


(2) Request a protective order limiting the scope, methods, time and place for discovery, and provisions for protecting privileged information or documents.


(d) *Limitations.* (1) By order, the hearing officer may set or alter limits on the number of document requests, depositions, and interrogatories, or the length of depositions.


(2) Orders compelling discovery shall be issued only where such discovery will not compel the disclosure of privileged information, unduly delay the hearing, or result in prejudice to the public interest or the rights of the parties, and upon a showing of good cause.


(3) Protective orders may be issued by a hearing officer if the hearing officer determines such an order is necessary to protect a party or other person from annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden or expense because:


(i) The discovery sought is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable from some other source that is more convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive;


(ii) The party seeking discovery has had ample opportunity by discovery in the action to obtain the information sought; or


(iii) The burden or expense of the proposed discovery outweighs its likely benefit, taking into account the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, the parties' resources, the importance of the issues at stake in the litigation, and the importance of the proposed discovery in resolving the issues.


(4) A party need not provide discovery of electronically stored information from sources that the party identifies as not reasonably accessible because of undue burden or cost. On motion to compel discovery or for a protective order, the party from whom discovery is sought must show that the information is not reasonably accessible because of undue burden or cost. If that showing is made, the hearing officer may nonetheless order discovery from such sources if the requesting party shows good cause or, when the party's refusal to provide the information sought is solely due to undue expense, if the party seeking the discovery agrees to bear the expense associated with the request.


(e) *Refusal to honor discovery order.* When a party refuses to honor a discovery order, the hearing officer may issue such orders in regard to the refusal as justice shall require.




