# ยง 656.2   Archeological and historical laws and Executive orders applicable to NRCS-assisted programs.

(a) *The Act of June 27, 1960,* relating to the preservation of historical and archeological data, Pub. L. 86-523, 74 Stat. 220, as amended May 24, 1974; Pub. L. 93-291, 88 Stat. 174 (16 U.S.C. 469 *et seq.*), provides for the preservation of historical and archeological materials or data, including relics and specimens, that might otherwise be lost or destroyed as a result of any Federal or federally-assisted or licensed project, activity, or program. 


(b) *The National Historic Preservation Act,* Pub. L. 89-665, 80 Stat. 915, as amended, (16 U.S.C. 470 *et seq.*), authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to maintain and expand a National Register of Historic Places (NRHP), including historic districts, sites, buildings, structures, and objects that are significant in American history, architecture, archeology, and culture. This law also establishes the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (ACHP), to be appointed by the President. Section 106 of this Act (16 U.S.C. 470f), requires that prior to the approval of any Federal or federally-assisted or licensed undertaking, the Federal agency shall afford the ACHP a reasonable opportunity to comment, if properties listed in or eligible for listing in NRHP are affected. 


(c) *Executive Order 11593 (36 FR 8921, 3 CFR 1971 Comp. P. 154*), Protection and Enhancement of the Cultural Environment, provides that the Federal government shall furnish leadership in preserving, restoring, and maintaining the historical and cultural environment of the nation, and that Federal agencies shall administer the cultural properties under their control in a spirit of stewardship and trusteeship for future generations; initiate measures necessary to direct their policies, plans, and programs in such a way that federally owned sites, structures, and objects of historical, architectural, or archeological significance are preserved, restored, and maintained. Section 1(3) directs that agencies institute procedures to assure that Federal plans and programs contribute to the preservation and enhancement of non-federally owned sites, structures, and objects of historical, architectural, or archeological significance in consultation with the ACHP. 




