# § 845.204   Processing.

(a) *Notice.* Except as provided in § 845.205, OPM will, before starting collection, tell the debtor in writing— 


(1) The reason for and the amount of the debt; 


(2) The date on which the full payment is due; 


(3) OPM's policy on interest, penalties, and administrative charges; 


(4) That offset is available, the types of payment(s) to be offset, the repayment schedule, the right to request an adjustment in the repayment schedule and the right to request a voluntary repayment agreement in lieu of offset; 


(5) The individual's right to inspect and/or receive a copy of the Government's records relating to the debt; 


(6) The method and time period (30 calendar days) for requesting reconsideration, waiver, and/or compromise and, in the case of offset, an adjustment to the repayment schedule; 


(7) The standards used by OPM for determining entitlement to waiver and compromise; 


(8) The right to a hearing by the Merit Systems Protection Board on a waiver request (if OPM's waiver decision finds the individual liable) in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section; and 


(9) The fact that a timely filing of a request for reconsideration, waiver and/or compromise, or a later timely appeal of a reconsideration or waiver denial to the Merit Systems Protection Board, will stop collection proceedings, unless (i) failure to take the offset would substantially prejudice the Government's ability to collect the debt; and (ii) the time before the payment is to be made does not reasonably permit the completion of these procedures. 


(b) *Requests for reconsideration, waiver, and/or compromise.* (1) If a request for reconsideration, waiver, and/or compromise is returned to OPM by mail, it must be postmarked within 30 calendar days of the date of the notice detailed in paragraph (a) of this section. If a request for reconsideration, waiver, and/or compromise is hand delivered, it must be received within 30 calendar days of the date of the notice detailed in paragraph (a) of this section. OPM may extend the 30-day time limit for filing when individuals can prove that they— 


(i) Were not notified of the time limit and were not otherwise aware of it; or 


(ii) Were prevented by circumstances beyond their control from making the request within the time limit. 


(2) When a request for reconsideration, waiver, and/or compromise covered by this paragraph is properly filed before the death of the debtor, it will be processed to completion unless the relief sought is nullified by the debtor's death. 


(3) Individuals requesting reconsideration, waiver, and/or compromise will be given a full opportunity to present any pertinent information and documentation supporting their position. 


(4) An individual's request for waiver will be evaluated on the basis of the standards set forth in subpart C of this part. An individual's request for compromise will be evaluated on the basis of standards set forth in the FCCS (4 CFR part 103). 


(c) *Reconsideration, waiver, and/or compromise decisions.* (1) OPM's decision will be based upon the individual's written submissions, evidence of record, and other pertinent available information. 


(2) After consideration of all pertinent information, OPM will issue a written decision. The decision will state the extent of the individual's liability, and, for waiver and compromise requests, whether the debt will be waived or compromised. If the individual is determined to be liable for all or a portion of the debt, the decision will reaffirm or modify the conditions for the collection previously proposed under paragraph (a) of this section. The decision will state the individual's right to appeal to the Merit Systems Protection Board as provided by § 1201.3 of this title, and, in the case of a denial of waiver or reconsideration request that a timely appeal will stop collection of the debt. 




