# ยง 765.403   Transfer of security to and assumption of debt by eligible applicants.

(a) *Transfer of real estate and chattel security.* The Agency may approve transfers of security with assumption of FLP debt, other than EM loans for physical or production losses, by transferees eligible for the type of loan being assumed if:


(1) The transferee meets all loan and security requirements in part 764 of this chapter for the type of loan being assumed; and


(2) The outstanding loan balance (principal and interest) does not exceed the maximum loan limit for the type of loan as contained in ยง 761.8 of this chapter.


(b) *Assumption of Non-program loans.* Applicants eligible for FO loans under part 764 of this chapter may assume Non-program loans made for real estate purposes if the Agency determines the property meets program requirements. In such case, the Agency will reclassify the Non-program loan as an FO loan.


(c) *Loan types that the Agency no longer makes.* Real estate loan types the Agency no longer makes (*i.e.* EE, RL, RHF) may be assumed and reclassified as FO loans if the transferee is eligible for an FO loan under part 764 of this chapter and the property proposed for transfer meets program requirements.


(d) *Amount of assumption.* The transferee must assume the lesser of:


(1) The outstanding balance of the transferor's loan; or


(2) The market value of the security, less prior liens and authorized costs, if the outstanding loan balance exceeds the market value of the property.


(e) *Rates and terms.* The interest rate and loan term will be determined according to rates and terms established in part 764 of this chapter for the type of loan being assumed.


(f) *Application requirements.* Transferees must submit a complete application in accordance with 7 CFR 764.51.


(g) *Security.* All security must be transferred to the transferee with possession taken in accordance with the requirements of part 764 of this chapter for the type of loan being assumed.



---

[N] [72 FR 63309, Nov. 8, 2007, as amended at 89 FR 65043, Aug. 8, 2024]










