# § 485.900   Basis and scope.

(a) *Basis.* This subpart is based on the following sections of the Social Security Act:


(1) Section 1832(a)(2)(J) of the Act specifies that payments may be made under Medicare Part B for partial hospitalization services and intensive outpatient services furnished by a community mental health center (CMHC) as described in section 1861(ff)(3)(B) of the Act.


(2) Section 1861(ff) of the Act describes the items and services that are covered under Medicare Part B as “partial hospitalization services” and “intensive outpatient services” and the conditions under which the items and services must be provided. In addition, section 1861(ff) of the Act specifies that the entities authorized to provide partial hospitalization services and intensive outpatient services under Medicare Part B include CMHCs and defines that term.


(3) Section 1866(e)(2) of the Act specifies that a provider of services for purposes of provider agreement requirements includes a CMHC as defined in section 1861(ff)(3)(B) of the Act, but only with respect to providing partial hospitalization services and intensive outpatient services.


(b) *Scope.* The provisions of this subpart serve as the basis of survey activities for the purpose of determining whether a CMHC meets the specified requirements that are considered necessary to ensure the health and safety of clients; and for the purpose of determining whether a CMHC qualifies for a provider agreement under Medicare.



---

[N] [78 FR 64630, Oct. 29, 2013, as amended at 88 FR 82183, Nov. 22, 2023]






