# § 155.200   Functions of an Exchange.

(a) *General requirements.* An Exchange must perform the functions described in this subpart and in subparts D, E, F, G, H, K, M, and O of this part unless the State is approved to operate only a SHOP by HHS under § 155.100(a)(2), in which case the Exchange operated by the State must perform the functions described in subpart H of this part and all applicable provisions of other subparts referenced in that subpart. In a State that is approved to operate only a SHOP, the individual market Exchange operated by HHS in that State will perform the functions described in this subpart and in subparts D, E, F, G, K, M, and O of this part.


(b) *Certificates of exemption.* The Exchange must issue certificates of exemption consistent with sections 1311(d)(4)(H) and 1411 of the Affordable Care Act.


(c) *Oversight and financial integrity.* The Exchange must perform required functions and cooperate with activities related to oversight and financial integrity requirements in accordance with section 1313 of the Affordable Care Act and as required under this part, including overseeing its Exchange programs and non-Exchange entities as defined in § 155.260(b)(1).


(d) *Quality activities.* The Exchange must evaluate quality improvement strategies and oversee implementation of enrollee satisfaction surveys, assessment and ratings of health care quality and outcomes, information disclosures, and data reporting in accordance with sections 1311(c)(1), 1311(c)(3), and 1311(c)(4) of the Affordable Care Act.


(e) *Clarification.* In carrying out its responsibilities under this subpart, an Exchange is not operating on behalf of a QHP.


(f) *Requirements for State Exchanges on the Federal platform.* (1) A State that receives approval or conditional approval to operate a State Exchange on the Federal platform under § 155.106(c) may meet its obligations under paragraph (a) of this section by relying on Federal services that the Federal government agrees to provide under a Federal platform agreement.


(2) A State Exchange on the Federal platform must establish and oversee requirements for its issuers that are no less strict than the following requirements that are applied to Federally-facilitated Exchange issuers:


(i) Data submission requirements under § 156.122(d)(2) of this subchapter;


(ii)—(iv) [Reserved] 


(v) Changes of ownership of issuers requirements under § 156.330 of this subchapter;


(vi) QHP issuer compliance and compliance of delegated or downstream entities requirements under § 156.340(a)(4) of this subchapter; and


(vii) Casework requirements under § 156.1010 of this subchapter.


(3) If a State is not substantially enforcing any requirement listed under § 155.200(f)(2) with respect to a QHP issuer or plan in a State-based Exchange on the Federal platform, HHS may enforce that requirement directly against the issuer or plan by means of plan suppression under § 156.815 of this subchapter.


(4) A State Exchange on the Federal platform that utilizes the Federal platform for SHOP functions, for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2018, must require its QHP issuers to make any changes to rates in accordance with the timeline applicable in a Federally-facilitated SHOP under § 155.706(b)(6)(i)(A). A State Exchange on the Federal platform that utilizes the Federal platform for SHOP functions, as set forth in paragraphs (f)(4)(i) through (vii) of this section, for plan years beginning prior to January 1, 2018, must—


(i) If utilizing the Federal platform for SHOP eligibility, enrollment, or premium aggregation functions, establish standard processes for premium calculation, premium payment, and premium collection that are consistent with the requirements applicable in a Federally-facilitated SHOP under § 155.705(b)(4);


(ii) If utilizing the Federal platform for SHOP enrollment or premium aggregation functions, require its QHP issuers to make any changes to rates in accordance with the timeline applicable in a Federally-facilitated SHOP under § 155.705(b)(6)(i)(A);


(iii) If utilizing the Federal platform for SHOP enrollment functions, establish minimum participation rate requirements and calculation methodologies that are consistent with those applicable in a Federally-facilitated SHOP under § 155.705(b)(10);


(iv) If utilizing the Federal platform for SHOP enrollment or premium aggregation functions, establish employer contribution methodologies that are consistent with the methodologies applicable in a Federally-facilitated SHOP under § 155.705(b)(11)(ii);


(v) If utilizing the Federal platform for SHOP enrollment functions, establish annual employee open enrollment period requirements that are consistent with § 155.725(e)(2);


(vi) If utilizing the Federal platform for SHOP enrollment functions, establish effective dates of coverage for an initial group enrollment or a group renewal that are consistent with the effective dates of coverage applicable in a Federally-facilitated SHOP under § 155.725(h)(2); and


(vii) If utilizing the Federal platform for SHOP eligibility, enrollment, or premium aggregation functions, establish policies for the termination of SHOP coverage or enrollment that are consistent with the requirements applicable in a Federally-facilitated SHOP under § 155.735.



---

[N] [77 FR 18444, Mar. 27, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 39523, July 1, 2013; 78 FR 54134, Aug. 30, 2013; 81 FR 12337, Mar. 8, 2016; 81 FR 94175, Dec. 22, 2016; 83 FR 17060, Apr. 17, 2018; 84 FR 71710, Dec. 27, 2019]




