# ยง 686.35   Recalculation of TEACH Grant award amounts.

(a) *Change in enrollment status.* (1) If the student's enrollment status changes from one academic term to another academic term within the same award year, the institution must recalculate the TEACH Grant award for the new payment period taking into account any changes in the cost of attendance.


(2)(i) If the student's projected enrollment status changes during a payment period after the student has begun attendance in all of his or her classes for that payment period, the institution may (but is not required to) establish a policy under which the student's award for the payment period is recalculated. Any such recalculations must take into account any changes in the cost of attendance. In the case of an undergraduate or post-baccalaureate program of study, if such a policy is established, it must be the same policy that the institution established under 34 CFR 690.80(b) for the Federal Pell Grant Program and it must apply to all students in the TEACH Grant-eligible program.


(ii) If a student's projected enrollment status changes during a payment period before the student begins attendance in all of his or her classes for that payment period, the institution must recalculate the student's enrollment status to reflect only those classes for which he or she actually began attendance.


(b) *Change in cost of attendance.* If the student's cost of attendance changes at any time during the award year and his or her enrollment status remains the same, the institution may, but is not required to, establish a policy under which the student's TEACH Grant award for the payment period is recalculated. If such a policy is established, it must apply to all students in the TEACH Grant-eligible program.


