# ยง 1271.190   Facilities.

(a) *General.* Any facility used in the manufacture of HCT/Ps must be of suitable size, construction, and location to prevent contamination of HCT/Ps with communicable disease agents and to ensure orderly handling of HCT/Ps without mix-ups. You must maintain the facility in a good state of repair. You must provide lighting, ventilation, plumbing, drainage, and access to sinks and toilets that are adequate to prevent the introduction, transmission, or spread of communicable disease.


(b) *Facility cleaning and sanitation.* (1) You must maintain any facility used in the manufacture of HCT/Ps in a clean, sanitary, and orderly manner, to prevent the introduction, transmission, or spread of communicable disease.


(2) You must dispose of sewage, trash, and other refuse in a timely, safe, and sanitary manner.


(c) *Operations.* You must divide a facility used in the manufacture of HCT/Ps into separate or defined areas of adequate size for each operation that takes place in the facility, or you must establish and maintain other control systems to prevent improper labeling, mix-ups, contamination, cross-contamination, and accidental exposure of HCT/Ps to communicable disease agents.


(d) *Procedures and records.* (1) You must establish and maintain procedures for facility cleaning and sanitation for the purpose of preventing the introduction, transmission, or spread of communicable disease. These procedures must assign responsibility for sanitation and must describe in sufficient detail the cleaning methods to be used and the schedule for cleaning the facility.


(2) You must document, and maintain records of, all cleaning and sanitation activities performed to prevent contamination of HCT/Ps. You must retain such records 3 years after their creation.




