# § 1207.4   Recommended standards for materials of manufacture.

(a) *General.* The materials used in swimming pool slides should be compatible with man and compatible with the environment in which they are installed. These materials should be capable of fulfilling the design requirements prescribed by § 1207.5.


(b) *Effects of environment.* The choice of materials for swimming pool slides should be such that the operational strength of the entire slide assembly, as defined by the performance tests in § 1207.5, should not be adversely affected by exposure to rain, snow, ice, sunlight, local, normal temperature extremes, local normal wind variations, expected local air pollution products, and the mechanical, electrical, and chemical environment in and around swimming pools. For purposes of this part 1207, “local normal” temperature extremes and wind variations are defined as the average annual record limits for the past 10 years at any slide installation point in the U.S.A. where such statistical information exists (see reference (a) in § 1207.11)


(c) *Materials selection.* The selection of all materials for swimming pool slides should be such that all surfaces and edges that may come in contact with the user are assembled, arranged, and/or finished (deburred, polished, etc.) so that they will not constitute a cutting, pinching, puncturing, or abrasion hazard under casual contact and intended use by children or adults.


(d) *Toxicity.* The selection of materials used in swimming pool slides should be such that the assembled and installed products should not be toxic to man or harmful to the environment under intended use and reasonably foreseeable abuse or disposal. All paints and finishes used on swimming pool slides shall comply with 16 CFR 1303.2(b)(2) and 1303.4(a).


(e) *Chemical compatibility.* The selection of materials for swimming pool slides should be such that the assembled and installed product, and the parts, are chemically compatible with the materials and environment contacted under intended use and reasonably foreseeable abuse.



---

[N] [41 FR 2751, Jan. 19, 1976, as amended at 43 FR 58813, Dec. 18, 1978]




