# § 660.411   Notification and publication procedures.

(a) *Notification and effective dates.* (1) Annual and certain other actions taken under §§ 660.408 and 660.410 will be implemented by an action published in the _Federal Register,_ and will be effective upon filing, unless a later time is specified in the action. 


(2) Inseason actions taken under § 660.409 will be by actual notice available from telephone hotlines and USCG broadcasts, as specified annually. Inseason actions will also be published in the _Federal Register_ as soon as practicable. Inseason actions will be effective from the time specified in the actual notice of the action (telephone hotlines and USCG broadcasts), or at the time the inseason action published in the _Federal Register_ is effective, whichever comes first. 


(3) Any action issued under this section will remain in effect until the expiration date stated in the action or until rescinded, modified, or superseded. However, no inseason action has any effect beyond the end of the calendar year in which it is issued. 


(b) *Public comment.* If time allows, NMFS will invite public comment prior to the effective date of any action published in the _Federal Register._

(c) *Availability of data.* The Regional Administrator will compile in aggregate form all data and other information relevant to the action being taken and will make them available for public review upon request. Contact information will be published annually in the _Federal Register,_ posted on the NMFS website, and announced on the telephone hotline.



---

[N] [61 FR 34572, July 2, 1996, as amended at 78 FR 10559, Feb. 14, 2013; 87 FR 25430, Apr. 29, 2022]




