# § 161.313   Review of application.

(a) *Determination of completeness.* The FAA, within 30 days of receipt of an application, will determine whether the application is complete in accordance with § 161.311. Determinations of completeness will be made on all proposed restrictions and alternatives. This completeness determination is not an approval or disapproval of the proposed restriction. 


(b) *Process for complete application.* When the FAA determines that a complete application has been submitted, the following procedures apply: 


(1) The FAA notifies the applicant that it intends to act on the proposed restriction and publishes notice of the proposed restriction in the _Federal Register_ in accordance with § 161.315. The 180-day period for approving or disapproving the proposed restriction will start on the date of original FAA receipt of the application.


(2) Following review of the application, public comments, and any other information obtained under § 161.317(b), the FAA will issue a decision approving or disapproving the proposed restriction. This decision is a final decision of the Administrator for purpose of judicial review. 


(c) *Process for incomplete application.* If the FAA determines that an application is not complete with respect to any submitted restriction or alternative restriction, the following procedures apply: 


(1) The FAA shall notify the applicant in writing, returning the application and setting forth the type of information and analysis needed to complete the application in accordance with § 161.311. 


(2) Within 30 days after the receipt of this notice, the applicant shall advise the FAA in writing whether or not it intends to resubmit and supplement its application. 


(3) If the applicant does not respond in 30 days, or advises the FAA that it does not intend to resubmit and/or supplement the application, the application will be denied. This closes the matter without prejudice to later application and does not constitute disapproval of the proposed restriction. 


(4) If the applicant chooses to resubmit and supplement the application, the following procedures apply: 


(i) Upon receipt of the resubmitted application, the FAA determines whether the application, as supplemented, is complete as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section. 


(ii) If the application is complete, the procedures set forth in § 161.315 shall be followed. The 180-day review period starts on the date of receipt of the last supplement to the application.


(iii) If the application is still not complete with respect to the proposed restriction or at least one submitted alternative, the FAA so advises the applicant as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section and provides the applicant with an additional opportunity to supplement the application as set forth in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. 


(iv) If the environmental documentation (either an environmental assessment or information supporting a categorical exclusion) is incomplete, the FAA will so notify the applicant in writing, returning the application and setting forth the types of information and analysis needed to complete the documentation. The FAA will continue to return an application until adequate environmental documentation is provided. When the application is determined to be complete, including the environmental documentation, the 180-day period for approval or disapproval will begin upon receipt of the last supplement to the application. 


(v) Following review of the application and its supplements, public comments, and any other information obtained under § 161.317(b), the FAA will issue a decision approving or disapproving the application. This decision is a final decision of the Administrator for the purpose of judicial review. 


(5) The FAA will deny the application and return it to the applicant if: 


(i) None of the proposals submitted are found to be complete; 


(ii) The application has been returned twice to the applicant for reasons other than completion of the environmental documentation; and 


(iii) The applicant declines to complete the application. This closes the matter without prejudice to later application, and does not constitute disapproval of the proposed restriction.




