# § 133.37   Renewal of copyright recordation.

(a) *Term of renewal.* If a recorded copyright has a term which exceeds the original 20-year recordation, continued Customs protection may be obtained by renewing the recordation. The renewed recordation shall remain in effect for 20 years, unless the recordant's copyright ownership expires sooner, in which case it shall remain in effect until the ownership expires. There is no limit to the number of times recordation of a subsisting copyright may be renewed.


(b) *Application for renewal.* An application to renew recordation shall be made no later than 3 months before the date the recordation then in effect expires. The application shall be in writing addressed to the IPR & Restricted Merchandise Branch.


(c) *Materials to be submitted with application.* An application to renew Customs recordation shall include:


(1) Proof that the recordant's copyright ownership is valid. The proof required shall vary with the date that the work was first copyrighted as follows:


(i) *Works in which copyright subsists on or after January 1, 1978.* An affidavit signed by the recordant attesting to the continued validity of the copyright, stating the date the copyright was registered with the U.S. Copyright Office, whether the author of the work is still alive and, if not, the date of his death, and any additional information that Customs may require of the recordant.


(ii) *Works under statutory copyright on December 31, 1977.* If the copyright is still in its first term when recordation expires, a certificate of registration issued by the U.S. Copyright Office or, if the copyright has been renewed, a certificate of renewal registration issued by the U.S. Copyright Office.


(2) A statement describing any change of ownership or name of owner, in compliance with §§ 133.35 and 133.36, and any change of address of the owner.


(3) Payment of a fee of $80. A check or money order shall be made payable to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection.


(d) *Untimely application.* If the recordant fails to submit a renewal application at least 3 months before the recordation expires, he may not renew the recordation. The recordant shall be required to reapply to record the copyright in accordance with the procedures and requirements of §§ 133.32 and 133.33.



---

[N] [T.D. 87-40, 52 FR 9475, Mar. 25, 1987, as amended by T.D. 91-77, 56 FR 46115, Sept. 10, 1991]




