# § 1.142   Submission of proposed rule or modification.

(a) *Contents of submission.* In order for a submission to qualify as a proposed rule or proposed rule modification under 15 U.S.C. 3053(a), the Authority must submit to the Commission a complete draft of the _Federal Register_ document for the proposed rule or proposed rule modification, which includes the text of the rule and a statement of the purpose of, and statutory basis for, the proposed rule or modification (“statement of basis and purpose”). The statement of basis and purpose must contain:


(1) The reasons for adopting the proposed rule or modification.


(2) Any problems the proposed rule or modification is intended to address and how the proposed rule or modification will resolve those problems.


(3) A description of any reasonable alternatives to the proposed rule or modification that may accomplish the stated objective and an explanation of the reasons the Authority chose the proposed rule or modification over its alternatives.


(4) How the proposed rule or modification will affect covered persons, covered horses, and covered horseraces.


(5) Why the proposed rule or modification is consistent with the requirements of the Act and any rules and regulations applicable to the Authority, including the following:


(i) *Anti-doping and medication control program.* When proposing a rule or modification to the horseracing anti-doping and medication control program, the Authority must explain how it considered the factors in 15 U.S.C. 3055, including:


(A) Under 15 U.S.C. 3055(a)(2), the unique characteristics of a breed of horse made subject to the Act by election of a State racing commission or breed governing organization for such horse pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 3054(*l*);


(B) The factors listed in 15 U.S.C. 3055(b); and


(C) The baseline anti-doping and medication control rules identified in 15 U.S.C. 3055(g)(2)(A). For a proposed rule, the Authority must state whether its proposed rule adopts the baseline standards identified in 15 U.S.C. 3055(g)(2)(A). If there is a conflict in any baseline standards identified in 15 U.S.C. 3055(g)(2)(A), the Authority must identify the conflict and state whether the standard it adopted is the most stringent standard. For a proposed rule modification, the Authority must explain whether the modification renders an anti-doping and medication control rule less stringent than the baseline anti-doping and medication control rules described in 15 U.S.C. 3055(g)(2)(A), and state whether the anti-doping and medication control enforcement agency has approved of the change.


(ii) *Racetrack safety program.* When proposing a rule or modification to any rule regarding the racetrack safety program required under 15 U.S.C. 3056(a)(1), the Authority must explain how the proposed rule or modification meets the requirements in 15 U.S.C. 3056(b). The Authority must explain how it considered and whether it adopted the safety standards in 15 U.S.C. 3056(a)(2). If any horseracing safety standards in 15 U.S.C. 3056(a)(2) were considered but not adopted or were modified, the Authority must explain why it decided not to adopt or why it decided to modify such standard.


(iii) *Other rules.* To the extent the Act requires the Authority to consider any factors or standards not specifically referenced in this section, the Authority must explain whether and how it considered those factors when proposing a rule or modification. For instance, when proposing a civil sanctions rule or modification pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 3057(d)(1), the Authority must explain how the rule or modification meets the requirements of 15 U.S.C. 3057(d)(2).


(6) If written comments were solicited, the Authority's draft _Federal Register_ document must include a summary of the substance of all comments received and the Authority's written response to all significant issues raised in such comments.


(7) The date that the Authority proposes for the _Federal Register_ to publish its proposed rule or modification.


(b) *Supporting documentation.* The Authority's submission to the Commission required under paragraph (a) of this section must also include copies of the pertinent factual information underlying the Authority's development of the proposed rule or modification, including a copy of existing standards used as a reference for the development of the proposed rule or modification and scientific data, studies, or analysis underlying the development of the proposed rule or modification. Supporting documentation must be attached as exhibits, and each exhibit must clearly identify the proposed rule or modification it supports.


(c) *Redline document for proposed rule modification.* For proposed rule modifications, the Authority must also provide, in a document separate from the _Federal Register_ document, a redline version of the existing rule that will enable the Commission to immediately identify any proposed changes.


(d) *Timing of submission.* To qualify as a proposed rule or proposed modification under 15 U.S.C. 3053(a), the Authority's submission must provide the information in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section at least 90 days in advance of the proposed date for the _Federal Register_ to publish a proposed rule or modification for public comment pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 3053(b)(1). The Secretary may waive the 90-day requirement in this section if the Authority demonstrates such waiver is necessary to meet statutory deadlines.


(e) *Conclusory statements and failure to provide requisite analysis.* Information required to be submitted under this section must be sufficiently detailed and contain sufficient analysis to support a Commission finding that a proposed rule or modification satisfies the statutory requirements. For instance, a mere assertion or conclusory statement that a proposed rule or modification is consistent with the requirements of the Act is insufficient. Failure to describe and justify the proposed rule or modification in the manner described in this section or failure to submit the information required by this section may result in the Commission's having insufficient information to make an affirmative finding that the proposed rule or modification is consistent with the Act and the applicable rules approved by the Commission.


(f) *Public comments.* The Authority is encouraged to solicit public comments on its proposed rule or modification in advance of making a submission to the Commission pursuant to this section. If the Authority solicits public comments, it must attach a copy of the comments as an exhibit to its submission. By soliciting public comments and addressing significant issues raised therein, the Authority facilitates the Commission's review and approval of the Authority's proposed rule or modification.






