# § 1007.3   Requests for records.

(a) *Submission of requests.* A request to inspect or copy records shall be submitted to the Presidio Trust's FOIA Officer at P.O. Box 29052, San Francisco, CA 94129-0052.


(b) *Form of perfected requests.* (1) Requests under this part shall be in writing and should specifically invoke the FOIA.


(2) A request must reasonably describe the records requested. A request reasonably describes the records requested if it will enable an employee of the Presidio Trust familiar with the subject area of the request to locate the record with a reasonable amount of effort. If such information is available, the request should identify the subject matter of the record, the date when it was made, the place where it was made, the person or office that made it, the present custodian of the record, and any other information that will assist in locating the requested record. If the request involves a matter known by the requester to be in litigation, the request should also state the case name and court hearing the case. If after receiving a request the FOIA Officer determines that the request does not reasonably describe the records sought, the FOIA Officer will inform the requester what additional information is needed or why the request is otherwise insufficient. Requesters who are attempting to reformulate or modify such a request may discuss their request with the FOIA Officer. If a request does not reasonably describe the records sought, the Presidio Trust's response to the request may be delayed or an adverse determination under § 1007.5(e).


(3)(i) A perfected request shall:


(A) Specify the fee category (commercial use, educational institution, noncommercial scientific institution, news media, or other, as defined in § 1007.9) in which the requester claims the request falls and the basis of this claim;


(B) State the maximum amount of fees that the requester is willing to pay or include a request for a fee waiver; and


(C) Provide contact information for the requester, such as phone number, email address and/or mailing address, to assist the Presidio Trust in communicating with them and providing released records.


(ii) Requesters who make requests for records about themselves must verify their identity.


(iii) Where a request for records pertains to another individual, a requester may receive greater access by submitting either a notarized authorization signed by that individual or a declaration made in compliance with the requirements set forth in 28 U.S.C. 1746 by that individual authorizing disclosure of the records to the requester, or by submitting proof that the individual is deceased (*e.g.,* a copy of a death certificate or an obituary). As an exercise of administrative discretion, the Presidio Trust may require a requester to supply additional information if necessary in order to verify that a particular individual has consented to disclosure.


(iv) Requesters are advised that, under § 1007.9 (f), (g) and (h), the time for responding to requests may be delayed:


(A) If a requester has not sufficiently identified the fee category applicable to the request;


(B) If a requester has not stated a willingness to pay fees as high as anticipated by the Presidio Trust; or


(C) If a fee waiver request is denied and the requester has not included an alternative statement of willingness to pay fees as high as anticipated by the Presidio Trust.


(4) A request seeking a fee waiver shall, to the extent possible, address why the requester believes that the criteria for fee waivers set out in § 1007.10 are met.


(5) To facilitate handling, both the envelope containing a request and the face of the request should bear the legend “FREEDOM OF INFORMATION REQUEST.”


(c) *Creation of records.* A request may seek only records that are in existence at the time the request is received. A request may not seek records that come into existence after the date on which it is received and may not require that new records be created in response to the request by, for example, combining or compiling selected items from manual files, preparing a new computer program, or calculating proportions, percentages, frequency distributions, trends or comparisons. In those instances where the Presidio Trust determines that creating a new record will be less burdensome than disclosing large volumes of unassembled material, the Presidio Trust may, in its discretion, agree to creation of a new record as an alternative to disclosing existing records.





---

[N] [83 FR 50829, Oct. 10, 2018]














