# § 52.15   Central office code administration.

(a) Central Office Code Administration shall be performed by the NANPA, or another entity or entities, as designated by the Commission. 


(b) Duties of the entity or entities performing central office code administration may include, but are not limited to: 


(1) Processing central office code assignment applications and assigning such codes in a manner that is consistent with this part; 


(2) Accessing and maintaining central office code assignment databases; 


(3) Conducting the Numbering Resource Utilization and Forecast (NRUF) data collection; 


(4) Monitoring the use of central office codes within each area code and forecasting the date by which all central office codes within that area code will be assigned; and 


(5) Planning for and initiating area code relief, consistent with § 52.19. 


(c) [Reserved] 


(d) *Central Office (CO) Code Administration functional requirements.* The NANPA shall manage the United States CO code numbering resource, including CO code request processing, NPA code relief and jeopardy planning, and industry notification functions. The NANPA shall perform its CO Code administration functions in accordance with the published industry numbering resource administration guidelines and Commission orders and regulations of 47 CFR chapter I. 


(e) [Reserved]


(f) *Mandatory reporting requirements*—(1) *Number use categories.* Numbering resources must be classified in one of the following categories: 


(i) *Administrative numbers* are numbers used by telecommunications carriers to perform internal administrative or operational functions necessary to maintain reasonable quality of service standards. 


(ii) Aging numbers are disconnected numbers that are not available for assignment to another end user or customer for a specified period of time. Numbers previously assigned to residential customers may be aged for no less than 45 days and no more than 90 days. Numbers previously assigned to business customers may be aged for no less than 45 days and no more than 365 days.


(iii) *Assigned numbers* are numbers working in the Public Switched Telephone Network under an agreement such as a contract or tariff at the request of specific end users or customers for their use, or numbers not yet working but having a customer service order pending. Numbers that are not yet working and have a service order pending for more than five days shall not be classified as assigned numbers. 


(iv) *Available numbers* are numbers that are available for assignment to subscriber access lines, or their equivalents, within a switching entity or point of interconnection and are not classified as assigned, intermediate, administrative, aging, or reserved. 


(v) *Intermediate numbers* are numbers that are made available for use by another telecommunications carrier or non-carrier entity for the purpose of providing telecommunications service to an end user or customer. Numbers ported for the purpose of transferring an established customer's service to another service provider shall not be classified as intermediate numbers. 


(vi) *Reserved numbers* are numbers that are held by service providers at the request of specific end users or customers for their future use. Numbers held for specific end users or customers for more than 180 days shall not be classified as reserved numbers. 


(2) *Reporting carrier.* The term “reporting carrier” refers to a telecommunications carrier that receives numbering resources from the NANPA, a Pooling Administrator or another telecommunications carrier. 


(3) *Data collection procedures.* (i) Reporting carriers shall report utilization and forecast data to the NANPA. 


(ii) Reporting shall be by separate legal entity and must include company name, company headquarters address, Operating Company Number (OCN), parent company OCN, and the primary type of business in which the reporting carrier is engaged. The term “parent company” refers to the highest related legal entity located within the state for which the reporting carrier is reporting data. 


(iii) All data shall be filed electronically in a format approved by the Common Carrier Bureau. 


(4) *Forecast data reporting.* (i) Reporting carriers shall submit to the NANPA a five-year forecast of their yearly numbering resource requirements. 


(ii) In areas where thousands-block number pooling has been implemented: 


(A) Reporting carriers that are required to participate in thousands-block number pooling shall report forecast data at the thousands-block (NXX-X) level per rate center; 


(B) Reporting carriers that are not required to participate in thousands-block number pooling shall report forecast data at the central office code (NXX) level per rate center. 


(iii) In areas where thousands-block number pooling has not been implemented, reporting carriers shall report forecast data at the central office code (NXX) level per NPA. 


(iv) Reporting carriers shall identify and report separately initial numbering resources and growth numbering resources. 


(5) *Utilization data reporting.* (i) Reporting carriers shall submit to the NANPA a utilization report of their current inventory of numbering resources. The report shall classify numbering resources in the following number use categories: *assigned, intermediate, reserved, aging,* and *administrative.*

(ii) Rural telephone companies, as defined in the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. 153(37), that provide telecommunications service in areas where local number portability has not been implemented shall report utilization data at the central office code (NXX) level per rate center in those areas. 


(iii) All other reporting carriers shall report utilization data at the thousands-block (NXX-X) level per rate center. 


(6) *Reporting frequency.* (i) Reporting carriers shall file forecast and utilization reports semi-annually on or before February 1 for the preceding reporting period ending on December 31, and on or before August 1 for the preceding reporting period ending on June 30. Mandatory reporting shall commence August 1, 2000. 


(ii) State commissions may reduce the reporting frequency for NPAs in their states to annual. Reporting carriers operating in such NPAs shall file forecast and utilization reports annually on or before August 1 for the preceding reporting period ending on June 30, commencing August 1, 2000. 


(iii) A state commission seeking to reduce the reporting frequency pursuant to paragraph (f) (6)(ii) of this section shall notify the Wireline Competition Bureau and the NANPA in writing prior to reducing the reporting frequency. 


(7) *Access to data and confidentiality*—States shall have access to data reported to the NANPA provided that they have appropriate protections in place to prevent public disclosure of disaggregated, carrier-specific data. 


(8) Reports of Permanently Disconnected Numbers—Reporting carriers must report information regarding NANP numbers in accordance with § 64.1200(l) of this title.


(g) *Applications for numbering resources*—(1) *General requirements.* An applicant for numbering resources must include in its application the applicant's company name, company headquarters address, OCN, parent company's OCN(s), and the primary type of business in which the numbering resources will be used. 

(2) *Initial numbering resources.* An applicant for initial numbering resources must include in its application evidence that the applicant is authorized to provide service in the area for which the numbering resources are requested; and that the applicant is or will be capable of providing service within sixty (60) days of the numbering resources activation date. A provider of VoIP Positioning Center (VPC) services that is unable to demonstrate authorization to provide service in a state may instead demonstrate that the state does not certify VPC service providers in order to request pseudo-Automatic Numbering Identification (p-ANI) codes directly from the Numbering Administrators for purposes of providing 911 and E-911 service.




(3) *Commission authorization process.* A provider of interconnected VoIP service may show a Commission authorization obtained pursuant to this paragraph (g)(3) as evidence that it is authorized to provide service under paragraph (g)(2) of this section.


(i) *Definition.* The term *foreign carrier* found in this section is given the same meaning as in § 63.09(d) of this chapter.


(ii) *Contents of the application for interconnected VoIP provider numbering authorization.* An application for authorization must reference this section and must contain the following:


(A) The applicant's name, address, and telephone number and contact information for personnel qualified to address issues relating to regulatory requirements, compliance with Commission's rules in this chapter, 911, and law enforcement;




(B) An acknowledgment that the authorization granted under this paragraph (g)(3) is subject to compliance with applicable Commission numbering rules in this part; numbering authority delegated to the states, and the state laws, regulations, and registration requirements applicable to businesses operating in each state where the applicant seeks numbering resources; and industry guidelines and practices regarding numbering as applicable to telecommunications carriers;






(C) A certification that the applicant will not use the numbers obtained pursuant to an authorization under this paragraph (g)(3) to knowingly transmit, encourage, assist, or facilitate illegal robocalls, illegal spoofing, or fraud, in violation of robocall, spoofing, and deceptive telemarketing obligations under §§ 64.1200, 64.1604, and 64.6300 through 64.6308 of this chapter and 16 CFR 310.3(b);




(D) A certification that the applicant has fully complied with all applicable STIR/SHAKEN caller ID authentication and robocall mitigation program requirements and filed a certification in the Robocall Mitigation Database as required by §§ 64.6301 through 64.6305 of this chapter;


(E) A certification with accompanying evidence that the applicant complies with its 911 obligations under part 9 of this chapter, and that it complies with the provisions of the Communications Assistance with Law Enforcement Act, 47 U.S.C. 1001 *et seq.* Wireline Competition Bureau (Bureau) or other Commission staff may request additional documentation from the applicant to demonstrate compliance with these public safety obligations, where necessary;


(F) A certification that the applicant complies with the Access Stimulation rules under § 51.914 of this chapter;




(G) An acknowledgment that the applicant must file requests for numbers with the relevant state commission(s) at least 30 days before requesting numbers from the Numbering Administrators;


(H) Proof that the applicant is or will be capable of providing service within sixty (60) days of the numbering resources activation date in accordance with paragraph (g)(2) of this section;




(I) Proof that the applicant has filed FCC Forms 477 and 499, or a statement explaining why each such form is not yet applicable;




(J) A certification that the applicant complies with its applicable Universal Service Fund contribution obligations under part 54, subpart H, of this chapter, its Telecommunications Relay Service contribution obligations under § 64.604(c)(5)(iii) of this chapter, its NANP and local number portability (LNP) administration contribution obligations under §§ 52.17 and 52.32 of this chapter, and its obligations to pay regulatory fees under § 1.1154 of this chapter;


(K) A certification that the applicant possesses the financial, managerial, and technical expertise to provide reliable service. This certification must include the name of applicant's key management and technical personnel, such as the Chief Operating Officer and the Chief Technology Officer, or equivalent, and state that neither the applicant nor any of the identified personnel are being or have been investigated by the Commission, law enforcement, or any regulatory agency for failure to comply with any law, rule, or order, including the Commission's rules in this chapter applicable to unlawful robocalls or unlawful spoofing;




(L) The same information, disclosures, and certifications required by § 63.18(h) and (i) of this chapter;




(M) A certification pursuant to §§ 1.2001 and 1.2002 of this chapter that no party to the application is subject to a denial of Federal benefits pursuant to section 5301 of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, *see* 21 U.S.C. 862;


(N) A declaration under penalty of perjury pursuant to § 1.16 of this chapter that all statements in the application and any appendices are true and accurate. This declaration shall be executed by an officer or other authorized representative of the applicant.




(iii) *Filing procedure.* An applicant for Commission authorization under this section must file its application electronically through the “Submit a Non-Docketed Filing” module of the Commission's Electronic Comment Filing System (ECFS). Each application shall be accompanied by the fee prescribed in part 1, subpart G, of this chapter.


(iv) *Public notice and review period for streamlined pleading cycle.* Upon determination by the Bureau that the applicant has filed a complete application that is appropriate for streamlined treatment, the Bureau will assign a docket number to the application and issue a public notice stating that the application has been accepted for filing as a streamlined application. The applicant must make all subsequent filings relating to its application in this docket. Parties may file comments addressing an application for authorization no later than 15 days after the Bureau releases a public notice stating that the application has been accepted for filing, unless the public notice specifies a different filing date. An application under this section is deemed granted by the Commission on the 31st day after the Commission releases a public notice stating that the application has been accepted for filing, unless the Bureau notifies the applicant that the grant will not be automatically effective.






(v) *Non-streamlined processing of applications.* If an application discloses that the applicant has reportable ownership by a foreign person or entity, the Bureau shall remove the application from streamlined processing. The Bureau may also remove an application from streamlined processing at its discretion for other reasons. The Bureau shall notify the applicant by public notice that it is removing the application from streamlined processing, and shall state the reason for the removal. An application may also receive non-streamlined processing if:


(A) An applicant fails to respond promptly to Commission inquiries;


(B) An application is associated with a non-routine request for waiver of the Commission's rules in this chapter;


(C) An application would, on its face, violate a Commission rule in this chapter or the Communications Act;


(D) Timely filed comments on the application raise public interest concerns that require further Commission review; or


(E) The Bureau determines that the application requires further analysis to determine whether granting the application serves the public interest.


(vi) *Additional information.* Applicants must provide additional information requested by the Bureau during and after its initial review of a direct access application. Failure to respond to such a request or other official correspondence may result in the rejection of the application without prejudice. Any additional information that the Bureau may require must be submitted in the same manner as the original application filing, unless the Bureau specifies another method.


(vii) *Rejection of applications.* The Bureau may reject an application by announcing the rejection, the reasons for the rejection, and whether the rejection is with or without prejudice via public notice if it determines or has a reasonable basis to believe that:


(A) The applicant cannot satisfy the qualification requirements for a Commission authorization under this paragraph (g)(3);


(B) The applicant has made a false statement or certification to the Commission;


(C) The applicant has engaged in behavior contrary to the public interest; or


(D) Granting the application would not serve the public interest.


(viii) *Authorization suspension.* The Wireline Competition Bureau or Enforcement Bureau may suspend a direct access authorization holder's access to new numbering resources under 5 U.S.C. 558(c):


(A) After either Bureau determines that the authorization holder acted willfully; or public health, interest, or safety requires an immediate suspension; or


(B) After giving the authorization holder notice and an opportunity to demonstrate compliance with the Commission's rules in this chapter.


(ix) *Authorization revocation.* The Wireline Competition Bureau or Enforcement Bureau shall determine appropriate procedures and initiate revocation and/or termination proceedings and revoke and/or terminate an authorization, as required by due process and applicable law and in light of the relevant facts and circumstances, including providing the authorization holder with notice and opportunity to respond. Either Bureau may commence such revocation and/or termination proceedings if:


(A) The authorization holder has failed to comply with the Commission's numbering rules in this part.


(B) The authorization holder no longer meets the requirements for a Commission authorization under this paragraph (g)(3);


(C) The authorization holder, or officer or authorized representative of the authorization holder, has made a false statement or certification to the Commission; or


(D) Revoking and/or terminating the authorization is in the public interest.


(x) *Conditions applicable to all interconnected VoIP provider numbering authorizations.* An interconnected VoIP provider authorized to request numbering resources directly from the Numbering Administrators under this section shall:




(A) Maintain the accuracy of all contact information, certifications, and ownership or affiliation information in its application. If any contact information, certification, or affiliation information submitted in an application pursuant to this section, is no longer accurate, the provider must file a correction with the Commission and each applicable state within thirty (30) days of the change of contact information, certification, or affiliation information. Regarding ownership information, if the holders of equity and/or voting interests in the provider change such that a provider that previously did not have reportable ownership or control information under paragraph (g)(3)(ii)(L) of this section now has reportable ownership or control information, or there is a change to the reportable ownership or control information the provider previously reported under paragraph (g)(3)(ii)(L), the provider must file a correction with the Commission and each applicable state within thirty (30) days of the change to its ownership or control information. The Commission may use the updated contact information, certifications, or ownership or affiliation information to determine whether a change in authorization status is warranted;




(B) Comply with the applicable Commission numbering rules in this part; numbering authority delegated to the states; and industry guidelines and practices regarding numbering as applicable to telecommunications carriers;


(C) File requests for numbers with the relevant state commission(s) at least thirty (30) days before requesting numbers from the Numbering Administrators; and


(D) Provide accurate regulatory and numbering contact information to each state commission when requesting numbers in that state.






(4) *Growth numbering resources.* (i) Applications for growth numbering resources shall include: 


(A) A Months-to-Exhaust Worksheet that provides utilization by rate center for the preceding six months and projected monthly utilization for the next twelve (12) months; and


(B) The applicant's current numbering resource utilization level for the rate center in which it is seeking growth numbering resources. 


(ii) The numbering resource utilization level shall be calculated by dividing all *assigned numbers* by the total numbering resources in the applicant's inventory and multiplying the result by 100. Numbering resources activated in the Local Exchange Routing Guide (LERG) within the preceding 90 days of reporting utilization levels may be excluded from the utilization calculation. 


(iii) All service providers shall maintain no more than a six-month inventory of telephone numbers in each rate center or service area in which it provides telecommunications service. 


(iv) The NANPA shall withhold numbering resources from any U.S. carrier that fails to comply with the reporting and numbering resource application requirements established in this part. The NANPA shall not issue numbering resources to a carrier without an OCN. The NANPA must notify the carrier in writing of its decision to withhold numbering resources within ten (10) days of receiving a request for numbering resources. The carrier may challenge the NANPA's decision to the appropriate state regulatory commission. The state commission may affirm or overturn the NANPA's decision to withhold numbering resources from the carrier based on its determination of compliance with the reporting and numbering resource application requirements herein. 


(5) *Non-compliance.* The NANPA shall withhold numbering resources from any U.S. carrier that fails to comply with the reporting and numbering resource application requirements established in this part. The NANPA shall not issue numbering resources to a carrier without an Operating Company Number (OCN). The NANPA must notify the carrier in writing of its decision to withhold numbering resources within ten (10) days of receiving a request for numbering resources. The carrier may challenge the NANPA's decision to the appropriate state regulatory commission. The state commission may affirm, or may overturn, the NANPA's decision to withhold numbering resources from the carrier based on its determination that the carrier has complied with the reporting and numbering resource application requirements herein. The state commission also may overturn the NANPA's decision to withhold numbering resources from the carrier based on its determination that the carrier has demonstrated a verifiable need for numbering resources and has exhausted all other available remedies. 


(6) *State access to applications.* State regulatory commissions shall have access to service provider's applications for numbering resources. The state commissions should request copies of such applications from the service providers operating within their states, and service providers must comply with state commission requests for copies of numbering resource applications. Carriers that fail to comply with a state commission request for numbering resource application materials shall be denied numbering resources. 


(h) *National utilization threshold.* All applicants for growth numbering resources shall achieve a 60% utilization threshold, calculated in accordance with paragraph (g)(3)(ii) of this section, for the rate center in which they are requesting growth numbering resources. This 60% utilization threshold shall increase by 5% on June 30, 2002, and annually thereafter until the utilization threshold reaches 75%. 


(i) *Reclamation of numbering resources.* (1) Reclamation refers to the process by which service providers are required to return numbering resources to the NANPA or the Pooling Administrator. 


(2) State commissions may investigate and determine whether service providers have activated their numbering resources and may request proof from all service providers that numbering resources have been activated and assignment of telephone numbers has commenced. 


(3) Service providers may be required to reduce contamination levels to facilitate reclamation and/or pooling. 


(4) State commissions shall provide service providers an opportunity to explain the circumstances causing the delay in activating and commencing assignment of their numbering resources prior to initiating reclamation. 


(5) The NANPA and the Pooling Administrator shall abide by the state commission's determination to reclaim numbering resources if the state commission is satisfied that the service provider has not activated and commenced assignment to end users of their numbering resources within six months of receipt. 


(6) The NANPA and Pooling Administrator shall initiate reclamation within sixty days of expiration of the service provider's applicable activation deadline. 


(7) If a state commission declines to exercise the authority delegated to it in this paragraph, the entity or entities designated by the Commission to serve as the NANPA shall exercise this authority with respect to NXX codes and the Pooling Administrator shall exercise this authority with respect to thousands-blocks. The NANPA and the Pooling Administrator shall consult with the Wireline Competition Bureau prior to exercising the authority delegated to it in this provision. 


(j) *Sequential number assignment.* (1) All service providers shall assign all available telephone numbers within an opened thousands-block before assigning telephone numbers from an uncontaminated thousands-block, unless the available numbers in the opened thousands-block are not sufficient to meet a specific customer request. This requirement shall apply to a service provider's existing numbering resources as well as any new numbering resources it obtains in the future. 


(2) A service provider that opens an uncontaminated thousands-block prior to assigning all available telephone numbers within an opened thousands-block should be prepared to demonstrate to the state commission: 


(i) A genuine request from a customer detailing the specific need for telephone numbers; and


(ii) The service provider's inability to meet the specific customer request for telephone numbers from the available numbers within the service provider's opened thousands-blocks. 


(3) Upon a finding by a state commission that a service provider inappropriately assigned telephone numbers from an uncontaminated thousands-block, the NANPA or the Pooling Administrator shall suspend assignment or allocation of any additional numbering resources to that service provider in the applicable NPA until the service provider demonstrates that it does not have sufficient numbering resources to meet a specific customer request. 


(k) *Numbering audits.* (1) All telecommunications service providers shall be subject to “for cause” and random audits to verify carrier compliance with Commission regulations and applicable industry guidelines relating to numbering administration. 


(2) The Enforcement Bureau will oversee the conduct and scope of all numbering audits conducted under the Commission's jurisdiction, and determine the audit procedures necessary to perform the audit. Numbering audits performed by independent auditors pursuant to this section shall be conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants' standards for compliance attestation engagements, as supplemented by the guidance and direction of the Chief of the Enforcement Bureau. 


(3) Requests for “for cause” audits shall be forwarded to the Chief of the Enforcement Bureau, with a copy to the Chief of the Common Carrier Bureau. Requests must state the reason for which a “for cause” audit is being requested and include documentation of the alleged anomaly, inconsistency, or violation of the Commission rules or orders or applicable industry guidelines. The Chief of the Enforcement Bureau will provide carriers up to 30 days to provide a written response to a request for a “for cause” audit.



---

[N] [61 FR 47353, Sept. 6, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 55182, Oct. 23, 1997; 65 FR 37707, June 16, 2000; 66 FR 9531, Feb. 8, 2001; 67 FR 6434, Feb. 12, 2002; 67 FR 13226, Mar. 21, 2002; 68 FR 25843, May 14, 2003; 71 FR 65750, Nov. 9, 2006; 80 FR 66479, Oct. 29, 2015; 84 FR 11232, Mar. 26, 2019; 88 FR 80636, Nov. 20, 2023; 89 FR 80637, Aug. 8, 2024]




