# § 731.203   Suitability actions by OPM and other agencies for the competitive service or career Senior Executive Service.

(a) This section pertains only to the competitive service or career Senior Executive Service as defined in § 731.101.


(b) A suitability action may be taken only by OPM or an agency with delegated authority under the procedures in subparts C and D of this part.


(c) A non-selection, or cancellation of eligibility for the competitive service based on an objection to an eligible or pass over of a preference eligible under 5 CFR 332.406, is *not* a suitability action even if it is based on reasons set forth in § 731.202.


(d) A suitability action may be taken against an applicant or an appointee to the competitive service or career Senior Executive Service when OPM or an agency exercising delegated authority under this part finds that the applicant or appointee is unsuitable for the reasons cited in § 731.202, subject to the agency limitations of § 731.103(b), (d), and (f).


(e) OPM may require that an employee in the competitive service or career Senior Executive Service be removed on the basis of one or more of the following:


(1) A material, intentional false statement, deception, or fraud in examination or appointment;


(2) Knowing and willful engagement in acts or activities designed to overthrow the U.S. Government by illegal or unconstitutional means; and/or


(3) Statutory or regulatory bar that prevents the individual's lawful employment.


(f) OPM may cancel any reinstatement eligibility obtained as a result of a material, intentional false statement, deception, or fraud in examination or appointment.


(g) An action to remove an appointee or employee *for suitability reasons* under this part is not an action under 5 CFR part 315, 359, or 752. Where conduct covered by this part may also form the basis for an action under 5 CFR part 315, 359, or 752, an agency may take the action under 5 CFR part 315, 359, or 752, as appropriate, instead of under this part. An agency must notify OPM to the extent required in § 731.103(f) if it wants to take, or has taken, action under these authorities. OPM reserves the right to also take an action under this part.


(h) An agency does not need approval from OPM before taking an unfavorable suitability action. However, it is required to report to the Central Verification System or its successor, each unfavorable suitability action taken under this part within 30 days after it takes the action. Also, each suitability determination based on an investigation must be reported to the Central Verification System or its successor as soon as possible and in no event later than 90 days after receipt of the final report of investigation.






