# § 1011.21   How do other Federal agencies use the offset process to collect debts from payments issued by the Presidio Trust?

(a) *Offset of Presidio Trust payments to collect debts owed to other Federal agencies.* (1) In most cases, Federal agencies submit eligible debts to the Treasury Offset Program to collect delinquent debts from payments issued by other Federal agencies, a process known as “centralized offset.” When centralized offset is not available or appropriate, any Federal agency may ask the Presidio Trust (when acting as a paying agency) to collect a debt owed to such agency by offsetting funds payable to a debtor by the Presidio Trust, including salary payments issued to the Presidio Trust employees. This section and § 1011.22 of this subpart C apply when a Federal agency asks the Presidio Trust to offset a payment issued by the Presidio Trust to a person who owes a debt to the United States.


(2) This subpart C does not apply to the collection of debts through tax refund offset.


(b) *Administrative offset (including salary offset); certification.* The Presidio Trust will initiate a requested offset only upon receipt of written certification from the creditor agency that the debtor owes the delinquent, legally enforceable debt in the amount stated, and that the creditor agency has fully complied with all applicable due process and other requirements, and the creditor agency's regulations, as applicable. Offsets will continue until the debt is paid in full or otherwise resolved to the satisfaction of the creditor agency.


(c) *Where a creditor agency makes requests for offset.* Requests for offset under this section must be sent to the Presidio Trust, ATTN: Chief Financial Officer, P.O. Box 29052, San Francisco, CA 94129-0052.


(d) *Incomplete certification.* The Presidio Trust will return an incomplete debt certification to the creditor agency with notice that the creditor agency must comply with paragraph (b) of this section before action will be taken to collect a debt from a payment issued by the Presidio Trust.


(e) *Review.* The Presidio Trust is not authorized to review the merits of the creditor agency's determination with respect to the amount or validity of the debt certified by the creditor agency.


(f) *When the Presidio Trust will not comply with offset request.* The Presidio Trust will comply with the offset request of another agency unless the Presidio Trust determines that the offset would not be in the best interests of the United States, or would otherwise be contrary to law.


(g) *Multiple debts.* When two or more creditor agencies are seeking offsets from payments made to the same person, or when two or more debts are owed to a single creditor agency, the Presidio Trust may determine the order in which the debts will be collected or whether one or more debts should be collected by offset simultaneously.


(h) *Priority of debts owed to the Presidio Trust.* For purposes of this section, debts owed to the Presidio Trust generally take precedence over debts owed to other agencies. The Presidio Trust may determine whether to pay debts owed to other agencies before paying a debt owed to the Presidio Trust. The Presidio Trust will determine the order in which the debts will be collected based on the best interests of the United States.




