# § 18.901   Requirement of authentication or identification.

(a) *General provision.* The requirement of authentication or identification as a condition precedent to admissibility is satisfied by evidence sufficient to support a finding that the matter in question is what its proponent claims. 


(b) *Illustrations.* By way of illustration only, and not by way of limitation, the following are examples of authentication or identification conforming with the requirements of this rule: 


(1) *Testimony of witness with knowledge.* Testimony that a matter is what it is claimed to be. 


(2) *Nonexpert opinion on handwriting.* Nonexpert opinion as to the genuineness of handwriting, based upon familiarity not acquired for purposes of litigation. 


(3) *Comparison by judge or expert witness.* Comparison by the judge as trier of fact or by expert witnesses with specimens which have been authenticated. 


(4) *Distinctive characteristics and the like.* Appearance, contents, substance, internal patterns, or other distinctive characteristics, taken in conjunction with circumstances. 


(5) *Voice identification.* Identification of a voice, whether heard firsthand or through mechanical or electronic transmission or recording, by opinion based upon hearing the voice at any time under circumstances connecting it with the alleged speaker. 


(6) *Telephone conversations.* Telephone conversations, by evidence that a call was made to the number assigned at the time by the telephone company to a particular person or business, if— 


(i) In the case of a person, circumstances, including self-identification, show the person answering to be the one called, or 


(ii) In the case of a business, the call was made to a place of business and the conversation related to business reasonably transacted over the telephone. 


(7) *Public records or reports.* Evidence that a writing authorized by law to be recorded or filed and in fact recorded or filed in a public office, or a purported public record, report, statement, or data compilation, in any form, is from the public office where items of this nature are kept. 


(8) *Ancient documents or data compilation.* Evidence that a document or data compilation, in any form, 


(i) Is in such condition as to create no suspicion concerning its authenticity, 


(ii) Was in a place where it, if authentic, would likely be, and 


(iii) Has been in existence 20 years or more at the time it is offered. 


(9) *Process or system.* Evidence describing a process or system used to produce a result and showing that the process or system produces an accurate result. 


(10) *Methods provided by statute or rule.* Any method of authentication or identification provided by Act of Congress, or by rule or regulation prescribed by the administrative agency pursuant to statutory authority, or pursuant to executive order. 




