# § 416.986   Why and when we will find that you are no longer entitled to benefits based on statutory blindness.

(a) *If your vision does not meet the definition of blindness.* If you become entitled to payments as a statutorily blind person and your statutory blindness ends, your eligibility for payments generally will end 2 months after your blindness ends. We will find that your statutory blindness has ended beginning with the earliest of the following months—


(1) The month your vision, based on current medical evidence, does not meet the definition of blindness and you were disabled only for a specified period of time in the past;


(2) The month your vision based on current medical evidence, does not meet the definition of blindness, but not earlier than the month in which we mail you a notice saying that the information we have shows that you are not now blind; or


(3) The first month in which you fail to follow prescribed treatment that can restore your ability to work (see § 416.930).


(b) *If you were found blind as defined in a State plan.* If you become eligible for payments because you were blind as defined in a State plan, we will find that your blindness has ended beginning with the first month in which your vision, as shown by medical or other evidence, does not meet the criteria of the appropriate State plan or the first month in which your vision does not meet the definition of statutory blindness (§ 416.981), whichever is later, and in neither event earlier than the month in which we mail you a notice saying that we have determined that you are not now blind under a State plan or not now statutorily blind, as appropriate.


(c) *If you do not cooperate with us.* If you are asked to give us medical or other evidence or to go for a physical or mental examination by a certain date, we will find that your blindness ended if you fail, without good cause, to do what we ask. Section 416.1411 explains the factors we consider and how we will determine generally whether you have good cause for failure to cooperate. In addition, § 416.918 discusses how we determine whether you have good cause for failing to attend a consultative examination. The month in which your blindness ends will be the month in which you fail to do what we asked.


(d) *Before we stop your payments.* Before we stop payment of your benefits we will give you a chance to give us your reasons why we should not stop payment. Subpart M of this part describes your rights and the procedures we will follow.



---

[N] [45 FR 55621, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 50137, Dec. 6, 1985; 51 FR 7603, Feb. 28, 1986; 59 FR 1636, Jan. 12, 1994]




