# § 457.810   Premium assistance programs: Required protections against substitution.

A State that operates a premium assistance program, as defined at § 457.10, must provide the protections against substitution of CHIP coverage for coverage under group health plans specified in this section. The State must describe these protections in the State plan; and report on results of monitoring of substitution in its annual reports. 


(a) *Prohibition of waiting periods.* A State may not, under this section, impose a waiting period before enrolling into CHIP premium assistance coverage an eligible individual who has access to, but is not enrolled in, group health plan coverage.




(b) *Employer contribution.* For health benefits coverage obtained through premium assistance for group health plans, the employee who is eligible for the coverage must apply for the full premium contribution available from the employer. 


(c) *Cost effectiveness.* In establishing cost effectiveness— 


(1) The State's cost for coverage for children under premium assistance programs must not be greater than the cost of other CHIP coverage for these children; and 


(2) The State may base its demonstration of cost effectiveness on an assessment of the cost of coverage for children under premium assistance programs to the cost of other CHIP coverage for these children, done on a case-by-case basis, or on the cost of premium assisted coverage in the aggregate. 


(d) *State evaluation.* The State must evaluate and report in the annual report (in accordance with § 457.750(b)(2)) the amount of substitution that occurs as a result of premium assistance programs and the effect of those programs on access to coverage.



---

[N] [66 FR 2684, Jan. 11, 2001, as amended at 78 FR 42313, July 15, 2013; 89 FR 22877, Apr. 2, 2024] 




