# § 650.505   Definitions.

The following terms used in this subpart are defined as follows:


*American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) Manual for Bridge Evaluation.* The term “AASHTO Manual for Bridge Evaluation” means the “Manual for Bridge Evaluation”, incorporated by reference in § 650.517.


*At-grade roadway.* The term “at-grade roadway” means paved or unpaved travel ways within the tunnel that carry vehicular traffic and are not suspended or supported by a structural system.


*Bridge inspection experience.* The term “bridge inspection experience” has the same meaning as in § 650.305.


*Complex tunnel.* The term “complex tunnel” means a tunnel characterized by advanced or unique structural elements or functional systems.


*Comprehensive tunnel inspection training.* The term “comprehensive tunnel inspection training” means the FHWA-approved training that covers all aspects of tunnel inspection and enables inspectors to relate conditions observed in a tunnel to established criteria.


*Critical finding.* The term “critical finding” has the same meaning as in § 650.305.


*Damage inspection.* The term “damage inspection” has the same meaning as in § 650.305.


*End-of-course assessment.* The term “end-of-course assessment” means a comprehensive examination given to students after the completion of a training course.


*Federal-aid highway.* The term “Federal-aid highway” has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. 101(a)(5).


*Functional systems.* The term “functional systems” means non-structural systems, such as electrical, mechanical, fire suppression, ventilation, lighting, communications, monitoring, drainage, traffic signals, emergency response (including egress, refuge room spacing, or carbon monoxide detection), or traffic safety components.


*Hands-on inspection.* The term “hands-on inspection” has the same meaning as in § 650.305.


*Highway.* The term “highway” has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. 101(a)(11).


*In-depth inspection.* The term “in-depth inspection” means a close-up inspection of one, several, or all tunnel structural elements or functional systems to identify any deficiencies not readily detectable using routine inspection procedures. In-depth inspections may occur more or less frequently than routine inspections, as outlined in the tunnel-specific inspection procedures.


*Initial inspection.* The term “initial inspection” means the first inspection of a tunnel to provide all inventory, appraisal, and other data necessary to determine the baseline condition of the structural elements and functional systems.


*Inspection Date.* The term “Inspection Date” means the date established by the Program Manager on which a regularly scheduled routine inspection begins for a tunnel.


*Legal load.* The terms “legal load means the maximum legal load for each vehicle configuration permitted by law for the State in which the tunnel is located.


*Load rating.* The term “load rating” means the determination of the safe vehicular live load carrying capacity within or above the tunnel using structural plans, and information gathered from an inspection. The results of the load rating may include the need for load posting.


*Operating rating.* The term “operating rating” has the same meaning as in § 650.305.


*Portal.* The term “portal” means the entrance and exit of the tunnel exposed to the environment; portals may include bare rock, constructed tunnel entrance structures, or buildings.


*Procedures.* The term “procedures” means the written documentation of policies, methods, considerations, criteria, and other conditions that direct the actions of personnel so that a desired end result is achieved consistently.


*Professional Engineer (P.E.).* The term “Professional Engineer (P.E.)” means an individual who has fulfilled education and experience requirements and passed examinations that, under State licensure laws, permits the individual to offer engineering services within areas of expertise directly to the public.


*Program Manager.* The term “Program Manager” means the individual in charge of the inspection program who has been assigned or delegated the duties and responsibilities for tunnel inspection, reporting, and inventory. The Program Manager provides overall leadership and guidance to inspection Team Leaders and load raters.


*Public road.* The term “public road” has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. 101(a)(21).


*Quality assurance (QA).* The term “quality assurance (QA)” means the use of sampling and other measures to ensure the adequacy of quality control procedures in order to verify or measure the quality of the entire tunnel inspection and load rating program.


*Quality control (QC).* The term “quality control (QC)” means the procedures that are intended to maintain the quality of a tunnel inspection and load rating at or above a specified level.


*Routine inspection.* The term “routine inspection” means a regularly scheduled comprehensive inspection encompassing all tunnel structural elements and functional systems and consisting of observations and measurements needed to determine the physical and functional condition of the tunnel, to identify any changes from initial or previously recorded conditions, and to ensure that tunnel components continue to satisfy present service requirements.


*Routine permit load.* The term “routine permit load” means a vehicular load that has a gross weight, axle weight, or distance between axles not conforming with State laws for legally configured vehicles, and is authorized for unlimited trips over an extended period of time to move alongside other heavy vehicles on a regular basis.


*Special inspection.* The term “special inspection” means an inspection, scheduled at the discretion of the tunnel owner, used to monitor a particular known or suspected deficiency.


*State transportation department (State DOT).* The term “State transportation department (State DOT)” has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. 101(a)(28).


*Team Leader.* The term “Team Leader” means the on-site individual in charge of an inspection team responsible for planning, preparing, performing, and reporting on tunnel inspections.


*Tunnel.* The term “tunnel” means an enclosed roadway for motor vehicle traffic with vehicle access limited to portals, regardless of type of structure or method of construction, that requires, based on the owner's determination, special design considerations that may include lighting, ventilation, fire protection systems, and emergency egress capacity. The terms “tunnel” does not include bridges or culverts inspected under the National Bridge Inspection Standards (subpart C of this part).


*Tunnel inspection experience.* The term “tunnel inspection experience” means active participation in the performance of tunnel inspections in accordance with the National Tunnel Inspection Standards, in either a field inspection, supervisory, or management role.


*Tunnel inspection refresher training.* The term “tunnel inspection refresher training” means an FHWA-approved training course that aims to improve the quality of tunnel inspections, introduce new techniques, and maintain the consistency of the tunnel inspection program.


*Tunnel Operations, Maintenance, Inspection and Evaluation (TOMIE) Manual.* The term “Tunnel Operations, Maintenance, Inspection and Evaluation (TOMIE) Manual” means the “Tunnel Operations, Maintenance, Inspection and Evaluation (TOMIE) Manual” (incorporated by reference, *see* § 650.517).


*Tunnel-specific inspection procedures.* The term “tunnel-specific inspection procedures” means the written documentation of the directions necessary to plan for, and conduct an inspection. Directions include coverage of inspection methods, frequency of each method, inspection equipment, access equipment, identification of tunnel elements, components and functional systems, traffic coordination, and specialized qualifications for inspecting personnel.




