# § 334.1280   Bristol Bay, Alaska; air-to-air weapon range, Alaskan Air Command, U.S. Air Force.

(a) *The danger zone.* An area in Bristol Bay beginning at latitude 58°24′ N., longitude 159°10′ W.; thence to latitude 57°58′ N., longitude 158°30′ W.; thence to latitude 57°07′ N., longitude 160°20′ W.; thence to latitude 58°02′ N., longitude 161°40′ W.; and thence to the point of beginning.


(b) *The regulations.* (1) Intermittent firing will be conducted over two to three day periods about 2 hours a day between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. during the months of May through August.


(2) The fact that practice firing is to take place over the designated area shall be advertised to the public 72 hours in advance through the usual media for the dissemination of such information. Notice to the U.S. Coast Guard and NOTAM shall be issued at least 48 hours before firing is to be conducted on the range. Information as to the dates, time, and characteristics of the firing shall be advertised in advance of each session of firing.


(3) Prior to conducting each practice firing, the danger zone shall be patrolled by aircraft to note the location of all vessels within the area. The practice firing exercise shall be conducted in the portion of the danger zone not occupied by surface craft.


(4) This section shall be enforced by the Commander, Alaskan Air Command, U.S. Air Force, Seattle, Washington, or such agencies as he may designate.



---

[N] [29 FR 5947, May 6, 1964, as amended at 36 FR 6422, Apr. 3, 1971. Redesignated at 50 FR 42696, Oct. 22, 1985]




