# § 411.575   How does the EN request payment for milestones or outcome payment months achieved by a beneficiary who assigned a ticket to the EN?

The EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) will send its request for payment, evidence of the beneficiary's work or earnings, and other information to the PM. In addition, we or the PM may require a summary of the services provided as described in the IWP/IPE.


(a) *Milestone payments.* (1) We will pay the EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) for milestones only if—


(i) The outcome-milestone payment system was the EN's (or State VR agency's) elected payment system in effect at the time the beneficiary assigned a ticket to the EN (or the State VR agency acting as an EN); 


(ii) The milestones occur prior to the outcome payment period (see § 411.500(b));


(iii) The requirements in § 411.535 are met; and


(iv) The ticket has not terminated for any of the reasons listed in § 411.155.


(2) The EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) must request payment for each milestone attained by a beneficiary who has assigned a ticket to the EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN). The request must include evidence that the milestone was attained after ticket assignment and other information as we may require to evaluate the EN's (or State VR agency's) request. If the EN is requesting payment for months after the ticket is no longer assigned to it, the payment request shall include evidence that the services agreed to in the IWP/IPE were provided and those services contributed to the employment milestones or outcomes that the beneficiary attained in months after the ticket had been assigned to the EN. We do not have to stop monthly benefit payments to the beneficiary before we can pay the EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) for milestones attained by the beneficiary.


(b) *Outcome payments.* (1) We will pay an EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) an outcome payment for a month if—


(i)(A) Social Security disability benefits and Federal SSI cash benefits are not payable to the individual for that month due to work or earnings; or


(B) The requirements of § 411.525(a)(1)(ii) are met in a case where the beneficiary's entitlement to Social Security disability benefits has ended or eligibility for SSI benefits based on disability or blindness has terminated because of work activity or earnings; and


(ii) We have not already paid for 36 outcome payment months for a title II disability beneficiary (or a concurrent title II/title XVI disability beneficiary), or paid for 60 outcome payment months for a title XVI disability beneficiary who is not concurrently a title II disability beneficiary, on the same ticket; and 


(iii) The ticket has not terminated for any of the other reasons listed in § 411.155.


(2) The EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) must request payment for outcome payment months. In its initial request, the EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) must submit evidence of the beneficiary's work or earnings (e.g., a statement of monthly earnings from the employer or the employer's designated payroll preparer, or an unaltered copy of the beneficiary's pay stub). After we have started paying outcome payments to an EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) based on evidence of the beneficiary's earnings, the EN (or State VR agency) must provide documentation of the beneficiary's continued work or earnings in such a manner or form and at such time or times as we may require. Exception: If the EN (or State VR agency) does not currently hold the ticket because it is assigned to another EN (or State VR agency), the EN (or State VR agency) must request payment, but is not required to submit evidence of the beneficiary's work or earnings. However, if the payment request is for work the beneficiary attained in a month in which the EN no longer held the ticket, the payment request should include evidence that the services agreed to in the IWP/IPE were provided and those services contributed to the beneficiary's work.


(c) *Evidence requirements for payment.* As primary evidence, we require original pay slips, or oral or written statements from an employer or the employer's designated payroll preparer. In lieu of primary evidence, we accept two sources of secondary evidence, such as photocopies of pay slips, a signed beneficiary statement, State unemployment records or federal/state tax returns. The evidence must be clear and legible and include the beneficiary's name, gross earnings or net earnings from self employment, pay date and pay period of wages or monthly net earnings of self-employment earnings.



---

[N] [66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 29350, May 20, 2008]




