# § 5.655   Section 8 project-based assistance programs: Owner preferences in selection for a project or unit.

(a) *Applicability.* This section applies to the section 8 project-based assistance programs. The section describes requirements concerning the Section 8 owner's selection of residents to occupy a project or unit, except for the moderate rehabilitation and the project-based voucher programs. 


(b) *Selection*—(1) *Selection for owner's project or unit.* Selection for occupancy of a project or unit is the function of the Section 8 owner. However, selection is subject to the income-eligibility and income-targeting requirements in § 5.653. 


(2) *Tenant selection plan.* The owner must adopt a written tenant selection plan in accordance with HUD requirements. 


(3) *Amount of income.* The owner may not select a family for occupancy of a project or unit in an order different from the order on the owner's waiting list for the purpose of selecting a relatively higher income family. However, an owner may select a family for occupancy of a project or unit based on its income in order to satisfy the targeting requirements of § 5.653(c). 


(4) *Selection for particular unit.* In selecting a family to occupy a particular unit, the owner may match family characteristics with the type of unit available, for example, number of bedrooms. If a unit has special accessibility features for persons with disabilities, the owner must first offer the unit to families which include persons with disabilities who require such features (see §§ 8.27 and 100.202 of this title). 


(5) *Housing assistance limitation for single persons.* A single person who is not an elderly or displaced person, a person with disabilities, or the remaining member of a resident family may not be provided a housing unit with two or more bedrooms. 


(c) *Particular owner preferences.* The owner must inform all applicants about available preferences and must give applicants an opportunity to show that they qualify for available preferences. 


(1) *Residency requirements or preferences.* (i) Residency requirements are prohibited. Although the owner is not prohibited from adopting a residency preference, the owner may only adopt or implement residency preferences in accordance with non-discrimination and equal opportunity requirements listed at § 5.105(a). 


(ii) A residency preference is a preference for admission of persons who reside in a specified geographic area (“residency preference area”). 


(iii) An owner's residency preference must be approved by HUD in one of the following methods: 


(A) Prior approval of the housing market area in the Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing plan (in accordance with § 108.25 of this title) as a residency preference area; 


(B) Prior approval of the residency preference area in the PHA plan of the jurisdiction in which the project is located; 


(C) Modification of the Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan, in accordance with § 108.25 of this title, 


(iv) Use of a residency preference may not have the purpose or effect of delaying or otherwise denying admission to a project or unit based on the race, color, ethnic origin, gender, religion, disability, or age of any member of an applicant family. 


(v) A residency preference must not be based on how long an applicant has resided or worked in a residency preference area. 


(vi) Applicants who are working or who have been notified that they are hired to work in a residency preference area must be treated as residents of the residency preference area. The owner may treat graduates of, or active participants in, education and training programs in a residency preference area as residents of the residency preference area if the education or training program is designed to prepare individuals for the job market. 


(2) *Preference for working families.* (i) The owner may adopt a preference for admission of working families (families where the head, spouse or sole member is employed). However, an applicant shall be given the benefit of the working family preference if the head and spouse, or sole member, is age 62 or older, or is a person with disabilities. 


(ii) If the owner adopts a preference for admission of working families, the owner must not give a preference based on the amount of earned income. 


(3) *Preference for person with disabilities.* The owner may adopt a preference for admission of families that include a person with disabilities. However, the owner may not adopt a preference for admission of persons with a specific disability. 


(4) *Preference for victims of domestic violence.* The owner should consider whether to adopt a preference for admission of families that include victims of domestic violence. 


(5) *Preference for single persons who are elderly, displaced, homeless or persons with disabilities over other single persons.* The owner may adopt a preference for admission of single persons who are age 62 or older, displaced, homeless, or persons with disabilities over other single persons. 



---

[N] [65 FR 16720, Mar. 29, 2000, as amended at 89 FR 38290, May 7, 2024]




