# ยง 12.312   Oral hearing.

(a) *Notification; prehearing order.* If and when the proceeding has reached the stage of an oral hearing, the Administrative Law Judge, giving due regard for the convenience of the parties, shall set a time for hearing, as well as a location prescribed by paragraph (b) of this section, and shall file with the Proceedings Clerk, for immediate service upon the parties:


(1) An order requiring the parties to file and serve, within fifteen days after service of the order, a prehearing memorandum setting forth briefly:


(i) A statement of all issues to be tried at the hearing;


(ii) An identification of each witness expected to be called by that party;


(iii) A summary of the testimony each witness is expected to provide; and


(2) A notice stating the time and location of the hearing.


(b) *Location of hearing.* Unless the Director of the Office of Proceedings for reasons of administrative economy or practical necessity determines otherwise, and except as provided in this paragraph (b), the location of an oral hearing shall be in one of the following cities: Albuquerque, N.M.; Atlanta, Ga.; Boston, Mass.; Chicago, Ill.; Cincinnati, Ohio; Columbia, S.C.; Denver, Colo.; Houston, Tex.; Kansas City, Mo.; Los Angeles, Cal.; Minneapolis, Minn.; New Orleans, La.; New York, N.Y.; Oklahoma City, Okla.; Phoenix, Ariz.; San Diego, Cal.; San Francisco, Cal.; Seattle, Wash.; St. Petersburg, Fla.; and Washington, DC. The Administrative Law Judge may, in any case where a party avers, in an affidavit, that none of the foregoing cities is located within 300 miles of the party's principal residence, waive this paragraph (b) and, upon giving due regard for the convenience of all of the parties, order that the hearing be held in a more convenient locale.


(1) *Who may appear.* The parties may appear in person, by counsel, or by other representatives of their choosing, subject to the provisions of ยง 12.9 of these rules concerning practice before the Commission.


(2) *Effect of failure to appear.* If any party to the proceeding fails to appear at the hearing, or at any part thereof, the non-appearing party shall to that extent be deemed to have waived the opportunity for an oral hearing in the proceeding. The Administrative Law Judge, for just cause, may take such action as is appropriate pursuant to ยง 12.35 against a party who fails to appear at the hearing. In the event that a party appears at the hearing and no party appears for the opposing side, the party who is present may present evidence, in whole or in part, in the form of affidavits or by oral testimony, before the Administrative Law Judge.


(c) *Public hearings.* All oral hearings shall be public except that upon application of a party or affected witness the Administrative Law Judge may direct that specific documents or testimony be received and retained non-publicly in order to prevent unwarranted disclosure of trade secrets or sensitive commercial or financial information or an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.


(d) *Conduct of the hearing.* Subject to paragraph (e) of this section, and except as otherwise provided, at an oral hearing every party shall be entitled to:


(1) *Conduct direct and cross-examination of parties and witnesses.* All witnesses at a hearing for the purpose of taking evidence shall testify under oath or affirmation, which shall be administered by the Administrative Law Judge. Unless otherwise ordered by the Administrative Law Judge, parties shall be entitled to present oral direct testimony and other documentary proof, and to conduct direct examination and cross examine adverse parties and witnesses. To expedite the hearing, the Administrative Law Judge may, in their discretion, order that the direct testimony of the parties and their witnesses be presented in documentary form, by affidavit, interrogatory, and other documents. In any event, the Administrative Law Judge, in their discretion, may permit cross examination, without regard to the scope of direct testimony, as to any matter which is relevant to the issues in the proceeding;


(2) *Introduce exhibits.* The original of each exhibit introduced in evidence or marked for identification shall be filed unless the Administrative Law Judge permits the substitution of copies for the original documents. A copy of each exhibit introduced by a party or marked for identification shall be supplied by the introducing party to the Administrative Law Judge and to each other party to the proceeding. Exhibits shall be maintained by the reporter who shall serve as custodian of the exhibits until they are transmitted to the Proceedings Clerk pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section;


(3) *Make objections.* A party shall timely and briefly state the grounds relied upon for any objection made to the introduction of evidence. Formal exception to an adverse ruling shall not be required; and


(4) *Make offers of proof.* When an objection to a question propounded to a witness is sustained, examiners may make a specific offer of what they expect to prove by the answer of the witness. Rejected exhibits, adequately marked for identification, shall be retained in the record so as to be available for consideration by any reviewing authority.


(e) *Admissibility of evidence.* Relevant, material and reliable evidence shall be admitted. Irrelevant, immaterial, unreliable and unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded.


(f) *Record of an oral hearing.* Oral hearings for the purpose of taking evidence shall be recorded and shall be transcribed in written form under the supervision of the Administrative Law Judge by a reporter employed by the Commission for that purpose. The original transcript shall be a part of the record and shall be the sole official transcript. Copies of transcripts, except those portions granted non-public treatment, shall be available from the reporter at rates not to exceed the maximum rates fixed by the contract between the Commission and the reporter. As soon as practicable after the close of the hearing, the reporter shall transmit to the Proceedings Clerk the transcript of the testimony and the exhibits introduced in evidence at the hearing, except such portions of the transcript and exhibits as shall have already been delivered to the Administrative Law Judge.


(g) *Proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law; briefs.* An Administrative Law Judge, upon their own motion or upon motion of a party, may permit the filing of post-hearing proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law. Absent an order permitting such findings and conclusions, none shall be allowed. Unless otherwise ordered by the Administrative Law Judge and for good cause shown, the proposed findings and conclusions (including briefs in support thereof), shall not exceed twenty-five (25) pages and shall be filed not later than forty-five (45) days after the close of the oral hearing.



---

[N] [49 FR 6621, Feb. 22, 1984; 49 FR 15070, Apr. 17, 1984, as amended at 86 FR 64360, Nov. 18, 2021]




