# § 721.10461   Oxazolidine, 3,3′-methylenebis[5-methyl-.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as oxazolidine, 3,3′-methylenebis[5-methyl- (PMN P-03-325 and SNUN S-17-4; CAS No. 66204-44-2) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4) (use of the respirator only applies to inhalation exposures to the substance when manufactured in the United States), when determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (4) engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible, (a)(5) (respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 1,000), (a)(6)(v) and (vi), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). It is a significant new use for the substance to be unloaded, processed and used other than with fully enclosed equipment.


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(allergic or sensitization response), (g)(1)(ii), (iii), (v), (vi), and (ix), (g)(2)(i), (ii), (iii), (v), and (iv), (g)(3)(i) and (ii), (g)(4) (do not release to water such that concentrations exceed 40 or 100 ppb in saltwater or freshwater, respectively), and (g)(5). Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80. A significant new use is use other than as a metalworking fluid and an anti-corrosive agent in oilfield operations and hydraulic fluids.


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 40 (saltwater) and N = 100 (freshwater)).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [77 FR 58696, Sept. 21, 2012, as amended at 84 FR 36839, July 30, 2019]




