# § 21.7642   Nonduplication of educational assistance.

(a) *Payments of educational assistance shall not be duplicated.* A reservist is barred from receiving educational assistance concurrently under 10 U.S.C. chapter 1606 and any of the following provisions of law—


(1) 38 U.S.C. 30 (Montgomery GI Bill—Active Duty);


(2) 38 U.S.C. 31 (Veteran Readiness and Employment (VR&E));


(3) 38 U.S.C. 32 (Post-Vietnam Era Veterans' Educational Assistance);


(4) 38 U.S.C. 33 (Post-9/11 GI Bill);


(5) 38 U.S.C. 35 (Survivors' and Dependents' Educational Assistance);


(6) 10 U.S.C. 1607 (Reserve Educational Assistance Program);


(7) 10 U.S.C. 106a (Educational Assistance Test Program);


(8) Section 903 of the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1981 (Pub. L. 96-342, 10 U.S.C. 2141 note);


(9) The Hostage Relief Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-449, 5 U.S.C. 5561 note); or


(10) The Omnibus Diplomatic Security Act of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-399).


(b) When paragraph (a) of this section applies, the reservist must choose which benefit he or she wishes to receive. The reservist may choose to receive benefits under another program (other than 38 U.S.C. chapter 33) at any time, but not more than once in a calendar month. The reservist may choose to receive benefits under 38 U.S.C. chapter 33 at any time, but not more than once during a certified term, quarter, or semester.


(c) *Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps scholarship program.* Educational assistance may not be provided to a reservist receiving financial assistance under 10 U.S.C. 2107 as a member of the Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps scholarship program.


(d) *Nonduplication—Federal program.* Payment of educational assistance is prohibited to an otherwise eligible reservist—


(1) For a unit course or courses which are being paid for entirely or partly by the Armed Forces during any period he or she is on active duty;


(2) For a unit course or courses which are being paid for entirely or partly by the Department of Health and Human Services during any period that he or she is on active duty with the Public Health Service; or


(3) For a unit course or courses which are being paid for entirely or partly by the United States under the Government Employees' Training Act.


(e) *Service Members Occupational Conversion and Training Act of 1992.* A reservist may not receive educational assistance under the Montgomery GI Bill—Selected Reserve program during the period for which benefits are payable under the Service Members Occupational Conversion and Training Act of 1992.



---

[N] [53 FR 34740, Sept. 8, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9628, Mar. 7, 1991; 61 FR 20729, May 8, 1996; 61 FR 29307, June 10, 1996; 74 FR 14671, Mar. 31, 2009; 87 FR 8744, Feb. 16, 2022]




