# § 721.10966   1-Propene, 2-bromo-3,3,3-trifluoro-.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-propene, 2-bromo-3,3,3-trifluoro- (PMN P-14-260, CAS No. 1514-82-5) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance after they have been charged into a fire extinguisher or fire extinguishing system.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* (A) Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirator with an Applied Protection Factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of § 721.63(a)(4):


(*1*) NIOSH-certified air-purifying half mask respirator equipped with a gas/vapor (organic vapor) cartridge.


(*2*) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator with a hood or helmet and with a gas/vapor (organic vapor) cartridge.


(*3*) NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) supplied-air respirator with a half-mask.


(*4*) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator with a loose fitting facepiece, hood, or helmet.


(*5*) NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) with a half-mask.


(B) As an alternative to the respirator requirements in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, a manufacturer or processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provision listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 1.0 parts per million (ppm) as an 8-hour time weighted average. Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as an alternative to § 721.63 respirator requirements may request to do so under § 721.30. Persons whose § 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are approved by EPA will be required to follow NCELs provisions comparable to those contained in the corresponding TSCA section 5(e) consent order.


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1) (cardiac sensitization and reproductive effects), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(c), (f), and (k) (A significant new use is any use other than as either a total flooding agent in unoccupied spaces, specifically engine nacelles and auxiliary power units (APUs) in aircraft; or as a streaming fire extinguishing agent for use only in handheld extinguishers in aircraft).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [82 FR 44093, Sept. 21, 2017]




