# ยง 680.112   Data submittal.

(a) *Quarterly data submittal.* States and other direct recipients must ensure the following data are submitted on a quarterly basis in a manner prescribed by the FHWA. Any quarterly data made public will be aggregated and anonymized to protect confidential business information.


(1) Charging station identifier that the following data can be associated with. This must be the same charging station name or identifier used to identify the charging station in data made available to third-parties in ยง 680.116(c)(1);


(2) Charging port identifier. This must be the same charging port identifier used to identify the charging port in data made available to third-parties in ยง 680.116(c)(8)(ii);


(3) Charging session start time, end time, and any error codes associated with an unsuccessful charging session by port;


(4) Energy (kWh) dispensed to EVs per charging session by port;


(5) Peak session power (kW) by port;


(6) Payment method associated with each charging session;


(7) Charging station port uptime, T_outage, and T_excluded calculated in accordance with the equation in ยง 680.116(b) for each of the previous 3 months;


(8) Duration (minutes) of each outage.


(b) *Annual data submittal.* Beginning in 2024, States and other direct recipients must ensure the following data are submitted on an annual basis, on or before March 1, in a manner prescribed by FHWA. Any annual data made public will be aggregated and anonymized to protect confidential business information.


(1) Maintenance and repair cost per charging station for the previous year.


(2) For private entities identified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, identification of and participation in any State or local business opportunity certification programs including but not limited to minority-owned businesses, Veteran-owned businesses, woman-owned businesses, and businesses owned by economically disadvantaged individuals.


(c) *One-time data submittal.* This paragraph (c) applies only to both the NEVI Formula Program projects and grants awarded under 23 U.S.C. 151(f) for projects that are for EV charging stations located along and designed to serve the users of designated AFCs. Beginning in 2024, States and other direct recipients must ensure the following data are collected and submitted once for each charging station, on or before March 1 of each year, in a manner prescribed by the FHWA. Any one-time data made public will be aggregated and anonymized to protect confidential business information.


(1) The name and address of the private entity(ies) involved in the operation and maintenance of chargers.


(2) Distributed energy resource installed capacity, in kW or kWh as appropriate, of asset by type (e.g., stationary battery, solar, etc.) per charging station; and


(3) Charging station real property acquisition cost, charging equipment acquisition and installation cost, and distributed energy resource acquisition and installation cost; and


(4) Aggregate grid connection and upgrade costs paid to the electric utility as part of the project, separated into:


(i) Total distribution and system costs, such as extensions to overhead/underground lines, and upgrades from single-phase to three-phase lines; and


(ii) Total service costs, such as the cost of including poles, transformers, meters, and on-service connection equipment.


(d) *Community engagement outcomes report.* This paragraph (d) only applies to the NEVI Formula Program projects. States must include in the State EV Infrastructure Deployment Plan a description of the community engagement activities conducted as part of the development and approval of their most recently-submitted State EV Infrastructure Deployment Plan, including engagement with DACs.






