# § 1356.60   Fiscal requirements (title IV-E).

(a) *Federal matching funds for foster care maintenance and adoption assistance payments.* (1) Federal financial participation (FFP) is available to title IV-E agencies under an approved title IV-E plan for allowable costs in expenditures for:


(i) Foster care maintenance payments as defined in section 475(4) of the Act, made in accordance with §§ 1356.20 through 1356.30, section 472 of the Act, and, for a Tribal title IV-E agency, section 479B of the Act; and


(ii) Adoption assistance payments made in accordance with §§ 1356.20 and 1356.40, applicable provisions of section 473, section 475(3), and, for a Tribal title IV-E agency, section 479B of the Act.


(2) Federal financial participation is available at the rate of the Federal medical assistance percentage as defined in section 1905(b), 474(a)(1) and (2), and 479B(d) of the Act as applicable, definitions, and pertinent regulations as promulgated by the Secretary, or the designee.


(b) *Federal matching funds for title IV-E agency training for foster care and adoption assistance under title IV-E.* (1) Federal financial participation is available at the rate of seventy-five percent (75%) in the costs of:


(i) Training personnel employed or preparing for employment by the title IV-E agency administering the plan, and;


(ii) Providing short-term training (including travel and per diem expenses) to current or prospective foster or adoptive parents and the members of the state licensed or approved child care institutions providing care to foster and adopted children receiving title IV-E assistance.


(2) All training activities and costs funded under title IV-E shall be included in the agency's training plan for title IV-B.


(3) Short and long term training at educational institutions and in-service training may be provided in accordance with the provisions of §§ 235.63 through 235.66(a) of this title.


(c) *Federal matching funds for other title IV-E agency administrative expenditures for foster care and adoption assistance under title IV-E.* Federal financial participation is available at the rate of fifty percent (50%) for administrative expenditures necessary for the proper and efficient administration of the title IV-E plan. The State's cost allocation plan shall identify which costs are allocated and claimed under this program.


(1) The determination and redetermination of eligibility, fair hearings and appeals, rate setting and other costs directly related only to the administration of the foster care program under this part are deemed allowable administrative costs under this paragraph. They may not be claimed under any other section or Federal program.


(2) The following are examples of allowable administrative costs necessary for the administration of the foster care program:


(i) Referral to services;


(ii) Preparation for and participation in judicial determinations;


(iii) Placement of the child;


(iv) Development of the case plan;


(v) Case reviews;


(vi) Case management and supervision;


(vii) Recruitment and licensing of foster homes and institutions;


(viii) Rate setting;


(ix) A proportionate share of related agency overhead;


(x) Costs related to data collection and reporting; and


(xi) Costs related to legal representation described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.


(3) Allowable administrative costs do not include the costs of social services provided to the child, the child's family or foster family which provide counseling or treatment to ameliorate or remedy personal problems, behaviors or home conditions.


(4) The following are allowable administrative costs of legal representation:


(i) Legal representation in foster care proceedings provided by an attorney representing the title IV-E agency or any other public agency (including an Indian tribe) which has an agreement in effect under which the other agency has placement and care responsibility of a title IV-E eligible child pursuant to 472(a)(2)(B)(ii) of the Act;


(ii) Independent legal representation provided by an attorney representing a child in title IV-E foster care, a child who is a candidate for title IV-E foster care, the child's parent(s), the child's relative caregiver(s), and the child's Indian custodian(s) in foster care and other civil legal proceedings as necessary to carry out the requirements in the agency's title IV-E foster care plan. Independent legal representation in civil proceedings includes facilitating, arranging, brokering, advocating, or otherwise linking clients with providers and services as identified in the child's case plan pursuant to sections 422, 471(a)(16), and 475 of the Act; and


(iii) Legal representation provided by an attorney representing an Indian child's tribe (as defined by 25 U.S.C.1903(5)), or representation of an Indian child's tribe provided by a non-attorney, when the child's tribe participates or intervenes in any state court proceeding for the foster care placement or termination of parental rights of an Indian child who is in title IV-E foster care or an Indian child who is a candidate for title IV-E foster care.


(d) *Cost of the data collection system.* (1) Costs related to data collection system initiation, implementation and operation may be charged as an administrative cost of title IV-E at the 50 percent matching rate subject to the restrictions in paragraph (d)(2) of this section


(2) For information systems used for purposes other than those specified by section 479 of the Act, costs must be allocated and must bear the same ratio as the foster care and adoption population bears to the total population contained in the information system as verified by reports from all other programs included in the system.


(e) *Federal matching funds for CCWIS and Non-CCWIS.* Federal matching funds are available at the rate of fifty percent (50%). Requirements for the cost allocation of CCWIS and non-CCWIS project costs are at § 1355.57 of this chapter.



---

[N] [47 FR 30925, July 15, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 23117, May 23, 1983; 53 FR 50221, Dec. 14, 1988; 58 FR 67938, 67947, Dec. 22, 1993; 65 FR 4091, Jan. 25, 2000; 66 FR 58677, Nov. 23, 2001; 77 FR 950, Jan. 6, 2012; 81 FR 35482, June 2, 2016; 87 FR 42339, July 15, 2022; 89 FR 40417, May 10, 2024]






