# ยง 1717.150   General.

(a) This subpart establishes RUS policies and procedures for mergers of electric borrowers. These policies and procedures are intended to provide borrowers with the flexibility to negotiate and enter into mergers that offer advantages to the borrowers and to rural communities, and adequately protect the integrity and credit quality of RUS loans and loan guarantees. 


(b) Consistent with prudent lending practices, the maintenance of adequate security for RUS loans and loan guarantees, and the objectives of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended, (7 U.S.C. 901 *et seq.*) (RE Act), RUS encourages electric borrowers to consider mergers when such action is likely to contribute, in the long-term, to greater operating efficiency and financial soundness. Borrowers are specifically encouraged to explore mergers that are likely to enhance the ability of the successor to provide reliable electric service at reasonable cost to RE Act beneficiaries. 


(c) Pursuant to the loan documents and RUS regulations, certain mergers are subject to RUS approval. See ยง 1717.615. 


(d) Since RUS must take action in order to advance funds and otherwise conduct business with a successor, RUS encourages borrowers to consult RUS early in the process regardless of whether RUS approval of the merger is required. RUS will provide technical assistance and guidance to borrowers to help expedite the processing of their requests and to help resolve potential problems early in the process. 




