# ยง 1605.12   Removal of erroneous contributions.

(a) *Applicability.* This section applies to the removal of funds erroneously contributed to the TSP. This action is called a negative adjustment, and agencies may only request negative adjustments of erroneous contributions made on or after January 1, 2000. Excess contributions addressed by this section include, for example, excess employee contributions that result from employing agency error and excess employer contributions. This section does not address excess contributions resulting from a FERCCA correction; those contributions are addressed in ยง 1605.14.

(b) *Method of correction.* Negative adjustment records must be submitted by employing agencies in accordance with this part and any other procedures provided by the Board and/or the TSP record keeper.

(1) To remove money from a participant's account, the employing agency must submit, for each attributable pay date involved, a negative adjustment record stating the attributable pay date and the amount, by source, of the erroneous contribution.


(2) A negative adjustment record may be for any part of the contributions made for the attributable pay date. However, for each source of contributions, the negative adjustment may not exceed the amount of the contributions made for that date, minus any prior negative adjustments for the same date.


(c) *Processing negative adjustments.* To determine current value, a negative adjustment will be allocated among the TSP core funds as it would have been allocated on the attributable pay period (as reported by the employing agency). The TSP record keeper will, for each source of contributions and TSP core fund:

(1) If the attributable pay date for the erroneous contribution is on or before the date TSP accounts were converted to shares (and on or after January 1, 2000), the TSP record keeper will, for each source of contributions and investment fund:

(i) Determine the dollar value of the amount to be removed by using the daily returns for the applicable TSP core fund;

(ii) Determine the number of shares that the dollar value determined in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section would have purchased on the conversion date; and


(iii) Multiply the price per share for the date the adjustment is posted by the number of shares calculated in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.


(2) If the attributable pay date of the negative adjustment is after the date TSP accounts were converted to shares, the TSP record keeper will, for each source of contributions and TSP core fund:

(i) Determine the number of shares that represent the amount of the contribution to be removed using the share price on the attributable pay date; and


(ii) Multiply the price per share on the date the adjustment is posted by the number of shares calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section. If the contribution was erroneously contributed to a Lifecycle fund that is retired on the date the adjustment is posted, the share price of the L Income Fund will be used.

(d) *Employee contributions.* The following rules apply to negative adjustments involving employee contributions:


(1) If, on the posting date, the amount calculated under paragraph (c) of this section is equal to or greater than the amount of the proposed negative adjustment, the full amount of the adjustment will be removed from the participant's account and returned to the employing agency. Earnings on the erroneous contribution will remain in the participant's account. However, positive earnings on an erroneous contribution to the participant's Roth balance will be moved to the participant's traditional balance;


(2) If, on the posting date, the amount calculated under paragraph (c) of this section is less than the amount of the proposed negative adjustment, the amount of the adjustment, reduced by the investment loss, will be removed from the participant's account and returned to the employing agency. However, the employing agency must refund to the participant the full amount of the erroneous contribution;


(3) If an employing agency requests the removal of erroneous employee contributions from a participant's account, it must also request the removal, under paragraph (e) of this section, of any attributable agency matching contributions; and


(4) If all employee contributions are removed from a participant's account under the rules set forth in this section, the earnings attributable to those contributions will remain in the account until the participant removes them with a TSP withdrawal. If the participant is not eligible to maintain a TSP account, the employing agency must submit an employee data record to the TSP record keeper indicating that the participant has separated from Government service (this will allow the TSP-ineligible participant to make a post-employment distribution election).

(e) *Employer contributions.* The following rules apply to negative adjustments involving erroneous employer contributions:


(1) The amount calculated under paragraph (c) of this section will be removed from the participant's account.


(2) Erroneous employer contributions will be returned to the employing agency only if the negative adjustment record is posted by the TSP record keeper within one year of the date the erroneous contribution was posted. If one year or more has elapsed when the negative adjustment record is posted, the amount computed under paragraph (c) of this section will be removed from the participant's account and used to offset TSP administrative expenses;


(3) If the erroneous contribution has been in the participant's account for less than one year when the negative adjustment record is posted and the amount computed under paragraph (c) of this section is equal to or greater than the amount of the adjustment, the employing agency will receive the full amount of the erroneous contribution. Any earnings attributable to the erroneous contribution will be removed from the participant's account and used to offset TSP administrative expenses;


(4) If the erroneous contribution has been in the participant's account for less than one year when the negative adjustment record is posted, and the amount computed under paragraph (c) of this section is less than the amount of the adjustment, the employing agency will receive the amount of the erroneous contribution reduced by the investment loss; and


(5) An employing agency's obligation to submit negative adjustment records to remove erroneous contributions from a participant's account is not affected by the length of time the contributions have been in the account.

(f)*Multiple negative adjustments.* (1) If multiple negative adjustments for the same attributable pay date for a participant are posted on the same business day, the amount removed from the participant's account and used to offset TSP administrative expenses, or returned to the employing agency, will be determined separately for each adjustment. Earnings and losses for erroneous contributions made on different dates will not be netted against each other. In addition, for a negative adjustment for any attributable pay date, gains and losses from different sources of contributions or different TSP core funds will not be netted against each other. Instead, for each attributable pay date each source of contributions and each TSP core fund will be treated separately for purposes of these calculations. The amount computed by applying the rules in this section will be removed from the participant's account pro rata from all funds, by source, based on the allocation of the participant's account among the TSP core funds when the transaction is posted; and


(2) If there is insufficient money in the same source of contributions to cover the amount to be removed or the amount of the requested adjustment, the negative adjustment record will be rejected.



---

[N] [70 FR 32210, June 1, 2005, as amended at 75 FR 74608, Dec. 1, 2010; 77 FR 26425, May 4, 2012; 85 FR 40570, July 7, 2020; 87 FR 31677, May 24, 2022]




