# ยง 1011.3   The Chairman, Vice Chairman, and Board Members.

(a)(1) The Chairman of the Board is appointed by the President as provided by 49 U.S.C. 1301(c)(1). The Chairman has authority, duties, and responsibilities assigned under 49 U.S.C. 1301(c)(2) and described in this part. 


(2) The Vice Chairman is elected by the Board for the term of 1 calendar year. 


(3) In the Chairman's absence, the Vice Chairman is acting Chairman, and has the authority and responsibilities of the Chairman. In the Vice Chairman's absence, the Chairman, if present, has the authority and responsibilities of the Vice Chairman. In the absence of both the Chairman and the Vice Chairman, the Board may temporarily designate one of its members to act as Chairman and to have the authority and responsibilities of the Chairman and Vice Chairman.


(b)(1) The Chairman is the executive head of the Board and has general responsibilities for: 


(i) The overall management and functioning of the Board; 


(ii) The formulation of plans and policies designed to assure the effective administration of the Interstate Commerce Act and related Acts; 


(iii) Prompt identification and early resolution, at the appropriate level, of major substantive regulatory problems; and 


(iv) The development and use of effective staff support to carry out the duties and functions of the Board. 


(2) The Chairman of the Board exercises the executive and administrative functions of the Board, including: 


(i) The appointment, supervision, and removal of Board employees, except those in the immediate offices of Board Members other than the Chairman; 


(ii) The distribution of business among such personnel and among administrative units of the Board; and 


(iii) The use and expenditures of funds. 


(3) In carrying out his or her functions, the Chairman is governed by general policies of the Board and by such regulatory decisions, findings, and determinations as the Board by law is authorized to make. 


(4) The appointment by the Chairman of the heads of offices is subject to the approval of the Board. All heads of offices report to the Chairman. 


(c)(1) The Chairman presides at all sessions of the Board and sees that every vote and official act of the Board required by law to be recorded is accurately and promptly recorded by the Clearance Clerk or the person designated by the Board for that purpose.


(2) Regular sessions of the Board are provided for by Board regulations. The Chairman may call the Board into special session to consider any matter or business of the Board. The Chairman shall convene a special session to consider any matter or business on request of a member of the Board unless a majority of the Board votes either not to hold a special session or to delay conference consideration of that item, or unless the Chairman finds that special circumstances warrant a delay. Notwithstanding the two immediately preceding sentences of this paragraph, on the written request of any member of the Board, the Chairman shall schedule a Board conference to discuss and vote on significant Board proceedings involving major transportation issues, and such conference shall be held within a reasonable time following the close of the record in the involved proceeding. 


(3) The Chairman exercises general control over the Board's argument calendar and conference agenda. 


(4) The Chairman acts as correspondent and speaks for the Board in all matters where an official expression of the Board is required. 


(5) The Chairman brings any delay or failure in the work to the attention of the supervising Board Member, employee, or board, and initiates ways of correcting or preventing avoidable delays in the performance of any work or the disposition of any matter. 


(6) The Chairman may appoint such standing or *ad hoc* committees of the Board as he or she considers necessary. 


(7) The Chairman may reassign related proceedings to a board of employees and may remove a matter from an individual Board Member or employee or employee board for consideration and disposition by the Board. 


(8) The Chairman may authorize any officer, employee, or administrative unit of the Board to perform a function vested in or delegated to the Chairman. 


(9) The Chairman authorizes the institution of investigations on the Board's own motion, and their discontinuance at any time before hearing. 


(10) The Chairman approves for publication all publicly issued documents by an office, except: 


(i) Those authorized or adopted by the Board or an individual Board Member that involve decisions in formal proceedings; 


(ii) Decisions or informal opinions of an office; and 


(iii) Documents prepared for court cases or for introduction into evidence in a formal proceeding. 



---

[N] [67 FR 60167, Sept. 25, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 52903, Oct. 15, 2009; 83 FR 15077, Apr. 9, 2018]




