# ยง 552.109   Routine security controls.

(a) *Unimpeded access.* Military vehicles, emergency vehicles, mail delivery vehicles, privately owned motor vehicles registered in accordance with Fort Lewis Supplement 1 to Army Regulation (AR) 190-5, and pedestrians in possession of current active duty, retired, dependent, or DoD civilian identification cards are authorized unimpeded access to Fort Lewis during periods of routine installation operations unless prohibited or restricted by action of the Installation Commander.


(b) *Visitor access.* All visitors to the installation will report to the visitor's information center where the visitor's name, vehicle license number, purpose and duration of visit will be recorded prior to granting access. Visitor's passes for visitors to Madigan Army Medical Center and the Logistics Center/Civilian Personnel Office will be issued at the Madigan and Logistics Center gates respectively.


(c) *Visitor's passes.* HFL Form 1138 (Fort Lewis Visitor Pass) valid for a period not to exceed 24 hours unless otherwise noted below, may be issued only when one or more of the following criteria is met.


(1) Personnel in possession of proper orders directing temporary duty at Fort Lewis may be issued a visitor's pass for periods not to exceed 13 days. Personnel ordered to temporary duty at Fort Lewis for periods in excess of 13 days but less than 90 days will be required to obtain a temporary vehicle registration.


(2) Persons visiting Fort Lewis military personnel or their family members may be issued visitor's passes for periods up to and including 13 days when personally requested by the military sponsor.


(3) Moving vans and commercial delivery vehicles will be issued visitor's passes after the operator displays a bill of lading or other official documentation demonstrating a legitimate need to enter Fort Lewis.


(4) Contract vehicles not qualifying for installation vehicle registration pursuant to Fort Lewis Supplement 1 to AR 190-5 will be issued a visitor's pass as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, after the purpose of the visit has been verified by the Contracting Officer's Representative, or the Contractor when the former is not available.


(5) Prior to issuing a visitor's pass to unsponsored personnel who desire to visit unit areas, club facilities and other recreational facilities, security personnel will telephonically contact the person to be visited. If the person to be visited cannot be contacted to verify the visit, the visitor will be denied entry. Unsponsored personnel desiring to visit the Fort Lewis Museum may be issued a visitor's pass valid until museum closing time on day of issue, provided security personnel telephonically contact the museum and verify the hours of public operation that day prior to issuing the visitor's pass.


(6) Soldiers, dependent family members, and Department of the Army employees who sponsor visitors to the installation remain responsible for the conduct of their guests on Fort Lewis for the duration of the visit. 


(d) *Heightened security controls.* Access control measures implemented during periods of enhanced security will be in accordance with AR 190-52 and the I Corps and Fort Lewis Installation Security and Closure Plan. During periods of heightened security controls, sponsors may be required to personally report to the Visitor's Information Center to accept responsibility for the visitor.




