# § 721.1950   2-Butenedioic acid (

(a) *Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-butenedioic acid (*Z*), mono(2-((1-oxopropenyloxy)ethyl) ester (PMN P-85-543) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are: 


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(xi), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iv), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f) (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v) and (g)(5). The provision of § 721.72(d) requiring that employees to be provided with information on the location and availability of a written hazard communication program does not apply when the written program is not required under § 721.72(a). 


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(l). 


(iv) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85 (a)(1), (a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2). 


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph. 


(1) *Recordkeeping requirements.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance: § 721.125 (a) through (j).


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section. 



---

[N] [57 FR 44063, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




