# § 1282.1   Definitions.

(a) *Statutory terms.* All terms defined in the Safety and Soundness Act are used in accordance with their statutory meaning unless otherwise defined in paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Other terms.* As used in this part, the term:


*Additional Activity,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, means an activity in an Enterprise's Underserved Markets Plan that is not a Statutory Activity or Regulatory Activity.


*Agricultural worker,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, means any person that meets the definition of an agricultural worker under a federal, state, tribal or local program.


*AHAR* means the Annual Housing Activities Report that an Enterprise submits to the Director under section 309(n) of the Fannie Mae Charter Act or section 307(f) of the Freddie Mac Act.


*AHAR information* means data or information contained in the AHAR.


*Area of concentrated poverty,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, means a census tract designated by HUD as a Qualified Census Tract, pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 42(d)(5)(B)(ii), or as a Racially- or Ethnically-Concentrated Area of Poverty, pursuant to 24 CFR 5.152, during any year covered by an Underserved Markets Plan or in the year prior to a Plan's effective date.


*Balloon mortgage* means a mortgage providing for payments at regular intervals, with a final payment (“balloon payment”) that is at least 5 percent more than the periodic payments. The periodic payments may cover some or all of the periodic principal or interest. Typically, the periodic payments are level monthly payments that would fully amortize the mortgage over a stated term and the balloon payment is a single payment due after a specified period (but before the mortgage would fully amortize) and pays off or satisfies the outstanding balance of the mortgage.


*Borrower income* means the total gross income relied on in making the credit decision.


*Charter Act* means the Fannie Mae Charter Act, as amended, or the Freddie Mac Act, as amended.


*Colonia,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, means an identifiable community that meets the definition of a colonia under a federal, State, tribal, or local program.


*Colonia census tract,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, means a census tract that contains a colonia.




*Community development financial institution,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, has the meaning in 12 CFR 1263.1.


*Conventional mortgage* means a mortgage other than a mortgage as to which an Enterprise has the benefit of any guaranty, insurance or other obligation by the United States or any of its agencies or instrumentalities.


*Day* means a calendar day.


*Designated disaster area* means any census tract that is located in a county designated by the Federal Government as adversely affected by a declared major disaster administered by FEMA, where housing assistance payments were authorized by FEMA. A census tract shall be treated as a “designated disaster area” for purposes of this part beginning on the January 1 after the FEMA designation of the county, or such earlier date as determined by FHFA, and continuing through December 31 of the third full calendar year following the FEMA designation. This time period may be adjusted for a particular disaster area by notice from FHFA to the Enterprises.


*Dwelling unit* means a room or unified combination of rooms with plumbing and kitchen facilities intended for use, in whole or in part, as a dwelling by one or more persons, and includes a dwelling unit in a single-family property, multifamily property, or other residential or mixed-use property.


*Efficiency* means a dwelling unit having no separate bedrooms or 0 bedrooms.


*Evaluation Guidance,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, means separate FHFA-prepared guidance that includes the information required under this subpart, as well as additional guidance on the Underserved Markets Plans, how the quantitative and qualitative assessments will be conducted, the role of extra credit for extra-credit eligible activities such as residential economic diversity, how final ratings will be determined, and other matters as may be appropriate.


*Extremely low-income* means:


(i) In the case of owner-occupied units, income not in excess of 30 percent of area median income; and


(ii) In the case of rental units, income not in excess of 30 percent of area median income, with adjustments for smaller and larger families in accordance with this part.


*Families in low-income areas* means:


(i) Any family that resides in a census tract in which the median income does not exceed 80 percent of the area median income;


(ii) Any family with an income that does not exceed area median income that resides in a minority census tract; and


(iii) Any family with an income that does not exceed area median income that resides in a designated disaster area.


*Family* means one or more individuals who occupy the same dwelling unit.


*Fannie Mae Charter Act* means the Federal National Mortgage Association Charter Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1715 *et seq.*).


*Federally insured credit union,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, has the meaning in 12 U.S.C. 1752(7).


*Federally recognized Indian tribe,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, has the meaning in 25 CFR 83.1.


*FEMA* means the Federal Emergency Management Agency.


*FOIA* means the Freedom of Information Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552).


*Freddie Mac Act* means the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1451 *et seq.*).


*High-needs rural population,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, means any of the following populations provided the population is located in a rural area:


(i) Members of a Federally recognized Indian tribe located in an Indian area; or


(ii) Agricultural workers.


*High-needs rural region,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, means any of the following regions provided the region is located in a rural area:


(i) Middle Appalachia;


(ii) The Lower Mississippi Delta;


(iii) A colonia census tract; or


(iv) A tract located in a persistent poverty county and not included in Middle Appalachia, the Lower Mississippi Delta, or a colonia.


*High opportunity area,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, means:


(i) An area designated by HUD as a “Difficult Development Area,” pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 42(d)(5)(B)(iii), during any year covered by an Underserved Markets Plan or in the year prior to an Underserved Markets Plan's effective date, whose poverty rate is lower than the rate specified by FHFA in the Evaluation Guidance; or


(ii) An area designated by a state or local Qualified Allocation Plan as a high opportunity area and which meets a definition FHFA has identified as eligible for duty to serve credit in the Evaluation Guidance.


*HOEPA mortgage* means a mortgage covered by section 103(bb) of the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act (HOEPA) (15 U.S.C. 1602(bb)), as implemented by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.


*Indian area,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, has the meaning in 24 CFR 1000.10.


*Insured depository institution,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, means an institution whose deposits are insured under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811 *et seq.*).


*Lender* means any entity that makes, originates, sells, or services mortgages, and includes the secured creditors named in the debt obligation and document creating the mortgage.


*Low-income* means:


(i) In the case of owner-occupied units, income not in excess of 80 percent of area median income; and


(ii) In the case of rental units, income not in excess of 80 percent of area median income, with adjustments for smaller and larger families in accordance with this part.


*Lower Mississippi Delta,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, means the Lower Mississippi Delta counties designated by Public Laws 100-460, 106-554, and 107-171, along with any future updates made by Congress.


*Manufactured home,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, means a manufactured home as defined in section 603(6) of the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 5401 *et seq.,* and implementing regulations.


*Manufactured housing community,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, means a tract of land under unified ownership and developed for the purposes of providing individual rental spaces for the placement of manufactured homes for residential purposes within its boundaries.


*Median income* means, with respect to an area, the unadjusted median family income for the area as determined by FHFA. FHFA will provide the Enterprises annually with information specifying how the median family income estimates for metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas are to be applied for purposes of determining median income.


*Metropolitan area* means a metropolitan statistical area (MSA), or a portion of such an area, including Metropolitan Divisions, for which median incomes are determined by FHFA.


*Middle Appalachia,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, means the “central” Appalachian subregion under the Appalachian Regional Commission's subregional classification of Appalachia.


*Minority* means any individual who is included within any one or more of the following racial and ethnic categories:


(i) American Indian or Alaskan Native—a person having origins in any of the original peoples of North and South America (including Central America), and who maintains Tribal affiliation or community attachment;


(ii) Asian—a person having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, or the Indian subcontinent, including, for example, Cambodia, China, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, the Philippine Islands, Thailand, and Vietnam;


(iii) Black or African American—a person having origins in any of the black racial groups of Africa;


(iv) Hispanic or Latino—a person of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto Rican, South or Central American, or other Spanish culture or origin, regardless of race; and


(v) Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander—a person having origins in any of the original peoples of Hawaii, Guam, Samoa, or other Pacific Islands.


*Minority census tract* means a census tract that has a minority population of at least 30 percent and a median income of less than 100 percent of the area median income.


*Mixed-income housing,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, means a multifamily property or development that may include or comprise single-family units that serves very low-, low-, or moderate-income families where:


(i) A minimum percentage of the units are unaffordable to low-income families, or to families at higher income levels, as specified in the Evaluation Guide; and


(ii) A minimum percentage of the units are affordable to low-income families, or to families at lower income levels, as specified in the Evaluation Guide.


*Moderate-income* means:


(i) In the case of owner-occupied units, income not in excess of area median income; and


(ii) In the case of rental units, income not in excess of area median income, with adjustments for smaller and larger families in accordance with this part.


*Mortgage* means a member of such classes of liens, including subordinate liens, as are commonly given or are legally effective to secure advances on, or the unpaid purchase price of, real estate under the laws of the State in which the real estate is located, together with the credit instruments, if any, secured thereby, and includes interests in mortgages. “Mortgage” includes a mortgage, lien, including a subordinate lien, or other security interest on the stock or membership certificate issued to a tenant-stockholder or resident-member by a cooperative housing corporation, as defined in section 216 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and on the proprietary lease, occupancy agreement, or right of tenancy in the dwelling unit of the tenant-stockholder or resident-member in such cooperative housing corporation.


*Mortgage data* means data obtained by the Director from the Enterprises under section 309(m) of the Fannie Mae Charter Act and section 307(e) of the Freddie Mac Act.


*Mortgage purchase* means a transaction in which an Enterprise bought or otherwise acquired a mortgage or an interest in a mortgage for portfolio, resale, or securitization.


*Mortgage revenue bond* means a tax-exempt bond or taxable bond issued by a State or local government or agency where the proceeds from the bond issue are used to finance residential housing.


*Multifamily housing* means a residence consisting of more than four dwelling units. The term includes cooperative buildings and condominium projects.


*Non-metropolitan area* means a county, or a portion of a county, including those counties that comprise Micropolitan Statistical Areas, located outside any metropolitan area, for which median incomes are determined by FHFA.


*Owner-occupied housing* means single-family housing in which a mortgagor resides, including two- to four-unit owner-occupied properties where one or more units are used for rental purposes.


*Participation* means a fractional interest in the principal amount of a mortgage.


*Persistent poverty county,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, means a county in a rural area that has had 20 percent or more of its population living in poverty over the past 30 years, as measured by the most recent successive decennial censuses.


*Private label security* means any mortgage-backed security that is neither issued nor guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae, or any other government agency.


*Proprietary information* means all mortgage data and all AHAR information that the Enterprises submit to the Director in the AHARs that contain trade secrets or privileged or confidential, commercial, or financial information that, if released, would be likely to cause substantial competitive harm.


*Public data* means all mortgage data and all AHAR information that the Enterprises submit to the Director in the AHARs that the Director determines are not proprietary and may appropriately be disclosed consistent with other applicable laws and regulations.


*Purchase money mortgage* means a mortgage given to secure a loan used for the purchase of a single-family residential property.


*Refinancing mortgage* means a mortgage undertaken by a borrower that satisfies or replaces an existing mortgage of such borrower. The term does not include:


(i) A renewal of a single payment obligation with no change in the original terms;


(ii) A reduction in the annual percentage rate of the mortgage as computed under the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*), with a corresponding change in the payment schedule;


(iii) An agreement involving a court proceeding;


(iv) A workout agreement, in which a change in the payment schedule or collateral requirements is agreed to as a result of the mortgagor's default or delinquency, unless the rate is increased or the new amount financed exceeds the unpaid balance plus earned finance charges and premiums for the continuation of insurance;


(v) The renewal of optional insurance purchased by the mortgagor and added to an existing mortgage;


(vi) A renegotiated balloon mortgage on a multifamily property where the balloon payment was due within 1 year after the date of the closing of the renegotiated mortgage; and


(vii) A conversion of a balloon mortgage note on a single-family property to a fully amortizing mortgage note where the Enterprise already owns or has an interest in the balloon note at the time of the conversion.


*Regulatory Activity,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, means an activity in an Enterprise's Underserved Markets Plan that is designated as a Regulatory Activity in §§ 1282.33(c), 1282.34(d), or 1282.35(c).


*Rent* means the actual rent or average rent by unit size for a dwelling unit.


(i) Rent is determined based on the total combined rent for all bedrooms in the dwelling unit, including fees or charges for management and maintenance services and any utility charges that are included.


(A) Rent concessions shall not be considered, *i.e.,* the rent is not decreased by any rent concessions.


(B) Rent is net of rental subsidies, *i.e.,* the rent is decreased by any rental subsidy.


(ii) When the rent does not include all utilities, the rent shall also include:


(A) The actual cost of utilities not included in the rent;


(B) The nationwide average utility allowance, as issued periodically by FHFA;


(C) The utility allowance established under the HUD Section 8 Program (42 U.S.C. 1437f) for the area where the property is located; or


(D) The utility allowance for the area in which the property is located, as established by the state or local housing finance agency for determining the affordability of low-income housing tax credit properties under section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 42).


*Rental unit* means a dwelling unit that is not owner-occupied and is rented or available to rent.


*Residence* means a property where one or more families reside.


*Resident-owned manufactured housing community,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, means a manufactured housing community for which the terms and conditions of residency, policies, operations and management are controlled by at least 51 percent of the residents, either directly or through an entity formed under the laws of the state.


*Residential economic diversity activity,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, means an eligible Enterprise activity, other than an energy or water efficiency improvement activity or other activity that FHFA determines to be ineligible, in connection with mortgages on:


(i) Affordable housing in a high opportunity area; or


(ii) Mixed-income housing in an area of concentrated poverty.


*Residential mortgage* means a mortgage on single-family or multifamily housing.


*Rural area,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, means:


(i) A census tract outside of a metropolitan statistical area as designated by the Office of Management and Budget; or


(ii) A census tract in a metropolitan statistical area as designated by the Office of Management and Budget that is:


(A) Outside of the metropolitan statistical area's Urbanized Areas as designated by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Rural-Urban Commuting Area (RUCA) Code #1, and outside of tracts with a housing density of over 64 housing units per square mile for USDA's RUCA Code #2; or


(B) A colonia census tract that does not satisfy paragraphs (i) or (ii)(A) of this definition.






*Seasoned mortgage* means a mortgage on which the date of the mortgage note is more than 1 year before the Enterprise purchased the mortgage.


*Second mortgage* means any mortgage that has a lien position subordinate only to the lien of the first mortgage.


*Secondary residence* means a dwelling where the mortgagor maintains (or will maintain) a part-time place of abode and typically spends (or will spend) less than the majority of the calendar year. A person may have more than one secondary residence at a time.


*Single-family housing* means a residence consisting of one to four dwelling units. Single-family housing includes condominium dwelling units and dwelling units in cooperative housing projects.


*Small financial institution,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, means a financial institution with less than $304 million in assets.


*Small multifamily property* means any multifamily property with at least 5 dwelling units but no more than 50 dwelling units.


*Small multifamily rental property,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, means any property of 5 to 50 rental units.


*Statutory Activity,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, means an Enterprise activity relating to housing projects under the programs set forth in 12 U.S.C. 4565(a)(1)(B) and § 1282.34(c).


*Underserved Markets Plan,* for purposes of subpart C of this part, means a plan prepared by an Enterprise describing the activities and objectives it will undertake to meet its duty to serve each of the three underserved markets.


*Utilities* means charges for electricity, piped or bottled gas, water, sewage disposal, fuel (oil, coal, kerosene, wood, solar energy, or other), and garbage and trash collection. Utilities do not include charges for subscription-based television, telephone, or internet service.


*Very low-income* means:


(i) In the case of owner-occupied units, income not in excess of 50 percent of area median income; and


(ii) In the case of rental units, income not in excess of 50 percent of area median income, with adjustments for smaller and larger families in accordance with this part.



---

[N] [75 FR 55930, Sept. 14, 2010, as amended at 78 FR 2328, Jan. 11, 2013; 80 FR 53430, Sept. 3, 2015; 81 FR 76300, Nov. 2, 2016; 81 FR 96292, Dec. 29, 2016; 83 FR 5899, Feb. 12, 2018; 86 FR 73657, Dec. 28, 2021; 88 FR 23563, Apr. 18, 2023]




