# § 8.2   Definitions.

As used in this part, the following terms shall have the meanings specified:


*Administrative forfeiture* means the process by which property may be forfeited by a seizing agency rather than through a judicial proceeding. Administrative forfeiture has the same meaning as nonjudicial forfeiture, as that term is used in 18 U.S.C. 983.


*Appraised value* means the estimated market value of property at the time and place of seizure if such or similar property were freely offered for sale by a willing seller to a willing buyer.


*Appropriate official* means, in the case of the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), the Forfeiture Counsel, DEA. In the case of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF), it means the Associate Chief Counsel, Office of Chief Counsel, ATF. In the case of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), it means the Unit Chief, Legal Forfeiture Unit, Office of the General Counsel, FBI, except as used in §§ 8.9(a)(2), 8.9(b)(2), 8.10, and 8.15, where the term appropriate official means the office or official identified in the published notice or personal written notice in accordance with § 8.9.


*Civil forfeiture proceeding* means a civil judicial forfeiture action as that term is used in 18 U.S.C. 983.


*Contraband* means—


(1) Any controlled substance, hazardous raw material, equipment or container, plants, or other property subject to summary forfeiture pursuant to sections 511(f) or (g) of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 881(f) or (g)); or


(2) Any controlled substance imported into the United States, or exported out of the United States, in violation of law.


*Domestic value* means the same as the term *appraised value* as defined in this section.


*Expense* means all costs incurred to detain, inventory, safeguard, maintain, advertise, sell, or dispose of property seized, detained, or forfeited pursuant to any law.


*File* or *filed* has the following meanings:


(1) A claim or any other document submitted in an administrative forfeiture proceeding is not deemed filed until actually received by the appropriate official identified in the personal written notice and the published notice specified in § 8.9. It is not considered filed if it is received by any other office or official, such as a court, U.S. Attorney, seizing agent, local ATF or DEA office, or FBI Headquarters. In addition, a claim in an administrative forfeiture proceeding is not considered filed if received only by an electronic or facsimile transmission.


(2) For purposes of computing the start of the 90-day period set forth in 18 U.S.C. 983(a)(3), an administrative forfeiture claim is filed on the date when the claim is received by the designated appropriate official, even if the claim is received from an incarcerated *pro se* prisoner.


*Interested party* means any person who reasonably appears to have an interest in the property based on the facts known to the seizing agency before a declaration of forfeiture is entered.


*Mail* includes regular or certified U.S. mail and mail and package transportation and delivery services provided by other private or commercial interstate carriers.


*Nonjudicial forfeiture* has the same meaning as administrative forfeiture as defined in this section.


*Person* means an individual, partnership, corporation, joint business enterprise, estate, or other legal entity capable of owning property.


*Property subject to administrative forfeiture* means any personal property of the kinds described in 19 U.S.C. 1607(a).


*Property subject to forfeiture* refers to all property that federal law authorizes to be forfeited to the United States of America in any administrative forfeiture proceeding, in any civil judicial forfeiture proceeding, or in any criminal forfeiture proceeding.


*Seizing agency* refers to ATF, DEA, or FBI.




