# § 171.25   Appeals from denials of PA amendment requests.

(a) If the Department denies a request for amendment of such records, the requester shall be informed of the reason for the denial and of the right to appeal the denial within 90 working days of the date of the Department's denial letter.


(b) For decisions made by A/GIS/IPS, requesters should submit their appeal to the A/GIS/IPS FOIA Appeals Office using any of the following methods: by mail to the Appeals Officer, Office of Information Programs and Services (A/GIS/IPS), Room B-266, U.S. Department of State, 2201 C Street NW, Washington, DC 20520; by fax to (202) 485-1718; or by email to *FOIAAppeals@state.gov.* To facilitate handling, the requester should mark both the appeal letter and envelope, or subject line of the electronic transmission, “Privacy Act Appeal.”


(c) For decisions made by OIG, requesters should submit their appeal to the OIG. The contact information for OIG is available at *www.stateoig.gov/foiaappeals.* To facilitate handling, the requester should mark both the appeal letter and envelope, or subject line of the electronic transmission, “Privacy Act Appeal.”


(d) Appellants should submit an administrative appeal of any denial, in whole or in part, of a request for access to FSGB records under the PA to A/GIS/IPS FOIA Appeals Office using any of the following methods: by mail to the Appeals Officer, Office of Information Programs and Services (A/GIS/IPS), Room B-266, U.S. Department of State, 2201 C Street NW, Washington, DC 20520; by fax to (202) 485-1718; or by email to *FOIAAppeals@state.gov*. A/GIS/IPS will assign a tracking number to the appeal and forward it to the FSGB, which is an independent body, for adjudication.


(e) A/GIS/IPS or OIG will decide appeals from denials of PA amendment requests within 30 working days from the date when the appeal is received, unless an extension of that period for good cause shown is needed.


(f) Decisions will be made in writing, and appellants will receive notification of the decision. A reversal will result in reprocessing of the request in accordance with that decision. An affirmance will include a brief statement of the reason for the affirmance and will inform the appellant that the decision represents the final decision of the Department and of the right to seek judicial review of the decision, when applicable.


(g) If the decision is that a record shall be amended in accordance with the appellant's request, A/GIS/IPS or OIG shall direct the office under its purview that is responsible for the record to amend the record, advise all previous recipients of the record of the amendment and its substance (if an accounting of previous disclosures has been made), and so advise the individual in writing.


(h) If the decision is that the amendment request is denied, in addition to the notification required by paragraph (f) of this section, A/GIS/IPS or OIG shall advise the appellant:


(1) of the right to file a concise Statement of Disagreement stating the reasons for disagreement with the decision of the Department;


(2) of the procedures for filing the Statement of Disagreement;


(3) that any Statement of Disagreement that is filed will be made available to anyone to whom the record is subsequently disclosed, together with, at the discretion of the Department, a brief statement by the Department summarizing its reasons for refusing to amend the record;


(4) that prior recipients of the disputed record will be provided a copy of any statement of disagreement, to the extent that an accounting of disclosures was maintained.


(i) If the appellant files a Statement of Disagreement under paragraph (h) of this section, the Department will clearly annotate the record so that the fact that the record is disputed is apparent to anyone who may subsequently access the record. When the disputed record is subsequently disclosed, the Department will note the dispute and provide a copy of the Statement of Disagreement. The Department may also include a brief summary of the reasons for not amending the record. Copies of the Department's statement shall be treated as part of the individual's record for granting access; however, it will not be subject to amendment by an individual under this part.






