# § 404.15   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions shall apply:


*Appeal*—A written request to the Ex-Im Bank Assistant General Counsel for Administration for reversal of an adverse initial determination.


*Final determination*—The written decision by the Assistant General Counsel for Administration on an appeal.


*Individual*—A citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.


*Initial determination*—The initial written determination in response to a Privacy Act request.


*Record*—Any item, collection or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained within a system of records and that contains the individual's name or an identifying number, symbol or other identifying particular assigned to the individual.


*Redaction*—The process of removing non-disclosable material from a record so that the remainder may be released.


*Request for access*—A request to view a record.


*Request for accounting*—A request for a list of all disclosures of a record.


*Request for correction*—A request to modify a record.


*Requester*—An individual who makes a request under the Privacy Act.


*Review*—The process of examining a record to determine whether any portion is required to be withheld.


*Search*—The process of identifying and collecting records pursuant to a request.


*System of records*—A group of any records under the control of an agency from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or some identifying number, symbol or other identifying particular assigned to the individual.


*Working days*—All calendar days excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal Government holidays.



---

[N] [64 FR 14374, Mar. 25, 1999. Redesignated at 87 FR 41034, July 11, 2022]




