# ยง 101-30.401-1   Publications providing Federal catalog data.

(a) Federal Catalog System publications contain selected data from the Defense Logistics Services Center (DLSC) files chosen, assembled, and formatted to meet recognized needs for information in support of assigned missions, functions, and related responsibilities. Most publications are produced in microfiche form; however, some are produced in hard copy form. The following publications are available:


(1) *Master cross-reference list.* A microfiche publication which contains a master list of national stock numbers (NSN's) cross-referenced to and from manufacturers' part numbers, specifications, or reference drawings. This publication is used to cross-relate reference numbers and stock numbers or to ascertain the manufacturer of an item when the reference number or the NSN is known.


(2) *Identification list (IL).* A microfiche publication arranged by Federal supply class and containing descriptions of items in the DLSC file. The principal uses of the IL are to obtain or verify an NSN when only the characteristics of the item are known or descriptive data when the NSN is known, and to determine interchangeable or substitutable items.


(3) *Consolidated Management Listing.* A microfiche publication which is a consolidated listing of NSN's and related supply management data of each integrated manager and military service. These data include Government source of supply, unit of issue, unit price, etc.


(4) *Federal item logistics data records (FILDR).* A microfiche publication containing complete identification data in tabular format for all descriptive-type item identifications. The data are arranged in NSN sequence within Federal supply class. An FILDR is known in hard copy form as a DD-146 card which is furnished as an output to authorized receivers of Federal catalog data who cannot use other available output media.


(5) *Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Federal Supply Catalog for Civil Agencies.* This publication (available in hard copy only) includes NSN's for which DLA is the single source of supply for civil agencies. These NSN's may not necessarily have a DOD user recorded. The publication contains descriptive and management data for items not usually listed in the GSA catalog but which might be required by civil agencies.


(b) Agencies may obtain without charge copies of the DLA Federal Supply Catalog for Civil Agencies, described in paragraph (a)(6) 
1 of this section by contacting the Defense Logistics Services Center, DLSC-TP, Federal Center, Battle Creek, MI 49016. To obtain copies of the publications described in paragraphs (a) (1) through (5) of this section, agencies may submit a request in writing to the same address shown above, except that the applicable mail distribution code is DLSC-AP. Information concerning the charges for the latter publications is available from DLSC-AP.



---

[N] [42 FR 36255, July 14, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 35645, July 10, 1981]




