# § 30.11   Invitation to self-identify as an individual with a disability.

(a) *Pre-offer.* (1) A sponsor adopting an affirmative action program pursuant to § 30.4 must invite applicants for apprenticeship to inform the sponsor whether the applicant believes that that he or she is an individual with a disability as defined in § 30.2. This invitation must be provided to each applicant when the applicant applies or is considered for apprenticeship. The invitation may be included with the application materials for apprenticeship, but must be separate from the application.


(2) The sponsor must invite an applicant to self-identify as required in paragraph (a) of this section using the language and manner prescribed by the Administrator and published on the OA Web site.


(b) *Post offer.* (1) At any time after acceptance into the apprenticeship program, but before the applicant begins his or her apprenticeship, the sponsor must invite the applicant to inform the sponsor whether the applicant believes that he or she is an individual with a disability as defined in § 30.2.


(2) The sponsor must invite an applicant to self-identify as required in paragraph (b) of this section using the language and manner prescribed by the Administrator and published on the OA Web site.


(c) *Apprentices.* (1) Within the timeframe specified in paragraph (h) below, the sponsor must make a one-time invitation to each current apprentice to inform the sponsor whether he or she is an individual with a disability as defined in § 30.2. The sponsor must make this invitation using the language and manner prescribed by the Administrator and published on the OA Web site.


(2) Thereafter, the sponsor must remind apprentices yearly that they may voluntarily update their disability status.


(d) *Voluntary self-identification for apprentices.* The sponsor may not compel or coerce an individual to self-identify as an individual with a disability.


(e) *Confidentiality.* The sponsor must keep all information on self-identification confidential, and must maintain it in a data analysis file (rather than the medical files of individual apprentices) as required under § 30.12(e). The sponsor must provide self-identification information to the Registration Agency upon request. Self-identification information may be used only in accordance with this part.


(f) *Affirmative action obligations.* Nothing in this section may relieve the sponsor of its obligation to take affirmative action with respect to those applicants and apprentices of whose disability the sponsor has knowledge.


(g) *Nondiscrimination obligations.* Nothing in this section may relieve the sponsor from liability for discrimination in violation of this part.


(h) *Compliance dates.* (1) Sponsors currently registered with a Registration Agency: A sponsor must begin inviting applicants and apprentices to identify as individuals with disabilities, pursuant to this section, no later than two years after the January 18, 2017. A sponsor must also invite each of its current apprentices to voluntarily inform the sponsor whether the apprentice believes that he or she is an individual with a disability, as defined in § 30.2, no later than two years after January 18, 2017.


(2) New sponsors: A sponsor registering with a Registration Agency after the effective date of this Final Rule must begin inviting applicants and apprentices to identify as individuals with disabilities, pursuant to this section, no later than two years after the date of registration. A sponsor covered by this subparagraph must also invite each of its current apprentices to voluntarily inform the sponsor whether the apprentice believes that he or she is an individual with a disability, as defined in § 30.2, no later than two years after the date of registration.




