# § 800.174   Issuance and possession of licenses and authorizations.

(a) *Scope of licenses and authorizations.* Subject to the provisions of § 800.171, eligible individuals may be licensed or authorized by the Service to perform one or more services specified in this paragraph.


(1) *Official samplers.* Individuals employed by an agency or the Service or employed under the terms of a contract with the Service may be licensed or authorized, as applicable, to perform or supervise the performance of stowage examinations, grain sampling, and related technical services and to issue official certificates for the services performed by them.


(2) *Licensed warehouse samplers.* Elevator or warehouse employees may be licensed to sample grain and perform stowage examinations. No elevator employee shall be licensed to (i) sample export grain for inspection under the Act, (ii) test or grade grain, or (iii) certify the results of any inspection service under the Act.


(3) *Official inspection technicians.* Individuals employed by an agency or the Service or employed under the terms of a contract with the Service may be licensed or authorized to perform or supervise the performance of stowage examinations, grain sampling, or all or specified noninterpretive laboratory-testing services and to issue official certificates for the services performed by them.


(4) *Official inspectors.* Individuals employed by an agency or the Service may be licensed or authorized to perform and supervise the performance of stowage examinations, sampling, laboratory-testing, grading, and related services and to issue official certificates for the services performed by them.


(5) *Official weighing technicians.* Individuals who are employed by an agency or the Service to observe the loading, unloading, and handling of grain that has been or is to be weighed under the Act may be licensed or authorized to perform and supervise the performance of grain handling and stowage examination services and to issue official certificates for the services performed by them.


(6) *Official weighers.* Individuals employed by an agency or the Service may be licensed or authorized to perform and supervise the performance of grain handling, stowage examination, official weighing (Class X), and supervision of weighing (Class Y), and related services and to issue official certificates for the services performed by them.


(7) *Authorized scale tester.* Individuals employed by the Service may be authorized to test and supervise the testing of scales used for Class X and Class Y weighing services and to approve and certify scales based on the results of these tests.


(b) *Condition for issuance*—(1) *Compliance with the Act.* Each license is issued on the condition that the licensee will, during the term of the license, comply with the Act, the regulations, and the instructions.


(2) *Possession of license.* Each license shall be the property of the Service, but each licensee shall have the right to possess the license subject to the provisions of §§ 800.173, 800.186, and 800.187.


(c) *Duplicate license.* Upon satisfactory proof of the loss or destruction of a license, a duplicate will be issued by the Service.


(d) *Retention of licenses.* Each license shall be retained by the holder of the license in a manner that the license can be examined upon request by service personnel.




