# § 403.906   Reports of physician ownership and investment interests.

(a) *General rule.* (1) Each applicable manufacturer and applicable group purchasing organization must report to CMS on an annual basis all ownership and investment interests in the applicable manufacturer or applicable group purchasing organization that were held by a physician or an immediate family member of a physician during the preceding calendar year.


(2) For CY 2013, only ownership or investment interests held on or after August 1, 2013 must be reported to CMS.


(b) *Identifying information.* Reports on physician ownership and investment interests must include the following identifying information:


(1) Name of the physician (as listed in the National Plan & Provider Enumeration System (if applicable), including first and last name, middle initial, and suffix (for all that apply), and an indication of whether the ownership or investment interest was held by the physician or an immediate family member of the physician.


(2) Primary business address of the physician, including the following:


(i) Street address.


(ii) Suite or office number (if applicable).


(iii) City.


(iv) State.


(v) ZIP code.


(3) The following information for the physician (regardless of whether the ownership or investment interest is held by an immediate family member of the physician):


(i) The specialty.


(ii) National Provider Identifier (if applicable and as listed in NPPES).


(iii) State professional license number(s) (for at least one State where the physician maintains a license), and the State(s) in which the license is held.


(4) Dollar amount invested by each physician or immediate family member of the physician.


(5) Value and terms of each ownership or investment interest.


(6) Direct and indirect payments or other transfers of value provided to a physician holding an ownership or investment interest, and direct and indirect payments or other transfers of value provided to a third party at the request of or designated by the applicable manufacturer or applicable group purchasing organization on behalf of a physician owner or investor, must be reported by the applicable manufacturer or applicable group purchasing organization in accordance with the requirements for reporting payments or other transfers of value in § 403.904(c) through (h). The terms “applicable manufacturer and applicable group purchasing organization” must be substituted for “applicable manufacturer,” and “physician owner or investor” must be substituted for “covered recipient” in each place they appear.



---

[N] [78 FR 9521, Feb. 8, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 68001, Nov. 13, 2014]




