# § 113.63   Basic custodial bond conditions.

A basic custodial bond must contain the conditions listed in this section and must be a continuous bond.


(a) *Receipt of Merchandise.* The principal agrees:


(1) To operate as a custodian of any bonded merchandise received, including merchandise collected for transport to his facility, and to comply with all regulations regarding the receipt, carriage, safekeeping, and disposition of such merchandise;


(2) To accept only merchandise authorized under CBP regulations;


(3) To maintain all records required by CBP regulations relating to merchandise received into bond, and to produce the records upon demand by an authorized CBP officer;


(4) If authorized to use the alternative transfer procedure set forth in § 144.34(c) of this chapter, to operate as constructive custodian for all merchandise transferred under those procedures, thereby assuming primary responsibility for the continued proper custody of the merchandise notwithstanding its geographical location; 


(5) If authorized to operate a container station under the CBP regulations, to report promptly to CBP each arrival of a container and its merchandise by delivery of the manifest and the application for transfer, or by other approved notice.


(b) *Carriage and Safekeeping of Merchandise.* The principal agrees:


(1) If a bonded carrier, to use only authorized means of conveyance;


(2) To keep safe any merchandise placed in its custody including, when approved by CBP, repacking and transferring such merchandise when necessary for its safety or preservation;


(3) To comply with CBP regulations relating to the handling of bonded merchandise; and


(4) If authorized to use the alternative transfer procedure set forth in § 144.34(c) of this chapter, to keep safe any merchandise so transferred. 


(c) *Disposition of Merchandise.* The principal agrees:


(1) If a bonded carrier, to report in-bond arrivals and exportations in the manner and in the time prescribed by regulation and to export in-bond merchandise in the time periods prescribed by regulation.


(2) If a cartage or lighterage business, to deliver promptly and safely to CBP any merchandise placed in the principal's custody together with any related cartage and lighterage ticket and manifest;


(3) To dispose of merchandise in a manner authorized by CBP regulations; and


(4) To file timely with CBP any report required by CBP regulations.


(5) In the case of Class 9 warehouses, to provide reasonable assurance of exportation of merchandise withdrawn under the sales ticket procedure of § 144.37(h) of this chapter.


(d) *Agreement to Redeliver Merchandise to CBP.* If the principal is designated a bonded carrier, or licensed to operate a cartage or lighterage business, or authorized to use the alternative transfer procedure set forth in § 144.34(c) of this chapter, the principal agrees to redeliver timely, on demand by CBP, any merchandise delivered to unauthorized locations or to the consignee without the permission of CBP. It is understood that the demand for redelivery shall be made no later than 30 days after CBP discovers the improper delivery.


(e) *Compliance with Licensing and Operating Requirements.* The principal agrees to comply with all customs laws and CBP regulations relating to principal's facilities, conveyances, and employees.


(f) *Agreement to comply with CBP regulations applicable to customs security areas at airports.* If access to customs security areas at airports is desired, the principal (including its employee, agents, and contractors) agrees to comply with the CBP regulations applicable to customs security areas at airports. If the principal defaults, the obligors (principal and surety, jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages of $1000 for each default or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation.


(g) The principal agrees to comply with all Importer Security Filing requirements set forth in part 149 of this chapter including but not limited to providing security filing information to CBP in the manner and in the time period prescribed by regulation. If the principal defaults with regard to any obligation, the principal and surety (jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages of $5,000 per violation.


(h) *Agreement to comply with Air Cargo Advance Screening (ACAS) requirements.* The principal agrees to comply with all ACAS requirements set forth in §§ 122.48a and 122.48b of this chapter including, but not limited to, providing ACAS data to U.S. Customs and Border Protection in the manner and in the time period prescribed by regulation and taking the necessary action to address ACAS referrals and Do-Not-Load (DNL) instructions as prescribed by regulation. If the principal defaults with regard to these obligations, the principal and surety (jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages of $5,000 for each violation.


(i) *Reimbursement and Exoneration of the United States.* The principal and surety agree to:


(1) Pay the compensation and expenses of any CBP officer as required by law or regulation;


(2) Pay the cost of any locks, seals, and other fastenings required by CBP regulations for securing merchandise placed in the principal's custody;


(3) Pay for any expenses connected with the suspension or termination of the bonded status of the premises;


(4) Exonerate the United States and its officers from any risk, loss, or expense arising out of the principal's custodial operation; and


(5) Pay any charges found to be due CBP arising out of the principal's custodial operation.


(j) *Consequence of Default.* (1) If the principal defaults on conditions (a) through (e) in this agreement, the obligors (principal and surety, jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages equal to the value of the merchandise involved in the default or three times the value of the merchandise involved in the default if the merchandise is restricted or prohibited merchandise or alcoholic beverages, or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation.


(2) It is understood and agreed that the amount to be collected under conditions (a) through (e) of this agreement will be based upon the quantity and value of the merchandise as determined by CBP. Value as used in these provisions means value as determined under 19 U.S.C. 1401a.


(3) If the principal defaults on conditions (a) through (e) in this agreement and the default does not involve merchandise, the obligors agree to pay liquidated damages of $1,000 for each default or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation. It is understood and agreed that whether the default involves merchandise is determined by CBP.



---

[N] [T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984]


