# § 41.252   Change in ownership or control.

(a) *Fiduciary successor.* If an administrator, executor, receiver, trustee, assignee, or other fiduciary is to take over the business of an importer of processed tobacco as a continuing operation, such fiduciary shall, before commencing operations, make application for permit in accordance with § 41.232, furnish certified copies, in duplicate, of the order of the court, or other pertinent documents, showing his appointment and qualification as such fiduciary. However, where a fiduciary intends only to liquidate the business, qualification as an importer of processed tobacco will not be required if he promptly files with the appropriate TTB officer a written statement to that effect.


(b) *Transfer of ownership.* If a transfer in ownership of the business of an importer of processed tobacco (including a change of any member of a partnership or association) is to be made, such importer shall give notice, in writing, to the appropriate TTB officer, naming the proposed successor and the desired effective date of the transfer. The proposed successor must, before commencing operations, qualify as an importer of processed tobacco in accordance with this subpart. The importer must give notice of the transfer, and the proposed successor must make application for permit, in ample time for examination and approval thereof before the desired date of such change. The predecessor must make a concluding report, in accordance with § 41.262, and surrender the permit with the report. The successor must make a first report, in accordance with § 41.262.


(c) *Change in officers, directors, or stockholders of a corporation.* Upon election or appointment (excluding successive reelection or reappointment) of any officer or director of a corporation operating as an importer of processed tobacco, or upon any occurrence that results in a person acquiring ownership or control of more than ten percent in aggregate of the outstanding stock of such corporation, the importer shall, within 30 days of such action, so notify the appropriate TTB officer in writing, giving the identity of such person. When there is any change in the authority furnished under § 41.271 for officers to act on behalf of the corporation, the importer must immediately so notify the appropriate TTB officer in writing.


(d) *Change in control of corporation.* When the issuance, sale, or transfer of the stock of a corporation operating as an importer of processed tobacco results in a change in the identity of the principal stockholders exercising actual or legal control of the operations of the corporation, the corporate manufacturer must, within 30 days after the change occurs, make application on TTB F 5230.4 for a new permit. Otherwise, the present permit shall be automatically terminated at the expiration of such 30-day period, and the importer must make a concluding report, in accordance with § 41.262, and surrender the permit with the report. If the application for a new permit is timely made, the present permit will continue in effect pending final action with respect to such application.




