# § 74.734   Attended and unattended operation.

(a) Low power TV and TV translator stations may be operated without a designated person in attendance if the following requirements are met:


(1) If the transmitter site cannot be promptly reached at all hours and in all seasons, means shall be provided so that the transmitting apparatus can be turned on and off at will from a point that readily is accessible at all hours and in all seasons.


(2) The transmitter also shall be equipped with suitable automatic circuits that will place it in a nonradiating condition in the absence of a signal on the input channel or circuit.


(3) The transmitting and the ON/OFF control, if at a location other than the transmitter site, shall be adequately protected against tampering by unauthorized persons.


(4) A notification must be filed with the FCC via a Change of Control Point Notice in LMS providing the name, address, and telephone number of a person or persons who may be called to secure suspension of operation of the transmitter promptly should such action be deemed necessary by the FCC. Such information shall be kept current by the licensee. 


(5) In cases where the antenna and supporting structure are considered to be a hazard to air navigation and are required to be painted and lighted under the provisions of part 17 of the Rules, the licensee shall make suitable arrangements for the daily observations, when required, and lighting equipment inspections required by §§ 17.37 and 17.38 of the FCC rules.


(b) An application for authority to construct a new low power TV station (when rebroadcasting the programs of another station) or TV translator station or to make changes in the facilities of an authorized station, and that proposes unattended operation, shall include an adequate showing as to the manner of compliance with this section.



---

[N] [47 FR 21500, May 18, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 21487, May 12, 1983; 60 FR 55483, Nov. 1, 1995; 63 FR 33878, June 22, 1998; 67 FR 13233, Mar. 21, 2002; 87 FR 58203, Sept. 23, 2022; 88 FR 30668, May 12, 2023]




