# ยง 3430.60   Suspension, termination, and withholding of support.

(a) *General.* If an awardee has failed to materially comply with the terms and conditions of the award, NIFA may take certain enforcement actions, including, but not limited to, suspending the award pending corrective action, terminating the award for cause, and withholding of support.


(b) *Suspension.* NIFA generally will suspend (rather than immediately terminate) an award to allow the awardee an opportunity to take appropriate corrective action before NIFA makes a termination decision. NIFA may decide to terminate the award if the awardee does not take appropriate corrective action during the period of suspension. NIFA may terminate, without first suspending, the award if the deficiency is so serious as to warrant immediate termination. Termination for cause may be appealed under the NIFA award appeals procedures specified in ยง 3430.62.


(c) *Termination.* An award also may be terminated, partially or wholly, by the awardee or by NIFA with the consent of the awardee. If the awardee decides to terminate a portion of the award, NIFA may determine that the remaining portion of the award will not accomplish the purposes for which the award was originally made. In any such case, NIFA will advise the awardee of the possibility of termination of the entire award and allow the awardee to withdraw its termination request. If the awardee does not withdraw its request for partial termination, NIFA may initiate procedures to terminate the entire award for cause.


(d) *Withholding of support.* Withholding of support is a decision not to make a non-competing continuation award within the current competitive segment. Support may be withheld for one or more of the following reasons: Adequate Federal funds are not available to support the project; an awardee failed to show satisfactory progress in achieving the objectives of the project; an awardee failed to meet the terms and conditions of a previous award; or for whatever reason, continued funding would not be in the best interests of the Federal Government. If a non-competing continuation award is denied (withheld) because the awardee failed to comply with the terms and conditions of a previous award, the awardee may appeal that determination under ยง 3430.62.




