# § 915.140   Avocados not subject to regulation.

(a) *Minimum quantity.* During any one day any handler may handle not to exceed 55 pounds total of avocados exempt from the provisions of §§ 915.41, 915.51, and 915.54, and the regulations issued thereunder: *Provided,* That such exempted quantity shall not be included as part of a shipment exceeding 55 pounds.


(b) *Gift shipments.* Any handler may, exempt from the provisions of §§ 915.41, 915.51, and 915.54, and the regulations issued thereunder, handle avocados in individually addressed gift containers not exceeding 20 pounds net weight for use by the addressee other than for resale.


(c) *Commercial processing into products.* The term *commercial processing into products,* as used in § 915.55(c), means the manufacture of any avocado product which is preserved by any recognized commercial process, including canning, freezing, dehydrating, drying, the addition of chemical substances, or by fermentation.


(d) *Avocados for seed.* Any handler may ship avocados to be used for seed purposes exempt from the provisions of §§ 915.41, 915.51, and 915.54, and the regulations issued thereunder: *Provided,* That such handler shall make application to the committee for an exemption prior to the loading of each shipment and that the receiver of each such shipment shall certify, on a form provided by the committee, that such fruit was used for the intended purpose, and that the residue from the seed separation process will not be allowed to enter fresh channels of trade.



---

[N] [23 FR 9126, Nov. 26, 1958. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 30 FR 10880, Aug. 21, 1965; 36 FR 1191, Jan. 26, 1971; 43 FR 23557, May 31, 1978]




