# ยง 572.19   Lumbar spine, abdomen and pelvis.

(a) The lumbar spine, abdomen, and pelvis consist of the part of the torso assembly shown by number SA 103C 030 on drawing SA 103C 001 and conform to each of the applicable drawings listed under this number on drawing SA 103C 002, sheets 10 and 11.


(b) When subjected to continuously applied force in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, the lumbar spine assembly shall flex by an amount that permits the rigid thoracic spine to rotate from its initial position in accordance with Figure 18 of this subpart by 40 degrees at a force level of not less than 34 pounds and not more than 47 pounds, and straighten upon removal of the force to within 5 degrees of its initial position.


(c) *Test procedure.* (1) The dummy with lower legs removed is positioned in an upright seated position on a seat as indicated in Figure 18, ensuring that all dummy component surfaces are clean, dry and untreated unless otherwise specified.


(2) Attach the pelvis to the seating surface by a bolt C/328, modified as shown in Figure 18, and the upper legs at the knee axial rotation joints by the attachments shown in Figure 18. Tighten the mountings so that the pelvis-lumbar joining surface is horizontal and adjust the femur ball-flange screws at each hip socket joint to 50 inch pounds torque. Remove the head and the neck and install a cylindrical aluminum adapter 2.0 inches in diameter and 2.80 inches long in place of the neck.


(3) Flex the thorax forward 50 degrees and then rearward as necessary to return to its initial position in accordance with Figure 18 unsupported by external means.


(4) Apply a forward pull force in the midsagittal plane at the top of the neck adapter, so that at 40 degrees of the lumbar spine flexion the applied force is perpendicular to the thoracic spine box. Apply the force at any torso deflection rate between 0.5 and 1.5 degrees per second up to 40 degrees of flexion but no further; continue to apply for 10 seconds the force necessary to maintain 40 degrees of flexion, and record the highest applied force at that time. Release all force as rapidly as possible and measure the return angle 3 minutes after the release.




