# § 287.18   Allocation of gain for tax purposes.

(a) *General rules of allocation.* As provided in § 287.17, if amounts on deposit in a construction reserve fund are expended, obligated, or withdrawn for construction, reconstruction, reconditioning, or acquisition of new vessels, or for the liquidation of purchase-money indebtedness of such vessels, the portion thereof which represents gain shall be applied in reduction of the basis of such new vessels. The rules set forth below in this paragraph shall apply in allocating the unrecognized gain to the amounts so expended, obligated, or withdrawn:


(1) If the “net proceeds” of a sale or “net indemnity” in respect of a loss are deposited in more than one deposit, the portion thereof representing unrecognized gain shall be considered as having been deposited first.


(2) Amounts expended, obligated, or withdrawn from the construction reserve fund shall be applied against amounts deposited in the order of deposit.


(3) If any deposit consists in part of gain not recognized under section 511(c) of the Act, then any expenditure, obligation, or withdrawal applied against such deposit shall be considered to consist of gain in the same proportion that the part of the deposit which constitutes gain bears to the total amount of the deposit.


(b) *Date of obligation.* The date funds are obligated under a contract for the construction, reconstruction, reconditioning, or acquisition of new vessels, or for the liquidation of purchase-money indebtedness on such vessels, rather than the date of payment from the fund, will determine the order of application against the deposits in the fund. When a contract for the construction, reconstruction, reconditioning, or acquisition of new vessels, or for the liquidation of purchase-money indebtedness on such vessels is entered into, amounts on deposit in the construction reserve fund will be deemed to be obligated to the extent of the amount of the taxpayer's liability under the contract. Deposits will be deemed to be so obligated in the order of deposit, each new contract obligating the earliest deposit not previously expended, obligated, or withdrawn. If the liability under the contract exceeds the amount in the construction reserve fund, the contract will be deemed to obligate, to the extent of that part of such excess not otherwise satisfied, the earliest deposit or deposits thereafter made.


(c) *Illustration.* The foregoing rules are illustrated in the following example:


