# 4.2303   FASCSA orders.

(a) Executive agencies are prohibited from procuring or obtaining, or extending or renewing a contract to procure or obtain, any covered article, or any products or services produced or provided by a source, including contractor use of covered articles or sources, if that prohibition is established by an applicable FASCSA order issued by the Director of National Intelligence, Secretary of Defense, or Secretary of Homeland Security (the “issuing official”)(see 41 CFR 201-1.304(a)).


(b) If a covered article or the source is subject to an applicable Governmentwide FASCSA order issued collectively by the Director of National Intelligence, Secretary of Defense, and Secretary of Homeland Security, executive agencies responsible for management of the Federal Supply Schedules, Governmentwide acquisition contracts, and multi-agency contracts shall facilitate implementation of a collective FASCSA order by removing the covered articles or sources identified in the FASCSA order from such contracts (see 41 CFR 201-1.303(g)).


(c)(1) FASCSA orders regarding sources or covered articles will be found in the System for Award Management (SAM), by searching for the phrase “FASCSA order”. SAM may be updated as new FASCSA orders are issued.


(2) Some FASCSA orders will not be identified in SAM and will need to be identified in the solicitation to be effective for that acquisition. The requiring activity or program office will identify these FASCSA orders to the contracting officer (see 4.2304(d)).


(3) The contracting officer shall work with the program office or requiring activity to identify which FASCSA orders apply to the acquisition.






