# ยง 230.110   Business hours of the Commission.

(a) *General.* The principal office of the Commission, at 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549, is open each day, except Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays, from 9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Saving Time, whichever is currently in effect, *provided that* hours for the filing of documents pursuant to the Act or the rules and regulations thereunder are as set forth in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this section.


(b) *Submissions made in paper.* Paper documents filed with or otherwise furnished to the Commission may be submitted each day, except Saturdays, Sundays and federal holidays, from 8 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Saving Time, whichever is currently in effect.


(c) *Filings by direct transmission.* Filings made by direct transmission may be submitted to the Commission each day, except Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays, from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m., Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Saving Time, whichever is currently in effect.


(d) *Filings by facsimile.* Registration statements and post-effective amendments thereto filed by facsimile transmission pursuant to Rule 462(b) (ยง 230.462(b)) and Rule 455 (ยง 230.455) may be filed with the Commission each day, except Saturdays, Sundays and federal holidays, from 5:30 p.m. to 10 p.m., Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Savings Time, whichever is currently in effect.



---

[N] [58 FR 14669, Mar. 18, 1993, as amended at 60 FR 26615, May 17, 1995; 65 FR 24799, Apr. 27, 2000; 68 FR 25798, May 13, 2003; 73 FR 967, Jan. 4, 2008; 88 FR 12209, Feb. 27, 2023]




