# § 47.47   Cancellation of Certificate for export purpose.

(a) The holder of a Certificate of Aircraft Registration or the holder of an irrevocable deregistration and export request authorization recognized under the Cape Town Treaty and filed with the FAA who wishes to cancel the Certificate of Aircraft Registration for the purpose of export must submit to the Registry—




(1) A written request for cancellation of the Certificate of Aircraft Registration describing the aircraft by make, model, and serial number, and stating the U.S. registration number and the country to which the aircraft will be exported;


(2)(i) For an aircraft not subject to the Cape Town Treaty, evidence satisfactory to the FAA that each holder of a recorded right has been satisfied or has consented to the transfer; or


(ii) For an aircraft subject to the Cape Town Treaty, evidence satisfactory to the FAA that each holder of a recorded right established prior to the date the Treaty entered into force with respect to the United States has been satisfied or has consented to the transfer; and


(3) A written certification that all registered interests ranking in priority to that of the requestor have been discharged or that the holders of such interests have consented to the cancellation for export purposes.


(b) If the aircraft is subject to the Cape Town Treaty and an irrevocable deregistration and export request authorization has been filed with the Registry, the Registry will honor a request for cancellation only if an authorized party makes the request.


(c) The Registry notifies the country to which the aircraft is to be exported of the cancellation.



---

[N] [Amdt. 47-27, 70 FR 245, Jan. 3, 2005, as amended by Amdt. 47-29, 75 FR 41982, July 20, 2010; Docket No. FAA-2024-2765, Amdt. No. 47-36, 90 FR 5572, Jan. 17, 2025]




