# § 63.11950   What emissions calculations must I use for an emission profile?

When developing your emission profiles for batch process vents as required in § 63.11925(g), except as specified in paragraph (i) of this section, you must calculate emissions from episodes caused by vapor displacement, purging a partially filled vessel, heating, depressurization, vacuum operations, gas evolution, air drying, or empty vessel purging, using the applicable procedures in paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section.


(a) *Vapor displacement.* You must calculate emissions from vapor displacement due to transfer of material using Equation 1 of this section.


(Eq. 1)


(b) *Gas sweep of a partially filled vessel.* You must calculate emissions from purging a partially filled vessel using Equation 2 of this section. The pressure of the vessel vapor space may be set equal to 760 millimeters of mercury (mmHg). You must multiply the HAP partial pressure in Equation 2 of this section by a HAP-specific saturation factor determined in accordance with Equations 3 through 5 of this section. Solve Equation 3 of this section iteratively beginning with saturation factors (in the right-hand side of the equation) of 1.0 for each condensable compound. Stop iterating when the calculated saturation factors for all compounds are the same to two significant figures for subsequent iterations. Note that for multi-component emission streams, saturation factors must be calculated for all condensable compounds, not just the HAP.


(Eq. 2)


(c) *Heating.* You must calculate emissions caused by the heating of a vessel to a temperature lower than the boiling point using the procedures in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. If the contents of a vessel are heated to the boiling point, you must calculate emissions using the procedures in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(1) If the final temperature to which the vessel contents are heated is lower than the boiling point of the HAP in the vessel, you must calculate the mass of HAP emitted per episode using Equation 6 of this section. The average gas space molar volume during the heating process is calculated using Equation 7 of this section. The difference in the number of moles of condensable in the vessel headspace between the initial and final temperatures is calculated using Equation 8 of this section.


(Eq. 6)


(2) If the final temperature to which the vessel contents are heated is at the boiling point or higher, you must calculate emissions using the procedure in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) To calculate the emissions from heating to the boiling point use Equations 9, 10 and 11 of this section. (Note that Pa_2_ = 0 in the calculation of Δη in Equation 10 of this section.)


(ii) While boiling, the vessel must be operated with a properly operated process condenser. An initial demonstration that a process condenser is properly operated must be conducted during the boiling operation and documented in the notification of compliance status report described in § 63.11985(a). You must either measure the liquid temperature in the receiver or the temperature of the gas stream exiting the condenser and show it is less than the boiling or bubble point of the HAP in the vessel; or perform a material balance around the vessel and condenser and show that at least 99 percent of the recovered HAP vaporized while boiling is condensed. This demonstration is not required if the process condenser is followed by a condenser acting as a control device or if the control device is monitored using a CEMS.


(d) *Depressurization.* You must calculate emissions from depressurization using Equation 12 of this section.


(e) *Vacuum systems.* You must calculate emissions from vacuum systems using Equation 13 of this section if the air leakage rate is known or can be approximated. The receiving vessel is part of the vacuum system for purposes of this subpart.


(h) *Empty vessel purging.* You must calculate emissions from empty vessel purging using Equation 15 of this section (Note: The term e-Ft/v can be assumed to be 0):


(i) *Engineering assessments.* You must conduct an engineering assessment to calculate HAP emissions or emission episodes from each process vent that are not due to vapor displacement, partially filled vessel purging, heating, depressurization, vacuum operations, gas evolution, air drying or empty vessel purging. An engineering assessment may also be used to support a finding that the emissions estimation equations in this section are inappropriate. All data, assumptions and procedures used in the engineering assessment must be documented, are subject to preapproval by the Administrator, and must be reported in the batch precompliance report. An engineering assessment should include, but is not limited to, the items listed in paragraphs (i)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) Previous test results provided the tests are representative of current operating practices at the process unit.


(2) Bench-scale or pilot-scale test data representative of the process under representative operating conditions.


(3) Maximum flow rate, HAP emission rate, concentration, or other relevant parameter specified or implied within a permit limit applicable to the process vent.


(4) Design analysis based on accepted chemical engineering principles, measurable process parameters, or physical or chemical laws or properties. Examples of analytical methods include, but are not limited to the following:


(i) Use of material balances based on process stoichiometry to estimate maximum organic HAP concentrations.


(ii) Estimation of maximum flow rate based on physical equipment design such as pump or blower capacities.


(iii) Estimation of HAP concentrations based on saturation conditions.




