# § 91.319   Aircraft having experimental certificates: Operating limitations.

(a) Except as provided in § 91.326, no person may operate an aircraft that has an experimental certificate—


(1) For other than the purpose for which the certificate was issued; or 


(2) Carrying persons or property for compensation or hire in operations that:


(i) Require an air carrier or commercial operator certificate issued under part 119 of this chapter;


(ii) Are listed in § 119.1(e) of this chapter;


(iii) Require management specifications for a fractional ownership program issued in accordance with subpart K of this part; or


(iv) Are conducted under part 129, 133, or 137 of this chapter.


(b) No person may operate an aircraft that has an experimental certificate outside of an area assigned by the Administrator until it is shown that— 


(1) The aircraft is controllable throughout its normal range of speeds and throughout all the maneuvers to be executed; and 


(2) The aircraft has no hazardous operating characteristics or design features. 


(c) Unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator in special operating limitations, no person may operate an aircraft that has an experimental certificate over a densely populated area or in a congested airway. The Administrator may issue special operating limitations for particular aircraft to permit takeoffs and landings to be conducted over a densely populated area or in a congested airway, in accordance with terms and conditions specified in the authorization in the interest of safety in air commerce. 


(d) Each person operating an aircraft that has an experimental certificate shall—


(1) Advise each person carried of the experimental nature of the aircraft; 


(2) Operate under VFR, day only, unless otherwise specifically authorized by the Administrator; and 


(3) Notify air traffic control of the experimental nature of the aircraft when utilizing air traffic services.


(e) No person may operate a light-sport aircraft that is issued an experimental certificate under § 21.191 of this chapter for compensation or hire, except:


(1) A person may operate an aircraft issued an experimental certificate under § 21.191(i)(1) of this chapter to tow a glider that is a light-sport aircraft or unpowered ultralight vehicle in accordance with § 91.309; or


(2) A person may operate a light-sport aircraft issued an experimental certificate under § 21.191 of this chapter to conduct operations authorized under § 91.326.


(f) No person may lease a light-sport aircraft that is issued an experimental certificate under § 21.191 of this chapter, except—


(1) In accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section; or


(2) To conduct a solo flight in accordance with a training program included as part of the deviation authority specified under § 91.326(b).


(g) No person may operate an aircraft issued an experimental certificate under § 21.191(i)(1) of this chapter to tow a glider that is a light-sport aircraft or unpowered ultralight vehicle for compensation or hire or to conduct flight training for compensation or hire in an aircraft which that persons provides unless within the preceding 100 hours of time in service the aircraft has—


(1) Been inspected by a certificated repairman (light-sport aircraft) with a maintenance rating, an appropriately rated mechanic, or an appropriately rated repair station in accordance with inspection procedures developed by the aircraft manufacturer or a person acceptable to the FAA; or


(2) Received an inspection for the issuance of an airworthiness certificate in accordance with part 21 of this chapter.


(h) [Reserved]


(i) The Administrator may prescribe additional limitations that the Administrator considers necessary, including limitations on the persons that may be carried in the aircraft.


(j) No person may operate an aircraft that has an experimental certificate under § 61.113(i) of this chapter unless the aircraft is carrying not more than 7 occupants.







---

[N] [Doc. No. 18334, 54 FR 34308, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-282, 69 FR 44881, July 27, 2004; Docket FAA-2016-9157, Amdt. 91-347, 82 FR 3167, Jan. 11, 2017; Docket No. FAA-2024-2580; Amdt. No. 91-380, 89 FR 90578, Nov. 18, 2024; Docket No. FAA-2023-1351; Amdt. No. 91-378, 89 FR 80340, Oct. 2, 2024]






