# ยง 63.11517   What are my monitoring requirements?

(a) *Visual determination of fugitive emissions, general.* Visual determination of fugitive emissions must be performed according to the procedures of EPA Method 22, of 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A-7. You must conduct the EPA Method 22 test while the affected source is operating under normal conditions. The duration of each EPA Method 22 test must be at least 15 minutes, and visible emissions will be considered to be present if they are detected for more than six minutes of the fifteen minute period.


(b) *Visual determination of fugitive emissions, graduated schedule.* Visual determinations of fugitive emissions must be performed in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section and according to the schedule in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) *Daily Method 22 Testing.* Perform visual determination of fugitive emissions once per day, on each day the process is in operation, during operation of the process.


(2) *Weekly Method 22 Testing.* If no visible fugitive emissions are detected in consecutive daily EPA Method 22 tests, performed in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section for 10 days of work day operation of the process, you may decrease the frequency of EPA Method 22 testing to once every five days of operation of the process (one calendar week). If visible fugitive emissions are detected during these tests, you must resume EPA Method 22 testing of that operation once per day during each day that the process is in operation, in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(3) *Monthly Method 22 Testing.* If no visible fugitive emissions are detected in four consecutive weekly EPA Method 22 tests performed in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, you may decrease the frequency of EPA Method 22 testing to once per 21 days of operation of the process (one calendar month). If visible fugitive emissions are detected during these tests, you must resume weekly EPA Method 22 in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(4) *Quarterly Method 22 Testing.* If no visible fugitive emissions are detected in three consecutive monthly EPA Method 22 tests performed in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, you may decrease the frequency of EPA Method 22 testing to once per 60 days of operation of the process (3 calendar months). If visible fugitive emissions are detected during these tests, you must resume monthly EPA Method 22 in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(c) *Visual determination of emissions opacity for welding Tier 2 or 3, general.* Visual determination of emissions opacity must be performed in accordance with the procedures of EPA Method 9, of 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A-4, and while the affected source is operating under normal conditions. The duration of the EPA Method 9 test shall be thirty minutes.


(d) *Visual determination of emissions opacity for welding Tier 2 or 3, graduated schedule.* You must perform visual determination of emissions opacity in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section and according to the schedule in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) *Daily Method 9 testing for welding, Tier 2 or 3.* Perform visual determination of emissions opacity once per day during each day that the process is in operation.


(2) *Weekly Method 9 testing for welding, Tier 2 or 3.* If the average of the six minute opacities recorded during any of the daily consecutive EPA Method 9 tests performed in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section does not exceed 20 percent for 10 days of operation of the process, you may decrease the frequency of EPA Method 9 testing to once per five days of consecutive work day operation. If opacity greater than 20 percent is detected during any of these tests, you must resume testing every day of operation of the process according to the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section.


(3) *Monthly Method 9 testing for welding Tier 2 or 3.* If the average of the six minute opacities recorded during any of the consecutive weekly EPA Method 9 tests performed in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section does not exceed 20 percent for four consecutive weekly tests, you may decrease the frequency of EPA Method 9 testing to once per every 21 days of operation of the process. If visible emissions opacity greater than 20 percent is detected during any monthly test, you must resume testing every five days of operation of the process according to the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(4) *Quarterly Method 9 testing for welding Tier 2 or 3.* If the average of the six minute opacities recorded during any of the consecutive weekly EPA Method 9 tests performed in accordance with paragraph (d)(3) of this section does not exceed 20 percent for three consecutive monthly tests, you may decrease the frequency of EPA Method 9 testing to once per every 120 days of operation of the process. If visible emissions opacity greater than 20 percent is detected during any quarterly test, you must resume testing every 21 days (month) of operation of the process according to the requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section.


(5) *Return to Method 22 testing for welding, Tier 2 or 3.* If, after two consecutive months of testing, the average of the six minute opacities recorded during any of the monthly EPA Method 9 tests performed in accordance with paragraph (d)(3) of this section does not exceed 20 percent, you may resume EPA Method 22 testing as in paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section. In lieu of this, you may elect to continue performing EPA Method 9 tests in accordance with paragraphs (d)(3)and (4) of this section.




