# ยง 402.80   Charging under section 1106(c) of the Social Security Act.

Section 1106(c) of the Social Security Act permits the agency to charge the full cost to process requests for information for purposes not directly related to the administration of program(s) under the Social Security Act. This may be done notwithstanding the fee provisions in FOIA, the Privacy Act, or any other provision of law. In responding to FOIA requests for non-program purposes, we will charge the full cost (both direct and indirect costs) of our services, regardless of the requester's fee categorization, unless the cost of the service is less than the cost of issuing a bill as stated in paragraph (b) of this section.


(a) *Full costs.* The agency may charge full costs for processing records or information requests, including but not limited to:


(1) *Search.* We may charge for search time even if we are unable to locate any responsive records or the records are exempt from disclosure. We will notify the requester in writing if the records estimated as responsive are determined unreasonably burdensome for the agency to process and/or the search would cause significant interference with the operation of SSA's automated information systems.


(2) *Review.* Review includes the reviews performed at any level (staff through executive), including but not limited to review by multiple people and offices.


(3) *Production and duplication of record(s).* We may charge the full cost of the systems' processing (*e.g.,* computer search time, computer processing database retrieval), materials used to produce and duplicate the requested record(s), and time spent by agency employee(s) and/or contractor(s) in production, duplication, or otherwise processing the FOIA request.


(4) *Certification.* We will charge the full costs for certification.


(5) *Employee's time.* The full cost of an employee's time includes fringe benefits and overhead costs, such as rent and utilities.


(6) *Forwarding/delivering materials.* If special arrangements for forwarding material are requested, we will charge the requester the full cost of this service (*e.g.,* if express mail or a commercial delivery service is requested). If no special forwarding arrangements are requested, we will charge the requester the full cost of the service, including the U.S. Postal Service cost.


(7) *Performing other special services.* If we agree to provide any special services requested, we will charge the full cost of the time of the employee(s) or contractor(s) who perform the service, plus the full cost of any systems processing time and materials that the employee or contractor uses.


(b) *Cost of service less than cost of issuing a bill.* We will not charge a fee when the cost of the service is less than the cost of sending the requester a bill. However, where an individual, organization, or governmental unit makes multiple separate requests, we will total the costs incurred and bill the requester for the services rendered.


(c) *Standard administrative fees for non-program information.* The information in this part does not revoke, modify, or supersede the schedule of standard administrative fees the agency charges for specified non-program information requests.


(d) *Non-program purpose.* Non-program purposes constitute any purpose that is not program related.


(1) We consider a request to be program related if:


(i) The information must be disclosed under the Social Security Act (Act); or


(ii) The information will be used for a purpose which is directly related to the administration of a program under the Act for which SSA has responsibility. In deciding whether this paragraph (d)(1)(ii) applies, the major criteria SSA considers is whether the information is:


(A) Needed to pursue a benefit under a program that SSA administers under the Act.


(B) Needed solely to verify the accuracy of information obtained in connection with a program that SSA administers under the Act.


(C) Needed in connection with an activity under SSA's purview which is authorized under the Act.


(D) Needed by an employer to carry out taxpaying responsibilities under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act or section 218 of the Act.


(2) We will consider each request on a case-by-case basis when the criteria in this paragraph (d) are not met but the requester claims a request is for a program-related purpose for another reason. We will not conclude a request is program-related solely because the records sought are about programs administered by SSA or are claimed to be of public interest.


(e) *Disagreement with program or non-program determination.* Only the FOIA Officer has the authority to make the program/non-program decision. If a requester disagrees with the FOIA Officer's non-program determination, they may appeal the decision to the Executive Director for OPD. In the appeal letter, the requester should explain why they believe the request meets the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section. The process described in ยง 402.105 will also apply to these appeals.






