# ยง 60.40Da   Applicability and designation of affected facility.

(a) Except as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, the affected facility to which this subpart applies is each electric utility steam generating unit:


(1) That is capable of combusting more than 73 megawatts (MW) (250 million British thermal units per hour (MMBtu/hr)) heat input of fossil fuel (either alone or in combination with any other fuel); and


(2) For which construction, modification, or reconstruction is commenced after September 18, 1978.


(b) An IGCC electric utility steam generating unit (both the stationary combustion turbine and any associated duct burners) is subject to this part and is not subject to subpart GG or KKKK of this part if both of the conditions specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section are met.


(1) The IGCC electric utility steam generating unit is capable of combusting more than 73 MW (250 MMBtu/h) heat input of fossil fuel (either alone or in combination with any other fuel) in the combustion turbine engine and associated heat recovery steam generator; and


(2) The IGCC electric utility steam generating unit commenced construction, modification, or reconstruction after February 28, 2005.


(c) Any change to an existing fossil-fuel-fired steam generating unit to accommodate the use of combustible materials, other than fossil fuels, shall not bring that unit under the applicability of this subpart.


(d) Any change to an existing steam generating unit originally designed to fire gaseous or liquid fossil fuels, to accommodate the use of any other fuel (fossil or nonfossil) shall not bring that unit under the applicability of this subpart.


(e) Applicability of this subpart to an electric utility combined cycle gas turbine other than an IGCC electric utility steam generating unit is as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) Affected facilities (*i.e.* heat recovery steam generators used with duct burners) associated with a stationary combustion turbine that are capable of combusting more than 73 MW (250 MMBtu/h) heat input of fossil fuel are subject to this subpart except in cases when the affected facility (*i.e.* heat recovery steam generator) meets the applicability requirements of and is subject to subpart KKKK of this part.


(2) For heat recovery steam generators use with duct burners subject to this subpart, only emissions resulting from the combustion of fuels in the steam generating unit (*i.e.* duct burners) are subject to the standards under this subpart. (The emissions resulting from the combustion of fuels in the stationary combustion turbine engine are subject to subpart GG or KKKK, as applicable, of this part.)


(3) Any affected facility that meets the applicability requirements and is subject to subpart Eb or subpart CCCC of this part is not subject to the emission standards under subpart Da.



---

[N] [72 FR 32722, June 13, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 5078, Jan. 28, 2009; 77 FR 9448, Feb. 16, 2012]




