# § 181.3   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Associated equipment* means:


(1) Any system, part, or component of a boat as originally manufactured or any similar part or component manufactured or sold for replacement, repair, or improvement of such system, part, or component;


(2) Any accessory or equipment for, or appurtenance to, a boat; and


(3) Any marine safety article, accessory, or equipment intended for use by a person on board a boat; but


(4) Excluding radio equipment.


*Boat* means any vessel— 


(1) Manufactured or used primarily for noncommercial use; 


(2) Leased, rented, or chartered to another for the latter's noncommercial use; or 


(3) Operated as an uninspected passenger vessel subject to the requirements of 46 CFR chapter I, subchapter C.


*Date of certification* means the date on which a boat or item of associated equipment is certified to comply with all applicable U.S. Coast Guard safety standards in effect on that date.


*Date of manufacture* means the month and year during which construction or assembly of a boat or item of associated equipment begins.


*Manufacturer* means any person engaged in—


(1) The manufacture, construction, or assembly of boats or associated equipment; or


(2) The importation of boats, associated equipment, or the components thereof, into the United States for sale.


*Private label merchandiser* means any person engaged in the business of selling and distributing, under his own trade name, boats, or items of associated equipment manufactured by another.


*State* means a State of the United States, Guam, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States.



---

[N] [CGD 96-026, 61 FR 33669, June 28, 1996; 61 FR 36786, July 12, 1996, as amended by USCG-1999;-5040, May 15, 2002; USCG-2003-14963, 77 FR 18703, Mar. 28, 2012; USCG-2016-0498, 82 FR 35089, July 28, 2017]




