# § 116.9   Creditors that cannot be found or that are out of business.

(a) *General requirements.* A political committee may request that the Commission determine that a debt owed to a creditor is not payable for purposes of the Act if the debt has been outstanding for at least twenty-four months, and the requirements of paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, as appropriate, have been satisfied, and—


(1) The creditor has gone out of business and no other entity has a right to be paid the amount owed; or


(2) The political committee has exercised reasonable diligence in attempting to locate the creditor and has been unable to do so. *Reasonable diligence in attempting to locate the creditor* means the political committee has attempted to ascertain the current address, telephone number, and email address, and has attempted to contact the creditor by registered or certified mail, and either in person, by telephone, or by email.


(b) *Terminating committees.* If the political committee making the request is a terminating committee, the terminating committee shall include the request in a debt settlement plan filed with the Commission, and shall demonstrate that the requirements of 11 CFR 116.3, 116.5 or 116.6, as appropriate, and 116.9(a) are satisfied. The terminating committee shall continue to disclose the debt on its schedules of outstanding debts and obligations until the Commission has completed its review of the debt settlement plan pursuant to 11 CFR 116.7(f) and has determined that the debt is not payable for purposes of the Act.


(c) *Ongoing committees.* If the political committee making the request is an ongoing committee, the ongoing committee shall make the request in writing and shall demonstrate that the requirements of 11 CFR 116.3, 116.5 or 116.6, as appropriate, and 116.9(a) are satisfied. The Commission will review the request to determine whether the ongoing committee and the creditor have complied with the requirements of 11 CFR part 116, and to determine whether reporting the debt as not payable would result in an apparent violation of the Act or the Commission's regulations. The ongoing committee shall continue to disclose the debt on its schedules of outstanding debts and obligations until the Commission has completed its review of the request and has determined that the debt is not payable for purposes of the Act.


(d) *Reporting.* Upon notification that the Commission has determined that the debt is not payable for purposes of the Act, the political committee may list the debt as not payable on the next due report. Notwithstanding 11 CFR 104.11, the debt does not have to be included in subsequent reports unless the status of the debt changes. The presence of a debt that the Commission has determined is not payable shall not bar the political committee from terminating its registration pursuant to 11 CFR 102.3.



---

[N] [55 FR 26386, June 27, 1990, as amended at 89 FR 218, Jan. 2, 2024]




