# § 205.2   What definitions apply to this part?

For purposes of this part: 


*Administrative costs* means expenses incurred by a State associated with managing a Federal assistance program. This term includes indirect costs. 


*Auditable* means records must be retained to allow for calculations outlined in the Treasury-State agreements to be reviewed and replicated for compliance purposes. States must maintain these records to be readily available, fully documented, and verifiable. 


*Authorized State official* means a person with the authority under the laws of a State to make commitments on behalf of the State for the purposes of this part, or that person's official designee as certified in writing. 


*Business day* means a day when Federal Reserve Banks are open. 


*Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA)* means the government-wide list of Federal assistance programs, projects, services, and activities which provide assistance or benefits to the American public. The listing includes financial and non-financial Federal assistance programs administered by agencies of the Federal government. 


*Clearance pattern* means a projection showing the daily amount subtracted from a State's bank account each day after the State makes a disbursement. For example, a State mailing out benefit checks may project that the percentage of checks cashed each day will be 0% for the first day, 10% for the second day, 80% on the third day, and 10% on the fourth day following issuance. Clearance patterns are used to schedule the transfer of funds with various funding techniques and to support interest calculations. 


*Compensating balance* means funds maintained in State bank accounts and/or State Treasurer bank accounts to offset the costs of bank services. 


*Current project cost* means a cost for which the State has recorded a liability on or after the day that the State last requested funds for the project. 


*Day* means a calendar day unless otherwise specified. 


*Default procedures* means efficient cash management practices that we prescribe for Federal funds transfers to a State if a Treasury-State agreement is not in place. 


*Disburse* means to issue a check or initiate an electronic funds transfer payment, or to provide access to benefits through an electronic benefits transfer. 


*Discretionary grant project* means a project for which a Federal Program Agency is authorized by law to exercise judgment in awarding a grant and in selecting a grantee, generally through a competitive process. 


*Dollar-weighted average day of clearance* means the day when, on a cumulative basis, 50 percent of funds have been paid out. To calculate the dollar-weighted average day of clearance for a clearance pattern: 


(1) For each day, multiply the percentage of dollars paid out that day by the number of days that have elapsed since the payments were issued. For example, on the first day payments were issued, multiply the percentage of dollars paid out on that day by zero, since zero days have elapsed. On the day after payments were issued, multiply the percentage of dollars paid out on that day by one, since one day has elapsed; and so forth. 


(2) Total the results from paragraph (1) of this definition. Round to the nearest whole number. This is the dollar-weighted average day of clearance. 


*Draw down* (verb) means a process in which a State requests and receives Federal funds. 


*Drawdown* (noun) means Federal funds requested and received by a State. 


*Electronic Funds Transfer* (EFT) means any transfer of funds, other than a transaction originated by cash, check, or similar paper instrument, that is initiated through an electronic terminal, telephone, computer, or magnetic tape, for the purpose of ordering, instructing, or authorizing a financial institution to debit or credit an account. 


*Estimate* means a projection of the needs of a Federal Assistance Program. 


*Federal assistance program* means a program included in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance where funds are transferred from the Federal government to a State. Federal assistance programs include cooperative agreements, but do not include vendor payments or direct loans. 


*Federal Program Agency* means an executive agency as defined by 31 U.S.C. 102, except the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA), that issues and administers Federal assistance programs to States or cooperative agreements with States. 


*Federal-State agreement* means an agreement between a State and a Federal Program Agency specifying terms and conditions for carrying out a Federal assistance program or group of programs. This is different than a Treasury-State agreement. 


*Bureau of the Fiscal Service (we or us)* means the Bureau of the U.S. Department of the Treasury responsible for implementation of this part. 


*Fiscal year* means the twelve-month period that a State designates as its budget year.


*Grant* means, for purposes of this part, a funds transfer by the Federal government associated with a Federal assistance program listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance. 


*Indirect cost rate* means a formula that identifies the amount of indirect costs based on the amount of accrued direct costs. The applicable indirect cost rate shall be described in the Treasury-State agreement. 


*Indirect costs* means costs a State incurs that are necessary to the operation and performance of its Federal assistance programs, but that are not readily identifiable with a particular project or Federal assistance program. 


*Interest calculation costs* means those costs a State incurs in performing the actual calculation of interest liabilities, including those costs a State incurs in developing and maintaining clearance patterns in support of interest calculations. 


*Maintenance-of-effort* means a requirement that a State spend at least a specified amount of State funds for Federal assistance program purposes. 


*Major Federal assistance program* means a Federal assistance program which receives Federal funding in excess of the dollar thresholds found in Table A to § 205.5. 


*Obligational authority* means the existence of a definite commitment on the part of the Federal government to provide appropriated funds to a State to carry out specified programs, whether the commitment is executed before or after a State pays out funds for Federal assistance program purposes. 


*Pay out* means to debit the State's bank account. 


*Pay out funds for Federal Assistance Program Purposes* means, in the context of State payments, to debit a State account for the purpose of making a payment to: 


(1) A person or entity that is not considered part of the State pursuant to the definition of “State” in this section; or 


(2) A State entity that provides goods or services for the direct benefit or use of the payor State entity or the Federal government to further Federal assistance program goals. 


*Rebate* means funds returned to a State by third parties after a State has paid out those funds for Federal assistance program purposes. 


*Refund* means funds that a State recovers that it previously paid out for Federal assistance program purposes. Refunds include rebates received from third parties. 


*Refund transaction* means an entry to the record of a State bank account representing a single deposit of refunds. A refund transaction may consist of a single check or item, or a bundle of accumulated checks. 


*Related banking costs* means separately identified costs which are necessary and customary for maintaining an account in a financial institution, whether a commercial account or a State Treasurer account. Investment service fees and fees for credit-related services are not related banking costs. 


*Request for funds* means a State's request for funds that the State completes and submits in accordance with Federal Program Agency guidelines. 


*Reverse flow program* means a Federal assistance program, such as Supplemental Security Income (SSI), for which the Federal government makes payments to recipients on behalf of a State. 


*Revolving loan fund* means a pool of program funds managed by a State. States may loan funds from the pool to other entities in support of Federal assistance program goals. Investment income is earned on the funds that remain in the pool and on loans made from pool funds. A Federal Program Agency may require that all income derived from a revolving loan fund be used for Federal assistance program purposes. 


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the United States Department of the Treasury. We are the Secretary's representative in all matters concerning this part, unless otherwise specified. 


*State* means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, and the Virgin Islands. It includes any agency, instrumentality, or fiscal agent of a State that is legally and fiscally dependent on the State Executive, State Treasurer, or State Comptroller. 


(1) A State agency or instrumentality is any organization of the primary government of the State financial reporting entity, as defined by generally accepted accounting principles. 


(2) A fiscal agent of a State is an entity that pays, collects, or holds Federal funds on behalf of the State in furtherance of a Federal assistance program, excluding private nonprofit community organizations. 


(3) Local governments, Indian Tribal governments, institutions of higher education, hospitals, and nonprofit organizations are excluded from the definition of State. 


*Treasury-State agreement* means a document describing the accepted funding techniques and methods for calculating interest and identifying the Federal assistance programs governed by this subpart A. 


*Trust fund for which the Secretary is the trustee* means a trust fund administered by the Secretary. 


*Vendor payment* means a funds transfer by a Federal Program Agency to a State to compensate the State for acting as a vendor on a Federal contract. 


*We* and *Us* means Bureau of the Fiscal Service.




