# ยง 773.2   Definitions.

As used in this part, the following definitions apply: 


*Agency* is the Farm Service Agency, its employees, and any successor agency. 


*Apple producer* is a farmer in the United States or its territories that produced apples, on not less than 10 acres, for sale in 1999 or 2000. 


*Applicant* is the individual or business entity applying for the loan. 


*Business entity* is a corporation, partnership, joint operation, trust, limited liability company, or cooperative. 


*Cash flow budget* is a projection listing all anticipated cash inflows (including all farm income, nonfarm income and all loan advances) and all cash outflows (including all farm and nonfarm debt service and other expenses) to be incurred by the borrower during the period of the budget. A cash flow budget may be completed either for a 12 month period, a typical production cycle or the life of the loan, as appropriate. 


*Domestically owned enterprise* is an entity organized in the United States under the law of the state or states in which the entity operates and a majority of the entity is owned by members meeting the citizenship test. 


*False information* is information provided by an applicant, borrower, or other source to the Agency which information is known by the provider to be incorrect, and was given to the Agency in order to obtain benefits for which the applicant or borrower would not otherwise have been eligible. 


*Feasible plan* is a plan that demonstrates that the loan will be repaid as agreed, as determined by the Agency. 


*Security* is real or personal property pledged as collateral to assure repayment of a loan in the event there is a default on the loan. 


*USPAP* is Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice. 




