# § 155.731   Application standards for SHOP for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2018.

(a) *General requirements.* Application forms used by the SHOP must meet the requirements set forth in this section.


(b) *Single employer application.* The SHOP must use a single application to determine employer eligibility. Such application must collect the following—


(1) Employer name and address of employer's locations;


(2) Information sufficient to confirm the employer is a small employer;


(3) Employer Identification Number (EIN); and


(4) Information sufficient to confirm that the employer is offering, at a minimum, all full-time employees coverage in a QHP through a SHOP.


(c) *Model application.* The SHOP may use the model single employer application provided by HHS.


(d) *Alternative employer application.* The SHOP may use an alternative application if such application is approved by HHS and collects the information described in paragraph (b).


(e) *Filing.* The SHOP must:


(1) Accept applications from SHOP application filers; and


(2) Provide the tools to file an employer eligibility application via an internet website.


(f) *Additional safeguards.* (1) The SHOP may not provide to the employer any information collected on an employee application with respect to spouses or dependents other than the name, address, and birth date of the spouse or dependent.


(2) The SHOP is not permitted to collect information on the single employer or on an employee application unless that information is necessary to determine SHOP eligibility or effectuate enrollment through the SHOP.


(g) *Applicability date.* The provisions of this section apply for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2018.



---

[N] [83 FR 17066, Apr. 17, 2018]




