# ยง 1900.44   Action by appeals authority.

(a) The Coordinator, acting in the capacity of Executive Secretary of the ARP, shall place administrative appeals of FOIA requests ready for adjudication on the agenda at the next occurring meeting of that Panel. The Executive Secretary shall provide the ARP membership with a summary of the request and issues raised on appeal for the Panel's consideration and make available to the Panel the complete administrative record of the request consisting of the request, the document(s) at issue (in redacted and full-text form), if any, and the findings and recommendations of the relevant components.


(b) The ARP shall determine whether an appeal before the Panel is meritorious. The ARP may take action when a simple majority of the total membership is present. Issues shall be decided by a majority of the members present. In all cases of a divided vote, before the decision of the ARP becomes final, any member of the ARP may by written memorandum to the Executive Secretary of the ARP, refer such matters to the CIA Chief Data Officer (CDO) for resolution. In the event of a disagreement with any decision by the CDO, Directorate or Independent Office heads may appeal to the CIA Chief Operating Officer (COO) for a final Agency decision. The final Agency decision shall reflect the vote of the ARP, unless the CDO or COO disagrees with the ARP and makes a superseding final Agency decision.


(c) Appeals of denials of requests for fee waivers or reductions and/or denial of requests for expedited processing shall go directly from the Coordinator to the Agency Release Panel for a final Agency determination.






