# § 169.5   How are terms used in this part defined?

As used in this part—


*Administration* means the Government of the State whose flag the ship is entitled to fly.


*Cargo ship* means any ship which is not a passenger ship.


*Flag Administration* means the Government of a State whose flag the ship is entitled to fly.


*Gross tonnage* means tonnage as defined under the International Convention on Tonnage Measurement of Ships, 1969 (Incorporated by reference, see § 169.15).


*Gross tons* means vessel tonnage measured in accordance with the method utilized by the flag state administration of that vessel.


*High speed craft* means a craft that is operable on or above the water and is capable of a maximum speed equal to or exceeding V = 3.7 × displ 
.1667, where “V” is the maximum speed and “displ” is the vessel displacement corresponding to the design waterline in cubic meters.


*High speed passenger craft* means a high speed craft carrying more than 12 passengers.


*International voyage* means a voyage from a country to which the present International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS), 1974 applies to a port outside such country, or conversely. For U.S. ships, such voyages will be considered to originate at a port in the United States, regardless of when the voyage actually began. Such voyages for U.S. ships will continue until the ship returns to the United States from its last foreign port.


*Long range identification and tracking (LRIT) information* or *position report* means a report containing the following information:


(1) The identity of the ship;


(2) The position of the ship (latitude and longitude); and


(3) The date and time of the position provided.


*LRIT Data Center* means a center established by a SOLAS Contracting Government or a group of Contracting Governments, or in the case of the International Data Center, by IMO, to request, receive, process, and archive LRIT information. An LRIT Data Center may be National, Regional, Co-operative or International.


*Mandatory ship reporting system* means a ship reporting system that requires the participation of specified vessels or classes of vessels, and that is established by a government or governments after adoption of a proposed system by the International Maritime Organization (IMO) as complying with all requirements of regulation V/8-1 of the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974, as amended (SOLAS), except paragraph (e) thereof.


*Mobile offshore drilling unit* means a self-propelled vessel capable of engaging in drilling operations for the exploration or exploitation of subsea resources.


*Passenger ship* means a ship that carries more than 12 passengers.


*Self-propelled ships* means ships propelled by mechanical means.


*Shore-based authority* means the government appointed office or offices that will receive the reports made by ships entering each of the mandatory ship reporting systems. The office or offices will be responsible for the management and coordination of the system, interaction with participating ships, and the safe and effective operation of the system. Such an authority may or may not be an authority in charge of a vessel traffic service.


*United States* means the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States.



---

[N] [USCG-1999-5525, 66 FR 58070, Nov. 20, 2001, as amended by USCG-2005-22612, 73 FR 23318, Apr. 29, 2008]




