# ยง 463.3   What definitions apply to the Adult Education and Family Literacy Act programs?

*Definitions in the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act.* The following terms are defined in Sections 3, 134, 203, and 225 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3102, 3174, 3272, and 3305):


*Definitions in EDGAR.* The following terms are defined in 34 CFR 77.1:


*Other Definitions.* The following definitions also apply:


*Act* means the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act, Public Law 113-128.


*Concurrent enrollment* or *co-enrollment* refers to enrollment by an eligible individual in two or more of the six core programs administered under the Act.


*Digital literacy* means the skills associated with using technology to enable users to find, evaluate, organize, create, and communicate information.


*Peer tutoring* means an instructional model that utilizes one institutionalized individual to assist in providing or enhancing learning opportunities for other institutionalized individuals. A peer tutoring program must be structured and overseen by educators who assist with training and supervising tutors, setting educational goals, establishing an individualized plan of instruction, and monitoring progress.


*Re-entry* and *post-release services* means services provided to a formerly incarcerated individual upon or shortly after release from a correctional institution that are designed to promote successful adjustment to the community and prevent recidivism. Examples include education, employment services, substance abuse treatment, housing support, mental and physical health care, and family reunification services.


*Title* means title II of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act, the Adult Education and Family Literacy Act, Public Law 113-128.




