# § 3560.460   Double damages.

(a) *Action to recover assets or income.* (1) The Agency may request to the Attorney General to bring an action in a United States district court to recover any assets or income used by any person in violation of the provisions of a loan made by the Agency under this section or in violation of any applicable statute or regulation.


(2) For the purposes of this section, a use of assets or income in violation of the applicable loan, statute, or regulation includes any use for which the documentation in the books and accounts does not establish that the use was made for a reasonable operating expense or necessary repair of the project or for which the documentation has not been maintained in accordance with the requirements of the Agency and in reasonable condition for proper audit.


(3) For the purposes of this section, the term “person” means:


(i) Any individual or entity that borrows funds in accordance with programs authorized by this section;


(ii) Any individual or entity holding 25 percent or more interest in any entity that the Agency funds in accordance with programs authorized by this section; and


(iii) Any officer, director, or partner of an entity that borrows funds in accordance with programs authorized by this section.


(b) *Amount recoverable.* (1) In any judgment favorable to the United States entered under this section, the Attorney General may recover double the value of the assets and income of the project that the court determines to have been used in violation of the provisions of a loan made by the Agency under this section or any applicable statute or regulation, plus all costs related to the actions, including reasonable attorney and auditing fees.


(2) Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the Agency may use amounts recovered under this section for activities authorized under this section and such funds must remain available for such use until expended.


(c) *Time limitation.* Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, an action under this section may be commenced at any time during the six-year period beginning on the date that the Agency discovered or should have discovered the violation of the provisions of this section or any related statutes or regulations.


(d) *Continued availability of other remedies.* The remedy provided in this section is in addition to and not in substitution of any other remedies available to the Agency or the United States. 




