# ยง 3175.135   Uncertainty determination.

(a) Reference uncertainty calculations for each transducer of a given make, model, URL, and turndown must be determined as follows (the result for each transducer is denoted by the subscript i):


(1) *Maximum error* (*E*_i_). The maximum error for each transducer is the maximum difference between any input value from the test device and the corresponding output from the transducer under test for any required test point, and must be expressed in percent of transducer span.


(2) *Hysteresis* (*H*_i_). The testing required in ยง 3175.132 requires at least three pairs of tests using both ascending test points (low to high) and descending test points (high to low) of the same value. Hysteresis is the maximum difference between the ascending value and the descending value for any single input test value of a test pair. Hysteresis must be expressed in percent of span.


(3) *Repeatability* (*R*_i_). The testing required under ยง 3175.132 requires at least three pairs of tests using both ascending test points (low to high) and descending test points (high to low) of the same value. Repeatability is the maximum difference between the value of any of the three ascending test points for a given input value or of the three descending test points for a given value. Repeatability must be expressed in percent of span.


(b) *Reference uncertainty of a transducer.* The reference uncertainty of each transducer of a given make, model, URL, and turndown (U_r,i_) must be determined as follows:


(c) Reference uncertainty for the make, model, URL, and turndown of a transducer (U_r_) must be determined as follows:


(d) *Influence effects.* The uncertainty from each influence effect required to be tested under ยง 3175.133 must be determined as follows:


(1) *Zero-based errors of each transducer.* Zero-based errors from each influence test must be determined as follows:


(2) *Span-based errors of each transducer.* Span-based errors from each influence effect must be determined as follows:


(3) Zero- and span-based errors due to influence effects for a make, model, URL, and turndown of a transducer must be determined as follows:


