# ยง 761.350   Subsampling from composite samples.

(a) *Preparing the composite.* Composite the samples (eight from a flattened pile; eight or more from a conical pile; eight from waste that is continuously generated) and select a 19-liter subsample for shipment to the chemical extraction and analysis laboratory for further subsampling. There are two options for the preparation of the composite:


(1) *Option one.* Place all of the contents of all 19-liter samples that you collected into a 209 liter (55 gallon) drum or similar sized, cylinder-shaped container. Completely close the container, and roll it 10 or more complete revolutions to mix the contents.


(2) *Option two.* Add the 19-liter samples one at a time to a 209 liter (55 gallon) drum. Between the addition of each 19-liter sample, stir the composite using a broom handle or similar long, narrow, sturdy rod that reaches the bottom of the container. Stir the mixture for a minimum of 10 complete revolutions of the stirring instrument around the container at a distance approximately half way between the outside and center of the container.


(b) *Selecting a 19-liter subsample from the composite.* Once the composite is mixed, pour the mixture of waste out on a plastic sheet and either divide it into 19-liter size piles or make one large pile.


(1) From 19-liter sized piles, use a random number generator or random number table to select one of the piles.


(2) From one large pile, flatten the pile to a depth of 30 cm and divide it into 4 quarters of equal size. Use a random number generator or random number table to select one quarter of the pile. Further divide the selected quarter pile into 19-liter portions and use a random number generator or random number table to select one 19-liter portion. A square having a 25 cm side or a circle having a diameter of approximately 28.5 cm when projected downwards 30 cm equals approximately 19 liters.


(c) *Transferring the sample to the analytical laboratory.* Place the selected 19-liter subsample in a container, approved for shipment of the sample, to the chemical extraction and analysis laboratory, for the next step in sample selection in accordance with ยง 761.353.




