# § 987.82   Effective time, suspension, or termination.

(a) *Effective time.* The provisions of this part, as well as any amendments hereto, shall become effective at such time as the Secretary may declare, and shall continue in force until terminated or suspended in one of the ways hereinafter specified in this section.


(b) *Suspension or termination*—(1) *Failure to effectuate policy of act.* The Secretary shall terminate or suspend the operation of any or all of the provisions of this part, whenever he finds that such provisions do not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act.


(2) *When favored by growers.* The Secretary shall terminate the provisions of this part at the end of any crop year whenever he finds that such termination is favored by a majority of the growers of dates who, during that crop year, have been engaged in the production for market of dates in the area of production: *Provided,* That such majority have, during such period, produced for market more than 50 percent of the volume of such dates produced for market within said area; but such termination shall be effective only if announced on or before August 1 of the then current crop year.


(3) *If enabling legislation is terminated.* The provisions of this part shall, in any event, terminate whenever the provisions of the act authorizing them cease to be in effect.


(c) *Proceedings after termination*—(1) *Designation of trustees.* Upon the termination of the provisions hereof, the members of the Committee then functioning shall continue as joint trustees, for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the Committee, of all funds and property then in the possession or under the control of the Committee, including claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered at the time of such termination. Action by said trusteeship shall require the concurrence of a majority of the said trustees.


(2) *Duties of trustees.* Said trustees shall continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary; shall, from time to time, account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the Committee and the joint trustees, to such person as the Secretary may direct; and shall, upon request of the Secretary, execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such persons full title and right to all funds, property, and claims vested in the Committee or the joint trustees pursuant hereto.


(3) *Obligations of persons other than Committee members and trustees.* Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered by the Committee or its members, pursuant to this section, shall be subject to the same obligations imposed upon the members of the said Committee and upon the said joint trustees.



---

[N] [27 FR 6818, July 19, 1962, as amended at 36 FR 15039, Aug. 12, 1971]




