# § 70.601   Meaning of terms.

When used in this subpart, terms are defined as follows in this section. Words in the plural shall include the singular, and vice versa, and words indicating the masculine gender shall include the feminine. The terms “includes” and “including” do not exclude other things not named which are in the same general class or are otherwise within the scope of the term defined.


*Alcoholic liquors or liquors.* Distilled spirits, wines, and beer lost, made unmarketable, or condemned, as provided in this subpart.


*Beer.* Beer, ale, porter, stout, and other similar fermented beverages (including sake, or other similar products) of any name or description containing one-half of 1 percent or more of alcohol by volume on which the internal revenue tax has been paid or determined, and if imported, on which duties have been paid.


*Claimant.* The person who held the liquors for sale at the time of the disaster or other specified cause of loss and who files a claim under this subpart.


*Commissioner of Customs.* The Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security, Washington, DC.


*Distilled spirits, or spirits.* Ethyl alcohol and other distillates such as whisky, brandy, rum, gin, vodka, in any form (including all dilutions and mixtures thereof, from whatever source or by whatever process produced), on which the internal revenue tax has been paid or determined and, if imported, on which duties have been paid.


*Duly authorized official.* Any Federal, State or local government official who is authorized to condemn liquors on which a claim is filed under this subpart.


*Duty or duties.* Any duty or duties paid under the customs laws of the United States.


*Major Disaster.* A flood, fire, hurricane, earthquake, storm, or other catastrophe defined as a “major disaster” under the Disaster Relief Act (42 U.S.C. 5122(2)), which occurs in any part of the United States and which the President has determined causes sufficient damage to warrant “major disaster” assistance under that Act.


*Tax.* (1) With respect to distilled spirits, “tax” means the internal revenue tax that is paid or determined on spirits.


(2) With respect to wines, “tax” means the internal revenue tax that is paid or determined on the wine.


(3) With respect to beer, “tax” means the internal revenue tax that is paid or determined on the beer.


*United States.* When used in a geographical sense includes only the States and the District of Columbia.


*Wines.* All still wines, effervescent wines, and flavored wines, on which internal revenue wine tax has been paid or determined, and if imported, on which duty has been paid.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-376, 61 FR 31033, June 19, 1996, as amended by T.D. ATF-450, 66 FR 29030, May 29, 2001; T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87952, Nov. 6, 2024]






