# § 35.33   Specific provisions.

(a) In addition to the general provisions of § 35.32, the Trustee must observe the provisions of this section.


(b) The Trustee may use Fund assets only to:


(1) Satisfy the liability of a utility for decommissioning costs of the nuclear power plant to which the Fund relates as provided by § 35.32; and


(2) Pay administrative costs and other incidental expenses, including taxes, of the Fund as provided by § 35.32.


(c) To the extent that the Trustee does not currently require the assets of the Fund for the purposes described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, the Investment Manager, when investing Fund assets, must exercise the same standard of care that a reasonable person would exercise in the same circumstances. In this context, a “reasonable person” means a prudent investor as described in Restatement of the Law (Third), Trusts § 227, including general comments and reporter's notes, pages 8-101. St. Paul, MN: American Law Institute Publishers, 1992. ISBN 0-314-84246-2. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from the American Law Institute, 4025 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104, and are also available in local law libraries. Copies may be inspected at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 888 First Street, NE. Washington, DC or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.*

(d) The utility must submit to the Commission by March 31 of each year, one original and three conformed copies of the financial report furnished to the utility by the Fund's Trustee that shows for the previous calendar year:


(1) Fund assets and liabilities at the beginning of the period;


(2) Activity of the Fund during the period, including amounts received from the utility, a summary amount for purchases of fund investments and a summary amount for sales of fund investments, gains and losses from investment activity, disbursements from the Fund for decommissioning activity and payment of Fund expenses, including taxes; and


(3) Fund assets and liabilities at the end of the period. The report should not include the liability for decommissioning.


(4) Public utilities owning nuclear plants must maintain records of individual purchase and sales transactions until after decommissioning has been completed and any excess jurisdictional amounts have been returned to ratepayers in a manner that the Commission determines. The public utility need not include these records in the financial report that it furnishes to the Commission by March 31 of each year.


(e) The utility must also mail a copy of the financial report provided to the Commission pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section to anyone who requests it.


(f) If an independent public accountant has expressed an opinion on the report or on any portion of the report, then that opinion must accompany the report.



---

[N] [Order 580-A, 62 FR 33348, June 19, 1997, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004; Order 658, 70 FR 34343, June 14, 2005; Order 737, 75 FR 43404, July 26, 2010]




