# § 63.1211   What are the recordkeeping and reporting requirements?

(a) *Summary of reporting requirements.* You must submit the following reports to the Administrator: 



(b) *Summary of recordkeeping requirements.* You must retain the following in the operating record:



(c) *Documentation of compliance.* (1) By the compliance date, you must develop and include in the operating record a Documentation of Compliance. You are not subject to this requirement, however, if you submit a Notification of Compliance under § 63.1207(j) prior to the compliance date. Upon inclusion of the Documentation of Compliance in the operating record, hazardous waste burning incinerators, cement kilns, and lightweight aggregate kilns regulated under the interim standards of §§ 63.1203, 63.1204, and 63.1205 are no longer subject to compliance with the previously applicable Notification of Compliance. 


(2) The Documentation of Compliance must identify the applicable emission standards under this subpart and the limits on the operating parameters under § 63.1209 that will ensure compliance with those emission standards.


(3) You must include a signed and dated certification in the Documentation of Compliance that:


(i) Required CEMs and CMS are installed, calibrated, and continuously operating in compliance with the requirements of this subpart; and


(ii) Based on an engineering evaluation prepared under your direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed to ensure that qualified personnel properly gathered and evaluated the information and supporting documentation, and considering at a minimum the design, operation, and maintenance characteristics of the combustor and emissions control equipment, the types, quantities, and characteristics of feedstreams, and available emissions data:


(A) You are in compliance with the emission standards of this subpart; and


(B) The limits on the operating parameters under § 63.1209 ensure compliance with the emission standards of this subpart.


(4) You must comply with the emission standards and operating parameter limits specified in the Documentation of Compliance.


(d) *Data compression.* You may submit a written request to the Administrator for approval to use data compression techniques to record data from CMS, including CEMS, on a frequency less than that required by § 63.1209. You must submit the request for review and approval as part of the comprehensive performance test plan.


(1) You must record a data value at least once each ten minutes.


(2) For each CEMS or operating parameter for which you request to use data compression techniques, you must recommend:


(i) A fluctuation limit that defines the maximum permissible deviation of a new data value from a previously generated value without requiring you to revert to recording each one-minute value.


(A) If you exceed a fluctuation limit, you must record each one-minute value for a period of time not less than ten minutes.


(B) If neither the fluctuation limit nor the data compression limit are exceeded during that period of time, you may reinitiate recording data values on a frequency of at least once each ten minutes; and


(ii) A data compression limit defined as the closest level to an operating parameter limit or emission standard at which reduced data recording is allowed.


(A) Within this level and the operating parameter limit or emission standard, you must record each one-minute average.


(B) The data compression limit should reflect a level at which you are unlikely to exceed the specific operating parameter limit or emission standard, considering its averaging period, with the addition of a new one-minute average.



---

[N] [64 FR 53038, Sept. 30, 1999, as amended at 64 FR 63212, Nov. 19, 1999; 65 FR 42301, July 10, 2000; 66 FR 24272, May 14, 2001; 66 FR 35106, July 3, 2001; 67 FR 6993, Feb. 14, 2002; 70 FR 59554, Oct. 12, 2005]




