# § 721.11753   2-Propenoic acid, 2-alkyl-, 2-(dialkylamino)alkyl ester, polymer with .alpha.-(2-alkyl-1-oxo-2-alken-1-yl)-.omega.-methoxypoly(oxy-1,2-alkanediyl) (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 2-propenoic acid, 2-alkyl-, 2-(dialkylamino)alkyl ester, polymer with .alpha.-(2-alkyl-1-oxo-2-alken-1-yl)-.omega.-methoxypoly(oxy-1,2-alkanediyl) (PMN P-18-27) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substance after they have been completely reacted (cured) or when present as an impurity at less than 1% by weight.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(3) and (5) through (8), and (c). For purposes of § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50 or of at least 1,000 during spray applications.


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (d), (f), and (g)(1) and (5). For purposes of § 721.72(g)(1), this substance may cause: specific target organ toxicity; skin irritation; eye irritation; skin sensitization. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* It is a significant new use to use the substance in formulations at greater than 0.1% for spray applications.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [88 FR 87351, Dec. 18, 2023]






