# § 22.315   Merit-based, competitive procedures.

Competitive procedures are methods that encourage participation in DoD programs by a broad base of the most highly qualified performers. These procedures are characterized by competition among as many eligible proposers as possible, with a published or widely disseminated notice. Competitive procedures include, as a minimum:


(a) *Notice to prospective proposers.* The notice may be a notice of funding availability or Broad Agency Announcement that is publicly disseminated, with unlimited distribution, or a specific notice that is distributed to eligible proposers (a specific notice must be distributed to at least two eligible proposers to be considered as part of a competitive procedure). Requirements for notices are as follows:


(1) The format and content of each notice must conform with the Governmentwide format for announcements of funding opportunities established by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in a policy directive entitled, “Format for Financial Assistance Program Announcements.” 
2

(2) In accordance with that OMB policy directive, DoD Components also must post on the Internet any notice under which domestic entities may submit proposals, if the distribution of the notice is unlimited. DoD Components are encouraged to simultaneously publish the notice in other media (*e.g.*, the _Federal Register_), if doing so would increase the likelihood of its being seen by potential proposers. If a DoD Component issues a specific notice with limited distribution (*e.g.*, for national security considerations), the notice need not be posted on the Internet.


(3) To comply with an OMB policy directive entitled, “Requirement to Post Funding Opportunity Announcement Synopses at Grants.gov and Related Data Elements/Format,” 
3 DoD Components must post on the Internet a synopsis for each notice that, in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section, is posted on the Internet. The synopsis must be posted at the Governmentwide site designated by the OMB (currently *http://www.Grants.gov*). The synopsis for each notice must provide complete instructions on where to obtain the notice and should have an electronic link to the Internet location at which the notice is posted.


(4) In accordance with an OMB policy directive entitled, “Requirement for a DUNS Number in Applications for Federal Grants and Cooperative Agreements,” 
4 each notice must include a requirement for proposers to include Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) numbers in their proposals. If a notice provides for submission of application forms, the forms must incorporate the DUNS number. To the extent that unincorporated consortia of separate organizations may submit proposals, the notice should explain that an unincorporated consortium would use the DUNS number of the entity proposed to receive DoD payments under the award (usually, a lead organization that consortium members identify for administrative matters). 


(b) At least two eligible, prospective proposers.


(c) Impartial review of the merits of applications or proposals received in response to the notice, using the evaluation method and selection criteria described in the notice. For research and development awards, in order to be considered as part of a competitive procedure, the two principal selection criteria, unless statute provides otherwise, must be the:


(1) Technical merits of the proposed research and development; and


(2) Potential relationship of the proposed research and development to Department of Defense missions.



---

[N] [63 FR 12164, Mar. 12, 1998, as amended at 70 FR 49464, Aug. 23, 2005; 72 FR 34988, June 26, 2007; 85 FR 51242, Aug. 19, 2020]




