# § 72.6   Applicability.

(a) Each of the following units shall be an affected unit, and any source that includes such a unit shall be an affected source, subject to the requirements of the Acid Rain Program:


(1) A unit listed in table 1 of § 73.10(a) of this chapter.


(2) A unit that is listed in table 2 or 3 of § 73.10 of this chapter and any other existing utility unit, except a unit under paragraph (b) of this section.


(3) A utility unit, except a unit under paragraph (b) of this section, that:


(i) Is a new unit; or


(ii) Did not serve a generator with a nameplate capacity greater than 25 MWe on November 15, 1990 but serves such a generator after November 15, 1990.


(iii) Was a simple combustion turbine on November 15, 1990 but adds or uses auxiliary firing after November 15, 1990;


(iv) Was an exempt cogeneration facility under paragraph (b)(4) of this section but during any three calendar year period after November 15, 1990 sold, to a utility power distribution system, an annual average of more than one-third of its potential electrical output capacity and more than 219,000 MWe-hrs electric output, on a gross basis;


(v) Was an exempt qualifying facility under paragraph (b)(5) of this section but, at any time after the later of November 15, 1990 or the date the facility commences commercial operation, fails to meet the definition of qualifying facility;


(vi) Was an exempt IPP under paragraph (b)(6) of this section but, at any time after the later of November 15, 1990 or the date the facility commences commercial operation, fails to meet the definition of independent power production facility; or


(vii) Was an exempt solid waste incinerator under paragraph (b)(7) of this section but during any three calendar year period after November 15, 1990 consumes 20 percent or more (on a Btu basis) fossil fuel.


(b) The following types of units are not affected units subject to the requirements of the Acid Rain Program:


(1) A simple combustion turbine that commenced commercial operation before November 15, 1990.


(2) Any unit that commenced commercial operation before November 15, 1990 and that did not, as of November 15, 1990, and does not currently, serve a generator with a nameplate capacity of greater than 25 MWe.


(3) Any unit that, during 1985, did not serve a generator that produced electricity for sale and that did not, as of November 15, 1990, and does not currently, serve a generator that produces electricity for sale.


(4) A cogeneration facility which:


(i) For a unit that commenced construction on or prior to November 15, 1990, was constructed for the purpose of supplying equal to or less than one-third its potential electrical output capacity or equal to or less than 219,000 MWe-hrs actual electric output on an annual basis to any utility power distribution system for sale (on a gross basis). If the purpose of construction is not known, the Administrator will presume that actual operation from 1985 through 1987 is consistent with such purpose. However, if in any three calendar year period after November 15, 1990, such unit sells to a utility power distribution system an annual average of more than one-third of its potential electrical output capacity and more than 219,000 MWe-hrs actual electric output (on a gross basis), that unit shall be an affected unit, subject to the requirements of the Acid Rain Program; or


(ii) For units which commenced construction after November 15, 1990, supplies equal to or less than one-third its potential electrical output capacity or equal to or less than 219,000 MWe-hrs actual electric output on an annual basis to any utility power distribution system for sale (on a gross basis). However, if in any three calendar year period after November 15, 1990, such unit sells to a utility power distribution system an annual average of more than one-third of its potential electrical output capacity and more than 219,000 MWe-hrs actual electric output (on a gross basis), that unit shall be an affected unit, subject to the requirements of the Acid Rain Program.


(5) A qualifying facility that:


(i) Has, as of November 15, 1990, one or more qualifying power purchase commitments to sell at least 15 percent of its total planned net output capacity; and


(ii) Consists of one or more units designated by the owner or operator with total installed net output capacity not exceeding 130 percent of the total planned net output capacity. If the emissions rates of the units are not the same, the Administrator may exercise discretion to designate which units are exempt.


(6) An independent power production facility that:


(i) Has, as of November 15, 1990, one or more qualifying power purchase commitments to sell at least 15 percent of its total planned net output capacity; and


(ii) Consists of one or more units designated by the owner or operator with total installed net output capacity not exceeding 130 percent of its total planned net output capacity. If the emissions rates of the units are not the same, the Administrator may exercise discretion to designate which units are exempt.


(7) A solid waste incinerator, if more than 80 percent (on a Btu basis) of the annual fuel consumed at such incinerator is other than fossil fuels. For solid waste incinerators which began operation before January 1, 1985, the average annual fuel consumption of non-fossil fuels for calendar years 1985 through 1987 must be greater than 80 percent for such an incinerator to be exempt. For solid waste incinerators which began operation after January 1, 1985, the average annual fuel consumption of non-fossil fuels for the first three years of operation must be greater than 80 percent for such an incinerator to be exempt. If, during any three calendar year period after November 15, 1990, such incinerator consumes 20 percent or more (on a Btu basis) fossil fuel, such incinerator will be an affected source under the Acid Rain Program.


(8) A non-utility unit.


(9) A unit for which an exemption under § 72.7 or § 72.8 is in effect. Although such a unit is not an affected unit, the unit shall be subject to the requirements of § 72.7 or § 72.8, as applicable to the exemption.


(c) A certifying official of an owner or operator of any unit may petition the Administrator for a determination of applicability under this section.


(1) *Petition Content.* The petition shall be in writing and include identification of the unit and relevant facts about the unit. In the petition, the certifying official shall certify, by his or her signature, the statement set forth at § 72.21(b)(2). Within 10 business days of receipt of any written determination by the Administrator covering the unit, the certifying official shall provide each owner or operator of the unit, facility, or source with a copy of the petition and a copy of the Administrator's response.


(2) *Timing.* The petition may be submitted to the Administrator at any time but, if possible, should be submitted prior to the issuance (including renewal) of a Phase II Acid Rain permit for the unit.


(3) *Submission.* All submittals under this section shall be made by the certifying official to the Director, Acid Rain Division, (6204J), 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460.


(4) *Response.* The Administrator will issue a written response based upon the factual submittal meeting the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(5) *Administrative appeals.* The Administrator's determination of applicability is a decision appealable under 40 CFR part 78 of this chapter.


(6) *Effect of determination.* The Administrator's determination of applicability shall be binding upon the permitting authority, unless the petition is found to have contained significant errors or omissions.



---

[N] [58 FR 3650, Jan. 11, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 15648, Mar. 23, 1993; 62 FR 55475, Oct. 24, 1997; 64 FR 28588, May 26, 1999; 66 FR 12978, Mar. 1, 2001]




