# ยง 184.1296   Ferric ammonium citrate.

(a) Ferric ammonium citrate (iron (III) ammonium citrate) is prepared by the reaction of ferric hydroxide with citric acid, followed by treatment with ammonium hydroxide, evaporating, and drying. The resulting product occurs in two forms depending on the stoichiometry of the initial reactants.


(1) Ferric ammonium citrate (iron (III) ammonium citrate, CAS Reg. No. 1332-98-5) is a complex salt of undetermined structure composed of 16.5 to 18.5 percent iron, approximately 9 percent ammonia, and 65 percent citric acid and occurs as reddish brown or garnet red scales or granules or as a brownish-yellowish powder.


(2) Ferric ammonium citrate (iron (III) ammonium citrate, CAS Reg. No. 1333-00-2) is a complex salt of undetermined structure composed of 14.5 to 16 percent iron, approximately 7.5 percent ammonia, and 75 percent citric acid and occurs as thin transparent green scales, as granules, as a powder, or as transparent green crystals.


(b) The ingredients meet the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), pp. 116-117 (Ferric ammonium citrate, brown) and p. 117 (Ferric ammonium citrate, green), which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) In accordance with ยง 184.1(b)(1), the ingredients are used in food as nutrient supplements as defined in ยง 170.3(o)(20) of this chapter, with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The ingredients may also be used in infant formula in accordance with section 412(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act) (21 U.S.C. 350a(g)) or with regulations promulgated under section 412(a)(2) of the act (21 U.S.C. 350a(a)(2)).


(d) Prior sanctions for these ingredients different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.



---

[N] [53 FR 16864, May 12, 1988]




