# ยง 1927.59   Subsequent loans and transfers with assumptions.

Title services and closing for subsequent loans to an existing borrower will be done in accordance with previous instructions in this subpart, except that:


(a) *Loans closed using title insurance or title opinions.* (1) Title insurance or title opinions will be obtained unless:


(i) The cost of title services is excessive in relationship to the size of the loan,


(ii) The agency currently has a first mortgage security interest,


(iii) The applicant has sufficient income to service the additional loan,


(iv) The borrower is current on the existing agency loan, and


(v) The best mortgage obtainable adequately protects the agency security interests.


(2) Title insurance or a final title opinion will not be obtained for a subsequent Section 504 loan where the previous Section 504 loan was unsecured or secured for less than $7,500 and the outstanding debt amount plus the new loan is less than $7,500.


(3) Loans closed using a new lender title insurance policy:


(i) Will cover the entire real property which is to secure the loan, including the real property already owned and any additional real property being acquired by the borrower with the loan proceeds.


(ii) Will cover the entire amount of any subsequent loan plus the amount of any existing loan being refinanced (if the existing loan is not being refinanced, the new lender policy will insure only the amount of the subsequent loan).


(b) *Title services required in connection with assumptions.* These regulations are contained in subparts A and B of part 1965 of this chapter and 7 CFR part 3550 as appropriate for the loan type.



---

[N] [61 FR 11711, Mar. 22, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 78327, Dec. 24, 2002]




