# ยง 310.60   Training on subsidized vessels.

All operators of subsidized merchant vessels, in accordance with contractual arrangements, are required to employ for training at least two midshipmen, as assigned by the Superintendent of the Academy, which employment shall be in accordance with the following provisions.


(a) *Work assignments.* All practical work assignments for midshipmen shall be in accordance with courses prescribed by the Superintendent of the Academy.


(b) *Working hours.* In order to permit midshipmen to complete their academic assignments, vessel employers shall not require midshipmen to work more than 8 hours each day. Midshipmen shall devote at least 3 hours of their own time each day to study.


(c) *Pay.* Midshipmen shall receive pay while employed aboard merchant vessels directly from the steamship company employers at the same rate received by cadets and midshipmen at the other Federal academies. A change in the rate of pay for midshipmen at the Academy shall occur after a change in the rate of pay for cadets/midshipmen at the other Federal academies and shall be effective either on June 15th or on December 15th of the same calendar year, whichever occurs first. While aboard ship, they shall be berthed in single-occupancy rooms or in rooms with other midshipmen in that part of the vessel designated for licensed officers (or in first-class passenger quarters) and shall mess with the licensed officers. The steamship company employers shall also pay the midshipmen such subsistence and room allowance in port, transportation allowances, and other bonuses or allowances as are paid to the licensed officers of the vessel in which the midshipmen are employed.


(d) *Berthing and messing.* While aboard ship, midshipmen shall be berthed in single-occupancy rooms or in rooms with other midshipmen in that part of the vessel designated for licensed officers (or in first-class passenger quarters) and shall mess with the licensed officers.



---

[N] [47 FR 21812, May 20, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 21534, June 8, 1987]




