# § 362.104   Agency requirements.

(a) *Agency policy.* To make any appointment under a Pathways authority, an agency must first establish a Pathways Policy. The Pathways Policy must:


(1) Include information about any agency-specific program labels that will be used, subject to the Federal naming conventions identified in § 362.101 (e.g., OPM Internship Program).


(2) State the delegations of authority for the agency's use of the Pathways Programs (e.g., department-wide vs. bureaus or components).


(3) Include any implementing policy or guidance that the agency determines would facilitate successful implementation and administration for each Pathways Program.


(4) Prescribe criteria and procedures for agency-approved extensions for Recent Graduates and PMFs, not to exceed 120 days. Extension criteria must be limited to circumstances that would render the agency's compliance with the regulations impracticable or impossible.


(5) Describe how the agency will design, implement, and document formal training and/or development, as well as the type and duration of assignments.


(6) Include a commitment from the agency to:


(i) Provide to OPM any information it requests on the agency's Pathways Programs;


(ii) Adhere to any caps on the Pathways Programs imposed by the Director;


(iii) Provide information to OPM about opportunities for individuals interested in participating in the Pathways Programs, upon request from OPM;


(iv) Provide a meaningful on-boarding process for each Pathways Program; and


(v) Provide OPM with the names of the agency's Pathways Programs Officer and PMF Coordinator.


(7) Identify the agency's Pathways Programs Officer (PPO), who:


(i) Must be in a position at the agency's headquarters level, or at the headquarters level of a departmental component, in a position at or higher than grade 12 of the General Schedule (GS) (or the equivalent under the Federal Wage System (FWS) or another pay and classification system);


(ii) Is responsible for administering the agency's Pathways Programs, including coordinating the recruitment and on-boarding process for Pathways Programs Participants, and coordinating the agency's Pathways Programs plan with agency stakeholders and other hiring plans (e.g., merit promotion plans, agency plans pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 14035, “Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility (DEIA) in the Federal Workforce”);


(iii) Serves as a liaison with OPM by providing updates on the agency's implementation of its Pathways Programs, clarifying technical or programmatic issues, sharing agency best practices, and other similar duties; and


(iv) Reports to OPM on the agency's implementation of its Pathways Programs and individuals hired under these Programs, in conjunction with the agency's Pathways Policy.


(8) Identify the agency's PMF Coordinator who:


(i) Must be in a position at the agency's headquarters level, or at the headquarters level of departmental component, or sub-agency level, in a position at or higher than grade 12 of the GS (or the equivalent under the FWS or another pay and classification system). If an agency or sub agency designates multiple PMF Coordinators, they must work collaboratively to administer the agency's PMF Program.


(ii) Is responsible for administering the agency's PMF Program including coordinating the recruitment, on-boarding, and certification processes for PMF Program Participants, and coordinating the agency's PMF Program plan to ensure it is integrated with agency-wide workforce plans.


(iii) Serves as a liaison with OPM by providing updates on the agency's implementation of its PMF Program, clarifying technical or programmatic issues, sharing agency best practices, and other similar duties.


(iv) Reports to OPM on the agency's implementation of its PMF Program and individuals hired under the PMF Program.


(9) Prescribe criteria and procedures on how the agency will determine whether it has the resources available to convert a Pathways Participant to a term or permanent position in the competitive service. These procedures must specify the timeline for making the determination, which must include informing the Pathways Participant no later than 60 calendar days prior to the end of the appointment about whether the agency is able to convert them. If an agency is unable to convert a Pathways Participant, its procedures may include the actions it will take to assist a Participant in pursuing conversion at another agency (when appropriate).


(10) Identify the minimum service-hour requirement that must be completed by an Intern as required by § 362.204.


(11) An agency's Pathways Policy must be maintained and be available for review upon request of OPM, applicants, Pathways Programs participants, or agency employees.


(b) *Implementation of Pathways Policy requirement.* Agencies must establish a Pathways Policy that meets the criteria listed in paragraph (a) of this section not later than December 9, 2024. Upon June 11, 2024, agencies with existing Pathways memorandums of understanding (MOUs) may continue to use the Pathways Programs subject to the regulations in this part in lieu of an updated Pathways Policy while they are developing and updating their policies in accordance with the regulations in this part. Agencies without an existing MOU or an expired MOU on June 11, 2024, must establish an agency Pathways Policy before they begin making Pathways appointments. Agencies with MOUs that expire within 240 days of April 12, 2024, may request an extension of the MOU. All Pathways Programs MOUs will expire on December 9, 2024, unless OPM has specifically approved use of the MOU after December 9, 2024.


(c) *Revocation.* The Director may revoke an agency's authority to make Pathways appointments when agency use of these Programs is inconsistent with E.O. 13562, this part, or the agency's Pathways Policies.



---

[N] [89 FR 25770, Apr. 12, 2024]








