# § 251.121   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions in subpart B of this part, the following terms apply to this subpart:


*Best application*—the application, as determined by the authorized officer, that best meets the evaluation criteria contained in a prospectus to solicit visitor services.


*Conservation System Unit (CSU) as it relates to the Tongass and Chugach National Forests in Alaska*—a National Forest Monument or any unit of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System, National Trails System, or National Wilderness Preservation System, including existing units and any such unit established, designated, or expanded hereafter.


*Controlling interest*—in the case of a corporation, an interest, beneficial or otherwise, of sufficient outstanding voting securities or capital of the business so as to permit the exercise of managerial authority over the actions and operations of the corporation or election of a majority of the board of directors of the corporation. In the case of a partnership, limited partnership, joint venture, or individual entrepreneurship, a beneficial ownership of or interest in the entity or its capital so as to permit the exercise of managerial authority over the actions and operations of the entity. In other circumstances, any arrangement under which a third party has the ability to exercise management authority over the actions or operations of the business.


*Historical operator*—a holder of a valid special use authorization to provide visitor services in a CSU under Forest Service jurisdiction who:


(1) On or before January 1, 1979, was lawfully and adequately providing visitor services in that CSU;


(2) Has continued lawfully and adequately to provide the same or similar types of visitor services within that CSU; and


(3) Is otherwise determined by the authorized officer to have a right to continue to provide the same or similar visitor services.


*Local area*—any site within 100 miles of the location within a CSU where any visitor services covered by a single solicitation by the Forest Service are to be authorized.


*Local resident:*

(1) *For individuals*—Alaska residents who have lived within the local area for 12 consecutive months prior to issuance of a solicitation of applications for a visitor services authorization for a CSU; who maintain their primary, permanent residence and business within the local area; and who, whenever absent from this primary, permanent residence, have the intention of returning to it.


(2) *For corporations, partnerships, limited partnerships, joint ventures, individual entrepreneurships, and other circumstances*—where the controlling interest is held by an individual or individuals who qualify as local residents within the meaning of this section.


(3) *For nonprofit entities*—where a majority of the board members and a majority of the officers qualify as local residents within the meaning of this section.


*Native Corporation* has the same meaning as under section 102(6) of ANILCA (16 U.S.C. 3197).


*Preferred operator*—a Native Corporation that is determined, pursuant to § 251.123, to be most directly affected by establishment or expansion of a CSU; or a local resident, as defined in this section, who competes for a visitor service special use authorization under § 251.124 of this subpart.


*Responsive application*—an application that is received in a timely manner and that meets the requirements stated in the prospectus.


*Visitor service*—any service or activity for which persons who visit a CSU pay a fee, commission, brokerage, or other compensation, including such services as providing food, accommodations, transportation, tours, and outfitting and guiding, except the guiding of sport hunting and fishing.




