# § 52.2065   Federal implementation plan addressing reasonably available control technology requirements for certain sources.

(a) *Applicability.* This section shall apply to Conemaugh, Homer City, Keystone, and Montour, as defined in this section, as well as any of their successors or assigns. Each of the four listed facilities are individually subject to the requirements of this section.


(b) *Effective date.* The effective date of this section is September 30, 2022.


(c) *Compliance date.* Compliance with the requirements in this section shall commence on March 29, 2023, except the Facility-wide 30-Day Rolling Average NO_X_ Emission Rate Limit requirement in (f)(1) of this section will commence for the Facility on the day that Facility has operated for thirty (30) Operating Days after, and possibly including, the compliance date of March 29, 2023.


(d) *General provisions.* This section is not a permit. Compliance with the terms of this section does not guarantee compliance with all applicable Federal, state, or local laws or regulations. The emission rates and mass emissions limits set forth in this section do not relieve the facility from any obligation to comply with other State and Federal requirements under the Clean Air Act, including the Facility's obligation to satisfy any State requirements set forth in the applicable SIP.


(e) *Definitions.* Every term expressly defined by this section shall have the meaning given to that term within this section. Every other term used in this section that is also a term used under the Act or in Federal regulations in this chapter implementing the Act shall mean in this section what such term means under the Act or the regulations in this chapter.


*CEMS* or *Continuous Emission Monitoring System,* means, for obligations involving the monitoring of NO_X_ emissions under this section, the devices defined in 40 CFR 72.2 and installed and maintained as required by 40 CFR part 75.


*Clean Air Act* or *Act* means the Federal Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7401-7671q, and its implementing regulations in this chapter.


*Conemaugh* means, for purposes of this section, Keystone Conemaugh Project LLC's Conemaugh Generating Station consisting of two coal-fired units designated as Unit 1 (8,280 MMBtu/hr) and Unit 2 (8,280 MMBtu/hr), located in West Wheatfield Township, Indiana County, Pennsylvania.


*Day* or *daily* means calendar day unless otherwise specified in this section.


*EGU* means electric generating unit.


*EPA* means the United States Environmental Protection Agency.


*Facility* means each of the following as defined in this section: Conemaugh; Homer City; Keystone; and Montour.


*Facility-wide 30-Day Rolling Average NO*_X_*Emission Rate* for the Facility shall be expressed in lb/MMBtu and calculated in accordance with the following procedure: first, sum the total pounds of NO_X_ emitted from all Units during the current Operating Day and the previous twenty-nine (29) Operating Days; second, sum the total heat input from all Units in MMBtu during the current Unit Operating Day and the previous twenty-nine (29) Operating Days; and third, divide the total number of pounds of NO_X_ emitted *from all Units* during the thirty (30) Operating Days by the total heat input during the thirty (30) Operating Days. A new Facility-wide 30-Day Rolling Average NO_X_ Emission Rate shall be calculated for each new Operating Day. Each 30-Day Rolling Average NO_X_ Emission Rate shall include all emissions that occur during all periods within any Operating Day, including, but not limited to, emissions from startup, shutdown, and malfunction.


*Fossil fuel* means any hydrocarbon fuel, including coal, petroleum coke, petroleum oil, fuel oil, or natural gas.


*Homer City* means, for purposes of this section, Homer City Generation LP's Homer City Generating Station consisting of three coal-fired units designated as Unit 1 (6,792 MMBtu/hr), Unit 2 (6,792 MMBtu/hr), and Unit 3 (7,260 MMBtu/hr), located in Center Township, Indiana County, Pennsylvania.


*Keystone* means, for purposes of this section, Keystone Conemaugh Project LLC's Keystone Generating Station consisting of two coal-fired units designated as Unit 1 (8,717 MMBtu/hr) and Unit 2 (8,717 MMBtu/hr), located in Plumcreek Township, Armstrong County, Pennsylvania.


*lb/MMBtu* means one pound per million British thermal units.


*Montour* means, for purposes of this section, Talen Energy Corporation's Montour Steam Electric Station consisting of two coal-fired units designated as Unit 1 (7,317 MMBtu/hr) and Unit 2 (7,239 MMBtu/hr), located in Derry Township, Montour County, Pennsylvania.


“*NO*_X_” means oxides of nitrogen, measured in accordance with the provisions of this section. “*NO*_X_*emission rate*” means the number of pounds of NO_X_ emitted per million British thermal units of heat input (lb/MMBtu), calculated in accordance with this section.


*Operating day* means any calendar day on which a Unit fires Fossil Fuel.


*Title V Permit* means the permit required for major sources pursuant to Subchapter V of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 7661-7661e.


*Unit* means collectively, the coal pulverizer, stationary equipment that feeds coal to the boiler, the boiler that produces steam for the steam turbine, the steam turbine, the generator, the equipment necessary to operate the generator, steam turbine, and boiler, and all ancillary equipment, including pollution control equipment and systems necessary for production of electricity. An electric steam generating station may be comprised of one or more Units.


*Unit-specific daily NO*_X_*mass emissions* shall be expressed in lb/day and calculated as the sum of total pounds of NO_X_ emitted from the Unit during the Unit Operating Day. Each Unit-specific Daily NO_X_ Mass Emissions shall include all emissions that occur during all periods within any Operating Day, including emissions from startup, shutdown, and malfunction.


(f) *NO*_X_*emission limitations.* (1) The Facility shall achieve and maintain their Facility-wide 30-Day Rolling Average NO_X_ Emission Rate to not exceed their Facility limit in Table 1 to this paragraph (f)(1).


(2) The Facility shall achieve and maintain their Unit-specific Daily NO_X_ Mass Emissions to not exceed the Unit-specific limit in Table 2 to this paragraph (f)(2).


(g) *Monitoring of NO*_X_ emissions. (1) In determining the Facility-wide 30-Day Rolling Average NO_X_ Emission Rate, the Facility shall use CEMS in accordance with the procedures of 40 CFR parts 60 and 75, appendix F, Procedure 1.


(2) For purposes of calculating the Unit-specific Daily NO_X_ Mass Emissions Limits, the Facility shall use CEMS in accordance with the procedures at 40 CFR part 75. Emissions rates, mass emissions, and other quantitative standards set by or under this section must be met to the number of significant digits in which the standard or limit is expressed. For example, an Emission Rate of 0.100 is not met if the actual Emission Rate is 0.101. The Facility shall round the fourth significant digit to the nearest third significant digit, or the sixth significant digit to the nearest fifth significant digit, depending upon whether the limit is expressed to three or five significant digits. For example, if an actual emission rate is 0.1004, that shall be reported as 0.100, and shall be in compliance with an emission rate of 0.100, and if an actual emission rate is 0.1005, that shall be reported as 0.101, and shall not be in compliance with an emission eate of 0.100. The Facility shall report data to the number of significant digits in which the standard or limit is expressed.


(h) *Recordkeeping and periodic peporting.* (1) The Facility shall electronically submit to EPA a periodic report, within thirty (30) Days after the end of each six-month reporting period (January through June, July through December in each calendar year). The portion of the periodic report containing the data required to be reported by this paragraph (h) shall be in an unlocked electronic spreadsheet format, such as Excel or other widely-used software, and contain data for each Operating Day during the reporting period, including, but not limited to: Facility ID (ORISPL); Facility name; Unit ID; Date; Unit-specific total Daily Operating Time (hours); Unit-specific Daily NO_X_ Mass Emissions (lbs); Unit-specific total Daily Heat Input (MMBtu); Unit-specific Daily NO_X_ Emission Rate (lb/MMBtu); Facility-wide 30-Day Rolling Average NO_X_ Emission Rate (lb/MMBtu); Owner; Operator; Representative (Primary); and Representative (Secondary). In addition, the Facility shall maintain the following information for 5 years from the date of creation of the data and make such information available to EPA if requested: Unit-specific hourly heat input, Unit-specific hourly ammonia injection amounts, and Unit-specific hourly NO_X_ emission rate.


(2) In any periodic report submitted pursuant to this section, the Facility may incorporate by reference information previously submitted to EPA under its Title V permitting requirements, so long as that information is adequate to determine compliance with the emission limits and in the same electronic format as required for the periodic report, and provided that the Facility attaches the Title V Permit report (or the pertinent portions of such report) and provides a specific reference to the provisions of the Title V Permit report that are responsive to the information required in the periodic report.


(3) In addition to the reports required pursuant to this section, if the Facility exceeds the Facility-wide 30-day rolling average NO_X_ emission limit on three or more days during any 30-day period, or exceeds the Unit-specific daily mass emission limit for any Unit on three or more days during any 30-day period, the Facility shall electronically submit to EPA a report on the exceedances within ten (10) business days after the Facility knew or should have known of the event. In the report, the Facility shall explain the cause or causes of the exceedances and any measures taken or to be taken to cure the reported exceedances or to prevent such exceedances in the future. If, at any time, the provisions of this section are included in Title V Permits, consistent with the requirements for such inclusion in this section, then the deviation reports required under applicable Title V regulations shall be deemed to satisfy all the requirements of this paragraph (h)(3).


(4) Each report shall be signed by the Responsible Official as defined in Title V of the Clean Air Act, or his or her equivalent or designee of at least the rank of Vice President. The signatory shall also electronically submit the following certification, which may be contained in a separate document:


(5) Whenever notifications, submissions, or communications are required by this section, they shall be made electronically to the attention of the Air Enforcement Manager via email to the following address: *R3_ORC_mailbox@epa.gov.*


---

[N] [87 FR 53402, Aug. 31, 2022]






