# ยง 200.954   Supplementary specific requirements under the HUD building product standard and certification program for construction adhesives for wood floor systems.

(a) *Applicable standards.* (1) All construction adhesives for field glued wood floor systems shall be designed, manufactured, and tested in compliance with the following American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) standard: D 3498-93 Standard Specification for Adhesives for Field-Gluing Plywood to Lumber Framing for Floor Systems except that the mold and bacteria resistance tests shall not be included.


(2) This standard has been approved by the Director of the Federal Register for incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51, and is available from the American Society for Testing & Materials Inc., 100 Barr Harbor Drive, West Conshohocken, PA. 19428.


(b) *Labeling.* Under the procedures set forth in ยง 200.935(d)(6) concerning labeling of a product, the administrator's validation mark and the manufacturer's certification of compliance with the applicable standard are required to be on the certification label issued by the administrator to the manufacturer. Each container shall be marked as being in compliance with UM 60a. The label shall also include the manufacturer's name, plant location, and shelf life.


(c) *Periodic tests and quality assurance.* Under the procedures set forth in ยง 200.935(d)(8) concerning periodic tests and quality assurance inspections, the frequency of testing for a product shall be described in the specific building product certification program. In the case of construction adhesives for field glued wood floor systems, testing and inspection shall be conducted as follows:


(1) At least every six months, the administrator shall visit the manufacturer's facility to select a sample for testing in a laboratory approved by the administrator.


(2) The administrator shall also review the quality assurance procedures twice a year to assure that they are being followed by the manufacturer.



---

[N] [63 FR 5424, Feb. 2, 1998]




