# ยง 63.7324   What procedures must I use to demonstrate initial compliance with the opacity limits?

(a) You must conduct each performance test that applies to your affected source based on representative performance (*i.e.,* performance based on the entire range of normal operating conditions) of the affected source for the period being tested, according to the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section. Representative conditions exclude periods of startup and shutdown. You shall not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent the entire range of normal operation, including operational conditions for maximum emissions if such emissions are not expected during maximum production. You shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.


(b) To determine compliance with the daily average opacity limit for stacks of 15 percent for a by-product coke oven battery on a normal coking cycle or 20 percent for a by-product coke oven battery on batterywide extended coking, follow the test methods and procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section. 


(1) Using the continuous opacity monitoring system (COMS) required in ยง 63.7330(e), measure and record the opacity of emissions from each battery stack for a 24-hour period. 


(2) Reduce the monitoring data to hourly averages as specified in ยง 63.8(g)(2). 


(3) Compute and record the 24-hour (daily) average of the COMS data. 





---

[N] [68 FR 18025, Apr. 14, 2003, as amended at 89 FR 55748, July 5, 2024]












