# § 1.6047-2   Information relating to qualifying longevity annuity contracts.

(a) *Requirement and form of report*—(1) *In general.* Any person issuing any contract that is intended to be a qualifying longevity annuity contract (QLAC), defined in § 1.401(a)(9)-6(q), shall make the report required by this section. This requirement applies only to contracts purchased or held under any plan, annuity, or account described in section 401(a), 403(a), 403(b), or 408 (other than a Roth IRA) or eligible governmental plan under section 457(b).


(2) *Annual report.* The issuer shall make annual calendar-year reports on the applicable form prescribed by the Commissioner for this purpose concerning the status of the contract. The report shall identify that the contract is intended to be a QLAC and shall contain the following information—


(i) The name, address, and identifying number of the issuer of the contract, along with information on how to contact the issuer for more information about the contract;


(ii) The name, address, and identifying number of the individual in whose name the contract has been purchased;


(iii) If the contract was purchased under a plan, the name of the plan, the plan number, and the Employer Identification Number (EIN) of the plan sponsor;


(iv) If payments have not yet commenced, the annuity starting date on which the annuity is scheduled to commence, the amount of the periodic annuity payable on that date, and whether that date may be accelerated;


(v) For the calendar year, the amount of each premium paid for the contract and the date of the premium payment;


(vi) The total amount of all premiums paid for the contract through the end of the calendar year;


(vii) The fair market value of the QLAC as of the close of the calendar year; and


(viii) Such other information as the Commissioner may require.


(b) *Manner and time for filing*—(1) *Timing.* The report required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall be filed in accordance with the forms and instructions prescribed by the Commissioner. Such a report must be filed for each calendar year beginning with the year in which premiums for a contract are first paid and ending with the earlier of the year in which the individual in whose name the contract has been purchased attains age 85 (as adjusted pursuant to § 1.401(a)(9)-6(q)(4)(ii)(B)) or dies.


(2) *Surviving spouse.* If the individual dies and the sole beneficiary under the contract is the individual's spouse (in which case the spouse's annuity would not be required to commence until the individual would have commenced benefits under the contract had the individual survived), the report must continue to be filed for each calendar year until the calendar year in which the distributions to the spouse commence or in which the spouse dies, if earlier.


(c) *Issuer statements.* Each issuer required to file the annual report required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall furnish to the individual in whose name the contract has been purchased a statement containing the information required to be included in the report, except that such statement shall be furnished to a surviving spouse to the extent that the report is required to be filed under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. A copy of the required form may be used to satisfy the statement requirement of this paragraph (c). If a copy of the required form is not used to satisfy the statement requirement of this paragraph (c), the statement shall contain the following language: “This information is being furnished to the Internal Revenue Service.” The statement required by this paragraph (c) shall be furnished on or before January 31 following the calendar year for which the report required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section is required.


(d) *Penalty for failure to file report.* Section 6652(e) prescribes a penalty for failure to file the report required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(e) *Effective/applicability date.* This section applies to contracts purchased on or after July 2, 2014.



---

[N] [T.D. 9673, 79 FR 37643, July 2, 2014, as amended by T.D. 10001, 89 FR 58906, July 19, 2024]






