# § 1203a.102   Establishment, maintenance, and revocation of security areas.

(a) *Establishment.* (1) Directors of NASA Centers, including Component Facilities and Technical and Service Support Centers, and the Executive Director for Headquarters Operations at NASA Headquarters may establish, maintain, and protect such areas designated as Controlled, Limited, or Exclusion, depending upon their assessment of the potential for unauthorized persons either to:


(i) Obtain knowledge of classified information,


(ii) Damage or remove property, or to


(iii) Disrupt NASA or NASA contractor operations.


(2) The concurrence of the Assistant Administrator for Protective Services NASA Headquarters, shall be obtained prior to the establishment of a permanent security area.


(3)(i) At a minimum, the following information will be submitted to the Assistant Administrator for Protective Services 15 workdays prior to establishment of each permanent security area:


(*a*) The name and specific location of the NASA Center or Component Facility, or property to be protected.


(*b*) A statement that the property is owned by, or leased to, the United States for use by NASA or is the property of a NASA contractor located on a NASA Center or Component Facility.


(*c*) Designation desired: *i.e.*, controlled, limited, or Exclusion.


(*d*) Specific purpose(s) for the establishment of a security area.


(ii) For those areas currently designated by the Center as “permanent security areas,” the information set forth in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section will be furnished to the Assistant Administrator for Protective Services , NASA Headquarters, within 30 workdays of the effective date of this part.


(b) *Maintenance.* The security measures which may be utilized to protect such areas will be determined by the requirements of individual situations. At a minimum, such security measures will:


(1) Provide for the posting of signs at entrances and at such intervals along the perimeter of the designated area as to provide reasonable notice to persons about to enter thereon. The Assistant Administrator for Protective Services, NASA Headquarters, upon request, may approve the use of signs that are now being used pursuant to a State statute.


(2) Regulate authorized personnel entry and movement within the area.


(3) Deny entry of unauthorized persons or property.


(4) Prevent unauthorized removal of classified information and material or property from a NASA Center or Component Facility.


(c) *Revocation.* Once the need for an established permanent security area no longer exists, the area will be returned immediately to normal controls and procedures or as soon as practicable. The Assistant Administrator for Protective Services will be informed of permanent security area revocations within 15 workdays.



---

[N] [38 FR 8056, Mar. 28, 1973, as amended at 78 FR 5124, Jan. 24, 2013]




