# § 712.28   Form and instructions.

(a) Manufacturers and importers subject to this subpart must submit a single EPA Form No. 7710-35, “Manufacturer's Report—Preliminary Assessment Information,” for each plant site manufacturing or importing a chemical substance listed in § 712.30.


(b) Reporting companies may submit their reports through individual plant sites or company headquarters as they choose. A separate form must be submitted for each plant site manufacturing the chemical substance.


(c) Persons authorized to report information under this subpart must include the following information on Form 7710-35, Manufacturer's Report—Preliminary Assessment Information (Manufacturer's Report):


(1) A certification as to the truth and accuracy of the information reported signed and dated by an authorized person located at the plant site or corporate headquarters of the respondent company.


(2) A confidentiality statement signed and dated by an authorized person located at the plant site or corporate headquarters of the respondent company.


(3) The specific chemical name and Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS) Registry Number listed in 40 CFR 712.30.


(4) The name, company, address, city, State, ZIP code, and telephone number of a person who is submitting the form, which may be a person located at a plant site or corporate headquarters that will serve as the respondent, and will be able to answer questions about the information submitted by the company to EPA. A respondent to this subpart must include the appropriate Dun and Bradstreet Number for each plant site reported.


(5) The plant site activities, such as the manufacturing of a chemical substance, including the total quantity of the chemical substance (in kilograms) imported in bulk during the reporting period.


(6) The total number of workers and total worker-hours in each process category, which includes enclosed process, controlled release process, and open process.


(7) The information related to chemical substance processing by customers, including customers' use in industrial and consumer products, the market names under which the chemical substance is manufactured or imported, and the customer's process categories that are sold to customers for further processing.


(d) Persons must use the CISS tool to complete and submit Form 7710-35, Manufacturer's Report, and accompanying letters, via CDX. Submission requires registration with CDX, and must be made only as set forth in this section.


(e) To access the CISS tool go to *https://cdx.epa.gov/ssl/CSPP/PrimaryAuthorizedOfficial/Home.aspx* and follow the appropriate links, and for further instructions to go *http://www.epa.gov/oppt/chemtest/ereporting/index.html.*


---

[N] [47 FR 26998, June 22, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 20083, May 29, 1987; 53 FR 12523, Apr. 15, 1988; 60 FR 31921, June 19, 1995; 60 FR 34463, July 3, 1995; 71 FR 47126, Aug. 16, 2006; 78 FR 72825, Dec. 4, 2013]




