# § 1549.5   Adoption and implementation of the security program.

(a) *Security program required.* No person may screen cargo to be tendered to an aircraft operator operating under a full program under part 1544, a foreign air carrier operating under § 1546.101(a) or (b), or an indirect air carrier operating under § 1548.5 for carriage on a passenger aircraft, unless that person holds and carries out an approved security program under this part.


(b) *Content.* Each security program under this part must—


(1) Provide for the security of the aircraft, as well as that of persons and property traveling in air transportation against acts of criminal violence and air piracy and against the introduction into the aircraft of any unauthorized explosive, incendiary, and other destructive substance or item as provided in the certified cargo screening facility's security program;


(2) Be designed to prevent or deter the introduction of any unauthorized explosive, incendiary, and other destructive substance or item onto an aircraft; and


(3) Include the procedures and description of the facilities and equipment used to comply with the requirements of this part.


(c) *Employees and agents.* The certified cargo screening facility must ensure that its employees and agents carry out the requirements of this chapter and the certified cargo screening facility's security program.


(d) *Facility's security program.* The certified cargo screening facility standard security program together with approved alternate procedures and amendments issued to a particular facility constitutes that facility's security program.


(e) *Availability.* Each certified cargo screening facility must:


(1) Maintain an original of the security program at its corporate office.


(2) Have accessible a complete copy, or the pertinent portions of its security program, or appropriate implementing instructions, at its facility. An electronic version is adequate.


(3) Make a copy of the security program available for inspection upon the request of TSA.


(4) Restrict the distribution, disclosure, and availability of information contained in its security program to persons with a need to know, as described in part 1520 of this chapter.


(5) Refer requests for such information by other persons to TSA.




