# § 257.105   Recordkeeping requirements.

(a) *Operating Record.* Each owner or operator of a CCR unit subject to the requirements of this subpart must date and maintain files of all information required by this section in a written operating record at their facility. Each file must indicate the date the file was placed in the operating record.


(b) *Document Retention.* Unless specified otherwise, each file must be retained for at least five years following the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, record, or study.


(c) *Recordkeeping for multiple CCR units.* An owner or operator of more than one CCR unit subject to the provisions of this subpart may comply with the requirements of this section in one recordkeeping system provided the system identifies each file by the name of each CCR unit. The files may be maintained on microfilm, on a computer, on computer disks, on a storage system accessible by a computer, on magnetic tape disks, or on microfiche.


(d) *State Director and/or appropriate Tribal authority notification.* The owner or operator of a CCR unit must submit to the State Director and/or appropriate Tribal authority any demonstration or documentation required by this subpart, if requested, when such information is not otherwise available on the owner or operator's CCR website.


(e) *Location restrictions.* The owner or operator of a CCR unit subject to this subpart must place the demonstrations documenting whether or not the CCR unit is in compliance with the requirements under §§ 257.60(a), 257.61(a), 257.62(a), 257.63(a), and 257.64(a), as it becomes available, in the facility's operating record, except each location restrictions demonstration must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g).


(f) *Design criteria.* The owner or operator of a CCR unit subject to this subpart must place the following information, as it becomes available, in the facility's operating record:


(1) The design and construction certifications as required by § 257.70(e) and (f), except each certification must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) The documentation of liner type as required by § 257.71(a), except each liner type documentation must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(3) The design and construction certifications as required by § 257.72(c) and (d), except each certification must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(4) Documentation prepared by the owner or operator stating that the permanent identification marker was installed as required by §§ 257.73(a)(1) and 257.74(a)(1), except each document must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(5) The initial and periodic hazard potential classification assessments as required by §§ 257.73(a)(2) and 257.74(a)(2), except each hazard potential classification must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(6) The emergency action plan (EAP), and any amendment of the EAP, as required by §§ 257.73(a)(3) and 257.74(a)(3), except each EAP must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(7) Documentation prepared by the owner or operator recording the annual face-to-face meeting or exercise between representatives of the owner or operator of the CCR unit and the local emergency responders as required by §§ 257.73(a)(3)(i)(E) and 257.74(a)(3)(i)(E), except each document must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or (2) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(8) Documentation prepared by the owner or operator recording all activations of the emergency action plan as required by §§ 257.73(a)(3)(v) and 257.74(a)(3)(v), except each documentation of EAP activations must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or (2) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(9) The history of construction, and any revisions of it, as required by § 257.73(c), except each history of construction must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or (2) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(10) The initial and periodic structural stability assessments as required by §§ 257.73(d) and 257.74(d), except each structural stability assessment must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or (2) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(11) Documentation detailing the corrective measures taken to remedy the deficiency or release as required by §§ 257.73(d)(2) and 257.74(d)(2), except each document must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or (2) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(12) The initial and periodic safety factor assessments as required by §§ 257.73(e) and 257.74(e), except each safety factor assessment must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or (2) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(13) The design and construction plans, and any revisions of it, as required by § 257.74(c), except the design and construction plans must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or (2) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(14) The application and any supplemental materials submitted in support of the application as required by § 257.71(d)(1)(i)(E), except each application and supplemental materials must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or (2) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(15) The alternative liner demonstration as required by § 257.71(d)(1)(ii)(D).


(16) The alternative liner demonstration extension request as required by § 257.71(d)(2)(ii)(D).


(17) The documentation prepared for the preliminary demonstration as required by § 257.71(d)(2)(ii)(E).


(18) The notification of an incomplete application as required by § 257.71(d)(2)(iii)(B).


(19) The decision on the application as required by § 257.71(d)(2)(iii)(F), except each decision must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or (2) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(20) The final decision on the alternative liner demonstration as required by § 257.71(d)(2)(vii).


(21) The alternative source demonstration as required under § 257.71(d)(2)(ix)(A)(*4*).


(22) The final decision on the alternative source demonstration as required under § 257.71(d)(2)(ix)(A)(*5*).


(23) The final decision on the trend analysis as required under § 257.71(d)(2)(ix)(B)(*3*).


(24) The decision that the alternative source demonstration has been withdrawn as required under § 257.71(d)(2)(ix)(C).


(25) The facility evaluation report part 1 as required by § 257.75(c), except the facility evaluation report part 1 must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or (2) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(26) The facility evaluation report part 2 as required by § 257.75(d), except the facility evaluation report part 2 must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or (2) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(g) *Operating criteria.* The owner or operator of a CCR unit subject to this subpart must place the following information, as it becomes available, in the facility's operating record:


(1) The CCR fugitive dust control plan, and any subsequent amendment of the plan, required by § 257.80(b), except each fugitive dust control plan must be maintained for five years after closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or (2) or completes post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) is completed at the last CCR unit at the facility irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) The annual CCR fugitive dust control report required by § 257.80(c), except each fugitive dust control report must be maintained for five years after closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or (2) or post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) is completed at the last CCR unit at the facility irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(3) The initial and periodic run-on and run-off control system plans as required by § 257.81(c), except each plan must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or (2) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(4) The initial and periodic inflow design flood control system plan as required by § 257.82(c), except each plan must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or (2) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(5) Documentation recording the results of each inspection and instrumentation monitoring by a qualified person as required by § 257.83(a), except each document must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or (2) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(6) The periodic inspection report as required by § 257.83(b)(2), except each inspection report must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or (2) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(7) Documentation detailing the corrective measures taken to remedy the deficiency or release as required by §§ 257.83(b)(5) and 257.84(b)(5), except each document must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or (2) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(8) Documentation recording the results of the weekly inspection by a qualified person as required by § 257.84(a), except each inspection report must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or (2) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(9) The periodic inspection report as required by § 257.84(b)(2), except each inspection report must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or (2) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(h) *Groundwater monitoring and corrective action.* The owner or operator of a CCR unit subject to this subpart must place the following information, as it becomes available, in the facility's operating record:


(1) The annual groundwater monitoring and corrective action report as required by § 257.90(e), except each annual groundwater monitoring and corrective action report must be maintained for five years after the last CCR unit at the facility either completes closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or completes post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) Documentation of the design, installation, development, and decommissioning of any monitoring wells, piezometers and other measurement, sampling, and analytical devices as required by § 257.91(e)(1), except each document must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(3) The groundwater monitoring system certification as required by § 257.91(f), except each certification must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(4) The selection of a statistical method certification as required by § 257.93(f)(6), except each certification must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(5) Within 30 days of establishing an assessment monitoring program, the notification as required by § 257.94(e)(3).


(6) The results of appendices III and IV to this part constituent concentrations measured as required by § 257.95(d)(1).


(7) Within 30 days of returning to a detection monitoring program, the notification as required by § 257.95(e).


(8) Within 30 days of detecting one or more constituents in appendix IV to this part at statistically significant levels above the groundwater protection standard, the notifications as required by § 257.95(g).


(9) Within 30 days of initiating the assessment of corrective measures requirements, the notification as required by § 257.95(g)(5).


(10) The completed assessment of corrective measures as required by § 257.96(d), except each certification must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(11) Documentation prepared by the owner or operator recording the public meeting for the corrective measures assessment as required by § 257.96(e), except each certification must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(12) The semiannual report describing the progress in selecting and designing the remedy and the selection of remedy report as required by § 257.97(a), except that the selection of remedy report must be maintained until the remedy has been completed.


(13) Within 30 days of completing the remedy, the notification as required by § 257.98(e), except each notification must be maintained for five years after completion of the remedy selected pursuant to § 257.97 irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(14) The demonstration, including long-term performance data, supporting the suspension of groundwater monitoring requirements as required by § 257.90(g), except each document must be maintained for five years after the last unit at the facility completes post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(i) *Closure and post-closure care.* The owner or operator of a CCR unit subject to this subpart must place the following information, as it becomes available, in the facility's operating record:


(1) The notification of intent to initiate closure of the CCR unit as required by § 257.100(c)(1).


(2) The annual progress reports of closure implementation as required by § 257.100(c)(2)(i) and (ii).


(3) The notification of closure completion as required by § 257.100(c)(3).


(4) The written closure plan, and any amendment of the plan, as required by § 257.102(b), except that only the most recent closure plan must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(5) The written demonstration(s), including the certification required by § 257.102(e)(2)(iii), for a time extension for initiating closure as required by § 257.102(e)(2)(ii), except each demonstration must be maintained until notice of completion of closure is placed in the operating record in accordance with § 257.102(h) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(6) The written demonstration(s), including the certification required by § 257.102(f)(2)(iii), for a time extension for completing closure as required by § 257.102(f)(2)(i), except each demonstration must be maintained for five years after completion of closure in accordance with § 257.102(c) or (d) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(7) The notification of intent to close a CCR unit as required by § 257.102(g), except each notification must be maintained for five years after completion of closure in accordance with § 257.102(c) or (d) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(8) The notification of completion of closure of a CCR unit as required by § 257.102(h), except each notification must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(9) The notification recording a notation on the deed as required by § 257.102(i), except each notification must be maintained for five years after completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(10) The notification of intent to comply with the alternative closure requirements as required by § 257.103(c)(1), except each notification must be maintained for five years after completion of closure in accordance with § 257.102(c) or (d) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(11) The annual progress reports under the alternative closure requirements as required by § 257.103(c)(2), except each report must be maintained for five years after completion of closure in accordance with § 257.102(c) or (d) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(12) The written post-closure plan, and any amendment of the plan, as required by § 257.104(d), except that only the most recent post-closure plan must be maintained for five years after completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(13) The notification of completion of post-closure care period as required by § 257.104(e), except each notification must be maintained for five years after completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(14) The notification of intent to comply with the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to development of alternative capacity infeasible as required by § 257.103(f)(1)(ix)(A), except each notification must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or (2) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(15) The approved or denied demonstration for the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to development of alternative capacity infeasible as required by § 257.103(f)(1)(ix)(B), except each approval or denial must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or (2) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(16) The notification for requesting additional time to the alternative cease receipt of waste deadline as required by § 257.103(f)(1)(ix)(C), except each notification must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or (2) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(17) The semi-annual progress reports for the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to development of alternative capacity being infeasible as required by § 257.103(f)(1)(xi), except each semi-annual progress report must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or (2) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(18) The notification of intent to comply with the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to permanent cessation of a coal-fired boiler(s) by a date certain as required by § 257.103(f)(2)(viii), except each notification must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or (2) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(19) The approved or denied demonstration for the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to permanent cessation of a coal-fired boiler(s) by a date certain as required by § 257.103(f)(2)(ix), except each demonstration must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or (2) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(20) The annual progress report for the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to permanent cessation of a coal-fired boiler(s) by a date certain as required by § 257.103(f)(2)(x), except each annual progress report must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c)(1) or (2) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.




(j) *Retrofit criteria.* The owner or operator of a CCR unit subject to this subpart must place the following information, as it becomes available, in the facility's operating record:


(1) The written retrofit plan, and any amendment of the plan, as required by § 257.102(k)(2), except that only the most recent retrofit plan must be maintained in the facility's operating record irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) The notification of intent that the retrofit activities will proceed in accordance with the alternative procedures in § 257.103.


(3) The annual progress reports required under the alternative requirements as required by § 257.103.


(4) The written demonstration(s), including the certification in § 257.102(f)(2)(iii), for a time extension for completing retrofit activities as required by § 257.102(k)(3).


(5) The notification of intent to initiate retrofit of a CCR unit as required by § 257.102(k)(5).


(6) The notification of completion of retrofit activities as required by § 257.102(k)(6).












(k) *Legacy CCR surface impoundments.* In addition to the information specified in paragraphs (e) through (j) of this section, the owner or operator of a legacy CCR surface impoundment subject to this subpart must place the following information, as it becomes available, in the facility's operating record:


(1) The applicability report required by § 257.100(f)(1), including the certification required by § 257.100(f)(1)(i), except each report must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) The applicability extension reports required by § 257.100(f)(1)(iii)(C), except each report must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(3) The notification of field investigation conclusion required by § 257.100(f)(1)(iii)(F), except the notification must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.102(c) or until completion of post-closure care in accordance with § 257.104(e) or (g) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(4) The notification of intent to certify closure required by § 257.100(h)(1)(i), except the notification must be maintained for five years after completion of closure by removal in accordance with § 257.100(h)(1) or § 257.102(c)(2) irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.



---

[N] [89 FR 39114, May 8, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 88653, Nov. 8, 2024]








