# § 98.443   Calculating CO

You must calculate the mass of CO_2_ received using CO_2_ received equations (Equations RR-1 to RR-3 of this section), unless you follow the procedures in § 98.444(a)(4). You must calculate CO_2_ sequestered using injection equations (Equations RR-4 to RR-6 of this section), production/recycling equations (Equations RR-7 to RR-9 of this section), surface leakage equations (Equation RR-10 of this section), and sequestration equations (Equations RR-11 and RR-12 of this section). For your first year of reporting, you must calculate CO_2_ sequestered starting from the date set forth in your approved MRV plan.


(a) You must calculate and report the annual mass of CO_2_ received by pipeline using the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section and the procedures in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, if applicable.


(1) For a mass flow meter, you must calculate the total annual mass of CO_2_ in a CO_2_ stream received in metric tons by multiplying the mass flow by the CO_2_ concentration in the flow, according to Equation RR-1 of this section. You must collect these data quarterly. Mass flow and concentration data measurements must be made in accordance with § 98.444.


(2) For a volumetric flow meter, you must calculate the total annual mass of CO_2_ in a CO_2_ stream received in metric tons by multiplying the volumetric flow at standard conditions by the CO_2_ concentration in the flow and the density of CO_2_ at standard conditions, according to Equation RR-2 of this section. You must collect these data quarterly. Volumetric flow and concentration data measurements must be made in accordance with § 98.444.


(3) If you receive CO_2_ through more than one flow meter, you must sum the mass of all CO_2_ received in accordance with the procedure specified in Equation RR-3 of this section.


(b) You must calculate and report the annual mass of CO_2_ received in containers using the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.


(1) If you are measuring the mass of contents in a container under the provisions of § 98.444(a)(2)(i), you must calculate the CO_2_ received for injection in containers using Equation RR-1 of this section.


(2) If you are measuring the volume of contents in a container under the provisions of § 98.444(a)(2)(ii), you must calculate the CO_2_ received for injection in containers using Equation RR-2 of this section.


(c) You must report the annual mass of CO_2_ injected in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section.


(1) If you use a mass flow meter to measure the flow of an injected CO_2_ stream, you must calculate annually the total mass of CO_2_ (in metric tons) in the CO_2_ stream injected each year in metric tons by multiplying the mass flow by the CO_2_ concentration in the flow, according to Equation RR-4 of this section. Mass flow and concentration data measurements must be made in accordance with § 98.444.


(2) If you use a volumetric flow meter to measure the flow of an injected CO_2_ stream, you must calculate annually the total mass of CO_2_ (in metric tons) in the CO_2_ stream injected each year in metric tons by multiplying the volumetric flow at standard conditions by the CO_2_ concentration in the flow and the density of CO_2_ at standard conditions, according to Equation RR-5 of this section. Volumetric flow and concentration data measurements must be made in accordance with § 98.444.


(3) To aggregate injection data for all wells covered under this subpart, you must sum the mass of all CO_2_ injected through all injection wells in accordance with the procedure specified in Equation RR-6 of this section.


(d) You must calculate the annual mass of CO_2_ produced from oil or gas production wells or from other fluid wells for each separator that sends a stream of gas into a recycle or end use system in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section. You must account for any CO_2_ that is produced and not processed through a separator. You must account only for wells that produce the CO_2_ that was injected into the well or wells covered by this source category.


(1) For each gas-liquid separator for which flow is measured using a mass flow meter, you must calculate annually the total mass of CO_2_ produced from an oil or other fluid stream in metric tons that is separated from the fluid by multiplying the mass gas flow by the CO_2_ concentration in the gas flow, according to Equation RR-7 of this section. You must collect these data quarterly. Mass flow and concentration data measurements must be made in accordance with § 98.444.


(2) For each gas-liquid separator for which flow is measured using a volumetric flow meter, you must calculate annually the total mass of CO_2_ produced from an oil or other fluid stream in metric tons that is separated from the fluid by multiplying the volumetric gas flow at standard conditions by the CO_2_ concentration in the gas flow and the density of CO_2_ at standard conditions, according to Equation RR-8 of this section. You must collect these data quarterly. Volumetric flow and concentration data measurements must be made in accordance with § 98.444.


(3) To aggregate production data, you must sum the mass of all of the CO_2_ separated at each gas-liquid separator in accordance with the procedure specified in Equation RR-9 of this section. You must assume that the total CO_2_ measured at the separator(s) represents a percentage of the total CO_2_ produced. In order to account for the percentage of CO_2_ produced that is estimated to remain with the produced oil or other fluid, you must multiply the quarterly mass of CO_2_ measured at the separator(s) by a percentage estimated using a methodology in your approved MRV plan. If fluids containing CO_2_ from injection wells covered under this source category are produced and not processed through a gas-liquid separator, the concentration of CO_2_ in the produced fluids must be measured at a flow meter located prior to reinjection or reuse using methods in § 98.444(f)(1). The considerations you intend to use to calculate CO_2_ from produced fluids for the mass balance equation must be described in your approved MRV plan in accordance with § 98.448(a)(5).


(e) You must report the annual mass of CO_2_ that is emitted by surface leakage in accordance with your approved MRV plan. You must calculate the total annual mass of CO_2_ emitted from all leakage pathways in accordance with the procedure specified in Equation RR-10 of this section.


(f) You must report the annual mass of CO_2_ that is sequestered in subsurface geologic formations in the reporting year in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section.


(1) If you are actively producing oil or natural gas or if you are producing any other fluids, you must calculate the annual mass of CO_2_ that is sequestered in the underground subsurface formation in the reporting year in accordance with the procedure specified in Equation RR-11 of this section.


(2) If you are not actively producing oil or natural gas or any other fluids, you must calculate the annual mass of CO_2_ that is sequestered in subsurface geologic formations in the reporting year in accordance with the procedures specified in Equation RR-12 of this section.



---

[N] [75 FR 75078, Dec. 1, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 73906, Nov. 29, 2011; 78 FR 71978, Nov. 29, 2013]




