# § 721.10672   Sodium olefin sulfonate derivative (generic).

(a) *Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified generically as sodium olefin sulfonate derivative (PMNs P-09-447 and P-09-448) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities of the chemical substances after they have been completely reacted (cured) or partitioned into oil or petroleum streams following use as specific enhanced oil recovery applications that have been claimed confidential.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c). (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k).


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of these substances.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(1) of this section.



---

[N] [78 FR 48063, Aug. 7, 2013]




