# ยง 370.2   Notice of use of sound recordings under statutory license.

(a) *General.* This section prescribes rules under which copyright owners shall receive notice of use of their sound recordings when used under either section 112(e) or 114(d)(2) of title 17, United States Code, or both.


(b) *Forms and content.* A Notice of Use of Sound Recordings Under Statutory License shall be prepared on a form that may be obtained from the Copyright Office Web site or from the Licensing Section, and shall include the following information:


(1) The full legal name of the Service that is either commencing digital transmissions of sound recordings or making ephemeral phonorecords of sound recordings under statutory license or doing both.


(2) The full address, including a specific number and street name or rural route, of the place of business of the Service. A post office box or similar designation will not be sufficient except where it is the only address that can be used in that geographic location.


(3) The telephone number and facsimile number of the Service.


(4) Information on how to gain access to the online Web site or homepage of the Service, or where information may be posted under this section concerning the use of sound recordings under statutory license.


(5) Identification of each license under which the Service intends to operate, including identification of each of the following categories under which the Service will be making digital transmissions of sound recordings: Preexisting subscription service, preexisting satellite digital audio radio service, nonsubscription transmission service, new subscription service or business establishment service.


(6) The date or expected date of the initial digital transmission of a sound recording to be made under the section 114 statutory license and/or the date or the expected date of the initial use of the section 112(e) license for the purpose of making ephemeral phonorecords of the sound recordings.


(7) Identification of any amendments required by paragraph (e) of this section.


(c) *Signature.* The Notice shall include the signature of the appropriate officer or representative of the Service that is either transmitting the sound recordings or making ephemeral phonorecords of sound recordings under statutory license or doing both. The signature shall be accompanied by the printed or typewritten name and the title of the person signing the Notice and by the date of the signature.


(d) *Filing notices; fees.* The original and three copies shall be filed with the Licensing Section of the Copyright Office and shall be accompanied by the filing fee set forth in ยง 201.3(e) of this title. Notices shall be placed in the public records of the Licensing Section. The Notice and filing fee shall be sent to the Licensing Section at either the address listed on the form obtained from the Copyright Office or to: Library of Congress, Copyright Office, Licensing Section, 101 Independence Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20557-6400. A Service that, on or after July 1, 2004, shall make digital transmissions and/or ephemeral phonorecords of sound recordings under statutory license shall file a Notice of Use of Sound Recordings under Statutory License with the Licensing Section of the Copyright Office prior to the making of the first ephemeral phonorecord of the sound recording and prior to the first digital transmission of the sound recording.


(e) *Amendment.* A Service shall file a new Notice of Use of Sound Recordings under Statutory License within 45 days after any of the information contained in the Notice on file has changed, and shall indicate in the space provided by the Copyright Office that the Notice is an amended filing. The Licensing Section shall retain copies of all prior Notices filed by the Service.



---

[N] [74 FR 52423, Oct. 13, 2009, as amended at 86 FR 32643, June 22, 2021]




