# § 107.503   Registration statement.

(a) Each registration statement must be in English and contain the following information:


(1) Name;


(2) Street address, mailing address and telephone number for each facility or place of business;


(3) A statement indicating whether the facility uses mobile testing/inspection equipment to perform inspections, tests, or repairs at a location other than the address listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(4) A statement signed by the person responsible for compliance with the applicable requirements of this chapter, certifying knowledge of those requirements and that each employee who is a Registered Inspector or Design Certifying Engineer meets the minimum qualification requirements set forth in § 171.8 of this chapter for “Registered Inspector” or “Design Certifying Engineer”. The following language may be used.


(5) A description of the specific functions to be performed on cargo tanks or cargo tank motor vehicles, e.g.:


(i) Manufacture,


(ii) Assembly,


(iii) Inspection and testing (specify type, e.g., external or internal visual inspection, lining inspection, hydrostatic pressure test, leakage test, thickness test),


(iv) Certification,


(v) Repair, or


(vi) Equipment manufacture;


(6) An identification of the types of DOT specification and special permit cargo tanks or cargo tank motor vehicles which the registrant intends to manufacture, assemble, repair, inspect, test or certify;


(7) A statement indicating whether the registrant employs Registered Inspectors or Design Certifying Engineers to conduct certification, inspection or testing functions addressed by this subpart. If the registrant engages a person who is not an employee of the registrant to perform these functions, provide the name, address and registration number of that person; and


(8) If the registrant is not a resident of the United States, the name and address of a permanent resident of the United States designated in accordance with § 105.40 to serve as agent for service of process.


(b) In addition to the information required under paragraph (a) of this section, each person who manufactures a cargo tank or cargo tank motor vehicle must submit a copy of the manufacturer's current ASME Certificate of Authorization for the use of the ASME “U” stamp.


(c) In addition to the information required under paragraph (a) of this section, each person who repairs a cargo tank or cargo tank motor vehicle must submit a copy of the repair facility's current National Board Certificate of Authorization for the use of the “R” stamp or ASME Certificate of Authorization for the use of the ASME “U” stamp. Any person who repairs MC-series cargo tanks which are not certified to the ASME Code must submit a copy of the National Board or ASME Certificate of Authorization to PHMSA before June 30, 1992.



---

[N] [Amdt. 107-20, 54 FR 25003, June 12, 1989; 55 FR 37047, Sept. 7, 1990; 57 FR 365, Jan. 6, 1992; Amdt. 107-32, 59 FR 49131, Sept. 26, 1994; Amdt. 107-39, 61 FR 51337, Oct. 1, 1996; 63 FR 52846, Oct. 1, 1998; 68 FR 19273, Apr. 18, 2003]




