# § 190.15-5   Vessels using fuel having a flashpoint of 110 °F. or lower.

(a) Spaces containing machinery which uses, or tanks which contain, fuel having a flashpoint of 110 °F. or lower shall have natural supply and mechanical exhaust ventilation as required by this section. 


(b) The mechanical exhaust system shall be such as to assure the air changes as noted in Table 190.15-5(b) depending on the size of the space. 


(c) Exhaust blower motors, unless of a totally enclosed, explosion-proof type, shall be located outside of the ducts and outside of the compartment required to be ventilated. Exhaust blower motors if mounted in any compartment shall be located as high above the bilge as practicable. Blower blades shall be nonsparking with reference to their housings. 


(d) Exhaust blower switches shall be located outside of any space required to be ventilated by this section, and shall be of the type interlocked with the ignition switch so that the blowers are started before the engine ignition is switched on. A red warning sign at the switch shall state that the blowers shall be operated prior to starting the engines for a sufficient time to insure at least one complete change of air in the compartments. 


(e) The area of the ducts shall be such as to limit the air velocity to a maximum of 2,000 feet per minute. Ducts may be of any shape: *Provided,* That in no case shall one cross section dimension exceed twice the other. 


(f) At least two inlet ducts shall be located at one end of the compartment and they shall extend to the lowest part of the compartment or bilge on each side. Similar exhaust ducts shall be led to the mechanical exhaust system from the lowest part of the compartment or bilge on each side of the compartment at the end opposite from that at which the inlet ducts are fitted. These ducts shall be so installed that ordinary collection of water in the bilge will not close off the ducts. 


(g) All ducts shall be of steel construction and reasonably gastight from end to end. The ducts shall lead as direct as possible and be properly fastened and supported. 


(h) All supply ducts shall be provided with cowls or scoops having a free area not less than twice the required duct area. When the cowls or scoops are screened, the mouth area shall be increased to compensate for the area of the screen wire. Dampers shall not be fitted in the supply ducts. Cowls or scoops shall be kept open at all times except when the stress of weather is such as to endanger the vessel if the openings are not temporarily closed. Supply and exhaust openings shall not be located where the natural flow of air is unduly obstructed, or adjacent to possible sources of vapor ignition, nor shall they be so located that exhaust air may be taken into the supply vents. 


(i) Provisions must be made for closing all cowls or scoops when the fixed carbon dioxide or clean agent system is operated.



---

[N] [CGFR 67-83, 33 FR 1125, Jan. 27, 1968, as amended by USCG-2006-24797, 77 FR 33893, June 7, 2012]




