# § 63.132   Process wastewater provisions—general.

(a) *Existing sources.* This paragraph specifies the requirements applicable to process wastewater streams located at existing sources. The owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section, no later than the applicable dates specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part. 


(1) *Determine wastewater streams to be controlled for Table 9 compounds.* Determine whether each wastewater stream requires control for Table 9 compounds by complying with the requirements in either paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii) of this section, and comply with the requirements in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section. 


(i) Comply with paragraph (c) of this section, determining whether the wastewater stream is Group 1 or Group 2 for Table 9 compounds; or 


(ii) Comply with paragraph (e) of this section, designating the wastewater stream as a Group 1 wastewater stream. 


(iii) Comply with paragraph (f) of this section. 


(2) *Requirements for Group 1 wastewater streams.* For wastewater streams that are Group 1 for Table 9 compounds, comply with paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (a)(2)(iv) of this section. 


(i) Comply with the applicable requirements for wastewater tanks, surface impoundments, containers, individual drain systems, and oil/water separators as specified in § 63.133 through § 63.137 of this subpart, except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(A) through (a)(2)(i)(C) of this section and § 63.138(a)(3).


(A) Except as specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(C) of this section, the waste management units may be equipped with pressure relief devices that vent directly to the atmosphere provided the pressure relief device is not used for planned or routine venting of emissions.


(B) Except as specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(C) of this section, the pressure relief device remains in a closed position at all times except when it is necessary for the pressure relief device to open for the purpose of preventing physical damage or permanent deformation of the waste management unit in accordance with good engineering and safety practices.


(C) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(A) and (a)(2)(i)(B) of this section do not apply. Instead, pressure relief devices are subject to the requirements specified in § 63.165(e) of subpart H of this part.














(ii) Comply with the applicable requirements for control of Table 9 compounds as specified in § 63.138 of this subpart. Alternatively, the owner or operator may elect to comply with the treatment provisions specified in § 63.132(g) of this subpart. 


(iii) Comply with the applicable monitoring and inspection requirements specified in § 63.143 of this subpart. 


(iv) Comply with the applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified in §§ 63.146 and 63.147 of this subpart. 


(3) *Requirements for Group 2 wastewater streams.* For wastewater streams that are Group 2 for table 9 compounds, comply with the applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified in §§ 63.146(b)(1) and 63.147(b)(8). 


(b) *New sources.* This paragraph specifies the requirements applicable to process wastewater streams located at new sources. The owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section, no later than the applicable dates specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part. 


(1) *Determine wastewater streams to be controlled for Table 8 compounds.* Determine whether each wastewater stream requires control for Table 8 compounds by complying with the requirements in either paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (b)(1)(ii) of this section, and comply with the requirements in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section. 


(i) Comply with paragraph (d) of this section, determining whether the wastewater stream is Group 1 or Group 2 for Table 8 compounds; or 


(ii) Comply with paragraph (e) of this section, designating the wastewater stream as a Group 1 wastewater stream for Table 8 compounds. 


(iii) Comply with paragraph (f) of this section. 


(2) *Determine wastewater streams to be controlled for Table 9 compounds.* Determine whether each wastewater stream requires control for Table 9 compounds by complying with the requirements in either paragraph (b)(2)(i) or (b)(2)(ii) of this section, and comply with the requirements in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section. 


(i) Comply with paragraph (c) of this section, determining whether the wastewater stream is Group 1 or Group 2 for Table 9 compounds; or 


(ii) Comply with paragraph (e) of this section, designating the wastewater stream as a Group 1 wastewater stream. 


(iii) Comply with paragraph (f) of this section. 


(3) *Requirements for Group 1 wastewater streams.* For wastewater streams that are Group 1 for Table 8 compounds and/or Table 9 compounds, comply with paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (b)(3)(iv) of this section.


(i) Comply with the applicable requirements for wastewater tanks, surface impoundments, containers, individual drain systems, and oil/water separators specified in the requirements of § 63.133 through § 63.137 of this subpart, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3)(i)(A) through (b)(3)(i)(C) of this section and § 63.138(a)(3) of this subpart.


(A) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(C) of this section, the waste management units may be equipped with pressure relief devices that vent directly to the atmosphere provided the pressure relief device is not used for planned or routine venting of emissions.


(B) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(C) of this section, the pressure relief device remains in a closed position at all times except when it is necessary for the pressure relief device to open for the purpose of preventing physical damage or permanent deformation of the waste management unit in accordance with good engineering and safety practices.


(C) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), paragraphs (b)(3)(i)(A) and (b)(3)(i)(B) of this section do not apply. Instead, pressure relief devices are subject to the requirements specified in § 63.165(e).




(ii) Comply with the applicable requirements for control of Table 8 compounds specified in § 63.138 of this subpart. Alternatively, the owner or operator may elect to comply with the provisions specified in § 63.132(g) of this subpart. 


(iii) Comply with the applicable monitoring and inspection requirements specified in § 63.143 of this subpart. 


(iv) Comply with the applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified in §§ 63.146 and 63.147 of this subpart. 


(4) *Requirements for Group 2 wastewater streams.* For wastewater streams that are Group 2 for both table 8 and table 9 compounds, comply with the applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified in §§ 63.146(b)(1) and 63.147(b)(8).


(c) *How to determine Group 1 or Group 2 status for Table 9 compounds.* This paragraph provides instructions for determining whether a wastewater stream is Group 1 or Group 2 for Table 9 compounds. Total annual average concentration shall be determined according to the procedures specified in § 63.144(b) of this subpart. Annual average flow rate shall be determined according to the procedures specified in § 63.144(c) of this subpart. 


(1) A wastewater stream is a Group 1 wastewater stream for Table 9 compounds if:


(i) The total annual average concentration of Table 9 compounds is greater than or equal to 10,000 parts per million by weight at any flow rate;


(ii) The total annual average concentration of Table 9 compounds is greater than or equal to 1,000 parts per million by weight and the annual average flow rate is greater than or equal to 10 liters per minute; or


(iii) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(11), the process wastewater stream contains ethylene oxide such that it is considered to be in ethylene oxide service, as defined in § 63.101.




(2) A wastewater stream is a Group 2 wastewater stream for Table 9 compounds if it is not a Group 1 wastewater stream for Table 9 compounds by the criteria in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. 


(3) The owner or operator of a Group 2 wastewater shall re-determine group status for each Group 2 stream, as necessary, to determine whether the stream is Group 1 or Group 2 whenever process changes are made that could reasonably be expected to change the stream to a Group 1 stream. Examples of process changes include, but are not limited to, changes in production capacity, production rate, feedstock type, or whenever there is a replacement, removal, or addition of recovery or control equipment. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(3), process changes do not include: Process upsets; unintentional, temporary process changes; and changes that are within the range on which the original determination was based.


(d) *How to determine Group 1 or Group 2 status for Table 8 compounds.* This paragraph provides instructions for determining whether a wastewater stream is Group 1 or Group 2 for Table 8 compounds. Annual average concentration for each Table 8 compound shall be determined according to the procedures specified in § 63.144(b). Annual average flow rate shall be determined according to the procedures specified in § 63.144(c).


(1) A wastewater stream is a Group 1 wastewater stream for Table 8 compounds if:


(i) The annual average flow rate is 0.02 liter per minute or greater and the annual average concentration of any individual table 8 compound is 10 parts per million by weight or greater; or


(ii) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(11), the process wastewater stream contains ethylene oxide such that it is considered to be in ethylene oxide service, as defined in § 63.101.


(2) A wastewater stream is a Group 2 wastewater stream for Table 8 compounds if it does not meet the criteria specified in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, and the annual average flow rate is less than 0.02 liter per minute or the annual average concentration for each individual Table 8 compound is less than 10 parts per million by weight.


(3) The owner or operator of a Group 2 wastewater shall re-determine group status for each Group 2 stream, as necessary, to determine whether the stream is Group 1 or Group 2 whenever process changes are made that could reasonably be expected to change the stream to a Group 1 stream. Examples of process changes include, but are not limited to, changes in production capacity, production rate, feedstock type, or whenever there is a replacement, removal, or addition of recovery or control equipment. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(3), process changes do not include: Process upsets; unintentional, temporary process changes; and changes that are within the range on which the original determination was based.








(e) *How to designate a Group 1 wastewater stream.* The owner or operator may elect to designate a wastewater stream a Group 1 wastewater stream in order to comply with paragraph (a)(1) or (b)(1) of this section. To designate a wastewater stream or a mixture of wastewater streams a Group 1 wastewater stream, the procedures specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section and § 63.144(a)(2) of this subpart shall be followed. 


(1) From the point of determination for each wastewater stream that is included in the Group 1 designation to the location where the owner or operator elects to designate such wastewater stream(s) as a Group 1 wastewater stream, the owner or operator shall comply with all applicable emission suppression requirements specified in §§ 63.133 through 63.137. 


(2) From the location where the owner or operator designates a wastewater stream or mixture of wastewater streams to be a Group 1 wastewater stream, such Group 1 wastewater stream shall be managed in accordance with all applicable emission suppression requirements specified in §§ 63.133 through 63.137 and with the treatment requirements in § 63.138 of this part. 


(f) Owners or operators of sources subject to this subpart shall not discard liquid or solid organic materials with a concentration of greater than 10,000 parts per million of Table 9 compounds (as determined by analysis of the stream composition, engineering calculations, or process knowledge, according to the provisions of § 63.144(b) of this subpart) from a chemical manufacturing process unit to water or wastewater, unless the receiving stream is managed and treated as a Group 1 wastewater stream. This prohibition does not apply to materials from the activities listed in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(4) of this section. 


(1) Equipment leaks; 


(2) Except as specified in paragraph (f)(5) of this sections, activities included in maintenance or startup/shutdown/malfunction plans;




(3) Spills; or 


(4) Samples of a size not greater than reasonably necessary for the method of analysis that is used. 


(5) For each source as defined in § 63.101, on and after July 15, 2027, the phrase “or startup/shutdown/malfunction” in paragraph (f)(2) of this section does not apply.






(g) *Off-site treatment or on-site treatment not owned or operated by the source.* The owner or operator may elect to transfer a Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream to an on-site treatment operation not owned or operated by the owner or operator of the source generating the wastewater stream or residual, or to an off-site treatment operation. 


(1) The owner or operator transferring the wastewater stream or residual shall: 


(i) Comply with the provisions specified in §§ 63.133 through 63.137 of this subpart for each waste management unit that receives or manages a Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream prior to shipment or transport. 


(ii) Include a notice with the shipment or transport of each Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream. The notice shall state that the wastewater stream or residual contains organic hazardous air pollutants that are to be treated in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. When the transport is continuous or ongoing (for example, discharge to a publicly-owned treatment works), the notice shall be submitted to the treatment operator initially and whenever there is a change in the required treatment. 


(2) The owner or operator may not transfer the wastewater stream or residual unless the transferee has submitted to the EPA a written certification that the transferee will manage and treat any Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream received from a source subject to the requirements of this subpart in accordance with the requirements of either §§ 63.133 through 63.147, or § 63.102(b) of subpart F, or subpart D of this part if alternative emission limitations have been granted the transferor in accordance with those provisions. The certifying entity may revoke the written certification by sending a written statement to the EPA and the owner or operator giving at least 90 days notice that the certifying entity is rescinding acceptance of responsibility for compliance with the regulatory provisions listed in this paragraph. Upon expiration of the notice period, the owner or operator may not transfer the wastewater stream or residual to the treatment operation. 


(3) By providing this written certification to the EPA, the certifying entity accepts responsibility for compliance with the regulatory provisions listed in paragraph (g)(2) of this section with respect to any shipment of wastewater or residual covered by the written certification. Failure to abide by any of those provisions with respect to such shipments may result in enforcement action by the EPA against the certifying entity in accordance with the enforcement provisions applicable to violations of these provisions by owners or operators of sources. 


(4) Written certifications and revocation statements, to the EPA from the transferees of wastewater or residuals shall be signed by the responsible official of the certifying entity, provide the name and address of the certifying entity, and be sent to the appropriate EPA Regional Office at the addresses listed in 40 CFR 63.13. Such written certifications are not transferable by the treater. 



---

[N] [62 FR 2751, Jan. 17, 1997, as amended at 66 FR 6933, Jan. 22, 2001; 71 FR 76614, Dec. 21, 2006; 89 FR 43201, May 16, 2024]




