# § 11.14   Individuals who may practice before the Office in trademark and other non-patent matters.

(a) *Attorneys.* Any individual who is an attorney as defined in § 11.1 may represent others before the Office in trademark and other non-patent matters. An attorney is not required to apply for registration or recognition to practice before the Office in trademark and other non-patent matters. Registration as a patent practitioner does not itself entitle an individual to practice before the Office in trademark matters.


(b) *Non-lawyers.* Individuals who are not attorneys are not recognized to practice before the Office in trademark and other non-patent matters, except that individuals not attorneys who were recognized to practice before the Office in trademark matters under this chapter prior to January 1, 1957, will be recognized as agents to continue practice before the Office in trademark matters. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, registration as a patent agent does not itself entitle an individual to practice before the Office in trademark matters.


(c) *Foreigners.* (1) Any foreign attorney or agent who is not a resident of the United States who shall file a written application for reciprocal recognition under paragraph (f) of this section and prove to the satisfaction of the OED Director that they are a registered and active member in good standing as a trademark practitioner before the trademark office of the country in which they reside and practice and possess good moral character and reputation, may be recognized for the limited purpose of representing parties located in such country before the Office in the presentation and prosecution of trademark matters, provided the trademark office of such country and the USPTO have reached an official understanding to allow substantially reciprocal privileges to those permitted to practice in trademark matters before the Office. Recognition under this paragraph (c)(1) shall continue only during the period in which the conditions specified in this paragraph (c)(1) are met.




(2) In any trademark matter where a foreign attorney or agent authorized under paragraph (c)(1) of this section is representing an applicant, registrant, or party to a proceeding, an attorney, as defined in § 11.1 and qualified to practice under paragraph (a) of this section, must also be appointed pursuant to § 2.17(b) and (c) of this chapter as the representative who will file documents with the Office and with whom the Office will correspond.


(d) *Effect of recognition.* Recognition of any individual under this section shall not be construed as sanctioning or authorizing the performance of any act regarded in the jurisdiction where performed as the unauthorized practice of law.


(e) *Appearance.* No individual other than those specified in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section will be permitted to practice before the Office in trademark matters on behalf of a client. Except as specified in § 2.11(a) of this chapter, an individual may appear in a trademark or other non-patent matter in his or her own behalf or on behalf of:


(1) A firm of which he or she is a member;


(2) A partnership of which he or she is a partner; or


(3) A corporation or association of which he or she is an officer and which he or she is authorized to represent.


(f) *Application for reciprocal recognition.* An individual seeking reciprocal recognition under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, in addition to providing evidence satisfying the provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, shall apply in writing to the OED Director for reciprocal recognition, and shall pay the application fee required by § 1.21(a)(1)(i) of this subchapter.


(g) *Obligation to provide updated contact information and licensure status.* A practitioner granted reciprocal recognition under paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall provide to the OED Director their postal address, at least one and up to three email addresses where they receive email, and a business telephone number, as well as any change to such addresses and telephone number within 30 days of the date of the change. Any reciprocally recognized practitioner failing to provide the information to the OED Director or update the information within 30 days of the date of change is subject to having their reciprocal recognition withdrawn under paragraph (i) of this section. A practitioner granted reciprocal recognition under paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall notify the OED Director of any lapse in their authorization to represent clients before the trademark office in the country in which they are registered and reside within 30 days of the lapse.


(h) *Communications with recognized trademark practitioners.* The OED Director may address a letter to any practitioner granted reciprocal recognition under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, to the postal address last provided to the OED Director, for the purposes of ascertaining the practitioner's contact information and/or the practitioner's good standing with the trademark office in the country in which the practitioner is registered and resides. Any practitioner to whom such a letter is sent shall provide their contact information, and, if requested, a certificate of good standing with the trademark office in the country in which the practitioner is registered and resides. Any practitioner failing to reply and give any information requested by the OED Director within a time limit specified will be subject to having their reciprocal recognition withdrawn under paragraph (i) of this section.


(i) *Withdrawal of reciprocal recognition.* Upon notice that a trademark practitioner registered under paragraph (c)(1) of this section is no longer registered with, in good standing with, or otherwise eligible to practice before the trademark office of the country upon which reciprocal recognition is based; that such practitioner no longer resides in such country; or that such practitioner has not provided information required in paragraphs (g) and/or (h) of this section, and absent a showing of cause why the practitioner's recognition should not be withdrawn, the OED Director shall promptly withdraw such recognition and publish a notice of such action.


(j) *Reinstatement of reciprocal recognition.* Any practitioner whose recognition has been withdrawn pursuant to paragraph (i) of this section may reapply for recognition under paragraph (f) of this section.





---

[N] [73 FR 47688, Aug. 14, 2008, as amended at 84 FR 31511, July 2, 2019; 88 FR 45087, July 14, 2023]




