# Appendix V to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Ceiling Fan Light Kits Packaged With Other Fluorescent Lamps (Not Compact Fluorescent Lamps or General Service Fluorescent Lamps), Packaged With Consumer-Replaceable SSL (Not Integrated LED Lamps), Packaged With Non-Consumer-Replaceable SSL, or Packaged With Other SSL Lamps That Have an ANSI Standard Base (Not Integrated LED Lamps)




*0. Incorporation by Reference.*

DOE incorporated by reference in § 430.3 the entire standard for: IES LM-9-20, IES LM-54-20, IES LM-75-19, IES LM-78-20, and IES LM-79-19; however, only enumerated provisions of IES LM-9-20 and IES LM-79-19 are applicable to this appendix as follows:


0.1 IES LM-9-20 as referenced by section 3 of this appendix


(a) Section 4.0 “Ambient and Physical Conditions”.


(b) Section 5.0 “Electrical Conditions”.


(c) Section 6.0 “Lamp Test Procedures”.


(d) Section 7.0 “Photometric Test Procedures”.0.2 IES LM-79-19 as referenced by section 3 of this appendix


(a) Section 4.0 “Physical and Environmental Test Conditions”.


(b) Section 5.0 “Electrical Test Conditions”.


(c) Section 6.0 “Test Preparation”.


(d) Section 7.0 “Total Luminous Flux and Integrated Optical Measurements”.


This appendix establishes the test requirements to measure the energy efficiency of all ceiling fan light kits (CFLKs) packaged with fluorescent lamps other than compact fluorescent lamps (CFLs) or general service fluorescent lamps (GSFLs), packaged with consumer-replaceable solid-state lighting (SSL) (not integrated light-emitting diode [LED] lamps), packaged with non-consumer-replaceable SSL, or packaged with SSL lamps that have an American National Standards Institute (ANSI) standard base (not integrated LED lamps).


2.1. *CFLK with non-consumer-replaceable SSL* means a CFLK with a non-ANSI-standard base that has an SSL light source, driver, heat sink, and intermediate circuitry (such as wiring between a driver and a light source) that are not consumer replaceable, *i.e.,* a consumer cannot replace the light source and all components necessary for the starting and stable operation of the light source, without permanently altering the product and must replace the entire CFLK upon failure. Permanently altering the product constitutes the cutting of wires, use of a soldering iron, or damage to or destruction of the CFLK and does not constitute connecting or disconnecting wire nuts, fasteners or screws, or preserving the CFLK as it was sold.


2.2. *CFLK with consumer-replaceable SSL* means a CFLK with a non-ANSI-standard base that has an SSL light source, driver, heat sink, and intermediate circuitry (such as wiring between a driver and light source) that are consumer replaceable, *i.e.,* a consumer can replace the light source and all components necessary for the starting and stable operation of the light source, without permanently altering the product. Permanently altering the product constitutes the cutting of wires, use of a soldering iron, or damage to or destruction of the CFLK and does not constitute connecting or disconnecting wire nuts, fasteners or screws, or preserving the CFLK as it was sold.


2.3. *Covers* means materials used to diffuse or redirect light produced by an SSL light source in CFLKs with non-consumer-replaceable SSL.


2.4. *Other (non-CFL and non-GSFL) fluorescent lamp* means a low-pressure mercury electric-discharge lamp in which a fluorescing coating transforms some of the ultraviolet energy generated by the mercury discharge into light, including but not limited to circline fluorescent lamps, and excluding any compact fluorescent lamp and any general service fluorescent lamp.


2.5. *Solid-State Lighting (SSL)* means technology where light is emitted from a solid object—a block of semiconductor—rather than from a filament or plasma, as in the case of incandescent and fluorescent lighting. This includes inorganic light-emitting diodes (LEDs) and organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs).


For any CFLK that utilizes consumer replaceable lamps or consumer-replaceable SSL, measure the lamp efficacy of each basic model of lamp or SSL light source packaged with the CFLK. For any CFLK only with non-consumer-replaceable SSL, measure the luminaire efficacy of the CFLK. For any CFLK that includes consumer replaceable lamps or consumer-replaceable SSL and non-consumer-replaceable SSL, measure both the lamp efficacy of each basic model of lamp or consumer-replaceable SSL light source packaged with the CFLK and the luminaire efficacy of the CFLK with all consumer replaceable lamps or consumer-replaceable SSL light sources removed. Take measurements at full light output. For each test, use the test procedures in the table in this section. CFLKs with non-consumer-replaceable SSL and consumer replaceable covers may be measured with their covers removed but must otherwise be measured according to the table in this section.



---

[N] [88 FR 21073, Apr. 10, 2023]










