# § 4000.3   What methods of filing may I use?

(a) *Paper filings.* Except for the filings listed in paragraph (b) of this section, you may file any submission with us by hand, mail, or commercial delivery service.


(b) *Electronic filings.* (1) You must file premium declarations under part 4007 of this chapter electronically in accordance with the instructions on the PBGC's Web site subject to the following provisions:


(i) This electronic filing requirement does not apply to premium information to the extent that the PBGC grants an exemption for good cause in appropriate circumstances.


(ii) This electronic filing requirement does not apply to premium payments except to the extent that the PBGC so provides in the instructions on the PBGC's Web site.


(iii) This electronic filing requirement does not apply to information you file to comply with a request we make under § 4007.10(c) of this chapter (dealing with providing record information in connection with a premium compliance review).


(2) You must submit the information required under part 4010 of this chapter electronically in accordance with the instructions on the PBGC's Web site, except as otherwise provided by the PBGC.


(3) You must file notices under part 4043 of this chapter electronically in accordance with the instructions on PBGC's Web site, *http://www.pbgc.gov*, except as otherwise provided by PBGC.


(4) When making filings to PBGC under parts 4041A, 4245, 4262, and 4281 of this chapter (except for notices of benefit reductions and notices of restoration of benefits under part 4281), you must submit the information required under these parts electronically in accordance with the instructions on the PBGC's Web site, except as otherwise provided by the PBGC.


(c) *Information on how to file.* Current information on how to file, including permitted filing methods, fax numbers, and mail and e-mail addresses, is—


(1) On our Web site, *http://www.pbgc.gov;*

(2) In our various printed forms and instructions packages; and


(3) Available by contacting our Customer Service Center at 445 12th Street SW, Washington, DC 20024-2101; telephone 1-800-400-7242 (for participants), or 1-800-736-2444 (for practitioners). (If you are deaf or hard of hearing or have a speech disability, please dial 7-1-1 to access telecommunications relay services.)

 



---

[N] [70 FR 11543, Mar. 9, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 31080, June 1, 2006; 79 FR 13559, Mar. 11, 2014; 80 FR 55002, Sept. 11, 2015; 80 FR 55745, Sept. 17, 2015; 80 FR 57717, Sept. 25, 2015; 86 FR 36620, July 12, 2021; 87 FR 57825, Sept. 22, 2022]




