# 846.702-70   Guarantee period services and specifications.

(a) Guarantee period of services are associated with preserving and protecting a specified piece of contractor-installed equipment that is guaranteed under a construction contract. Specifications for certain high-dollar or traditionally troublesome equipment are designed to allow for the original installer of the equipment to service the equipment throughout the guaranty period.


(b) Guarantee period services are not the same as the 1-year general construction guaranty clause found at FAR clause 52.246-21, Warranty of Construction.


(c) The contracting officer may determine, when in the best interest of VA that guarantee period services, not to exceed a period of 5 years, are appropriate to protect the integrity of the installed equipment and ensure that the equipment performs as guaranteed.


(d) When the determination is made under paragraph (c) of this section, the contracting officer shall include the guarantee period of services as a separately priced contract line item number (CLIN) in solicitations and contracts.


(e) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 852.246-75, Warranty of Construction—Guarantee Period Services, in solicitations and contracts for construction that include the FAR clause 52.246-21, Warranty of Construction, and that also include guarantee period services.


(f) In accordance with the approved VA specifications, the following types of equipment contain the guarantee period services specifications. The following represents a sampling of these specifications.


(1) *Division 14—Conveying Equipment.* (i) Electric Dumbwaiters Geared Traction and Winding Drum (VA 14 12 11).


(ii) Electric Traction Elevators (VA 14 21 00).


(iii) Traction Cartlift (VA 14 21 11).


(iv) Hydraulic Elevators (VA 14 24 00).


(v) Hydraulic Cartlift (VA 14 24 11).


(2) *Division 27—Communications.* (i) Public Address and Mass Notification Systems (VA 27 51 16).


(ii) Intercommunication and Program Systems (VA 27 51 23).


(g) The construction contractor shall require the original installer of the equipment, which is normally a subcontractor, to provide the guarantee period services.



---

[N] [83 FR 48260, Sept. 24, 2018]




