# § 81.62   Mortgage reports.

(a) *Loan-level data elements.* To implement the data collection and submission requirements for mortgage data and to assist the Secretary in monitoring the GSEs' housing goal activities, each GSE shall collect and compile computerized loan-level data on each mortgage purchased in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 1456(e) and 1723a(m). The Secretary may, from time-to-time, issue a list entitled “Required Loan-level Data Elements” specifying the loan-level data elements to be collected and maintained by the GSEs and provided to the Secretary. The Secretary may revise the list by written notice to the GSEs.


(b) *Quarterly Mortgage reports.* Each GSE shall submit to the Secretary quarterly a Mortgage Report. The fourth quarter report shall serve as the Annual Mortgage Report and shall be designated as such. 


(1) Each Mortgage Report shall include: 


(i) Aggregations of the loan-level mortgage data compiled by the GSE under paragraph (a) of this section for year-to-date mortgage purchases, in the format specified in writing by the Secretary; and 


(ii) Year-to-date dollar volume, number of units, and number of mortgages on owner-occupied and rental properties purchased by the GSE that do and do not qualify under each housing goal as set forth in this part. 


(2) To facilitate the Secretary's monitoring of the GSE's housing goal activities, the Mortgage Report for the second quarter shall include year-to-date computerized loan-level data consisting of the data elements required under paragraph (a) of this section. 


(3) To implement the data collection and submission requirements for mortgage data and to assist the Secretary in monitoring the GSE's housing goal activities, each Annual Mortgage Report shall include year-to-date computerized loan-level data consisting of the data elements required by under paragraph (a) of this section. 


(c) *Timing of Reports.* The GSEs shall submit the Mortgage Report for each of the first 3 quarters of each year within 60 days of the end of the quarter. Each GSE shall submit its Annual Mortgage Report within 75 days after the end of the calendar year. 


(d) *Revisions to Reports.* At any time before submission of its Annual Mortgage Report, a GSE may revise any of its quarterly reports for that year. 


(e) *Format.* The GSEs shall submit to the Secretary computerized loan-level data with the Mortgage Report, in the format specified in writing by the Secretary. 




