# § 1.535-2   Adjustments to taxable income.

(a) *Taxes*—(1) *United States taxes.* In computing accumulated taxable income for any taxable year, there shall be allowed as a deduction the amount by which Federal income and excess profits taxes accrued during the taxable year exceed the credit provided by section 33 (relating to taxes of foreign countries and possessions of the United States), except that no deduction shall be allowed for (i) the accumulated earnings tax imposed by section 531 (or a corresponding section of a prior law), (ii) the personal holding company tax imposed by section 541 (or a corresponding section of a prior law), and (iii) the excess profits tax imposed by subchapter E, chapter 2 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1940. The deduction is for taxes accrued during the taxable year, regardless of whether the corporation uses an accrual method of accounting, the cash receipts and disbursements method, or any other allowable method of accounting. In computing the amount of taxes accrued, an unpaid tax which is being contested is not considered accrued until the contest is resolved.


(2) *Taxes of foreign countries and United States possessions.* In determining accumulated taxable income for any taxable year, if the taxpayer chooses the benefits of section 901 for such taxable year, a deduction shall be allowed for:


(i) The income, war profits, and excess profits taxes imposed by foreign countries or possessions of the United States and accrued during such taxable year, and


(ii) In the case of a domestic corporation, the foreign income taxes deemed to be paid for such taxable year under section 902(a) in accordance with §§ 1.902-1 and 1.902-2 or section 960(a)(1) in accordance with § 1.960-7.


(b) *Charitable contributions.* Section 535(b)(2) provides that, in computing the accumulated taxable income of a corporation, the deduction for charitable contributions shall be computed without regard to section 170(b)(2). Thus, the amount of charitable contributions made during the taxable year not allowable as a deduction under section 170 by reason of the limitations imposed by section 170(b)(2) shall be allowed as a deduction in computing accumulated taxable income for the taxable year. However, any excess of the amount of the charitable contributions made in a prior taxable year over the amount allowed as a deduction under section 170 for such year shall not be allowed as a deduction from taxable income in computing accumulated taxable income for the taxable year.


(c) *Special deductions disallowed.* Sections 241 through 248 provide for the allowance of special deductions for such items as partially tax-exempt interest, certain dividends received, dividends paid on certain preferred stock of public utilities, and organizational expenses. Such special deductions, except the deduction provided by section 248 (relating to organizational expenses) shall be disallowed in computing accumulated taxable income.


(d) *Net operating loss.* The net operating loss deduction provided in section 172 is not allowed for purposes of computing accumulated taxable income.


(e) *Capital losses.* (1) Losses from sales or exchanges of capital assets during the taxable year, which are disallowed as deductions under section 1211(a) in computing taxable income, shall be allowed as deductions in computing accumulated taxable income.


(2) The computation of the capital losses allowable as a deduction in computing accumulated taxable income may be illustrated by the following example:


(f) *Long-term capital gains.* (1) There is allowed as a deduction in computing accumulated taxable income, the excess of the net long-term capital gain for the taxable year over the net short-term capital loss for such year (determined without regard to the capital loss carryover provided in section 1212) minus the taxes attributable to such excess as provided by section 535(b)(6). The tax attributable to such excess is the difference between:


(i) The taxes (except the accumulated earnings tax) imposed by subtitle A of the Code for such year, and


(ii) The taxes (except the accumulated earnings tax) imposed by subtitle A computed for such year as if taxable income were reduced by the excess of the net long-term capital gain over net short-term capital loss (including the capital loss carryover to such year)


(2) The application of the rule in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:


(3) Section 631(c) (relating to gain or loss in the case of disposal of coal or domestic iron ore) shall have no application in determining the amount of the deduction allowable under section 535(b)(6).


(g) *Capital loss carrybacks and carryovers.* Capital losses carried to a taxable year under section 1212(a) shall have no application for purposes of computing accumulated taxable income for such year.


(h) *Bank affiliates.* There is allowed the deduction provided by section 601 in the case of bank affiliates (as defined in section 2 of the Banking Act of 1933; 12 U. S. C. 221a(c)).



---

[N] [T.D. 6500, 25 FR 11737, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6805, 30 FR 3209, Mar. 9, 1965; T.D. 6841, 30 FR 9305, July 27, 1965; T.D. 7301, 39 FR 964, Jan. 4, 1974; T.D. 7649, 44 FR 60086, Oct. 18, 1979]




