# § 430.206   Planning performance.

(a) *Appraisal period.* (1) An appraisal program shall designate an official appraisal period for which a performance plan shall be prepared, during which performance shall be monitored, and for which a rating of record shall be prepared.


(2) Each program shall specify a single length of time as its appraisal period. The appraisal period generally shall be 12 months so that employees are provided a rating of record on an annual basis. A program's appraisal period may be longer when work assignments and responsibilities so warrant or performance management objectives can be achieved more effectively.


(b) *Performance plan.* (1) Agencies shall encourage employee participation in establishing performance plans.


(2) Performance plans shall be provided to employees at the beginning of each appraisal period (normally within 30 days).


(3) An appraisal program shall require that each employee be covered by an appropriate written, or otherwise recorded, performance plan based on work assignments and responsibilities.


(4) Each performance plan shall include all elements which are used in deriving and assigning a summary level, including at least one critical element and any non-critical element(s).


(5) Each performance plan may include one or more additional performance elements, which—


(i) Are not used in deriving and assigning a summary level, and


(ii) Are used to support performance management processes as described at § 430.102(b).


(6) A performance plan established under an appraisal program that uses only two summary levels (pattern A as specified in § 430.208(d)(1)) shall not include non-critical elements.


(7) An appraisal program shall establish how many and which performance levels may be used to appraise critical and non-critical elements.


(8) Elements and standards shall be established as follows—


(i) For a critical element—


(A) At least two levels for appraisal shall be used with one level being “Fully Successful” or its equivalent and another level being “Unacceptable,” and


(B) A performance standard shall be established at the “Fully Successful” level and may be established at other levels.


(ii) For non-critical elements, when established,—


(A) At least two levels for appraisal shall be used, and


(B) A performance standard(s) shall be established at whatever level(s) is appropriate.


(iii) The absence of an established performance standard at a level specified in the program shall not preclude a determination that performance is at that level.



---

[N] [60 FR 43943, Aug. 23, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 62503, Nov. 24, 1997]




