# ยง 915.51   Issuance of regulations.

(a) The Secretary shall regulate, in the manner specified in this section, the handling of avocados whenever he finds, from the recommendations and information submitted by the committee or from other available information, that such regulations will tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act. Such regulations may:


(1) Prohibit, prior to such time as shall be specified, the handling of any size or sizes of any variety or varieties of avocados grown in District 1 or District 2.


(2) Prohibit the handling of any variety or varieties of avocados grown in District 1 or District 2 which do not meet such quality and maturity standards as shall be prescribed.


(3) Limit the shipment of the total quantity of avocados by prohibiting the shipment thereof: *Provided,* That no such prohibition shall be effective during any fiscal period, other than for four periods not exceeding six days each immediately prior to, including, or following July 4, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day.


(4) Fix the size, capacity, weight, dimensions, or pack of the container or containers which may be used in the packaging, and the transportation, sale, shipment or other handling of avocados.


(5) Establish and prescribe pack specifications for the grading and packing of any variety or varieties of avocados and require that all avocados handled shall be packed in accordance with such pack specifications, and shall be identified by appropriate labels, seals, stamps, or tags, affixed to the containers by the handler under the supervision of the committee or an inspector of the Federal-State Inspection Service, showing the particular pack specifications of the lot.


(6) Provide that any or all requirements effective pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1), (2), (3), and (4) of this section applicable to the handling of avocados shall be different for the handling of avocados within the production area and for the handling of avocados between the production area and any point outside thereof.


(7) Prescribe requirements, as provided in this paragraph, applicable to exports of any variety of avocados which are different from those applicable to the handling of the same variety to other destinations.


(b) The committee shall be informed immediately of any such regulations issued by the Secretary and the committee shall promptly give notice thereof to growers and handlers.



---

[N] [19 FR 3439, June 11, 1954, as amended at 20 FR 4177, June 15, 1955; 22 FR 3514, May 21, 1957. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 36 FR 14126, July 30, 1971; 40 FR 52606, Nov. 11, 1975; 43 FR 39322, Sept. 5, 1978]




