# § 550.241   What must the DPP or DOCD include?

Your DPP or DOCD must include the following:


(a) *Description, objectives, and schedule.* A description, discussion of the objectives, and tentative schedule (from start to completion) of the development and production activities you propose to undertake. Examples of development and production activities include:


(1) Development drilling;


(2) Well test flaring;


(3) Installation of production platforms, satellite structures, subsea wellheads and manifolds, and lease term pipelines (see definition at § 550.105); and


(4) Installation of production facilities and conduct of production operations.


(b) *Location.* The location and water depth of each of your proposed wells and production facilities. Include a map showing the surface and bottom-hole location and water depth of each proposed well, the surface location of each production facility, and the locations of all associated drilling unit and construction barge anchors.


(c) *Drilling unit.* A description of the drilling unit and associated equipment you will use to conduct your proposed development drilling activities. Include a brief description of its important safety and pollution prevention features, and a table indicating the type and the estimated maximum quantity of fuels and oil that will be stored on the facility (see definition of “facility (3)” under § 550.105).


(d) *Production facilities.* A description of the production platforms, satellite structures, subsea wellheads and manifolds, lease term pipelines (see definition at § 550.105), production facilities, umbilicals, and other facilities you will use to conduct your proposed development and production activities. Include a brief description of their important safety and pollution prevention features, and a table indicating the type and the estimated maximum quantity of fuels and oil that will be stored on the facility (see definition of “facility (3)” under § 550.105).


(e) *Service fee.* You must include payment of the service fee listed in § 550.125.




