# ยง 73.300   Carrot oil.

(a) *Identity.* (1) The color additive carrot oil is the liquid or the solid portion of the mixture or the mixture itself obtained by the hexane extraction of edible carrots (*Daucus carota* L.) with subsequent removal of the hexane by vacuum distillation. The resultant mixture of solid and liquid extractives consists chiefly of oils, fats, waxes, and carrotenoids naturally occurring in carrots. The definition of carrot oil in this paragraph is for the purpose of identity as a color additive only and shall not be construed as setting forth an official standard for carrot oil or carrot oleoresin under section 401 of the act.


(2) Color additive mixtures for food use made with carrot oil may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.


(b) *Specifications.* Carrot oil shall contain no more than 25 parts per million of hexane.


(c) *Uses and restrictions.* Carrot oil may be safely used for coloring foods generally, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice, except that it may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been promulgated under section 401 of the act unless the use of added color is authorized by such standards.


(d) *Labeling requirements.* The label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of ยง 70.25 of this chapter.


(e) *Exemption from certification.* Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.




