# § 292.204   Criteria for qualifying small power production facilities.

(a) *Size of the facility*—(1) *Maximum size.* Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the power production capacity of a facility for which qualification is sought, together with the power production capacity of any other small power production qualifying facilities that use the same energy resource, are owned by the same person(s) or its affiliates, and are located at the same site, may not exceed 80 megawatts.


(2) *Method of calculation.* (i)(A) For purposes of this paragraph (a)(2), there is an irrebuttable presumption that affiliated small power production qualifying facilities that use the same energy resource and are located one mile or less from the facility for which qualification or recertification is sought are located at the same site as the facility for which qualification or recertification is sought.


(B) For purposes of this paragraph (a)(2), for facilities for which qualification or recertification is filed on or after December 31, 2020 there is an irrebuttable presumption that affiliated small power production qualifying facilities that use the same energy resource and are located 10 miles or more from the facility for which qualification or recertification is sought are located at separate sites from the facility for which qualification or recertification is sought.


(C) For purposes of this paragraph (a)(2), for facilities for which qualification or recertification is filed on or after December 31, 2020, there is a rebuttable presumption that affiliated small power production qualifying facilities that use the same energy resource and are located more than one mile and less than 10 miles from the facility for which qualification or recertification is sought are located at separate sites from the facility for which qualification or recertification is sought.


(D) For hydroelectric facilities, facilities are considered to be located at the same site as the facility for which qualification or recertification is sought if they are located within one mile of the facility for which qualification or recertification is sought and use water from the same impoundment for power generation.


(ii) For purposes of making the determinations in paragraph (a)(2)(i), the distance between two facilities shall be measured from the edge of the closest electrical generating equipment for which qualification or recertification is sought to the edge of the nearest electrical generating equipment of the other affiliated small power production qualifying facility using the same energy resource.


(3) *Waiver.* The Commission may modify the application of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, for good cause.


(4) *Exception.* Facilities meeting the criteria in section 3(17)(E) of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 796(17)(E)) have no maximum size, and the power production capacity of such facilities shall be excluded from consideration when determining the size of other small power production facilities less than 10 miles from such facilities.


(b) *Fuel use.* (1)(i) The primary energy source of the facility must be biomass, waste, renewable resources, geothermal resources, or any combination thereof, and 75 percent or more of the total energy input must be from these sources.


(ii) Any primary energy source which, on the basis of its energy content, is 50 percent or more biomass shall be considered biomass. 


(2) Use of oil, natural gas and coal by a facility, under section 3(17)(B) of the Federal Power Act, is limited to the minimum amounts of fuel required for ignition, startup, testing, flame stabilization, and control uses, and the minimum amounts of fuel required to alleviate or prevent unanticipated equipment outages, and emergencies, directly affecting the public health, safety, or welfare, which would result from electric power outages. Such fuel use may not, in the aggregate, exceed 25 percent of the total energy input of the facility during the 12-month period beginning with the date the facility first produces electric energy and any calendar year subsequent to the year in which the facility first produces electric energy. 



---

[N] [45 FR 17972, Mar. 20, 1980, as amended by Order 135, 46 FR 19231, Mar. 30, 1981; Order 575, 60 FR 4857, Jan. 25, 1995; Order 732, 75 FR 15966, Mar. 30, 2010; Order 872, 85 FR 54732, Sept. 2, 2020] 




