# ยง 1.194-4   Time and manner of making election.

(a) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an election to amortize reforestation expenditures under section 194 shall be made by entering the amortization deduction claimed at the appropriate place on the taxpayer's income tax return for the year in which the expenditures were incurred, and by attaching a statement to such return. The statement should state the amounts of the expenditures, describe the nature of the expenditures, and give the date on which each was incurred. The statement should also state the type of timber being grown and the purpose for which it is being grown. A separate statement must be included for each property for which reforestation expenditures are being amortized under section 194. The election may only be made on a timely return (taking into account extensions of the time for filing) for the taxable year in which the amortizable expenditures were made.


(b) *Special rule.* With respect to any return filed before March 15, 1984, on which a taxpayer was eligible to, but did not make an election under section 194, the election to amortize reforestation expenditures under section 194 may be made by a statement on, or attached to, the income tax return (or an amended return) for the taxable year, indicating that an election is being made under section 194 and setting forth the information required under paragraph (a) of this section. An election made under the provisions of this paragraph (b) must be made not later than,


(1) The time prescribed by law (including extensions thereof) for filing the income tax return for the year in which the reforestation expenditures were made, or


(2) March 15, 1984, whichever is later. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as extending the time specified in section 6511 within which a claim for credit or refund may be filed.


(c) *Revocation.* An application for consent to revoke an election under section 194 shall be in writing and shall be addressed to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Washington, DC 20224. The application shall set forth the name and address of the taxpayer, state the taxable years for which the election was in effect, and state the reason for revoking the election. The application shall be signed by the taxpayer or a duly authorized representative of the taxpayer and shall be filed at least 90 days prior to the time prescribed by law (without regard to extensions thereof) for filing the income tax return for the first taxable year for which the election is to terminate. Ordinarily, the request for consent to revoke the election will not be granted if it appears from all the facts and circumstances that the only reason for the desired change is to obtain a tax advantage. 



---

[N] [T.D. 7927, 48 FR 55851, Dec. 16, 1983]




