# § 352.6   Application for permit and approval or denial thereof.

(a) *Plants and plant products (including noxious weeds).* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, any person desiring to unload or land, or otherwise move into or through the United States, any plants or plant products for which a specific permit is required by § 352.5, shall in the case of prohibited plants or plant products, and should in the case of restricted plants or plant products, in advance of arrival in the United States of the plants or plant products, submit an application for a permit to the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs, 
1 stating such of the following information as is relevant: The name and address of the importer, the approximate quantity and kind of plants and plant products it is desired to import under this part, the country where grown, the United States port of arrival, the United States port of export, the proposed routing from the port of arrival to the port of exportation, means of transportation to be employed (*i.e.*, mail, air mail, express, air express, freight, air freight, baggage), and the name and address of the agent representing the importer. Applications may be made on forms provided for the purpose by the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs, or orally, or by letter, telegram, or other means of communication furnishing all the information required by this paragraph. Applications need not be made for shipments handled under general authorizations set forth in § 352.5 (b), (c), or (d), or in § 352.11. 


(b) *Plant pests.* Any person desiring to unload or land, or otherwise move into or through the United States, any plant pest for which a specific permit is required by § 352.5 shall, in advance of the arrival of the plant pests in the United States, submit an application to the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs for a permit in accordance with § 330.201 of this chapter. 


(c) *Soil.* Any person desiring to bring into or unload or land, or otherwise move into or through the United States, any soil for which a specific permit is required by § 352.5 shall, in advance of the arrival of the soil in the United States, submit an application for permit to the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs as specified by § 330.203 of this chapter. 


(d) *Constructive oral application.* If a permit has not been issued in advance of arrival, application for any required permit (other than a formal permit) shall be considered to have been made orally to the inspector at the port of arrival by presentation of the shipment for entry or its listing on the manifest or other documentation, but this shall not excuse failure to make timely application as required by this section. Express application is required for a formal permit. 


(e) *Approval or denial of permits.* Upon approval of the application, the permit will be issued. Any conditions necessary to eliminate danger of plant pest, noxious weed, or biological control organism dissemination may be specified in the permit, or otherwise as provided in § 352.10. Permits will be denied if, in the opinion of the Deputy Administrator, it is not possible to prescribe conditions adequate to prevent danger of plant pest, noxious weed, or biological control organism dissemination by the plants, plant products, plant pests, or soil involved. 



---

[N] [25 FR 1929, Mar. 5, 1960, as amended at 36 FR 24917, Dec. 24, 1971; 37 FR 10554, May 25, 1972; 48 FR 57466, Dec. 30, 1983; 59 FR 67611, Dec. 30, 1994; 75 FR 68952, Nov. 10, 2010; 84 FR 29966, June 25, 2019] 




