# ยง 22.14   Complaint.

(a) *Content of complaint.* Each complaint shall include:


(1) A statement reciting the section(s) of the Act authorizing the issuance of the complaint;


(2) Specific reference to each provision of the Act, implementing regulations, permit or order which respondent is alleged to have violated;


(3) A concise statement of the factual basis for each violation alleged;


(4) A description of all relief sought, including one or more of the following:


(i) The amount of the civil penalty which is proposed to be assessed, and a brief explanation of the proposed penalty;


(ii) Where a specific penalty demand is not made, the number of violations (where applicable, days of violation) for which a penalty is sought, a brief explanation of the severity of each violation alleged and a recitation of the statutory penalty authority applicable for each violation alleged in the complaint;


(iii) A request for a Permit Action and a statement of its proposed terms and conditions; or


(iv) A request for a compliance or corrective action order and a statement of the terms and conditions thereof;


(5) Notice of respondent's right to request a hearing on any material fact alleged in the complaint, or on the appropriateness of any proposed penalty, compliance or corrective action order, or Permit Action;


(6) Notice if subpart I of this part applies to the proceeding;


(7) The address of the Regional Hearing Clerk; and


(8) Instructions for paying penalties, if applicable.


(b) *Rules of practice.* A copy of these Consolidated Rules of Practice shall accompany each complaint served.


(c) *Amendment of the complaint.* The complainant may amend the complaint once as a matter of right at any time before the answer is filed. Otherwise the complainant may amend the complaint only upon motion granted by the Presiding Officer. Respondent shall have 20 additional days from the date of service of the amended complaint to file its answer.


(d) *Withdrawal of the complaint.* The complainant may withdraw the complaint, or any part thereof, without prejudice one time before the answer has been filed. After one withdrawal before the filing of an answer, or after the filing of an answer, the complainant may withdraw the complaint, or any part thereof, without prejudice only upon motion granted by the Presiding Officer.




