# § 710.30   When to submit notifications.

(a) *When must a Notice of Activity Form A be submitted?* The Notice of Activity Form A required to be submitted under § 710.25(a) must be submitted during the applicable submission period.


(1) *Manufacturers.* The submission period for manufacturers under §§ 710.25(a) and 710.25(b) begins on August 11, 2017 and ends on February 7, 2018.


(2) *Processors.* The submission period for processors under § 710.25(b) begins on August 11, 2017 and ends on October 5, 2018.


(3) *Withdrawal of a Notice of Activity Form A.* A Notice of Activity Form A submitted under § 710.30(a)(1) or § 710.30(a)(2) may be withdrawn by the submitter no later than October 5, 2018. If EPA receives a timely request to withdraw a previously submitted Notice of Activity Form A for a chemical substance subject to commercial activity designation, and EPA has not received a Notice of Activity Form A from another submitter for the same chemical substance, EPA will not designate the chemical substance as active. A Form A withdrawn under this paragraph will not satisfy the obligation under this rule to submit a Form A.


(b) *When must a Notice of Activity Form B be submitted?—*(1) *Manufacturers and processors.* The Notice of Activity Form B required to be submitted under § 710.25(c) must be submitted before a person manufactures or processes the inactive substance, but not more than 90 days prior to the anticipated date of manufacturing or processing.


(2) *When else may a Notice of Activity Form B be submitted?* A Notice of Activity Form B that will later be required to be submitted under § 710.25(c) may be submitted during the 90-day period between EPA's identification of a chemical substance for inactive designation and the effective date for such designation, by a person who is currently manufacturing or processing such chemical substance or who anticipates manufacturing or processing such chemical substance within 90 days following submission.


(3) *When may EPA execute a request to withdraw a Notice of Activity Form B?* If EPA receives a request to withdraw a previously submitted Notice of Activity Form B from the submitter of the Notice of Activity Form B and EPA has neither yet moved the subject chemical substance from the inactive to the active Inventory nor yet moved the subject chemical substance from the confidential portion of the Inventory to the public portion of the Inventory as a result of the original submission, then EPA may execute the request.




