# § 2635.1003   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart:


*Anonymous whistleblower* means an employee who makes or intends to make a disclosure or report, or who engages in an activity protected under 5 U.S.C. 2302(b)(8), 5 U.S.C. 2302(b)(9), 5 U.S.C. 416, 50 U.S.C. 3517, 50 U.S.C. 3033, or 28 CFR 27.1, and who seeks to remain anonymous.


*Arising in connection with the employee's past or current official position* means the employee's involvement in the legal matter would not have arisen had the employee not held the status, authority, or duties associated with the employee's past or current Federal position.


*Example 1 to the definition of “arising in connection with the employee's past or current official position”:* A Department of Transportation employee is being investigated by the Inspector General for potential misuse of Government resources while on official travel. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is separately investigating the employee for misreporting household income on the employee's personal taxes. The employee may use this subpart to establish a legal expense fund concerning the Inspector General investigation because the legal matter arose in connection with their official position. However, this subpart would not apply to the unrelated IRS investigation because that legal matter did not arise in connection with the employee's official position.


*Example 2 to the definition of “arising in connection with the employee's past or current official position”:* A junior employee at the Environmental Protection Agency is challenging their proposed termination due to misuse of Government property. All of the employee's alleged misconduct occurred outside official duty hours. Because the employee would not be subject to the Standards of Conduct had the employee not held their official position, the employee may establish a legal expense fund in accordance with this subpart.


*Arising in connection with the employee's prior position on a campaign* means the employee's involvement in the legal matter would not have arisen had the employee not held the status, authority, or duties associated with the employee's prior position on a campaign of a candidate for President or Vice President.


*Arising in connection with the employee's prior position on a Presidential Transition Team* means the employee's involvement in the legal matter would not have arisen had the employee not held the status, authority, or duties associated with the employee's prior position as a member of the staff of a Presidential Transition Team.


*Employee beneficiary* means an employee as defined by § 2635.102(h) for whose benefit a legal expense fund is established under this subpart.


*Legal expense fund* means a fund established to receive contributions and to make distributions of legal expense payments.


*Legal expense payment or payment for legal expenses* means anything of value received by an employee under circumstances that make it clear that the payment is intended to defray costs associated with representation in a legal, congressional, or administrative proceeding.


*Pro bono legal services* means legal services provided without charge or for less than market value as defined in § 2635.203(c) to an employee who seeks legal representation for a matter arising in connection with the employee's past or current official position, the employee's prior position on a campaign of a candidate for President or Vice President, or the employee's prior position on a Presidential Transition Team.






