# § 457.618   Ten percent limit on certain Children's Health Insurance Program expenditures.

(a) *Expenditures*—(1) *Primary expenditures* are expenditures under a State plan for child health assistance to targeted low-income children in the form of a standard benefit package, and Medicaid expenditures claimed during the fiscal year to the extent Federal payments made for these expenditures on the basis of the enhanced FMAP described in sections 1905(b) and 2105(b) of the Act that are used to calculate the 10 percent limit. 


(2) *Non-primary expenditures* are other expenditures under a State plan. Subject to the 10 percent limit described in paragraph (c) of this section, a State may receive Federal funds at the enhanced FMAP for 4 categories of non-primary expenditures: 


(i) Administrative expenditures; 


(ii) Outreach; 


(iii) Health initiatives; and 


(iv) Certain other child health assistance. 


(b) *Federal payment.* Federal payment will not be available based on a State's non-primary expenditures for a fiscal year which exceed the 10 percent limit of the total of expenditures under the plan, as specified in paragraph (c) of this section. 


(c) *10 Percent Limit.* The 10 percent limit is— 


(1) Applied on an annual fiscal year basis; 


(2) Calculated based on the total computable expenditures claimed by the State on quarterly expenditure reports submitted for a fiscal year. Expenditures claimed on a quarterly report for a different fiscal year may not be used in the calculation; and 


(3) Calculated using the following formula: 


(d) The expenditures under section 2105(a)(2) of the Act that are subject to the 10 percent limit are applied— 


(1) On an annual fiscal year basis; and 


(2) Against the 10 percent limit in the fiscal year for which the State submitted a quarterly expenditure report including the expenditures. Expenditures claimed on a quarterly report for one fiscal year may not be applied against the 10 percent limit for any other fiscal year. 


(e)(1) The 10 percent limit for a fiscal year, as calculated under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, may be no greater than 10 percent of the total computable amount (determined under paragraph (e)(2) of this section) of the State allotment or allotments available in that fiscal year. Therefore, the 10 percent limit is the lower of the amount calculated under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, and 10 percent of the total computable amount of the State allotment available in that fiscal year. 


(2) As used in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the total computable amount of a State's allotment for a fiscal year is determined by dividing the State's allotment for the fiscal year by the State's enhanced FMAP for the year. For example, if a State allotment for a fiscal year is $65 million and the enhanced FMAP rate for the fiscal year is 65 percent, the total computable amount of the allotment for the fiscal year is $100 million ($65 million/.65). In this example, the 10 percent limit may be no greater than a total computable amount of $10 million (10 percent of $100 million). 



---

[N] [65 FR 33622, May 24, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 48852, Aug. 11, 2010]




