# ยง 284.14   Posting requirements of major non-interstate pipelines.

(a) *Daily posting requirement.* A major non-interstate pipeline must post on a daily basis on a publicly-accessible Internet Web site and in downloadable file format equal and timely access to information regarding receipt or delivery points, including non-physical scheduling points.


(1) A major non-interstate pipeline must post data for each receipt or delivery point, or for any point that operates as both a delivery and receipt point for the major non-interstate pipeline, to which natural gas transportation is scheduled:


(i) With a physically metered design capacity equal to or greater than 15,000 MMBtu (million British thermal units)/day; or


(ii) If a physically metered design capacity is not known or does not exist for such a point, with a maximum volume scheduled to such a point equal to or greater than 15,000 MMBtu on any day within the prior three calendar years.


(2) Notwithstanding the requirements of subsection 284.14(a)(1), a receipt point is not subject to the posting requirements of this section if the maximum scheduled volume at the receipt point was less than 5,000 MMBtu on every day within the prior three calendar years. If a point has operated as both a receipt and delivery point any time within the prior three calendar years, subsection 284.14(a)(2) shall not apply to that point.


(3) A major non-interstate pipeline that must post data for a receipt or delivery point shall do so within 45 days of the date that the point becomes eligible for posting.


(4) For each delivery or receipt point that must be posted, a major non-interstate pipeline must provide the following information by 10:00 p.m. central clock time the day prior to scheduled natural gas flow: Transportation Service Provider Name, Posting Date, Posting Time, Nomination Cycle, Location Name, Additional Location Information if Needed to Distinguish Between Points, Location Purpose Description (Receipt, Delivery, Bilateral, or Non-physical Scheduling Point), Posted Capacity (physically metered design capacity or maximum flow within the last three years), Method of Determining Posted Capacity (Capacity or Maximum Volume), Scheduled Volume, Available Capacity (Calculated as Posted Capacity minus Scheduled Capacity), and Measurement Unit (Dth, MMBtu, or MCf). For receipt or delivery points with bi-directional scheduled flows, the Scheduled Volume for scheduled flow in each direction must be posted. The information in this subsection must remain posted for at least a period of one year.


(5) Newly constructed major non-interstate pipelines, which commence service after the effective date of this section, must comply with the requirements of this section upon their in-service date. Except for newly constructed major non-interstate pipelines, a major non-interstate pipeline that becomes subject to the requirements of this section in any year after the effective date of this section has until June 1 of that year to comply with the requirements of this section.


(b) *Exemptions to daily posting requirement.* The following categories of major non-interstate pipelines are exempt from the posting requirement of ยง 284.14(a):


(1) Those that are located upstream of a processing, treatment or dehydration plant;


(2) Those that deliver more than ninety-five percent (95%) of the natural gas volumes they flow directly to end-users or on-system storage as measured in average deliveries for the previous three calendar years;


(3) Storage providers;


(4) Those that deliver the entirety of their transported natural gas directly to an end-user that owns or operates the major non-interstate pipeline.



---

[N] [Order 720-A, 75 FR 5201, Feb. 1, 2010, as amended by Order 720-B, 75 FR 44900, July 30, 2010]




