# § 65.119   Recordkeeping provisions.

(a) *Recordkeeping system.* An owner or operator of more than one regulated source subject to the provisions of this subpart may comply with the recordkeeping requirements for these regulated sources in one recordkeeping system. The recordkeeping system shall identify each record by regulated source and the type of program being implemented (for example, quarterly monitoring, quality improvement) for each type of equipment. The records required by this subpart are summarized in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. 


(b) *General equipment leak records.* (1) As specified in § 65.103(a) through (c), the owner or operator shall keep general and specific equipment identification if the equipment is not physically tagged and the owner or operator is electing to identify the equipment subject to subpart F of this part through written documentation such as a log or other designation. 


(2) The owner or operator shall keep a written plan as specified in § 65.103(c)(4) for any equipment that is designated as unsafe- or difficult-to-monitor. 


(3) The owner or operator shall maintain a record of the identity and an explanation as specified in § 65.103(d)(2) for any equipment that is designated as unsafe to repair. 


(4) As specified in § 65.103(e), the owner or operator shall maintain a record of the identity of compressors operating with an instrument reading of less than 500 parts per million. 


(5) The owner or operator shall keep records associated with the determination that equipment is in heavy liquid service as specified in § 65.103(f). 


(6) The owner or operator shall keep records for leaking equipment as specified in § 65.104(e)(2). 


(7) The owner or operator shall keep records for leak repair as specified in § 65.105(f) and records for delay of repair as specified in § 65.105(d). 


(8) For instrument response factor criteria determinations performed pursuant to § 65.104(b)(2)(i), the owner or operator shall maintain a record of an engineering assessment that identifies the representative composition of the process fluid. The assessment shall be based on knowledge of the compounds present in the process, similarity of response factors for the materials present, the range of compositions encountered during monitoring, or other information available to the owner or operator. 


(9) The owner or operator shall keep records of the detection limit calibration as specified in § 65.104(b)(3). 


(c) *Specific equipment leak records.* (1) For valves, the owner or operator shall maintain the following records: 


(i) The monitoring schedule for each process unit as specified in § 65.106(b)(3)(v). 


(ii) The valve subgrouping records specified in § 65.106(b)(4)(iv), if applicable. 


(2) For pumps, the owner or operator shall maintain the following records: 


(i) Documentation of pump visual inspections as specified in § 65.107(b)(4). 


(ii) Documentation of dual mechanical seal pump visual inspections as specified in § 65.107(e)(1)(v). 


(iii) For the criteria as to the presence and frequency of drips for dual mechanical seal pumps, records of the design criteria and explanations and any changes and the reason for the changes, as specified in § 65.107(e)(1)(i). 


(3) For connectors, the owner or operator shall maintain the records specified in § 65.108(b)(3)(v) which identify a monitoring schedule for each process unit. 


(4) For agitators, the owner or operator shall maintain the following records: 


(i) Documentation of agitator seal visual inspections as specified in § 65.109(b)(3). 


(ii) For agitators equipped with a dual mechanical seal system that includes barrier fluid system, the owner or operator shall keep records as specified in § 65.109(e)(1)(vi)(B). 


(iii) Documentation of the dual mechanical seal agitator seal visual inspections as specified in § 65.109(e)(1)(iv). 


(5) For pressure relief devices in gas/vapor or light liquid service, the owner or operator shall keep records of the dates and results of monitoring following a pressure release, as specified in § 65.111(c)(3), or the date the rupture disk is replaced as specified in § 65.111(e). 


(6) For compressors, the owner or operator shall maintain the following records: 


(i) For criteria as to failure of the seal system and/or the barrier fluid system, record the design criteria and explanations and any changes and the reason for the changes, as specified in § 65.112(d)(2). 


(ii) For compressors operating under the alternative compressor standard, record the dates and results of each compliance test as specified in § 65.112(f)(2). 


(7) For a pump QIP program, the owner or operator shall maintain the following records: 


(i) Individual pump records as specified in § 65.116(d)(2). 


(ii) Trial evaluation program documentation as specified in § 65.116(d)(6)(iii). 


(iii) Engineering evaluation documenting the basis for judgement that superior emission performance technology is not applicable as specified in § 65.116(d)(6)(vi). 


(iv) Quality assurance program documentation as specified in § 65.116(d)(7). 


(v) QIP records as specified in § 65.116(e). 


(8) For process units complying with the batch process unit alternative, the owner or operator shall maintain the following records: 


(i) Pressure test records as specified in § 65.117(b)(7). 


(ii) Records for equipment added to the process unit as specified in § 65.117(d). 


(9) For process units complying with the enclosed-vented process unit alternative, the owner or operator shall maintain the records for enclosed-vented process units as specified in § 65.118(b). 




