# § 63.10032   What records must I keep?

(a) You must keep records according to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. If you are required to (or elect to) continuously monitor Hg and/or HCl and/or HF and/or PM emissions, or if you elect to use a PM CPMS (unless it is for an IGCC unit, you may only use PM CPMS before July 6, 2027), you must keep the records required under appendix A and/or appendix B and/or appendix C and/or appendix D to this subpart. If you elect to conduct periodic (*e.g.,* quarterly or annual) performance stack tests, then, for each test completed on or after January 1, 2024, you must keep records of the applicable data elements under 40 CFR 63.7(g). You must also keep records of all data elements and other information in appendix E to this subpart that apply to your compliance strategy.






(1) In accordance with 40 CFR 63.10(b)(2)(xiv), a copy of each notification or report that you submit to comply with this subpart. You must also keep records of all supporting documentation for the initial Notifications of Compliance Status, semiannual compliance reports, or quarterly compliance reports that you submit.


(2) Records of performance stack tests, fuel analyses, or other compliance demonstrations and performance evaluations, as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(viii).


(b) For each CEMS and CPMS, you must keep records according to paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) Records described in § 63.10(b)(2)(vi) through (xi).


(2) Previous (*i.e.*, superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan as required in § 63.8(d)(3).


(3) Request for alternatives to relative accuracy test for CEMS as required in § 63.8(f)(6)(i).


(4) Records of the date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether the deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction or during another period.


(c) You must keep the records required in Table 7 to this subpart including records of all monitoring data and calculated averages for applicable PM CPMS operating limits to show continuous compliance with each emission limit and operating limit that applies to you.


(d) For each EGU subject to an emission limit, you must also keep the records in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) You must keep records of monthly fuel use by each EGU, including the type(s) of fuel and amount(s) used.


(2) If you combust non-hazardous secondary materials that have been determined not to be solid waste pursuant to 40 CFR 241.3(b)(1), you must keep a record which documents how the secondary material meets each of the legitimacy criteria. If you combust a fuel that has been processed from a discarded non-hazardous secondary material pursuant to 40 CFR 241.3(b)(2), you must keep records as to how the operations that produced the fuel satisfies the definition of processing in 40 CFR 241.2. If the fuel received a non-waste determination pursuant to the petition process submitted under 40 CFR 241.3(c), you must keep a record which documents how the fuel satisfies the requirements of the petition process.


(3) For an EGU that qualifies as an LEE under § 63.10005(h), you must keep annual records that document that your emissions in the previous stack test(s) continue to qualify the unit for LEE status for an applicable pollutant, and document that there was no change in source operations including fuel composition and operation of air pollution control equipment that would cause emissions of the pollutant to increase within the past year.


(e) If you elect to average emissions consistent with § 63.10009, you must additionally keep a copy of the emissions averaging implementation plan required in § 63.10009(g), all calculations required under § 63.10009, including daily records of heat input or steam generation, as applicable, and monitoring records consistent with § 63.10022.


(f) Regarding startup periods or shutdown periods:




(1) Should you choose to rely on paragraph (1) of the definition of “startup” in § 63.10042 for your EGU, you must keep records of the occurrence and duration of each startup or shutdown.


(2) Should you choose to rely on paragraph (2) of the definition of “startup” in § 63.10042 for your EGU (on or after January 2, 2025 you may not use paragraph (2) of the definition of startup in § 63.10042), you must keep records of:


(i) The determination of the maximum possible clean fuel capacity for each EGU;


(ii) The determination of the maximum possible hourly clean fuel heat input and of the hourly clean fuel heat input for each EGU; and


(iii) The information required in § 63.10020(e).


(g) You must keep records of the occurrence and duration of each malfunction of an operation (*i.e.*, process equipment) or the air pollution control and monitoring equipment.


(h) You must keep records of actions taken during periods of malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.10000(b), including corrective actions to restore malfunctioning process and air pollution control and monitoring equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation.


(i) You must keep records of the type(s) and amount(s) of fuel used during each startup or shutdown.


(j) If you elect to establish that an EGU qualifies as a limited-use liquid oil-fired EGU, you must keep records of the type(s) and amount(s) of fuel use in each calendar quarter to document that the capacity factor limitation for that subcategory is met.



---

[N] [77 FR 9464, Feb. 16, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 68792, Nov. 19, 2014; 81 FR 20189, Apr. 6, 2016; 85 FR 55763, Sept. 9, 2020; 89 FR 38568, May 7, 2024]




