# § 401.601   Basis and scope.

(a) *Basis.* This subpart implements the following statutory provisions:


(1) For CMS the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-134) (DCIA), 110 Stat. 1321, 1358 (April 26, 1996) (codified at 31 U.S.C. 3711), and conforms to the regulations (31 CFR parts 900-904) issued jointly by the Department of the Treasury and the Department of Justice that generally prescribe claims collection standards and procedures under the DCIA for the Federal government.


(2) Section 1893(f)(1) of the Act regarding the use of repayment plans.


(b) *Scope.* Except as provided in paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section, the regulations in this subpart describe CMS's procedures and standards for the collection of claims in any amount, and the compromise of, or the suspension or termination of collection action on, all claims for money or property that do not exceed $100,000 or such higher amount as the Attorney General may from time to time prescribe, exclusive of interest, arising under any functions delegated to CMS by the Secretary.


(c) *Amount of claim.* CMS refers all claims that exceed $100,000 or such higher amount as the Attorney General may from time to time prescribe, exclusive of interest, to the Department of Justice or the General Accounting Office for the compromise of claims, or the suspension or termination of collection action.


(d) *Related regulations*—(1) *Department regulations.* DHHS regulations applicable to CMS that generally implement the FCCA for the Department are located at 45 CFR part 30. These regulations apply only to the extent CMS regulations do not address a situation.


(2) *CMS regulations.* The following regulations govern specific debt management situations encountered by CMS and supplement this subpart:


(i) Claims against Medicare beneficiaries for the recovery of overpayments are covered in 20 CFR 404.515.


(ii) Adjustments in Railroad Retirement or Social Security benefits to recover Medicare overpayments to individuals are covered in §§ 405.350-405.358 of this chapter. 


(iii) Claims against providers, physicians, or other suppliers of services for overpayments under Medicare and for assessment of interest are covered in §§ 405.377 and 405.378 of this chapter, respectively.


(iv) Claims against beneficiaries for unpaid hospital insurance or supplementary medical insurance premiums under Medicare are covered in § 408.110 of this chapter. 


(v) State repayment of Medicaid funds by installments is covered in § 430.48 of this chapter.


(e) *Collection and compromise under other statutes and at common law.* The regulations in this subpart do not—


(1) Preclude disposition by CMS of claims under statutes, other than the FCCA, that provide for the collection or compromise of a claim, or suspension or termination of collection action.


(2) Affect any rights that CMS may have under common law as a creditor.


(f) *Fraud.* The regulations in this subpart do not apply to claims in which there is an indication of fraud, the presentation of a false claim, or misrepresentation on the part of a debtor or any other party having an interest in the claim. CMS forwards these claims to the Department of Justice for disposition under 4 CFR 105.1.


(g) *Enforced collection.* CMS refers claims to the Department of Justice for enforced collection through litigation in those cases which cannot be compromised or on which collection action cannot be suspended or terminated in accordance with this subpart or the regulations issued jointly by the Attorney General and the Comptroller General.



---

[N] [48 FR 39064, Aug. 29, 1983, as amended at 52 FR 48123, Dec. 18, 1987; 57 FR 56998, Dec. 2, 1992; 61 FR 49271, Sept. 19, 1996; 61 FR 63748, Dec. 2, 1996; 73 FR 36447, June 27, 2008]




