# § 110.182   Atlantic Ocean off Fort George Inlet, near Mayport, Fla.

(a) *The Anchorage areas*—(1) *Anchorages for aircraft carriers and other deep draft vessels.* Four circular areas each with a radius of 600 yards and with their centers located at: “A”—latitude 30°25′35″, longitude 81°21′23″; “B”—latitude 30°26′13″, longitude 81°21′13″; “C”—latitude 30°26′19″, longitude 81°20′27″; “D”—latitude 30°26′55″, longitude 81°20′47″. 


(2) *Anchorages for destroyers and other ships of similar size.* Six circular areas each with a radius of 300 yards and with their centers located at: “1”—latitude 30°24′38″; longitude 81°21′57″; “2”—latitude 30°24′57″, longitude 81°21′58″; “3”—latitude 30°24′56″, longitude 81°21′38″; “4”—latitude 30°25′13″, longitude 81°22′05″; “5”—latitude 30°25′13″, longitude 81°21′43″; “6”—latitude 30°25′07″, longitude 81°21′24″. 


(3) *Explosives anchorage.* The circular area “A” described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is also designated as an explosives anchorage for use during periods when ammunition must be handled outside the limits of the U.S. Naval Station, Mayport, Fla. 


(b) *The regulations for all designated areas.* (1) Usage of these areas by naval vessels shall predominate only when necessary for military requirements; at such times other vessels shall remain clear of the areas. 


(2) Prudent assignment of the anchorage areas shall be made by the Commanding Officer, U.S. Naval Station, Mayport, Fla. 


(c) *Additional regulations for Explosives Anchorage Area “A”.* (1) When occupied by a vessel handling explosives, no other vessel may enter the area unless authorized by the enforcing agency. 


(2) Only one vessel handling explosives may anchor in the area at one time. A patrol craft shall be utilized to assure that other vessels remain clear when explosives are exposed or being transferred to and from the anchorage. 


(3) No more than 500,000 pounds net high explosives or equivalent may be exposed in the area at any one time. 


(d) The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commanding Officer, U.S. Naval Station, Mayport, Fla., or other agencies that he may designate. 




