# ยง 721.10281   Hexabromocyclododecane and 1,2,5,6,9,10-hexabromocyclododecane.

(a) *Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified as hexabromocyclododecane (CASRN 25637-99-4) and 1,2,5,6,9,10-hexabromocyclododecane (CASRN 3194-55-6) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new use is use in consumer textiles, other than for use in motor vehicles.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Definitions.* The definitions in ยง 721.3 apply to this section. In addition, the following definitions apply:


*Consumer textile* means any cloth, fabric, or other item produced during a milling process for textiles (including spinning, weaving, knitting, felting, or finishing), that is sold or made available either as a product or as part of a product, to a private individual who uses it in or around a permanent or temporary household or residence, during recreation, or for any personal use or enjoyment. Consumer textiles can include, but are not limited to, bolts of cloth and draperies, as well as textiles that are part of upholstered household furniture and mattresses.


*Motor vehicle* has the meaning found at 40 CFR 85.1703.


(2) *Revocation of article exemption.* The provisions of ยง 721.45(f) do not apply to importers and processors of the chemical substances identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section as part of a textile.



---

[N] [80 FR 57301, Sept. 23, 2015]




