# § 1955.137   Real property located in special areas or having special characteristics.

(a) *Real property located in flood, mudslide hazard, wetland or Coastal Barrier Resources System (CBRS)*—(1) *Use restrictions.* Executive Order 11988, “Floodplain Management,” and Executive Order 11990, “Protection of Wetlands,” require the conveyance instrument for inventory property containing floodplains or wetlands which is proposed for lease or sale to specify those uses that are restricted under identified Federal, State and local floodplains or wetlands regulations as well as other appropriate restrictions. The restrictions shall be to the uses of the property by the lessee or purchaser and any successors, except where prohibited by law. Applicable restrictions will be incorporated into quitclaim deeds in a format similar to that contained in Exhibits H and I of RD Instruction 1955-C (available in any Agency office). A listing of all restrictions will be included in the notices required in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) *Notice of hazards.* Acquired real property located in an identified special flood or mudslide hazard area as defined in, subpart B of part 1806 of this chapter will not be sold for residential purposes unless determined by the county official or district director to be safe (that is, any hazard that exists would not likely endanger the safety of dwelling occupants).


(3) *Limitations placed on financial assistance.* 

(i) Financial assistance is limited to property located in areas where flood insurance is available. Flood insurance must be provided at closing of loans on program-eligible and non-program (NP)-ineligible terms. Appraisals of property in flood or mudslide hazard areas will reflect this condition and any restrictions on use. Financial assistance for substantial improvement or repair of property located in a flood or mudslide hazard area is subject to the limitations outlined in 7 CFR part 1970 for Rural Development programs.





 

(ii) Pursuant to the requirements of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (CBRA) and except as specified in paragraph (a)(3)(v) of this section, no credit sales will be provided for property located within a CBRS where: 


(A) It is known that the purchaser plans to further develop the property; 


(B) A subsequent loan or any other type of Federal financial assistance as defined by the CBRA has been requested for additional development of the property; 


(C) The sale is inconsistent with the purpose of the CBRA; or 


(D) The property to be sold was the subject of a previous financial transaction that violated the CBRA. 


(iii) For purposes of this section, additional development means the expansion, but not maintenance, replacement-in-kind, reconstruction, or repair of any roads, structures or facilities. Water and waste disposal facilities as well as community facilities may be repaired to the extent required to meet health and safety requirements, but may not be improved or expanded to serve new users, patients or residents. 


(iv) A sale which is not in conflict with the limitations in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section shall not be completed until the approval official has consulted with the appropriate Regional Director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the Regional Director concurs that the proposed sale does not violate the provisions of the CBRA. 


(v) Any proposed sale that does not conform to the requirements of paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section must be forwarded to the Administrator for review. Approval will not be granted unless the Administrator determines, through consultation with the Department of Interior, that the proposed sale does not violate the provisions of the CBRA. 


(b) *Wetlands located on FSA inventory property.* Perpetual wetland conservation easements (encumbrances in deeds) to protect and restore wetlands or converted wetlands that exist on suitable or surplus inventory property will be established prior to sale of such property. The provisions of paragraphs (a) (2) and (3) of this section also apply, as does paragraph (a)(1) of this section insofar as floodplains are concerned. This requirement applies to either cash or credit sales. Similar restrictions will be included in leases of inventory properties to beginning farmers or ranchers. Wetland conservation easements will be established as follows: 


(1) All wetlands or converted wetlands located on FSA inventory property which were not considered cropland on the date the property was acquired and were not used for farming at any time during the period beginning on the date 5 years before the property was acquired and ending on the date the property was acquired will receive a wetland conservation easement. 


(2) All wetlands or converted wetlands located on FSA inventory property that were considered cropland on the date the property was acquired or were used for farming at any time during the period beginning on the date 5 years before the property was acquired and ending on the date the property was acquired will not receive a wetland conservation easement. 


(3) The following steps should be taken in determining if conservation easements are necessary for the protection of wetlands or converted wetland on inventory property: 


(i) NRCS will be contacted first to identify the wetlands or converted wetlands and wetland boundaries of each wetland or converted wetland on inventory property. 


(ii) After receiving the wetland determination from NRCS, FSA will review the determination for each inventory property and determine if any of the wetlands or converted wetlands identified by NRCS were considered cropland on the date the property was acquired or were used for farming at any time during the period beginning on the date 5 years before the property was acquired and ending on the date the property was acquired. Property will be considered to have been used for farming if it was primarily used for agricultural purposes including but not limited to such uses as cropland, pasture, hayland, orchards, vineyards and tree farming. 


(iii) After FSA has completed the determination of whether the wetlands or converted wetlands located on an inventory property were used for cropland or farming, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) will be contacted. Based on the technical considerations of the potential functions and values of the wetlands on the property, FWS will identify those wetlands or converted wetlands that require protection with a wetland conservation easement along with the boundaries of the required wetland conservation easement. FWS may also make other recommendations if needed for the protection of important resources such as threatened or endangered species during this review. 


(4) The wetland conservation easement will provide for access to other portions of the property as necessary for farming and other uses. 


(5) The appraisal of the property must be updated to reflect the value of the land due to the conservation easement on the property. 


(6) Easement areas shall be described in accordance with State or local laws. If State or local law does not require a survey, the easement area can be described by rectangular survey, plat map, or other recordable methods. 


(7) In most cases the FWS shall be responsible for easement management and administration responsibilities for such areas unless the wetland easement area is an inholding in Federal or State property and that entity agrees to assume such responsibility, or a State fish and wildlife agency having counterpart responsibilities to the FWS is willing to assume easement management and administration responsibilities. The costs associated with such easement management responsibilities shall be the responsibility of the agency that assumes easement management and administration. 


(8) County officials are encouraged to begin the easement process before the property is taken into inventory, if possible, in order to have the program completed before the statutory time requirement for sale. 


(c) *Historic preservation.* (1) Pursuant to the requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act and Executive Order 11593, “Protection and Enhancement of the Cultural Environment,” the Agency official responsible for the conveyance must determine if the property is listed on or eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places. (See subpart F of part 1901 of this chapter for additional guidance.) The State Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO) must be consulted whenever one of the following criteria are met: 


(i) The property includes a structure that is more than 50 years old. 


(ii) Regardless of age, the property is known to be of historical or archaeological importance; has apparent significant architectural features; or is similar to other Agency properties that have been determined to be eligible. 


(iii) An environmental assessment is required prior to a decision on the conveyance. 


(2) If the result of the consultations with the SHPO is that a property may be eligible or that it is questionable, an official determination must be obtained from the Secretary of the Interior. 


(3) If a property is listed on the National Register or is determined eligible for listing by the Secretary of Interior, the Agency official responsible for the conveyance must consult with the SHPO in order to develop any necessary restrictions on the use of the property so that the future use will be compatible with preservation objectives and which does not result in an unreasonable economic burden to public or private interest. The Advisory Council on Historic Preservation must be consulted by the State Director or State Executive Director after the discussions with the SHPO are concluded regardless of whether or not an agreement is reached. 


(4) Any restrictions that are developed on the use of the property as a result of the above consultations must be made known to a potential bidder or purchaser through a notice procedure similar to that in § 1955.13(a)(2) of this subpart. 


(d) *Highly erodible farmland.* (1) The FSA county official will determine if any inventory property contains highly erodible land as defined by the NRCS and, if so, what specific conservation practices will be made a condition of a sale of the property. 


(2) If the county official does not concur in the need for a conservation practice recommended by NRCS, any differences shall be discussed with the recommending NRCS office. Failure to reach an agreement at that level shall require the State Executive Director to make a final decision after consultation with the NRCS State Conservationist. 


(3) Whenever NRCS technical assistance is requested in implementing these requirements and NRCS responds that it cannot provide such assistance within a time frame compatible with the proposed sale, the sale arrangements will go forward. The sale will proceed, conditioned on the requirement that a purchaser will immediately contact (NRCS) have a conservation plan developed and comply with this plan. The county official will monitor the borrower's compliance with the recommendations in the conservation plan. If problems occur in obtaining NRCS assistance, the State Executive Director should consult with the NRCS State Conservationist. 


(e) *Notification to purchasers of inventory property with reportable underground storage tanks.* If the Agency is selling inventory property containing a storage tank which was reported to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) pursuant to the provisions of § 1955.57 of subpart B of this part, the potential purchaser will be informed of the reporting requirement and provided a copy of the report filed by the Agency. 


(f) *Real property that is unsafe.* If the Agency has in inventory, real property, exclusive of any improvements, that is unsafe, that is it does not meet the definition of “safe” as contained in § 1955.103 of this subpart and which cannot be feasibly made safe, the State Director or State Executive Director will submit the case file, together with documentation of the hazard and a recommended course of action to the National Office, ATTN: appropriate Deputy Administrator, for review and guidance. 


(g) *Real property containing hazardous waste contamination.* All inventory property must be inspected for hazardous waste contamination either through the use of a preliminary hazardous waste site survey or Transaction Screen Questionnaire. If possible contamination is noted, a Phase I or II environmental assessment will be completed per the advice of the State Environmental Coordinator. 



---

[N] [62 FR 44401, Aug. 21, 1997, as amended at 68 FR 7700, Feb. 18, 2003; 81 FR 11032, Mar. 2, 2016; 82 FR 19320, Apr. 27, 2017]




