# ยง 3.902   Treasonable acts.

(a) *Definition.* An act of mutiny, treason, sabotage or rendering assistance to an enemy of the United States or of its allies. 


(b) *Effect on claim.* For the purposes of paragraph (d) of this section, any person determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs to be guilty of a treasonable act forfeits all gratuitous benefits under laws administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs which he or she may be receiving or would have been entitled to receive in the future. 


(c) *Forfeiture before September 2, 1959.* Where forfeiture for treasonable acts was declared before September 2, 1959, the Secretary may pay any part of benefits so forfeited to the dependents of the person provided the decision to apportion was authorized prior to September 2, 1959, except that the amount may not be in excess of that which the dependent would be entitled to as a death benefit.


(1) *Compensation.* Whenever a veteran entitled to disability compensation has forfeited his or her right, any part of the compensation payable except for the forfeiture may be paid to the veteran's spouse, children and parents. The total amount payable will be the lesser of these amounts: 


(i) Service-connected death benefit payable. 


(ii) Amount of compensation payable but for the forfeiture. 


(2) *Pension.* Whenever a veteran entitled to pension has forfeited his or her right, any part of the pension payable except for the forfeiture provision may be paid to the veteran's spouse and children. The total amount payable will be the lesser of these amounts: 


(i) Nonservice-connected death benefit payable. 


(ii) Amount of pension being paid the veteran at the time of forfeiture. 


(d) *Forfeiture after September 1, 1959.* After September 1, 1959, forfeiture by reason of a treasonable act may be declared only 


(1) Where the person was not residing or domiciled in a State as defined in ยง 3.1(i) at the time of commission of the act; or 


(2) Where the person ceased to be a resident of or domiciled in a State as defined in ยง 3.1(i) before expiration of the period during which criminal prosecution could be instituted; or 


(3) The treasonable act was committed in the Philippine Islands. 


(e) *Children.* A treasonable act committed by a child or children, regardless of age, who are in the surviving spouse's custody and included in an award to such person will not affect the award to the surviving spouse. 



---

[N] [27 FR 8590, Aug. 28, 1962; 53 FR 17934, May 19, 1988] 




