# ยง 51.18   Federal court-ordered changes.

(a) *In general.* Changes affecting voting for which approval by a Federal court is required, or that are ordered by a Federal court, are exempt from section 5 review only where the Federal court prepared the change and the change has not been subsequently adopted or modified by the relevant governmental body. *McDaniel* v. *Sanchez,* 452 U.S. 130 (1981). (*See also* ยง 51.22.)


(b) *Subsequent changes.* Where a Federal court-ordered change is not itself subject to the preclearance requirement, subsequent changes necessitated by the court order but decided upon by the jurisdiction remain subject to preclearance. For example, voting precinct and polling changes made necessary by a court-ordered redistricting plan are subject to section 5 review.


(c) *Alteration in section 5 status.* Where a Federal court-ordered change at its inception is not subject to review under section 5, a subsequent action by the submitting authority demonstrating that the change reflects its policy choices (*e.g.,* adoption or ratification of the change, or implementation in a manner not explicitly authorized by the court) will render the change subject to review under section 5 with regard to any future implementation.


(d) *In emergencies.* A Federal court's authorization of the emergency interim use without preclearance of a voting change does not exempt from section 5 review any use of that practice not explicitly authorized by the court.



---

[N] [Order No. 3262-2011, 76 FR 21244, Apr. 15, 2011]




