# ยง 362.403   Announcement, eligibility, and selection.

(a) OPM will announce the opportunity to apply for the PMF Program and conduct a competition for the selection of finalists as set forth in this section.


(b) A Presidential Management Fellow is an individual who, within the previous 2 years, completed an advanced degree from a qualifying educational institution.


(c) An individual may apply for the PMF Program if:


(1) The individual has obtained an advanced degree within the 2-year period preceding the Program announcement described in paragraph (a) of this section, or


(2) The individual is still a student attending a qualifying educational institution, as defined in paragraph (2)(iii) of the definition of *Qualifying educational institution in* ยง 362.102, and he or she expects to complete a qualifying advanced degree by August 31 of the academic year in which the competition is held.


(d) An individual may apply for the PMF Program more than once as long as he or she meets the eligibility criteria. However, if an individual becomes a finalist and subsequently applies for the Program during the next open announcement, the individual will forfeit his or her status as a finalist.


(e) OPM will select Fellow finalists based on an OPM evaluation of each candidate's experience and accomplishments according to his or her application and the results of a rigorous structured assessment process.


(f) OPM will publish and provide participating agencies the Fellow finalists list for appointment consideration.




