# § 665.5   Definitions.

As used in this part—


*Administrator* means the Administrator of the Federal Transit Administration or the Administrator's designee.


*Automotive* means that the bus is not continuously dependent on external power or guidance for normal operation. Intermittent use of external power shall not automatically exclude a bus of its automotive character or the testing requirement.


*Bus* means a rubber-tired automotive vehicle used for the provision of public transportation service by or for a recipient of FTA financial assistance.


*Bus model* means a bus design or variation of a bus design usually designated by the manufacturer by a specific name and/or model number.


*Bus Testing Facility* means the facility used by the entity selected by FTA to conduct the bus testing program, including test track facilities operated in connection with the program.


*Bus Testing Report* means the complete test report for a bus model, documenting the results of performing the complete set of bus tests on a bus model.


*Curb weight* means the weight of the bus including maximum fuel, oil, and coolant; but without passengers or driver.


*Emissions* means the components of the engine tailpipe exhaust that are regulated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), plus carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane (CH4).


*Emissions control system* means the components on a bus whose primary purpose is to minimize regulated emissions before they exit the tailpipe. This definition does not include components that contribute to low emissions as a side effect of the manner in which they perform their primary function (e.g., fuel injectors or combustion chambers).


*Final acceptance* means the formal approval by the recipient that the vehicle has met all of its bid specifications and the recipient has received proper title.


*Gross weight* (Gross Vehicle Weight, or GVW) means the seated load weight of the bus plus 150 pounds of ballast for each standee passenger, up to and including, the maximum rated standee passenger capacity identified on the bus interior bulkhead.


*Hybrid* means a propulsion system that combines two power sources, at least one of which is capable of capturing, storing, and re-using energy.


*Major change in chassis design* means, for vehicles manufactured on a third-party chassis, a change in frame structure, material or configuration, or a change in chassis suspension type.


*Major change in components* means:


(1) For those vehicles that are not manufactured on a third-party chassis, a change in a vehicle's engine, axle, transmission, suspension, or steering components;


(2) For those that are manufactured on a third-party chassis, a change in the vehicle's chassis from one major design to another.


*Major change in configuration* means a change that is expected to have a significant impact on vehicle handling and stability or structural integrity.


*Modified third-party chassis or van* means a vehicle that is manufactured from an incomplete, partially assembled third-party chassis or van as provided by an OEM to a small bus manufacturer. This includes vehicles whose chassis structure has been modified to include: A tandem or tag axle; a drop or lowered floor; changes to the GVWR from the OEM rating; or other modifications that are not made in strict conformance with the OEM's modifications guidelines where they exist.


*New bus model* means a bus model that—


(1) Has not been used in public transportation service in the United States before October 1, 1988; or


(2) Has been used in such service but which after September 30, 1988, is being produced with a major change in configuration or a major change in components.


*Operator* means the operator of the Bus Testing Facility.


*Original equipment manufacturer (OEM)* means the original manufacturer of a chassis or van supplied as a complete or incomplete vehicle to a bus manufacturer.


*Parking brake* means a system that prevents the bus from moving when parked by preventing the wheels from rotating.


*Partial testing* means the performance of only that subset of the complete set of bus tests in which significantly different data would reasonably be expected compared to the data obtained in previous full testing of the baseline bus model at the Bus Testing Facility.


*Partial testing report,* also *partial test report,* means a report documenting, for a previously-tested bus model that is produced with major changes, the results of performing only that subset of the complete set of bus tests in which significantly different data would reasonably be expected as a result of the changes made to the bus from the configuration documented in the original full Bus Testing Report. A partial testing report is not valid unless accompanied by the corresponding full Bus Testing Report for the corresponding baseline bus configuration.


*Public transportation service* means the operation of a vehicle that provides general or special service to the public on a regular and continuing basis consistent with 49 U.S.C. Chapter 53.


*Recipient* means an entity that receives funds under 49 U.S.C. Chapter 53, either directly from FTA or through a direct recipient.


*Regenerative braking system* means a system that decelerates a bus by recovering its kinetic energy for on-board storage and subsequent use.


*Retarder* means a system other than the service brakes that slows a bus by dissipating kinetic energy.


*Seated load weight* means the curb weight of the bus plus the seated passenger load simulated by adding 150 pounds of ballast to each seating position and 600 pounds per wheelchair position.


*Service brake(s)* means the primary system used by the driver during normal operation to reduce the speed of a moving bus and to allow the driver to bring the bus to a controlled stop and hold it there. Service brakes may be supplemented by retarders or by regenerative braking systems.


*Small bus manufacturer* means a secondary market assembler that acquires a chassis or van from an OEM for subsequent modification or assembly and sale as 5-year/150,000-mile or 4-year/100,000-mile minimum service life vehicle.


*Tailpipe emissions* means the exhaust constituents actually emitted to the atmosphere at the exit of the vehicle tailpipe or corresponding system.


*Third party chassis* means a commercially available chassis whose design, manufacturing, and quality control are performed by an entity independent of the bus manufacturer.


*Unmodified mass-produced van* means a van that is mass-produced, complete and fully assembled as provided by an OEM. This shall include vans with raised roofs, and/or wheelchair lifts, or ramps that are installed by the OEM or by a party other than the OEM provided that the installation of these components is completed in strict conformance with the OEM modification guidelines.


*Unmodified third-party chassis* means a third-party chassis that either has not been modified, or has been modified in strict conformance with the OEM's modification guidelines.




