# ยง 285.824   How must I conduct self-inspections?

(a) You must develop a comprehensive self-inspection plan covering all of your facilities. You must keep this self-inspection plan wherever you keep your records and make it available to BSEE upon request. Your self-inspection plan must specify:


(1) The type, extent, and frequency of inspections that you will conduct for both the above-water and the below-water structures of all facilities and pertinent components of the mooring, tendon, or tethering systems for any floating facilities;


(2) How you will monitor the corrosion protections for both above-water and below-water structures; and


(3) How you will fulfill the requirement for annual on-site inspection of all Critical Safety Systems and Equipment.


(b) You must conduct an onsite inspection of each of your facilities at least once a year. This inspection must include, but is not limited to, all Critical Safety Systems and Equipment.


(1) You must develop and retain summary reports for all such inspections for each calendar year. The summary report must note any failures of operability, required maintenance of Critical Safety Systems and Equipment, or required replacement of the Critical Safety Systems and Equipment identified during inspection.


(2) You must retain records of inspections and summary reports for the previous 2 calendar years and make them available to BSEE on request.


(c) You must submit a report annually to BSEE no later than November 1st that must include:


(1) A list of facilities inspected for structural condition and corrosion protection in the preceding 12 months;


(2) The type of inspection employed (*i.e.,* visual, magnetic particle, ultrasonic testing); and


(3) A summary of the inspection indicating what repairs, if any, were needed and the overall structural condition of the facility.



---

[N] [89 FR 42721, May 15, 2024]






