# ยง 32.1   Purpose and scope.

(a) *Purpose.* This part prescribes the standards and procedures for the Department to collect money from a debtor's disposable pay by means of administrative wage garnishment to satisfy delinquent non-tax debts owed to the United States. 


(b) *Authority.* These standards and procedures are authorized under the wage garnishment provisions of the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, codified at 31 U.S.C. 3720D, and the Department of the Treasury Administrative Wage Garnishment Regulations at 31 CFR 285.11. 


(c) *Scope.* (1) This part applies to all Departmental Operating Divisions and Regional Offices that administer a program that gives rise to a delinquent non-tax debt owed to the United States and to all officers or employees of the Department authorized to collect such debt. 


(2) This part shall apply notwithstanding any provision of State law. 


(3) Nothing in this part precludes the compromise of a debt or the suspension or termination of collection action in accordance with part 30 of this title, or other applicable law or regulation. 


(4) The receipt of payments pursuant to this part does not preclude the Department from pursuing other debt collection remedies, including the offset of Federal payments to satisfy delinquent non-tax debt owed to the United States. The Department may pursue such debt collection remedies separately or in conjunction with administrative wage garnishment. 


(5) This part does not apply to the collection of delinquent non-tax debts owed to the United States from the wages of Federal employees from their Federal employment. Federal pay is subject to the Federal salary offset procedures set forth in 5 U.S.C. 5514 and other applicable laws. 


(6) Nothing in this part requires the Department to duplicate notices or administrative proceedings required by contract or other laws or regulations. 




