# ยง 530.14   Implementation.

(a) *Generally.* Performance under an original service contract or amendment may not begin until the effective date. An original service contract or amendment may apply only to cargo received on or after the effective date by the ocean common carrier or its agent, including originating carriers in the case of through transportation.


(b) *Prohibition or suspension.* When the filing parties receive notice that an initial or amended service contract has been prohibited under section 9(d) (46 U.S.C. 40704) or suspended under section 11 of the Act (46 U.S.C. 41301-41302, 41305-41307(a)):


(1) Further or continued implementation of the service contract is prohibited;


(2) All services performed under the contract shall be re-rated in accordance with the otherwise applicable tariff provisions for such services with notice to the shipper within five (5) days of the date of prohibition or suspension; and


(3) Detailed notice shall be given to the Commission under ยง 530.9 within thirty (30) days of:


(i) The re-rating or other account adjustment resulting from prohibition or suspension under paragraph (b)(2) of this section; or


(ii) Final settlement of the account adjusted under ยง 530.10.


(c) *Agreements.* If the prohibited or suspended service contract was that of an agreement with no common tariff, the re-rating shall be in accordance with the published tariff rates of the carrier which transported the cargo in effect at the time.



---

[N] [64 FR 11206, Mar. 8, 1999, as amended at 74 FR 50724, Oct. 1, 2009; 82 FR 16297, Apr. 4, 2017; 86 FR 21662, Apr. 23, 2021]




