# § 324.152   Simple risk weight approach (SRWA).

(a) *General.* Under the SRWA, an FDIC-supervised institution's aggregate risk-weighted asset amount for its equity exposures is equal to the sum of the risk-weighted asset amounts for each of the FDIC-supervised institution's individual equity exposures (other than equity exposures to an investment fund) as determined in this section and the risk-weighted asset amounts for each of the FDIC-supervised institution's individual equity exposures to an investment fund as determined in § 324.154.


(b) *SRWA computation for individual equity exposures.* An FDIC-supervised institution must determine the risk-weighted asset amount for an individual equity exposure (other than an equity exposure to an investment fund) by multiplying the adjusted carrying value of the equity exposure or the effective portion and ineffective portion of a hedge pair (as defined in paragraph (c) of this section) by the lowest applicable risk weight in this section.


(1) *Zero percent risk weight equity exposures.* An equity exposure to an entity whose credit exposures are exempt from the 0.03 percent PD floor in § 324.131(d)(2) is assigned a zero percent risk weight.


(2) *20 percent risk weight equity exposures.* An equity exposure to a Federal Home Loan Bank or the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation (Farmer Mac) is assigned a 20 percent risk weight.


(3) *100 percent risk weight equity exposures.* The following equity exposures are assigned a 100 percent risk weight:


(i) *Community development equity exposures.* An equity exposure that qualifies as a community development investment under section 24 (Eleventh) of the National Bank Act, excluding equity exposures to an unconsolidated small business investment company and equity exposures held through a consolidated small business investment company described in section 302 of the Small Business Investment Act.


(ii) *Effective portion of hedge pairs.* The effective portion of a hedge pair.


(iii) *Non-significant equity exposures.* Equity exposures, excluding significant investments in the capital of an unconsolidated institution in the form of common stock and exposures to an investment firm that would meet the definition of a traditional securitization were it not for the FDIC's application of paragraph (8) of that definition in § 324.2 and has greater than immaterial leverage, to the extent that the aggregate adjusted carrying value of the exposures does not exceed 10 percent of the FDIC-supervised institution's total capital.


(A) To compute the aggregate adjusted carrying value of an FDIC-supervised institution's equity exposures for purposes of this section, the FDIC-supervised institution may exclude equity exposures described in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3)(i), and (b)(3)(ii) of this section, the equity exposure in a hedge pair with the smaller adjusted carrying value, and a proportion of each equity exposure to an investment fund equal to the proportion of the assets of the investment fund that are not equity exposures or that meet the criterion of paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section. If an FDIC-supervised institution does not know the actual holdings of the investment fund, the FDIC-supervised institution may calculate the proportion of the assets of the fund that are not equity exposures based on the terms of the prospectus, partnership agreement, or similar contract that defines the fund's permissible investments. If the sum of the investment limits for all exposure classes within the fund exceeds 100 percent, the FDIC-supervised institution must assume for purposes of this section that the investment fund invests to the maximum extent possible in equity exposures.


(B) When determining which of an FDIC-supervised institution's equity exposures qualifies for a 100 percent risk weight under this section, an FDIC-supervised institution first must include equity exposures to unconsolidated small business investment companies or held through consolidated small business investment companies described in section 302 of the Small Business Investment Act, then must include publicly traded equity exposures (including those held indirectly through investment funds), and then must include non-publicly traded equity exposures (including those held indirectly through investment funds).


(4) *250 percent risk weight equity exposures.* Significant investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions in the form of common stock that are not deducted from capital pursuant to § 324.22(b)(4) are assigned a 250 percent risk weight.


(5) *300 percent risk weight equity exposures.* A publicly traded equity exposure (other than an equity exposure described in paragraph (b)(7) of this section and including the ineffective portion of a hedge pair) is assigned a 300 percent risk weight.


(6) *400 percent risk weight equity exposures.* An equity exposure (other than an equity exposure described in paragraph (b)(7) of this section) that is not publicly traded is assigned a 400 percent risk weight.


(7) *600 percent risk weight equity exposures.* An equity exposure to an investment firm that:


(i) Would meet the definition of a traditional securitization were it not for the FDIC's application of paragraph (8) of that definition in § 324.2; and


(ii) Has greater than immaterial leverage is assigned a 600 percent risk weight.


(c) *Hedge transactions*—(1) *Hedge pair.* A hedge pair is two equity exposures that form an effective hedge so long as each equity exposure is publicly traded or has a return that is primarily based on a publicly traded equity exposure.


(2) *Effective hedge.* Two equity exposures form an effective hedge if the exposures either have the same remaining maturity or each has a remaining maturity of at least three months; the hedge relationship is formally documented in a prospective manner (that is, before the FDIC-supervised institution acquires at least one of the equity exposures); the documentation specifies the measure of effectiveness (E) the FDIC-supervised institution will use for the hedge relationship throughout the life of the transaction; and the hedge relationship has an E greater than or equal to 0.8. An FDIC-supervised institution must measure E at least quarterly and must use one of three alternative measures of E:


(i) Under the dollar-offset method of measuring effectiveness, the FDIC-supervised institution must determine the ratio of value change (RVC). The RVC is the ratio of the cumulative sum of the periodic changes in value of one equity exposure to the cumulative sum of the periodic changes in the value of the other equity exposure. If RVC is positive, the hedge is not effective and E equals zero. If RVC is negative and greater than or equal to −1 (that is, between zero and −1), then E equals the absolute value of RVC. If RVC is negative and less than −1, then E equals 2 plus RVC.


(ii) Under the variability-reduction method of measuring effectiveness:


(iii) Under the regression method of measuring effectiveness, E equals the coefficient of determination of a regression in which the change in value of one exposure in a hedge pair is the dependent variable and the change in value of the other exposure in a hedge pair is the independent variable. However, if the estimated regression coefficient is positive, then the value of E is zero.


(3) The effective portion of a hedge pair is E multiplied by the greater of the adjusted carrying values of the equity exposures forming a hedge pair.


(4) The ineffective portion of a hedge pair is (1-E) multiplied by the greater of the adjusted carrying values of the equity exposures forming a hedge pair.



---

[N] [78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 84 FR 35280, July 22, 2019]




