# § 483.154   Nurse aide competency evaluation.

(a) *Notification to Individual.* The State must advise in advance any individual who takes the competency evaluation that a record of the successful completion of the evaluation will be included in the State's nurse aid registry.


(b) *Content of the competency evaluation program*—(1) *Written or oral examinations.* The competency evaluation must—


(i) Allow an aide to choose between a written and an oral examination;


(ii) Address each course requirement specified in § 483.152(b);


(iii) Be developed from a pool of test questions, only a portion of which is used in any one examination;


(iv) Use a system that prevents disclosure of both the pool of questions and the individual competency evaluations; and


(v) If oral, must be read from a prepared text in a neutral manner.


(2) *Demonstration of skills.* The skills demonstration must consist of a demonstration of randomly selected items drawn from a pool consisting of the tasks generally performed by nurse aides. This pool of skills must include all of the personal care skills listed in § 483.152(b)(3).


(c) *Administration of the competency evaluation.* (1) The competency examination must be administered and evaluated only by—


(i) The State directly; or


(ii) A State approved entity which is neither a skilled nursing facility that participates in Medicare nor a nursing facility that participates in Medicaid.


(2) No nurse aide who is employed by, or who has received an offer of employment from, a facility on the date on which the aide begins a nurse aide competency evaluation program may be charged for any portion of the program.


(3) If an individual who is not employed, or does not have an offer to be employed, as a nurse aide becomes employed by, or receives an offer of employment from, a facility not later than 12 months after completing a nurse aide competency evaluation program, the State must provide for the reimbursement of costs incurred in completing the program on a pro rata basis during the period in which the individual is employed as a nurse aide.


(4) The skills demonstration part of the evaluation must be—


(i) Performed in a facility or laboratory setting comparable to the setting in which the individual will function as a nurse aide; and


(ii) Administered and evaluated by a registered nurse with at least one year's experience in providing care for the elderly or the chronically ill of any age.


(d) *Facility proctoring of the competency evaluation.* (1) The competency evaluation may, at the nurse aide's option, be conducted at the facility in which the nurse aide is or will be employed unless the facility is described in § 483.151(b)(2).


(2) The State may permit the competency evaluation to be proctored by facility personnel if the State finds that the procedure adopted by the facility assures that the competency evaluation program—


(i) Is secure from tampering;


(ii) Is standardized and scored by a testing, educational, or other organization approved by the State; and


(iii) Requires no scoring by facility personnel.


(3) The State must retract the right to proctor nurse aide competency evaluations from facilities in which the State finds any evidence of impropriety, including evidence of tampering by facility staff.


(e) *Successful completion of the competency evaluation program.* (1) The State must establish a standard for satisfactory completion of the competency evaluation. To complete the competency evaluation successfully an individual must pass both the written or oral examination and the skills demonstration.


(2) A record of successful completion of the competency evaluation must be included in the nurse aide registry provided in § 483.156 within 30 days of the date if the individual is found to be competent.


(f) *Unsuccessful completion of the competency evaluation program.* (1) If the individual does not complete the evaluation satisfactorily, the individual must be advised—


(i) Of the areas which he or she; did not pass; and


(ii) That he or she has at least three opportunities to take the evaluation.


(2) The State may impose a maximum upon the number of times an individual upon the number of times an individual may attempt to complete the competency evaluation successfully, but the maximum may be no less than three.




