# § 747.2004   Review of order to dismiss a director or senior executive officer.

(a) *Service of directive to dismiss and notice.* When the NCUA Board issues and serves a directive on a credit union requiring it to dismiss from office any director or senior executive officer under § 702.202(b)(7), § 702.203(b)(8), § 702.204(b)(8), § 702.304(b) or § 702.305(b) of this chapter, the NCUA Board shall also serve upon the person the credit union is directed to dismiss (Respondent) a copy of the directive (or the relevant portions, where appropriate) and notice of the Respondent's right to seek reinstatement.


(b) *Contents of notice of right to seek reinstatement.* A notice of a Respondent's right to seek reinstatement shall state:


(1) That a request for reinstatement (including a request for a hearing) shall be filed with the NCUA Board within 14 calendar days after the Respondent receives the directive and notice under paragraph (a) of this section, unless the NCUA Board grants the Respondent's request for further time;


(2) The reasons for dismissal of the Respondent; and


(3) That the Respondent's failure to—


(i) Request reinstatement shall be deemed a waiver of any right to seek reinstatement;


(ii) Request a hearing shall be deemed a waiver of any right to a hearing; and


(iii) Request the opportunity to present witness testimony shall be deemed a waiver of the right to present such testimony.


(c) *Contents of request for reinstatement.* A request for reinstatement in response to a notice under paragraph (b) of this section must:


(1) Explain why the Respondent should be reinstated; 


(2) Include any relevant information, mitigating circumstances, documentation, or other evidence in support of the Respondent's position;


(3) If desired, request an informal hearing before the NCUA Board under this section; and


(4) If a hearing is requested, identify any witness whose testimony the Respondent wishes to present and the general nature of each witness's expected testimony.


(d) *Order to hold informal hearing.* Upon receipt of a timely written request from a Respondent for an informal hearing on the portion of a directive requiring a credit union to dismiss from office any director or senior executive officer, the NCUA Board shall issue an order directing an informal hearing to commence no later than 30 days after receipt of the request, unless the Respondent requests a later date. The hearing shall be held in Alexandria, Virginia, or at such other place as may be designated by the NCUA Board, before a presiding officer designated by the NCUA Board to conduct the hearing and recommend a decision.


(e) *Procedures for informal hearing.* (1) A Respondent may appear at the hearing personally or through counsel. A Respondent shall have the right to introduce relevant documents and to present oral argument at the hearing. A Respondent may introduce witness testimony only if expressly authorized by the NCUA Board or by the presiding officer. Neither the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 554-557) governing adjudications required by statute to be determined on the record nor the Uniform Rules of Practice and Procedure (12 CFR part 747) apply to an informal hearing under this section unless the NCUA Board orders otherwise.


(2) The informal hearing shall be recorded, and a transcript shall be furnished to the Respondent upon request and payment of the cost thereof. Witnesses need not be sworn, unless specifically requested by a party or the presiding officer. The presiding officer may ask questions of any witness.


(3) The presiding officer may order that the hearing be continued for a reasonable period following completion of witness testimony or oral argument to allow additional written submissions to the hearing record.


(4) A Respondent shall bear the burden of demonstrating that his or her continued employment by or service with the credit union would materially strengthen the credit union's ability to—


(i) Become “adequately capitalized,” to the extent that the directive was issued as a result of the credit union's net worth category classification or its failure to submit or implement a net worth restoration plan or revised business plan; and


(ii) Correct the unsafe or unsound condition or unsafe or unsound practice, to the extent that the directive was issued as a result of reclassification of the credit union pursuant to §§ 702.102(b) and 702.302(d) of this chapter.


(5) Within 20 calendar days following the date of closing of the hearing and the record, the presiding officer shall make a recommendation to the NCUA Board concerning the Respondent's request for reinstatement with the credit union.


(f) *Time for final decision.* Not later than 60 calendar days after the date the record is closed, or the date of the response in a case where no hearing was requested, the NCUA Board shall grant or deny the request for reinstatement and shall notify the Respondent of its decision. If the NCUA Board denies the request for reinstatement, it shall set forth in the notification the reasons for its decision. The decision of the NCUA Board shall be final.


(g) *Effective date.* Unless otherwise ordered by the NCUA Board, the Respondent's dismissal shall take and remain in effect pending a final decision on the request for reinstatement.




