# ยง 1.458-2   Manner of and time for making election.

(a) *Scope.* For taxable years beginning after September 30, 1979, section 458 provides a special method of accounting for taxpayers who account for sales of magazines, paperbacks, or records using an accrual method of accounting. In order to use the special method of accounting under section 458, a taxpayer must make an election in the manner prescribed in this section. The election does not require the prior consent of the Internal Revenue Service. The election is effective for the taxable year for which it is made and for all subsequent taxable years, unless the taxpayer secures the prior consent of the Internal Revenue Service to revoke such election. 


(b) *Separate election for each trade or business.* An election is made with respect to each trade or business of a taxpayer in connection with which qualified sales (as defined in section  458(b)(5)) of a category of merchandise were made. Magazines, paperbacks, and records are each treated as a separate category of merchandise. If qualified sales of two or more categories of merchandise are made in connection with the same trade or business, then solely for purposes of section 458, each category is treated as a separate trade or business. For example, if a taxpayer makes qualified sales of both magazines and paperbacks in the same trade or business, then solely for purposes of section 458, the qualified sales relating to magazines are considered one trade or business and the qualified sales relating to paperbacks are considered a separate trade or business. Thus, if the taxpayer wishes to account under section 458 for the qualified sales of both magazines and paperbacks, such taxpayer must make a separate election for each category. 


(c) *Manner of, and time for, making election.* An election is made under section 458 and this section by filing a statement of election containing the information described in paragraph (d) of this section with the taxpayer's income tax return for first taxable year for which the election is made. The election must be made no later than the time prescribed by law (including extensions) for filing the income tax return for the first taxable year for which the election is made. Thus, the election may not be filed with an amended income tax return after the prescribed date (including extensions) for filing the original return for such year. 


(d) *Required information.* The statement of election required by paragraph (c) of this section must indicate that an election is being made under section 458(c) and must set forth the following information: 


(1) The taxpayer's name, address, and identification number; 


(2) A description of each trade or business for which an election is made; 


(3) The first taxable year for which an election is made for each trade or business; 


(4) The merchandise return period (as defined in section 458(b)(7)) for each trade or business for which an election is made; 


(5) With respect to an election that applies to magazines, the amount of the adjustment computed under section 481(a) resulting from the change to the method of accounting described in section 458; and 


(6) With respect to an election that applies to paperbacks or records, the initial opening balance (computed in accordance with section 458(e)) in the suspense account for each trade or business for which an election is made.



---

[N] [T.D. 7628, 44 FR 33398, June 11, 1979. Redesignated by T.D. 8426, 57 FR 38599, Aug. 26, 1992]




