# ยง 2.41   Chief Operating Officer, Farm Production and Conservation Business Center.

(a) *Delegations.* Pursuant to ยง 2.16(a), subject to the reservations in ยง 2.16(b)(1), the following delegations of authority are made by the Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation to the Chief Operating Officer, Farm Production and Conservation Programs Business Center:


(1) Provide to the Farm Service Agency, Natural Resources Conservation Service, and Risk Management Agency management support services including information technology, financial management, human resources, procurement, property management, and related business and administrative processes.


(2) Administer responsibilities and functions assigned under the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2061 *et seq.*), and title VI of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5195 *et seq.*), concerning agricultural production; food processing, storage, and distribution; distribution of farm equipment and fertilizer; rehabilitation and use of food, agricultural, and related agribusiness facilities; CCC resources; and farm credit and financial assistance.


(3) Conduct fiscal, accounting and claims functions relating to CCC programs for which the Foreign Agricultural Service has been delegated authority under ยง 2.601 and, in conjunction with other agencies of the U.S. Government, develop and formulate agreements to reschedule amounts due from foreign countries.


(4) Administer Section 15353(a) of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008, Public Law 110-246 relating to information reporting for Commodity Credit Corporation transactions.


(5) Coordinate and prevent duplication of aerial photographic work of the Department, including:


(i) Clearing photography projects;


(ii) Assigning symbols for new aerial photography, maintaining symbol records, and furnishing symbol books;


(iii) Recording departmental aerial photography flow and coordinating the issuance of aerial photography status maps of latest coverage;


(iv) Promoting interchange of technical information and techniques to develop lower costs and better quality;


(v) Representing the Department on committees, task forces, work groups, and other similar groups concerned with aerial photography acquisition and reproduction;


(vi) Providing a Chairperson for the Photography Sales Committee of the Department;


(vii) Coordinating development, preparation, and issuance of specifications for aerial photography for the Department;


(viii) Coordinating and performing procurement, inspection, and application of specifications for USDA aerial photography;


(ix) Maintaining library and files of USDA aerial film and retrieving and supplying reproductions on request.


(6) Administer a Century Farms Program as authorized by section 12508 of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (7 U.S.C. 2266a).


(7) Establish programs with any bureau of the U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI), or with other agencies within USDA, in support of the Service First initiative for the purpose of promoting customer service and efficiency, including delegating to employees of DOI and other USDA agencies the authorities of the Farm Production and Conservation Business Center necessary to carry out projects on behalf of USDA (43 U.S.C. 1703).




(b) [Reserved]



---

[N] [83 FR 61312, Nov. 29, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 65514, Oct. 15, 2020; 89 FR 80075, Oct. 2, 2024]




