# ยง 141.11   Evidence of right to make entry for importations by common carrier.

(a) *Merchandise not released directly to carrier.* Except where merchandise is released directly to the carrier in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, one of the following types of evidence of the right to make entry shall be filed in connection with the entry of merchandise imported by common carrier: 


(1) A bill of lading or air waybill, presented by the holder thereof, properly endorsed when endorsement is required under the law. A nonnegotiable bill of lading, or air waybill, may not be endorsed by the named consignee to give someone else the right to make entry. If the person making entry intends to use the original bill of lading or air waybill to obtain a duplicate bill of lading, duplicate air waybill, or carrier's certificate from the carrier, the exchange shall be made before the entry is filed, and the duplicate bill of lading, duplicate air waybill, or carrier's certificate shall be used to make entry in accordance with paragraph (a) (3) or (4) of this section. For purposes of this part, the rights of the consignor relating to an air waybill as prescribed by the Warsaw Convention (49 Stat. 3017) shall be protected. 


(2) An extract from a bill of lading or air waybill certified to be genuine by the carrier bringing the merchandise to the port of entry. Customs officers shall not certify extracts from bills of lading or air waybills. 


(3) A certified duplicate bill of lading or air waybill, with the carrier's certificate being in substantially the following form: 


(4) A carrier's certificate, which may be executed on the official entry form, or, in appropriate cases, by means of a rubber-stamped or typewritten combined carrier's certificate and release order with one signature on a copy of the bill of lading, airway bill, shipping receipt, or other comparable document. The rubber-stamped or typewritten certificate shall be in substantially the following form, which may be varied to include any of the qualifications on release shown in ยง 141.111(d): 


(5) A blanket carrier's release order on an appropriately modified bill of lading or air waybill covering any or all shipments which will arrive at the port on the carrier's conveyance during the period specified in the release order.


(6) A shipping receipt or other document presented in lieu of a bill of lading or air waybill shall be accepted as authority for making entry only if it bears a carrier's certificate in accordance with paragraph (a)(4) of this section, or if entry is made by the actual consignee in person or in his name by a duly authorized agent. 


(b) *Merchandise released directly to carrier.* Where, in accordance with subsection (j) of section 484, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1484), merchandise is released from Customs custody (either under immediate delivery procedures in accordance with the provisions of subpart C of part 142 of this chapter, or after an entry has been filed in accordance with subpart A of part 142 of this chapter, or after an entry summary, which shall serve as both the entry and entry summary has been filed with estimated duties attached where appropriate in accordance with subpart B of part 142 of this chapter), to the carrier by whom the merchandise was brought to the port, the delivery of the merchandise by the carrier to the person filing the entry summary with estimated duties attached shall be deemed to be the certification required by subsection (h), section 484, Tariff Act of 1930. Customs responsibility under this optional entry procedure is limited to the collection of duties, and constitutes no representation whatsoever regarding the right of any person to obtain possession of the merchandise from the carrier. Consequently, no Customs official shall be liable to any person in respect to the delivery of merchandise released from Customs custody in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph.



---

[N] [T.D. 73-175, 38 FR 17447, July 2, 1973, as amended by T.D. 78-394, 43 FR 49787, Oct. 25, 1978; T.D. 82-224, 47 FR 53727, Nov. 29, 1982; T.D. 87-75, 52 FR 20068, May 29, 1987; T.D. 90-87, 55 FR 47052, Nov. 9, 1990; T.D. 97-82, 62 FR 51770, Oct. 3, 1997]




