# § 721.11125   Dicarboxylic acids, polymers with alkyl prop-2-enoate, alkyl 2-ethylprop-2-enoate, alkyl[(alkenyl)alkyl]alkanediol, alkanediol, alkanedioic acid, alkyl 2-methylprop-2-enoate, alkyl prop-2-enoic acid, alkylene [isocyanatocarbomonocycle] and alkanediol, alkanolamine-blocked, compds. with 2-(alkylamino)alkanol (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as dicarboxylic acids, polymers with alkyl prop-2-enoate, alkyl 2-ethylprop-2-enoate, alkyl[(alkenyl)alkyl]alkanediol, alkanediol, alkanedioic acid, alkyl 2-methylprop-2-enoate, alkyl prop-2-enoic acid, alkylene [isocyanatocarbomonocycle] and alkanediol, alkanolamine-blocked, compds. with 2-(alkylamino)alkanol (PMN P-16-493) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substance after they have been reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(f). It is a significant new use to import the chemical substance to contain more than 0.1% residual isocyanate by weight. It is a significant new use to import the chemical substance to contain more than 1% of a confidential component by weight.


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (c) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.



---

[N] [84 FR 55063, Oct. 15, 2019]




