# § 9.95   Clarksburg.

(a) *Name.* The name of the viticultural area described in this section is “Clarksburg.”


(b) *Approved maps.* The appropriate maps for determining the boundaries of the Clarksburg viticultural area are eight U.S.G.S. topographic maps in the 7.5 minute series, as follows:


(1) Sacramento West, Calif., 1967 (photorevised 1980).


(2) Saxon, Calif., 1952 (photorevised 1968).


(3) Clarksburg, Calif., 1967 (photorevised 1980).


(4) Florin, Calif., 1968 (photorevised 1980).


(5) Liberty Island, Calif., 1978.


(6) Courtland, Calif., 1978.


(7) Bruceville, Calif., 1978 (photorevised 1980).


(8) Isleton, Calif., 1978.


(9) Rio Vista, Calif., 1978 (minor revision 1993).


(c) *Boundaries.* Beginning at a point (on the Sacramento West topographic map) in Yolo County in T8N/R4E, at the intersection of Jefferson Blvd. and Burrows Ave.,


(1) Then southwest in a straight line 1.2 miles along Jefferson Blvd. to the eastern bank of the Sacramento River Deep Water Ship Channel.


(2) Then southwest along the Sacramento River Deep Water Ship Channel, approximately 17 miles to T5N/R3E, to the Class 5 trail on the levee connecting the Sacramento River Deep Water Ship Channel and the dredger cut Miner Slough, approximately 2 miles from the Solano/Yolo County line.


(3) Then east along the trail to the Miner Slough.




(4) Then south along Miner Slough to the point where it joins Cache Slough.


(5) Then south along Cache Slough to the point where it joins the Sacramento River.




(6) Then east, then generally northeasterly along the meandering Sacramento River to the point where it meets the Delta Cross Channel at the Southern Pacific Railroad.


(7) Then northeast along the Southern Pacific Railroad for 2 miles, to a point 
1/3 mile past the intersection of the Southern Pacific Railroad and the eastern branch of Snodgrass Slough.


(8) Then east approximately 2
1/2 miles along the levee to Interstate 5 (under construction).


(9) Then north approximately 8
1/2 miles along Interstate 5 (under construction, proposed, and completed) to Section 18 in T6N/R5E, at the intersection of Interstate 5 and Hood Franklin Road.


(10) Then southwest along Hood Franklin Road to the Southern Pacific Railroad Levee, .1 mile northeast of Hood Junction.


(11) Then north approximately 18 miles along the Southern Pacific Railroad Levee to Section 11 in T7N/R4E, at Freeport Blvd., and then across the Sacramento River at the line between Sections 11 and 14.


(12) Then northwest along the west bank of the Sacramento River to Burrows Ave.


(13) Then northwest along Burrows Ave. to the starting point at the intersection of Jefferson Blvd. and Burrows Ave.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-166, 49 FR 2759, Jan. 23, 1984, as amended by T.D. TTB-178, 87 FR 13159, Mar. 9, 2022]




