# § 52.1689   Original Identification of plan section.

(a) This section identifies the original “Air Implementation Plan for the State of New York” and all revisions submitted by New York that were Federally approved prior to January 1, 2011.


(b) The plans were officially submitted on January 31, 1972.


(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.


(1) Parts 175, 176, 177, 185, 197, and 203 of New York's Code, Rules and Regulation submitted February 9, 1972, by the Division of Air Resources, New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(2) Part 200 of the New York State Code and Article 9 of the New York City Code submitted on February 11, 1972, by the Division of Air Resources, New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(3) Part 192 of the New York State Air Pollution Control Code submitted on February 14, 1972, by the Division of Air Resources, New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(4) Miscellaneous non-regulatory additions to the plan submitted on March 10, 1972, by the Division of Air Resources, New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(5) Miscellaneous non-regulatory additions to the plan for New York City submitted on May 19, 1972, by the Governor.


(6) Revisions recodifying regulations 200, 201, 202, 207, 212, 215, 219, 220, 222, 226, and 230 of New York's Code, Rules and Regulations submitted on May 24, 1972, by the Division of Air Resources, New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(7) Revisions to Parts 204, 205, 214, 217, 223, 225, 227 and 230 of New York's Code, Rules and Regulations submitted on July 20, 1972, by the Governor.


(8) Miscellaneous non-regulatory revisions to the plan submitted on August 3, 1972, by the Division of Air Resources, New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(9) Revision to Part 226 of New York's Code, Rules and Regulations submitted on February 6, 1973, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(10) Revised air quality data for 1971 and 1972 for the Hudson Valley AQCR submitted on March 7, 1973, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(11) Revision to the photochemical oxidant and carbon monoxide control strategy for New Jersey-New York-Connecticut AQCR submitted on April 17, 1973, by the Governor.


(12) Miscellaneous non-regulatory revisions to the plan submitted on April 19, 1973, by the Division of Air Resources, New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(13) Revision to the photochemical oxidant control strategy for the Genesee-Fingerlakes AQCR submitted on April 30, 1973, by the Governor.


(14) Non-regulatory revision to the plan submitted on May 2, 1973, by the Division of Air Resources, New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(15) Requests for 2-year extension and 18-month extension for attainment of the photochemical oxidant and carbon monoxide standards in the New Jersey-New York-Connecticut AQCR submitted on May 16, 1973, by the Governor.


(16) Miscellaneous non-regulatory revisions to the plan submitted on May 21, 1973, by the Division of Air Resources, New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(17) Miscellaneous non-regulatory revisions to the plan submitted on June 11, 1973, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(18) Revisions to Parts 200 and 201 of New York's Codes, Rules and Regulations submitted on August 15, 1973, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(19) Revision to sulfur oxides control strategy for New Jersey-New York-Connecticut AQCR submitted on October 26, 1973, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(20) Revision to sulfur oxides control strategy for New Jersey-New York-Connecticut AQCR submitted on November 27, 1973, by the Governor.


(21) Revision to Part 205 of New York's Code, Rules and Regulations submitted on February 17, 1974, by the New York State Department of Environmental Protection.


(22) Revisions to Transportation Control Plan for the Genesee-Fingerlakes AQCR submitted on April 8, 1974, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(23) AQMA designations were submitted on April 29, 1974, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(24) Revised Part 225 (Fuel Composition and Use) was submitted on August 29, 1974, by the Commissioner of the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(25) Additional information on Part 225 revision was submitted on October 11, 1974, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(26) Additional information on Part 225 revision was submitted on December 6, 1974, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(27) Part 203 (Indirect Sources of Air Contamination) was submitted on January 27, 1975, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(28) Additional information on Part 225 revision was submitted on February 25, 1975, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(29) Additional information on Part 203 was submitted on May 8, 1975, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(30) Revisions submitted on March 16, 1976 by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation based on special limitations issued pursuant to § 225.2(c) covering three power plants.


(31) Additional information on special limitations issued pursuant to § 225.2(c) submitted on March 22, 1976, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(32) Revision to Part 225 submitted on September 20, 1976 and November 5, 1976 by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation which accomplishes the following:


(i) Upon demonstration by a source owner that the use of the higher sulfur coal will not contribute to the contravention of ambient air quality standards, coal burning sources of greater than 100 million Btu per hour heat capacity may be approved for a special limitation under § 225.2. The previous heat capacity cutoff for requiring a source-generated demonstration was 250 million Btu per hour.


(ii) The formula contained in § 225.5(a), which determines sulfur dioxide emissions from the burning of fuel mixtures, is modified to include gaseous fuels. Process gases are also included in the formula by the deletion of § 225.5(a)(2), which precluded such inclusion.


(iii) Fuel suppliers are required to furnish fuel sale records upon request of the State through revision to § 225.7.


(iv) The word “rated” is deleted from §§ 225.1(a)(1), 225.2 and 225.6 wherever the phrase “rated total heat input” previously appeared.


(33) Revision submitted on March 17, 1977, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation which grants a “special limitation” under Part 225. The “special limitation” relaxes until May 31, 1980, the sulfur-in-fuel-oil limitation to 2.8 percent, by weight, for the Long Island Lighting Co.'s Northport Generating Facility (Units 1, 2, and 3) and Port Jefferson Generating Facility (Units 3 and 4).


(34) Revision submitted on March 3, 1977, April 5, 1977, and June 16, 1977, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation which grants “special limitations” under Part 225. These “special limitations” relax, until December 31, 1979, the sulfur-in-fuel-oil limitation to 2.8 percent, by weight, for air pollution sources which do not have a total heat input in excess of 250 million Btu per hour in parts of the Southern Tier East, Central New York and Champlain Valley AQCRs.


(35) Revision submitted on February 14, 1977, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation consisting of Section 19.0305(2)(a) of New York State's Environmental Conservation Law (ECL), as amended by Chapter 760, McKinney's 1975 Session Laws of New York, and an opinion, dated January 27, 1977, by the Honorable Louis J. Lefkowitz, Attorney General of the State of New York, interpreting the amended ECL Section 19-0305(2)(a) and Part 200.2 of Title 6 of the New York State Official Compilation of Codes, Rules, and Regulations (6 NYCRR 200.2). This revision provides for adequate State legal authority to ensure for public availability of air pollutant emission data as required under 40 CFR 51.10(e) and § 51.11(a)(6).


(36) Revision to the New York City Metropolitan Area Transportation Control Plan eliminating tolls on bridges entirely within the City (Strategy B-7) is made upon application submitted by the Governor on October 19, 1977, pursuant to section 110(c)(5) of the Clean Air Act, as amended.


(37) Revision submitted on August 24, 1977, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation which grants a “special limitation” under Part 225. This “special limitation” relaxes, until May 31, 1980, the sulfur-in-fuel-oil limitation to 2.8 percent, by weight, for Units 1 through 5 of the Niagara Mohawk Power Corp.'s Oswego facility in Oswego, N.Y.


(38) Revision submitted on September 22, 1977, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation which grants a “special limitation” under Part 225. This “special limitation” relaxes, until October 31, 1980, the sulfur-in-coal limitation to 2.8 pounds of sulfur per million Btu, gross heat content, at the Rochester Gas and Electric Corp.'s Beebee generating station, Unit 12, in Rochester, N.Y.


(39) Revision submitted on May 6, 1977, and August 1, 1977, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation which grants a “special limitation” under part 225. Only the part of this “special limitation” which relaxes, until July 31, 1980, the sulfur-in-fuel-oil limitation to 1 percent sulfur, by weight, at the village of Freeport plant No. 2 generating facility, units 1 and 2, located in Nassau County, N.Y., is approved.


(40) A document entitled, “New York State Air Quality Implementation Plan—Syracuse Area,” submitted on March 19, 1979, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(41) A document entitled, “New York State Air Quality Implementation Plan—Southern Tier (Binghamton, Elmira-Corning, Jamestown),” submitted on April 5, 1979, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, only insofar as it deals with attainment of the national ambient air quality standards for particulate matter.


(42) A document entitled, “New York State Air Quality Implementation Plan—Rochester Area,” submitted on April 5, 1979, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(43) A document entitled, “New York State Air Quality Implementation Plan—Capital District and Town of Catskill,” submitted on March 19, 1979, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(44) Supplementary submittals of SIP revision information from the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, insofar as they deal with all provisions except those for attainment of particulate matter standards in the Niagara Frontier Air Quality Control Region, dated:


(i) May 23, 1979, dealing with new source review and growth tracking provisions, adoption of proposed regulations, schedule for hydrocarbon emissions inventory improvements, identification of resources necessary to carry out the SIP, schedule for development of a public participation program, schedule for development of transportation planning process improvements, the need for an 18-month extension for the City of Syracuse and Village of Solvay, demonstration of control strategy adequacy for the area addressed by the Capital District and Town of Catskill plan revision document, compliance schedules for two facilities in the Hudson Valley Air Quality Control Region, and development of a local government consultation program in Jamestown, New York.


(ii) May 31, 1979, dealing with adoption of proposed regulations, hydrocarbon emission inventory improvements, schedule for development of transportation planning process improvements, and compliance schedules for two facilities in the Hudson Valley Air Quality Control Region.


(iii) June 12, 1979, providing a final draft of the proposed regulations, information on the compliance schedule for a facility in the Hudson Valley Air Quality Control Region, and general information on development of compliance schedules. The proposed regulations to be incorporated in Title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations are as follows:


(A) Part 200, General Provisions (revision);


(B) Part 211, General Prohibitions (revision);


(C) Part 212, Process and Exhaust and/or Ventilation Systems (revision);


(D) Part 223, Petroleum Refineries (revision);


(E) Part 226, Solvent Metal Cleaning Processes (new);


(F) Part 228, Surface Coating Processes (new);


(G) Part 229, Gasoline Storage and Transfer (new); and


(H) Part 231, Major Facilities.


(iv) June 18, 1979, dealing with new source review provisions, general information on development of compliance schedules, and adoption of proposed regulations.


(v) August 10, 1979, providing a comprehensive set of adopted regulations.


(vi) September 26, 1979, providing additional information regarding the EPA notice of proposed rulemaking (44 FR 44556, July 30, 1979) which deals with the adoption of regulations for control of volatile organic compound sources for source categories addressed by Control Technology Guideline documents issued subsequent to December 1977, regulatory revisions to 6 NYCRR Parts 211 and 229, the transportation planning process, emissions inventory improvements, new source review procedures, public participation and local government consultation programs, and adoption of regulations.


(vii) October 1, 1979, dealing with new source review procedures.


(viii) November 13, 1979, providing a “declaratory ruling” regarding interpretation of the provisions of 6 NYCRR Part 231 in implementing the new source review program.


(ix) November 14, 1979, providing supplemental documentation on the administrative process of revising regulations.


(x) February 20, 1980, dealing with public hearings to revise Parts 229 and 231 of 6 NYCRR consistent with corrective action indicated by EPA.


(45) Revision submitted on October 24, 1979, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation which grants a “special limitation” under Part 225. This “special limitation” relaxes, until (three years from the date of publication), the sulfur in fuel oil limitation to 1.0 percent, by weight, for the Long Island Lighting Company's Glenwood Generating Station (Units 4 and 5), and 1.54 percent, by weight, for its E. F. Barrett Generating Station (Units 1 and 2).


(46) Five documents entitled: (i) Volume I—New York State Air Quality Implementation Plan for Control of Carbon Monoxide and Hydrocarbons in the New York City Metropolitan Area;


(ii) Volume II—Detailed Descriptions of Reasonably Available Control Measures;


(iii) Volume III—Air Quality and Emission Inventory;


(iv) Volume IV—Public Participation;


(v) Total Suspended Particulates Secondary Standard: New York City Extension Request;


(47) A document entitled, “New York State Air Quality Implementation Plan—Statewide Summary and Program,” submitted on September 10, 1979, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(48) Supplementary submittals of information from the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation regarding the New Jersey-New York-Connecticut Air Quality Control Region SIP revisions, dated:


(i) June 26, 1979, dealing with control of storage tanks at gasoline stations in Nassau, Rockland, Suffolk, and Westchester Counties.


(ii) July 30, 1979, dealing with new source review provisions for major sources of volatile organic compounds.


(iii) August 20, 1979, providing a commitment to meet “annual reporting requirements.”


(iv) January 11, 1980, dealing with changes to the State's schedule for implementing a light duty vehicle inspection and maintenance program.


(v) March 12, 1980, providing a memorandum of understanding among the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, New York State Department of Transportation, and the Tri-State Regional Planning Commission.


(49) Supplementary submittals of information from the Governor's Office regarding the New Jersey-New York-Connecticut Air Quality Control Region SIP revision, dated:


(i) August 6, 1979, dealing with the status of efforts to develop necessary legislation for implementing a light duty vehicle inspection and maintenance program.


(ii) November 5, 1979, providing the State's legal authority and a schedule for implementing a light duty vehicle inspection and maintenance program.


(iii) February 6, 1980, committing to providing additional information on systematic studies of transportation measures, committing to clarification of SIP commitments, and providing additional information on the State's light duty vehicle inspection and maintenance program.


(50) Supplementary information, submitted by the New York State Department of Transportation on October 17, 1979, providing clarification to “reasonably available control measures” commitments contained in the New Jersey-New York-Connecticut Air Quality Control Region SIP revision.


(51) Revision submitted on January 29, 1980, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation which grants a “special limitation” under 6 NYCRR Part 225. This “special limitation” relaxes, until [three years from the date of publication], the sulfur-in-fuel-oil limitation to 0.60 percent, by weight, for Orange and Rockland Utilities', Inc. Bowline Point Generating Station, units 1 and 2, Haverstraw, New York.


(52) Revisions to Parts 229 and 231 of Title 6, New York Code of Rules and Regulations, submitted on May 1, 1980, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(53) Revision submitted on November 29, 1980, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation which grants a “special limitation” under 6 NYCRR Part 225. This “special limitation” relaxes, until one year from [the date of publication], the sulfur-in-fuel-oil limitation to 1.5 percent, by weight, for the Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. Arthur Kill generating facility, units 2 and 3, Staten Island, New York and Ravenswood generating facility, unit 3, Queens, New York.


(54) A document entitled, “New York State Air Quality Implementation Plan—Niagara Frontier, Erie and Niagara Counties,” submitted on May 31, 1979, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation. The administrative orders for Bethlehem Steel Corporation, referenced by this document, are not being incorporated as part of the plan.


(55) A supplemental submittal, dated May 21, 1980, from the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation which includes three listings of permanent projects, demonstration projects and transportation related studies committed to in the non-public transit portion of the plan for the New York City metropolitan area.


(56) Revision submitted on October 31, 1979, and supplemented on April 28, 1980, and May 20, 1980, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation which grants a “special limitation” under 6 NYCRR Part 225. This “special limitation” relaxes to 2.8 percent, by weight, until December 31, 1982, the sulfur-in-fuel-oil limitation applicable to fuel burning sources which have a capacity less than 250 million BTU per hour and which are located in:


(i) The Southern Tier East Air Quality Control Region (AQCR), with the exception of all sources in Broome County;


(ii) The Central New York AQCR, with the exception of the Oswego Facilities Trust Company in Oswego County and all sources in Onondaga County;


(iii) The Champlain Valley (Northern) AQCR, with the exception of all sources in the City of Glens Falls and sources in the Town of Queensbury which have a total heat input greater than 100 million BTU per hour.


(57) A supplemental submittal, dated July 2, 1980, from the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation which included criteria and procedures for making assessments of the consistency and conformity of the outputs of the transportation planning process with the SIP.


(58) Revision submitted on September 17, 1980, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation which grants a “special limitation” under 6 NYCRR Part 225. This “special limitation” relaxes to 2.8 percent, by weight, until three years from March 19, 1981, the sulfur-in-fuel oil limitation applicable to unit 5 of Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation's Oswego generating facility, located in Oswego County.


(59) Supplemental information to “New York State Air Quality Implementation Plan—Statewide Summary and Program,” June 1979, submitted on December 18, 1980, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation dealing with provisions which commit the State to meet the subpart C requirements of 40 CFR part 58 pertaining to State and Local Air Monitoring Stations (SLAMS) including the air quality assurance requirements of Appendix A, the monitoring methodologies of Appendix C, the network design criteria of Appendix D and the probe siting criteria of Appendix E.


(60) A supplemental submittal, dated July 28, 1980, from the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation which includes:


(61) A supplemental submittal entitled “New York State Air Quality Implementation Plan, the Moynihan/Holtzman Amendment Submission: Transit Improvements in the New York City Metropolitan Area, May 1979,” submitted on May 24, 1979, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(62) [Reserved]


(63) Revision submitted on April 29, 1980, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation which grants a “special limitation” establishing, until three years from September 24, 1981, a sulfur-in-fuel-oil limitation of 2.8 percent, by weight, for the Long Island Lighting Company's Northport generating facility, units 1, 2 and 3 and the Port Jefferson generating facility, units 3 and 4.


(64) Revision submitted on August 7, 1981, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation which grants a “special limitation” to relax to 1.5 percent, by weight, for up to two years from February 22, 1982, the sulfur-in-fuel-oil limitation applicable to units 2 and 3 of Consolidated Edison of New York State, Inc.'s Arthur Kill generating facility and to unit 3 of its Ravenswood generating facility, all located in New York City.


(65) Revision submitted on January 8, 1982, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation which grants a “special limitation” to relax to 2.8 percent, by weight, for up to three years from March 5, 1982, the sulfur-in-fuel-oil limitation applicable to the General Electric Company's Rotterdam Steam Generating Facility located in Schenectady, New York.


(66) Revision submitted on July 9, 1982, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation which grants a “special limitation” allowing the New York State Office of Mental Health's Kings Park Psychiatric Facility to burn coal with a maximum sulfur content of 2.2 pounds of sulfur per million Btu gross heat content, for up to three years from August 11, 1982.


(67) A March 23, 1981, letter from the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation including an interim policy memorandum detailing procedures to be used by the State to determine compliance with the State's emission standard for coke oven gas.


(68) Regulatory information submitted by New York State Department of Environmental Conservation for controlling volatile organic compounds, dated:


(i) July 2, 1981, providing a comprehensive set of adopted regulations.


(ii) August 19, 1981, Consent Order, 81-36, 9-04.20, with Dunlop Tire and Rubber Corporation for control of volatile organic compounds.


(A) Amendment of Consent Order dated January 29, 1982.


(B) Amendment of Consent Order dated March 3, 1982.


(iii) July 25, 1983, providing final regulations to be incorporated into Title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations.


(iv) November 13, 1981, letter from Harry Hovey, Director of Air Division, New York State Department of Environmental Conservation concerning applicability of regulations in redesignated AQCR's.


(v) April 27, 1983, letter from Harry Hovey, Director of Air Division, New York State Department of Environmental Conservation concerning maximum operating heat input.


(69) State Implementation Plan revision dated February 15, 1984, from the Department of Environmental Conservation consisting of changes to New York State Department of Motor Vehicles monitoring and enforcement procedures for motor vehicle emission inspection stations.


(70) A State Implementation Plan for attainment of the lead (Pb) standards was submitted on September 21, 1983. Additional information was submitted in a letter dated February 16, 1984. These submittals included the following:


(i) Revision to Part 225 of Title 6, Official Compilation of Codes, Rules and Regulations of the State of New York.


(ii) Revision to Part 231 of Title 6, Official Compilation of Rules and Regulations of the State of New York.


(iii) Air Guide-14, “Process Sources Which Emit Lead or Lead Compounds.”


(iv) Air Guide-17, “Trade and Use of Waste Fuel for Energy Recovery Purposes.”


(71) Revision submitted on August 21, 1984, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation which grants a “special limitation” establishing, until September 24, 1986, from December 20, 1984, a maximum sulfur-in-fuel-oil limitation of 2.8 percent, by weight, and from September 25, 1986 until December 31, 1987, a sulfur-in-fuel-oil limitation of 2.0 percent, by weight, for the Long Island Lighting Company's Northport generating facility, units 1, 2 and 3, and the Port Jefferson generating facility, units 3 and 4.


(72) Revisions to the New York State Implementation Plan for attainment and maintenance of the ozone and carbon monoxide standards in the New York City metropolitan area submitted on July 1, 1982, August 3, 1982, July 25, 1983, February 7, 15, 17, 1984, and October 1, 17, 1984, November 30, 1984, January 4, and 30, 1985, and March 6, 1985, by the Governor of New York State and by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(73) Revision to the New York State Implementation Plan submitted by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation on June 7 and October 14, 1982, to allow Orange and Rockland Utilities, Inc. to reconvert its Lovett Generating Station in Stony Point from oil to coal. This action grants the utility a “special limitation” under Part 225 to relax the existing emission limit for coal burning from 0.4 pounds of sulfur dioxide per million British thermal units (1b/MMBtu) to 1.0 lb/MMBtu for units 4 and 5 if both are operated on coal, or to 1.5 lb/MMBtu for one unit if the other is operated on fuel oil, natural gas, or is not operated. A letter dated September 5, 1984, from Orange and Rockland Utilities, Inc., committing to meet the terms and conditions of EPA's August 30, 1984, letter.


(74) Regulatory information submitted by New York State Department of Environmental Conservation for controlling various pollutants and establishing continuous emission monitoring requirements for sulfuric and nitric acid plants, dated December 27, 1984, providing adopted revisions to regulations Parts 201, 212, 223 and 224.


(75) A revision to the New York State Implementation Plan for attainment and maintenance of the ozone standards was submitted on January 2, 1986, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Part 217, “Emissions from Motor Vehicles Propelled by Gasoline Engines,” effective January 29, 1986.


(76) [Reserved]


(77) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by New York State Department of Environmental Conservation for controlling volatile organic compounds.


(i) Incorporation by reference. Adopted regulations Parts 200, 229, and 230, submitted on March 15, 1985.


(ii) Additional material.


(A) Letters dated December 31, 1984, and March 15, 1985, concerning SIP commitments for “Reevaluation of RACT,” and “Controls at Major Facilities,” respectively.


(B) Letters dated November 2, 1984, and April 3, 1987, concerning the manufacture of high-density polyethylene, polypropylene, and polystrene resins.


(78) A revision to the New York State Implementation Plan was submitted on November 6, 1987, and February 17, 1988, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Operating Permit number A551800097900017 for Polychrome Corporation effective January 29, 1988, submitted by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(ii) Additional material.


(79) Revisions to the New York State Implementation Plan (SIP) for ozone submitted on January 31, 1989, and March 13, 1989, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC) for its state gasoline volatility control program, including any waivers under the program that New York may grant. In 1989, the control period will begin on June 30.


(i) Incorporation by reference. Subpart 225-3 of Title 6 of the Official Compilation of Codes, Rules and Regulations of the State of New York entitled “Fuel Composition and Use—Volatile Motor Fuels,” adopted on December 5, 1988, and effective on January 4, 1989.


(ii) Additional material. April 27, 1989, letter from Thomas Jorling, NYSDEC, to William Muszynski, EPA Region II.


(80) Revisions to the New York State Implementation Plan (SIP) for ozone submitted on July 9, 1987, and April 8, 1988, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC).


(i) Incorporation by reference. Amendments to part 230, title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations entitled “Gasoline Dispensing Sites and Transport Vehicles,” adopted on March 2, 1988.


(ii) Additional material.


(A) Explanation of Stage II Applicability Cut-offs, prepared by the NYSDEC, dated June 20, 1986.


(B) NYSDEC testing procedures for Stage II Vapor Recovery Systems.


(81) [Reserved]


(82) Revisions to the New York State Implementation Plan (SIP) for total suspended particulates in the Niagara Frontier area, dated January 5, 1987, submitted by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC).


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Part 214 of title 6 of the Official Compilation of Codes, Rules, and Regulations of the State of New York, entitled “Byproduct Coke Oven Batteries,” adopted on April 23, 1984, and effective May 23, 1984.


(B) Part 216 of title 6 of the Official Compilation of Codes, Rules, and Regulations of the State of New York, entitled “Iron And/Or Steel Processes,” adopted on April 23, 1984, and effective on May 23, 1984.


(C) Consent Order No. 84-135, dated October 29, 1984, between NYSDEC and the Bethlehem Steel Corporation.


(D) Consent Order No. 84-131, dated October 18, 1984, between NYSDEC and the Bethlehem Steel Corporation.


(E) May 24, 1985, letter from Peter J. Burke, NYSDEC, to W.T. Birmingham, Bethlehem Steel Corporation, revising Consent Order No. 84-131.


(F) Test procedures for particulate matter source emissions testing at Bethenergy's Lackawanna Coke Oven Batteries 7, 8, and 9, prepared by SENES Consultants Limited, dated January 14, 1988.


(ii) Additional material.


(A) January 5, 1987, letter from Harry H. Hovey, Jr., NYSDEC, to Raymond Werner, EPA, providing an attainment and maintenance demonstration for TSP in the South Buffalo-Lackawanna area and requesting its inclusion as part of the TSP SIP for the Niagara Frontier.


(B) August 21, 1987, letter from Edward Davis, NYSDEC, to William S. Baker, EPA, responding to July 27, 1987, letter from EPA requesting additional information needed for the review of Niagara Frontier TSP SIP request.


(C) June 20, 1988, letter from Edward Davis, NYSDEC, to William S. Baker, EPA, responding to May 19, 1988, letter from EPA requesting additional information on test procedures for Bethenergy's Lackawanna Coke Oven Batteries.


(83) A revision submitted on September 18, 1990, with additional materials submitted on April 12, 1991, and June 3, 1991, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation that revises the SO_2_ emission limit for units 4 and 5 of Orange and Rockland Utilities' Lovett Generating Station.


(i) Incorporation by reference. Sulfur dioxide emission limits incorporated into the Certificates to Operate units 4 and 5 of the Orange and Rockland Utilities' (ORU) Lovett Generating Station issued April 3, 1991, and the materials which pertain to the SO_2_ emission limits, monitoring and recordkeeping which are incorporated by reference into the Certificates to Operate for units 4 & 5. This includes the following:


(A) The special conditions attached to certificates;


(B) April 13, 1982, Decision of the Commissioner; and


(C) October 14, 1982, Amended Commissioner's Order.


(ii) Additional materials.


(A) Lovett Generating Station Model Evaluation Study, May 1989,


(B) Lovett Generating Station Emission Limitation Study, May 1989,


(C) Review of Orange and Rockland Model Evaluation Study and Emission Limitation Study for Lovett Facility for Units 4 & 5, January 27, 1990, and


(D) Lovett Generating Station Air Quality and Meteorological Monitoring Network Quarterly Reports.


(84) A revision to the New York State Implementation Plan (SIP) for attainment and maintenance of the ozone standard dated January 8, 1992, submitted by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Amendments to Part 200 of Title 6 of the Official Compilation of Codes, Rules, and Regulations of the State of New York, entitled “General Provisions” adopted on December 3, 1991, and effective January 16, 1992. 


(B) New Part 236 of Title 6 of the Official Compilation of Codes, Rules, and Regulations of the State of New York, entitled “Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturing Facility Component Leaks” adopted on December 16, 1991, and effective January 16, 1992. 


(ii) Additional material. 


(A) January 8, 1992, letter from Thomas Allen, to Conrad Simon, EPA, requesting EPA approval of the amendments to Parts 200 and 236. 


(85) Revisions to the New York State Implementation Plan (SIP) for ozone concerning the control of volatile organic compounds from surface coating and graphic arts sources, dated October 14, 1988, December 5, 1988, and May 2, 1989, submitted by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC). 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Amendments to Title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations (NYCRR) Part 228 “Surface Coating Processes,” effective September 15, 1988, and Part 234 “Graphic Arts,” effective September 15, 1988 


(ii) Additional material. 


(A) May 2, 1989 letter from Thomas C. Jorling, NYSDEC, to Conrad Simon, EPA, requesting EPA substitute controls in Parts 228 and 234 for controls committed to be included in Part 212, Processes & Exhaust and/or Ventilation Systems. 


(86) Revision to the state implementation plan for Onondaga County was submitted by the Governor on November 13, 1992. Revisions include a maintenance plan which demonstrates continued attainment of the NAAQS for carbon monoxide through the year 2003.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Maintenance Plan—Chapter 8 of New York State Implementation Plan Redesignation Request for Onondaga County as Attainment for Carbon Monoxide, November 1992.


(ii) Additional information.


(A) New York State Implementation Plan—Redesignation Request for Onondaga County as Attainment for Carbon Monoxide, November 1992. 


(B) January 12, 1993, letter from Thomas M. Allen, NYSDEC to Conrad Simon, EPA, providing the results of the public hearing on the State's proposal.


(C) January 12, 1993, letter from Thomas M. Allen, NYSDEC, to Conrad Simon, EPA, providing documentation of emission inventory submitted on November 13, 1992.


(D) June 18, 1993, letter from Thomas M. Allen, NYSDEC, to Conrad Simon, EPA, correcting submitted material.


(87) A revision to the New York State Implementation Plan (SIP) for attainment and maintenance of the ozone standard dated October 14, 1988, submitted by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation. 


(i) Incorporation by reference: 


(A) New part 205 of title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations of the State of New York, entitled “Architectural Surface Coatings,” effective on September 15, 1988. 


(ii) Additional material. 


(A) December 5, 1988 letter from Thomas Allen, to Conrad Simon, EPA, requesting EPA approval of the amendments to part 205. 


(88) Revision to the New York State Implementation Plan (SIP) for ozone, submitting a low emission vehicle program for a portion of the Clean Fuel Fleet program, dated May 15, 1994 and August 9, 1994 submitted by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC). 


(i) Incorporation by reference. Part 218, “Emission Standards for Motor Vehicles and Motor Vehicle Engines,” effective May 28, 1992. 


(ii) Additional material. 


(A) May 1994 NYSDEC Clean Fuel Fleet Program description.


(89) Revisions to the New York State Implementation Plan (SIP) for carbon monoxide concerning the control of carbon monoxide from mobile sources, dated November 13, 1992 and March 21, 1994 submitted by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC).


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Subpart 225-3 of Title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations of the State of New York, entitled “Fuel Composition and Use—Gasoline,” effective September 2, 1993 (as limited in section 1679).


(ii) Additional material.


(A) March 21, 1994, Update to the New York Carbon Monoxide SIP.


(90) [Reserved]


(91) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation on February 22, 1996, June 21, 1996 and June 25, 1996.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Permits to Construct and/or Certificates to Operate: The following facilities have been issued permits to construct and/or certificates to operate by New York State and such permits and/or certificates are incorporated for the purpose of establishing NO_X_ emission limits consistent with Subpart 227-2:


(*1*) Morton International Inc.'s mid-size gas-fired boiler, emission point 00027, Wyoming County; New York permit approval dated September 1, 1995 and Special Conditions letter dated August 23, 1995.


(*2*) University of Rochester's two oil fired boilers, emission points 00003 and 00005, Monroe County; New York permit approval dated April 25, 1996 and Special Permit Conditions issued March 19, 1996.


(*3*) Algonquin Gas Transmission Company's four gas-fired reciprocating internal combustion engines, emission points R0100, R0200, R0300, and R0400, Rockland County; New York permit and Special Conditions approval dated September 23, 1991; New York Special Conditions documents dated March 18, 1996 for emission points RO100, RO200, and RO300; and March 29, 1996 for emission point RO400; and Permit Correction dated August 8, 1996.


(ii) Additional information. Documentation and information to support NO_X_ RACT alternative emission limits in three letters addressed to EPA from New York State Department of Environmental Conservation and dated as follows:


(A) February 22, 1996 letter to Regional Administrator Jeanne Fox from Commissioner Michael D. Zagata for a SIP revision for Morton International, Inc.


(B) June 21, 1996 letter to Mr. Conrad Simon, Director of the Air and Waste Management Division from Deputy Commissioner David Sterman for a SIP revision for the Algonquin Gas Transmission Company.


(C) June 25, 1996 letter to Mr. Conrad Simon, Director of the Air and Waste Management Division from Deputy Commissioner David Sterman for a SIP revision for the University of Rochester.


(92) Revisions to the New York State Implementation Plan (SIP) for ozone concerning the control of volatile organic compounds from Gasoline Dispensing Sites and Transport Vehicles, dated July 8, 1994, submitted by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC).


(i) Incorporation by reference:


(A) Amendments to Part 230 of title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations of the State of New York, entitled “Gasoline Dispensing Sites and Transport Vehicles,” effective September 22, 1994.


(ii) Additional material:


(A) July 8, 1994, letter from Langdon Marsh, NYSDEC, to Jeanne Fox, EPA, requesting EPA approval of the amendments to Part 230.


(93) Revisions to the New York State Implementation Plan (SIP) for ozone concerning the control of volatile organic compounds from petroleum and volatile organic compound storage and transfer, surface coating and graphic arts sources, dated March 8, 1993 submitted by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC). 


(i) Incorporation by reference:


(A) Amendments to Title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations (NYCRR) Part 200 “General Provisions,” Part 201 “Permits and Certificates,” Part 228 “Surface Coating Processes,” and Part 229 “Petroleum and Volatile Organic Liquid Storage and Transfer,” Part 233 “Pharmaceutical and Cosmetic Manufacturing Processes,” and Part 234, “Graphic Arts,” effective April 4, 1993.


(94) A revision to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation on April 9, 1996 and supplemented on October 17, 1996 and February 2, 1998 that allows Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation and Champion International Corporation to trade emissions to meet the requirements of NO_X_ RACT.


(i) Incorporation by reference:


(A) Permits to Construct and/or Certificates to Operate: The following facilities have been issued permits to construct and/or certificates to operate by New York State and such permits and/or certificates are incorporated for the purpose of establishing an emission trade to be consistent with Subpart 227-2:


(*1*) Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation's system-wide utility boilers; New York special permit conditions and approval letter dated December 14, 1995.


(*2*) Champion International Corporation's two coal-fired boilers, Units 1 and 2, Jefferson County; New York special permit conditions and approval letter dated December 2, 1997.


(ii) Additional information:


(A) Documentation and information to support the emission trade in three letters addressed to EPA from the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation and dated as follows:


(*1*) April 9, 1996 to Mr. Conrad Simon, Director of Air and Waste Management Division from Deputy Commissioner David Sterman for a SIP revision for Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation and Champion International Corporation.


(*2*) October 17, 1996 letter to Mr. Ted Gardella, EPA from Mr. Patrick Lentlie, supplementing the SIP revision with the special permit condition approval letters.


(*3*) February 2, 1998 letter to Mr. Ronald Borsellino, Chief of the Air Programs Branch from Mr. Patrick Lentlie, supplementing the SIP revision with the amended special permit conditions for Champion International Corporation.


(95) A revision to the State Implementation Plan submitted on April 29, 1999 by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation that establishes the NO_X_ Budget Trading Program. 


(i) Incorporation by reference: 


(A) Regulation Subpart 227-3 of Title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations, entitled “Pre-2003 Nitrogen Oxides Emissions Budget and Allowance Program” adopted on January 12, 1999, and effective on March 5, 1999. 


(B) Amendments to Title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations, Part 200, “General Provisions,” Subpart 227-1, “Stationary Combustion Installations,” and Subpart 227-2, “Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT) for Oxides of Nitrogen (NO_X_)” adopted on January 12, 1999, and effective on March 5, 1999. 


(ii) Additional information: 


(A) Letter from the New York Department of Environmental Conservation dated April 29, 1999, submitting the NO_X_ Budget Trading Program as a revision to the New York State Implementation Plan for ozone. 


(B) Guidance for Implementation of Emissions Monitoring Requirements for the NO_X_ Budget Program, dated January 28, 1997. 


(C) NO_X_ Budget Program Monitoring Certification and Reporting Requirements, dated July 3, 1997. 


(D) Electronic Data Reporting, Acid Rain/NO_X_ Budget Program, dated July 3, 1997. 


(96) Revisions to the New York State Implementation Plan (SIP) for carbon monoxide concerning the oxyfuel program, dated August 30, 1999, submitted by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC). 


(97) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted on January 20, 1994 and April 29, 1999 by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation that establishes NO_X_ RACT requirements Statewide for combustion sources. 


(i) Incorporation by reference: 


(A) Regulation Subpart 227-2 of Title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations, entitled “Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT) for Oxides of Nitrogen (NO_X_)” adopted on January 19, 1994, and effective on February 18, 1994. 


(B) Amendments to Subpart 227-2 adopted on January 12, 1999 and effective on March 5, 1999. 


(ii) Additional information 


(A) Letters from the New York State Department of Environmental Department Conservation dated January 20, 1994 and April 29, 1999, submitting the NO_X_ RACT Regulation and amendments as revisions to the New York State Implementation Plan for ozone. 


(B) Letter from the New York State Department of Environmental Department Conservation dated April 27, 1999 submitting an analysis of mass NO_X_ emissions from generic sources throughout the State as well as resolution of other approvability issues.


(98) [Reserved]


(99) Revisions to the New York State Implementation Plan (SIP) for the Motor Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, submitted on March 6, 1996, May 24, 1999, October 7, 1999, October 29, 1999, and May 22, 2000 by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.


(i) Incorporation by reference. Revision to 6NYCRR Part 217, Motor Vehicle Emissions, Subparts 217-1, 217-2, and 217-4, that became effective on May 22, 1997 and revisions to 15NYCRR Part 79, Motor Vehicle Inspection, Sections 79.1-79.15, 79.17, 79.20, 79.21, 79.24-79.26, that became effective on June 4, 1997.


(ii) Additional material:


(A) March 6, 1996, submittal of revisions to the enhanced motor vehicle inspection and maintenance program.


(B) May 24, 1999, submittal of the demonstration of the effectiveness of New York's decentralized inspection and maintenance program network.


(C) October 7, 1999, supplemental submittal of the demonstration of the effectiveness of New York's decentralized inspection and maintenance program network.


(D) October 29, 1999, letter clarifying October 7, 1999, supplemental submittal.


(E) May 22, 2000, Instrumentation/Protocol Assessment Pilot Study analysis of the NYTEST.


(100) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted on April 3, 2000, April 18, 2000 and as supplemented on May 16, 2000 by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation that establishes the NO_X_ Budget Trading Program, a 2007 Statewide NO_X_ emissions budget, and a commitment by New York to comply with the § 51.122 reporting requirements. 


(i) Incorporation by reference: 


(A) Regulation Part 204 of Title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations, entitled “NO_X_ Budget Trading Program,” adopted on January 18, 2000 and effective on February 25, 2000. 


(B) Amendments to Title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations, Part 200, “General Provisions,” Subpart 227-1, “Stationary Combustion Installations,” and Subpart 227-2, “Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT) for Oxides of Nitrogen (NO_X_)” adopted on January 18, 2000 and effective on February 25, 2000. 


(ii) Additional material: 


(A) Letter from New York State Department of Environmental Conservation dated April 3, 2000, requesting EPA approval of the NO_X_ Budget Trading Program as a revision to the New York State Implementation Plan for ozone. 


(B) Letter from New York State Department of Environmental Conservation dated April 18, 2000, requesting EPA approval of the Oxides of Nitrogen (NO_X_) SIP, entitled “New York State Implementation Plan For Ozone; Meeting The Statewide Oxides of Nitrogen ( NO_X_) Budget Requirements Contained In The NO_X_ SIP Call (63 FR 57356, October 27, 1998),” as a revision to the New York State Implementation Plan for ozone. 


(C) Letter from New York State Department of Environmental Conservation dated May 16, 2000, transmitting supplemental information to the Oxides of Nitrogen (NO_X_) SIP submitted on April 18, 2000.


(101) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted on July 8, 1994 by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation that establishes VOC and NO_X_ Reasonably Available Control Technology requirements statewide for general process emission sources. 


(i) Incorporation by reference: 


(A) Regulation Part 212 of Title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations, entitled “General Process Emission Sources” filed on August 23, 1994 and effective on September 22, 1994. 


(ii) Additional information. 


(A) Letter from the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation dated July 8, 1994, submitting the Part 212 Regulation and amendments as revisions to the New York State Implementation Plan for ozone. 


(B) Letter from the New York State Department of Environmental Department Conservation dated August 31, 2001 submitting an analysis of mass NO_X_ emissions from generic sources throughout the State. 


(C) Letter from the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation dated July 11, 2001 affirming that there are no sources regulated by Parts 214, “Byproduct Coke Oven Batteries,” 216, “Iron and/or Steel Processes,” and 220, “Portland Cement Plants” in, or considered in the attainment demonstration for, the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island severe 1-hour ozone nonattainment area.


(102) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation on November 20, 1996 as supplemented on February 24, 1997. 


(i) Incorporation by reference: 


(A) Permits to Construct/Certificates to Operate: The following facilities have been issued permits to construct/certificates to operate and/or special permit conditions by New York State and such permits and/or certificates are incorporated for the purpose of establishing NO_X_ emission limits consistent with Subpart 227-2: 


(*1*) Tenneco Gas Corporation's (also known as Tenneco Gas Pipeline Company and Tennessee Gas Pipeline Company) eighteen gas-fired reciprocating internal combustion engines, Erie, Columbia, and Herkimer Counties; Compressor Station #229 at Eden, NY: permits to construct and certificates to operate dated August 22, 1995 for emission points 0001A through 0006A; Compressor Station #254 at Chatham, NY: permits to construct and certificates to operate dated October 4, 1995 with attached Special Conditions dated September 15, 1995 for emission points 00001 through 00006; Compressor Station #245 at West Winfield, NY: Special (Permit) Conditions attached to New York State's letter dated February 24, 1997 for emission points 00001 through 00006. 


(*2*) [Reserved] 


(ii) Additional information—Documentation and information to support NO_X_ RACT alternative emission limits in two letters addressed to EPA from New York State Department of Environmental Conservation and dated as follows: 


(*1*) November 20, 1996 letter to Ms. Kathleen C. Callahan, Director of the Division of Environmental Planning and Protection from Deputy Commissioner David Sterman providing a SIP revision for Tenneco Gas Pipeline Company. 


(*2*) February 24, 1997 letter to Ronald Borsellino, Chief of the Air Programs Branch from Donald H. Spencer, P.E., providing supplemental information for Tenneco Gas Pipeline Company's Compressor Station #245.


(103) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted on December 30, 2002, January 17, 2003, April 30, 2003, September 17, 2003, and October 27, 2003, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, which consists of control strategies that will achieve volatile organic compound emission reductions that will help achieve attainment of the national ambient air quality standard for ozone.


(i) Incorporation by reference:


(A) Regulations Part 226, “Solvent Metal Cleaning Processes” of Title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations (NYCRR), filed on April 7, 2003, and effective on May 7, 2003, Part 228, “Surface Coating Processes” of Title 6 NYCRR, filed on June 23, 2003, and effective on July 23, 2003, Part 235, “Consumer Products” of Title 6 NYCRR, filed on October 10, 2002, and effective on November 9, 2002, and Part 239, “Portable Fuel Container Spillage Control” of Title 6 NYCRR, filed on October 4, 2002, and effective on November 4, 2002.


(104) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation on April 12, 2000, and supplemented on May 12, 2000, May 16, 2000, October 10, 2002, and February 24, 2003.


(i) Incorporation by reference:


Special Permit Conditions: Special permit conditions issued by New York State on December 16, 1997, to General Chemical Corporation's sodium nitrite manufacturing plant, Solvay, Onondaga County, are incorporated for the purpose of establishing NO_X_ emission limits consistent with part 212.


(ii) Additional information—Documentation and information to support NO_X_ RACT facility-specific emission limits in SIP revision addressed to Regional Administrator Jeanne M. Fox from New York Deputy Commissioner Carl Johnson:


(A) April 12, 2000, SIP revision,


(B) May 12, 2000, May 16, 2000, October 10, 2002, and February 24, 2003, supplemental information to the SIP revision,


(C) May 7, 2004, commitment letter from New York.


(105) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted on November 4, 2003 and supplemented on November 21, 2003, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, which consists of a control strategy that will achieve volatile organic compound emission reductions that will help achieve attainment of the national ambient air quality standard for ozone.


(i) Incorporation by reference:


(A) Regulation Part 205, “Architectural and Industrial Maintenance Coatings.” of title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations, filed on October 23, 2003, and effective on November 22, 2003.


(106) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted on February 18, 2004, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation which consists of control measures that will achieve reductions in NO_X_ emissions from stationary combustion sources that will help achieve attainment of the national ambient air quality standard for ozone.


(i) Incorporation by reference:


(A) Regulation subpart 227-2 “Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT) for Oxides of Nitrogen (NO_X_)” of part 227 “Stationary Combustion Installations” of title 6 of the Official Compilation of Codes, Rules and Regulations of the State of New York (6NYCRR), filed on January 12, 2004, and effective on February 11, 2004.


(107) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted on December 9, 2002, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation which consists of the adoption of California's second generation Low Emissions Vehicle (LEV) program.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Regulation part 218 “Emissions Standards for Motor Vehicles and Motor Vehicle Engines” of Title 6 of the Official Compilation of Codes, Rules and Regulations of the State of New York (6NYCRR), part 218, subparts 218-1, 218-2, 218-3, 218-5, 218-6, 218-7 and 218-8 filed on November 28, 2000 and effective on December 28, 2000.


(108) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted on June 22, 2004, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, which consists of a revision to the carbon monoxide maintenance plan for Onondaga County.


(i) Incorporation by reference:


(A) Regulation Part 225-3, “Fuel Composition and Use—Gasoline.” of Title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations, filed on October 5, 2001, and effective on November 4, 2001.


(109) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted on June 16, 1996 and May 27, 2005, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, which consist of administrative changes to Title 6 of the New York Code, Rules and Regulations, Part 201, “Permits and Certificates.”


(i) Incorporation by reference:


(A) Regulations Subparts 201-7.1, “General” and 201-7.2, “Emission Capping Using Synthetic Minor Permits” of Part 201-7, “Federally Enforceable Emission Caps” of Title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations (NYCRR), filed on June 7, 1996, and effective on July 7, 1996.


(110) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted on July 8, 1994, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC), which consisted of amendments to Title 6 of the New York Codes, Rules and Regulations (NYCRR) Parts 214, “Byproduct Coke Oven Batteries,” and 216, “Iron and/or Steel Processes.”


(i) Incorporation by reference:


(A) Regulations Part 214, “Byproduct Coke Oven Batteries,” and Part 216, “Iron and/or Steel Processes” of Title 6 of the New York Codes, Rules and Regulations (NYCRR), filed on August 23, 1994, and effective on September 22, 1994.


(ii) Additional information:


(A) Letter from New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, dated March 1, 2006, identifying the level of NO_X_ emissions from generic sources located in New York State that are subject to Parts 214 and 216.


(111) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted on February 27, 2006, by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, which consist of administrative changes to its motor vehicle enhanced inspection and maintenance (I/M) program which includes the adoption of a statewide On-Board Diagnostic (OBD) program.


(i) Incorporation by reference:


(A) Regulation Title 6 of the New York Codes, Rules and Regulations (NYCRR), Part 217, “Motor Vehicle Enhanced Inspection and Maintenance Program Requirements,” specifically, Subpart 217-1, “Motor Vehicle Enhanced Inspection and Maintenance Program Requirements” and Subpart 217-4, “Inspection and Maintenance Program Audits,” effective on October 30, 2002, and the New York State Department of Motor Vehicles regulation Title 15 NYCRR Part 79 “Motor Vehicle Inspection Regulations,” specifically, Sections 79.1-79.15, 79.17, 79.20, 79.21, 79.24, and 79.25, effective on May 4, 2005.


(112) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted on July 7, 2006 by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation for the purpose of enhancing an existing Emission Statement Program for stationary sources in New York. The SIP revision consists of amendments to Title 6 of the New York Codes Rules and Regulations, Chapter III, Part 202, Subpart 202-2, “Emission Statements.”


(i) Incorporation by reference:


(A) Part 202, Subpart 202-2, Emission Statements of Title 6 of the New York Codes, Rules and Regulations, effective on May 29, 2005.


(ii) Additional information:


(A) July 7, 2006, letter from Mr. Carl Johnson, Deputy Commissioner, OAWM, NYSDEC, to Mr. Alan Steinberg, RA, EPA Region 2, requesting EPA approval of the amendments to Title 6 of the New York Codes Rules and Regulations, Chapter III, Part 202, Subpart 202-2, Emission Statements.


(B) April 11, 2007, letter from Mr. David Shaw, Director, Division of Air Resources, NYSDEC, to Mr. Raymond Werner, Chief, Air Programs Branch, EPA Region 2.


(113) A revision to the State Implementation Plan that was submitted on September 17, 2007 by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC). This revision consists of regulations to meet the requirements of the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR). This revision also addresses New York's 110(a)(2)(D)(i) obligations to submit a SIP revision that contains adequate provisions to prohibit air emissions from adversely affecting another state's air quality through interstate transport.


(i) Incorporation by reference:


(A) Part 243, CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season Trading Program, Part 244, CAIR NO_X_ Annual Trading Program, and Part 245, CAIR SO_2_ Trading Program, effective on October 19, 2007, of Title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations (NYCRR).


(B) Notice of Adoption, New York State Clean Air Interstate Rule, addition of Parts 243, 244 and 245 to Title 6 NYCRR, New York State Register, dated October 10, 2007, pages 16-22.


(ii) Additional information:


(A) Letter dated September 14, 2007 from Assistant Commissioner J. Jared Snyder, NYSDEC, to Alan J. Steinberg, RA, EPA Region II, submitting the SIP revision.


(114) On October 21, 2009 and November 23, 2009, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC), submitted to EPA proposed revisions to the SIP concerning control strategies which will result in volatile organic compound emission reductions that will help achieve attainment of the national ambient air quality standards for ozone.


(i) Incorporation by reference:


(A) Title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations, Part 235, “Consumer Products,” with an effective date of October 15, 2009 and Part 239, “Portable Fuel Container Spillage Control,” with an effective date of July 30, 2009.


(ii) Additional information:


(A) Letters dated October 21, 2009 and November 23, 2009 from Assistant Commissioner J. Jared Snyder, NYSDEC, to George Pavlou, Acting Regional Administrator, EPA Region 2, submitting the SIP revision for parts 235 and 239 respectively.


(115) On March 3, 2009, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC), submitted to EPA proposed revisions to the State Implementation Plan concerning Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) and nonattainment new source review.


(i) Incorporation by reference:


(A) Letter dated March 3, 2009, from Assistant Commissioner J. Jared Snyder, NYSDEC, to George Pavlou, Acting Regional Administrator, EPA Region 2, submitting the revisions for Title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations, Part 200, “General Provisions,” sections 200.1 and 200.9, Table 1 (Part 231 references); Subpart 201-2.1(b)(21); and Part 231, which identifies an effective date of March 5, 2009.


(B) Title 6 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations, Part 200, “General Provisions,” sections 200.1 and 200.9, Table 1 (Part 231 references), with an effective date of March 5, 2009, Subpart 201-2.1(b)(21), definition of “Major stationary source or major source or major facility,” with an effective date of March 5, 2009, and Part 231, “New Source Review for New and Modified Facilities,” with an effective date of March 5, 2009.



---

[N] [37 FR 10882, May 31, 1972]


