# ยง 502.144   Depositions by written questions.

(a) *When a deposition may be taken.* (1) *Without leave.* A party may, by written questions, depose any person, including a party, without leave of the presiding officer except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The deponent's attendance may be compelled by subpoena under subpart I of this part.


(2) *With leave.* A party must obtain leave of the presiding officer, if the parties have not stipulated to the deposition and:


(i) The deposition would result in more than 20 depositions being taken under this rule or ยง 502.143 by any party;


(ii) The deponent has already been deposed in the case.


(3) *Service; required notice.* A party who wants to depose a person by written questions must serve them on every other party, with a notice stating, if known, the deponent's name and address. If the name is unknown, the notice must provide a general description sufficient to identify the person or the particular class or group to which the person belongs. The notice must also state the name or descriptive title and the address of the officer before whom the deposition will be taken.


(4) *Questions directed to an organization.* A public or private corporation, a partnership, an association, or a governmental agency may be deposed by written questions in accordance with ยง 502.143(b)(6).


(5) *Questions from other parties.* Any questions to the deponent from other parties must be served on all parties as follows: Cross-questions, within 14 days after being served with the notice and direct questions; redirect questions, within 7 days after being served with cross-questions; and recross-questions, within 7 days after being served with redirect questions. The presiding officer may, for good cause, extend or shorten these times.


(b) *Delivery to the officer; officer's duties.* The party who noticed the deposition must deliver to the officer before whom the deposition will be taken a copy of all the questions served and of the notice. The officer must promptly proceed to:


(1) Take the deponent's testimony in response to the questions;


(2) Prepare and certify the deposition; and


(3) Send it to the party, attaching a copy of the questions and of the notice.


(c) *Notice of completion or filing.* (1) *Completion.* The party who noticed the deposition must notify all other parties when it is completed.


(2) *Filing.* A party who files the deposition must promptly notify all other parties of the filing. [Rule 204.]



---

[N] [77 FR 61529, Oct. 10, 2012. Redesignated at 81 FR 93836, Dec. 22, 2016; 81 FR 93837, Dec. 22, 2016]




