# § 90.911   Partitioned licenses and disaggregated spectrum.

(a) *Eligibility.* Parties seeking approval for partitioning and disaggregation shall request an authorization for partial assignment of a license pursuant to § 90.153(c). 


(b) *Technical standards*—(1) *Partitioning.* In the case of partitioning, requests for authorization for partial assignment of a license must include, as attachments, a description of the partitioned service area and a calculation of the population of the partitioned service area and the licensed geographic service area. The partitioned service area shall be defined by coordinate points at every 3 degrees along the partitioned service area unless an FCC recognized service area is utilized (*i.e.,* Major Trading Area, Basic Trading Area, Metropolitan Service Area, Rural Service Area or Economic Area) or county lines are followed. The geographic coordinates must be specified in degrees, minutes, and seconds to the nearest second of latitude and longitude and must be based upon the 1983 North American Datum (NAD83). In the case where an FCC recognized service area or county lines are utilized, applicants need only list the specific area(s) (through use of FCC designations or county names) that constitute the partitioned area. 


(2) *Disaggregation.* Spectrum may be disaggregated in any amount. 


(3) *Combined partitioning and disaggregation.* The Commission will consider requests for partial assignment of licenses that propose combinations of partitioning and disaggregation. 


(c) *License term.* The license term for a partitioned license area and for disaggregated spectrum shall be the remainder of the original licensee's license term as provided for in §§ 90.629(a), 90.665(a) or 90.685(a). 


(d) *Construction and channel usage requirements—incumbent licensees.* Parties seeking to acquire a partitioned license or disaggregated spectrum from an incumbent licensee will be required to construct and commence “service to subscribers” all facilities acquired through such transactions within the original construction deadline for each facility as set forth in §§ 90.629 and 90.683. Failure to meet the individual construction deadline will result in the automatic termination of the facility's authorization. 


(e) *Certification concerning relocation of incumbent licensees.* Parties seeking approval of a partitioning or disaggregation agreement pursuant to this section must include a certification with their partial assignment of license application as to which party will be responsible for meeting the incumbent relocation requirements set forth at § 90.699.



---

[N] [62 FR 41221, July 31, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 68973, Dec. 14, 1998; 67 FR 45377, July 9, 2002; 82 FR 41549, Sept. 1, 2017]




