# § 15.860   Tank vessel endorsements.

(a) The OCMI enters on the COI issued to each manned tank vessel subject to the regulations in this chapter the number of crewmembers required to hold valid MMCs with the proper tank vessel endorsement. Table 1 to § 15.860(a) of this section provides the minimum requirements for manned tank vessels. Table 2 to § 15.860(a) of this section provides the tank vessel endorsements required for personnel aboard tankships.


(b) For each tankship of more than 5,000 GRT certified for voyages beyond the boundary line as described in part 7 of this chapter—


(1) At least two Tank Vessel-PICs or Restricted Tank Vessel-PICs must be carried;


(2) At least three Tank Vessel-Assistants must be carried; and


(3) At least two Tank Vessel-Engineers must be carried.


(c) For each tankship of 5,000 GRT or less certified for voyages beyond the boundary line, as described in part 7 of this chapter


(1) At least two Tank Vessel-PICs or Restricted Tank Vessel-PICs must be carried; and


(2) At least two Tank Vessel-Engineers must be carried, unless only one engineer is required, in which case at least one Tank Vessel-Engineer must be carried.


(d) For each tankship not certified for voyages beyond the boundary line, as described in part 7 of this chapter, if the total crew complement is—


(1) One or two, at least one Tank Vessel-PIC or Restricted Tank Vessel-PIC must be carried; or


(2) More than two, at least two Tank Vessel-PICs or Restricted Tank Vessel-PICs must be carried.


(e) For each Tank Barge-PIC manned under *§ *31.15-5 of this chapter, if the total crew complement is—


(1) One or two, at least one Tank Vessel-PIC, restricted Tank Vessel-PIC, Tank Barge-PIC, or Restricted Tank Barge-PIC must be carried; or


(2) More than two, at least two Tank Vessel-PICs, Restricted Tank Vessel-PICs, Tank Barge-PICs, or Restricted Tank Barge-PICs must be carried.


(f) The following personnel aboard each tankship certified for voyages beyond the boundary line, as described in part 7 of this chapter, must hold valid MMCs, endorsed as follows:


(1) The Master and Chief Mate must each hold a Tank Vessel-PIC or Restricted Tank Vessel-PIC endorsement.


(2) The Chief, First Assistant, and cargo engineers must each hold a Tank Vessel-Engineer or Tank Vessel-PIC endorsement.


(3) Each credentialed officer acting as the PIC of a transfer of liquid cargo in bulk must hold a Tank Vessel-PIC or Restricted Tank Vessel-PIC endorsement.


(4) Each officer or crewmember who is assigned by the PIC duties and responsibilities related to the cargo or cargo-handling equipment during a transfer of liquid cargo in bulk, but is not directly supervised by the PIC, must hold a Tank Vessel-Assistant endorsement.


(g) The endorsements required by this section must be for the classification of the liquid cargo in bulk or of the cargo residue being carried.


(h) All individuals serving on tankships certified for voyages beyond the boundary line, as described in part 7 of this chapter, must hold an appropriate STCW endorsement, as follows:


(1) For Tank Vessel-PIC, an STCW endorsement as Advanced Oil Tanker Cargo Operations, Advanced Chemical Tanker Cargo Operations, or Advanced Liquefied Gas Tanker Cargo Operations, as appropriate.


(2) For Tank Vessel-Assistant, an STCW endorsement as Basic Oil and Chemical Tanker Cargo Operations, or Basic Liquefied Gas Tanker Cargo Operations, as appropriate.


(3) For a Tank Barge-PIC, an STCW endorsement as Advanced Oil Tanker Cargo Operations, Advanced Chemical Tanker Cargo Operations, or Advanced Liquefied Gas Tanker Cargo Operations, as appropriate, including endorsements with a limitation for non-self-propelled vessels.


(4) For a Tank Vessel-Engineer, an STCW endorsement as Advanced Oil Tanker Cargo Operations, or Advanced Chemical Tanker Cargo Operations, as appropriate, including endorsements with a limitation to maintenance and repair of cargo equipment.



---

[N] [USCG-2004-17914, 78 FR 78008, Dec. 24, 2013, as amended by USCG-2018-0874, 84 FR 30882, June 28, 2019]




