# § 21.257   Self-employment.

(a) *Approval of self-employment as a vocational goal.* A program of vocational rehabilitation benefits and services may include self-employment for an individual if VA determines that such an objective is a suitable vocational goal. VA will make this determination based on—


(1) The results of the individual's initial evaluation conducted in accordance with the provisions of § 21.50; and


(2) The provisions of this section.


(b) *Definition.* For purposes of this subpart, *individuals with the most severe service-connected disability(ies) who require self-employment* means individuals who have been determined by VA to have limitations affecting employability arising from the effects of each individual's service-connected disability(ies), which are so severe as to necessitate selection of self-employment as the only reasonably feasible vocational goal for the individuals.


(c) *Scope of self-employment benefits and services.* (1) VA may provide the self-employment services listed in paragraph (d) of this section to program participants who are pursuing the vocational goal of self-employment.


(2) VA may provide the more extensive services listed in paragraph (e) of this section to individuals with the most severe service-connected disability(ies) who require self-employment.


(d) *Assistance for other individuals in self-employment.* Subject to the provisions of § 21.258, VA may provide the following assistance to any individual for whom self-employment is determined to be a suitable vocational goal—


(1) Vocational training;


(2) Incidental training in the management of a business;


(3) License or other fees required for self-employment;


(4) Necessary tools and supplies for the occupation; and


(5) Services described in § 21.252.


(e) *Special self-employment services for individuals with the most severe service-connected disability(ies) who require self-employment.* Individuals described in paragraph (b) of this section who are in a self-employment program may receive—


(1) The services described in paragraph (d) of this section; and


(2) The assistance described in § 21.214.


(f) *Feasibility analysis of a proposed self-employment business plan.* VA will conduct a comprehensive review and analysis of the feasibility of a proposed business plan, as submitted by the individual or developed with VA's assistance, prior to authorizing a rehabilitation plan leading to self-employment (a “self-employment plan”). The feasibility analysis must include—


(1) An analysis of the economic viability of the proposed business;


(2) A cost analysis specifying the amount and types of assistance that VA will provide;


(3) A market analysis for the individual's proposed services or products;


(4) Availability of financing from non-VA sources, including the individual's personal resources, local banks, and other sources;


(5) Evidence of coordination with the Small Business Administration to secure special consideration under section 8 of the Small Business Act, as amended;


(6) The location of the site for the proposed business and the cost of the site, if any; and


(7) A training plan to operate a successful business.



---

[N] [75 FR 3170, Jan. 20, 2010]




