# § 73.100   Cochineal extract; carmine.

(a) *Identity.* (1) The color additive cochineal extract is the concentrated solution obtained after removing the alcohol from an aqueous-alcoholic extract of cochineal (*Dactylopius coccus costa* (*Coccus cacti* L.)). The coloring principle is chiefly carminic acid.


(2) The color additive carmine is the aluminum or calcium-aluminum lake on an aluminum hydroxide substrate of the coloring principles, chiefly carminic acid, obtained by an aqueous extraction of cochineal (*Dactylopius coccus costa* (*Coccus cacti* L.)).


(3) Color additive mixtures for food use made with cochineal extract or carmine may contain only diluents that are suitable and that are listed in this subpart as safe in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.


(b) *Specifications.* (1) Cochineal extract shall conform to the following specifications:


(2) Carmine shall conform to the following specifications:


(c) *Uses and restrictions.* Carmine and cochineal extract may be safely used for coloring foods generally in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice, except that they may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been promulgated under section 401 of the act unless added color is authorized by such standards.


(d) *Labeling requirements.* (1) The label of the color additives and any mixtures intended solely or in part for coloring purposes prepared therefrom shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.


(2) The label of food products intended for human use, including butter, cheese, and ice cream, that contain cochineal extract or carmine shall specifically declare the presence of the color additive by listing its respective common or usual name, “cochineal extract” or “carmine,” in the statement of ingredients in accordance with § 101.4 of this chapter.


(e) *Exemption from certification.* Certification of these color additives is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.



---

[N] [42 FR 15643, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 74 FR 216, Jan. 5, 2009]




