# § 1002.109   Reporting of data to the Bureau.

(a) *Reporting to the Bureau*—(1) *Annual reporting.* (i) On or before June 1 following the calendar year for which data are compiled and maintained as required by § 1002.107, a covered financial institution shall submit its small business lending application register in the format prescribed by the Bureau.


(ii) An authorized representative of the covered financial institution with knowledge of the data shall certify to the accuracy and completeness of the data reported pursuant to this paragraph (a).


(iii) When the last day for submission of data prescribed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section falls on a Saturday or Sunday, a submission shall be considered timely if it is submitted on the next succeeding Monday.


(2) *Reporting by subsidiaries.* A covered financial institution that is a subsidiary of another covered financial institution shall complete a separate small business lending application register. The subsidiary shall submit its small business lending application register, directly or through its parent, to the Bureau.


(3) *Reporting obligations where multiple financial institutions are involved in a covered credit transaction.* Where it is necessary for more than one financial institution to make a credit decision in order to approve a single covered credit transaction, only the last covered financial institution with authority to set the material terms of the covered credit transaction is required to report the application. Financial institutions report the actions of their agents.


(b) *Financial institution identifying information.* A financial institution shall provide each of the following with its submission:


(1) Its name.


(2) Its headquarters address.


(3) The name and business contact information of a person that the Bureau or other regulators may contact about the financial institution's submission.


(4) Its Federal prudential regulator, if applicable.


(5) Its Federal Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN).


(6) Its Legal Entity Identifier (LEI).


(7) Its Research, Statistics, Supervision, and Discount identification (RSSD ID) number, if applicable.


(8) Parent entity information, if applicable, including:


(i) The name of the immediate parent entity;


(ii) The LEI of the immediate parent entity, if available;


(iii) The RSSD ID number of the immediate parent entity, if available;


(iv) The name of the top-holding parent entity;


(v) The LEI of the top-holding parent entity, if available; and


(vi) The RSSD ID number of the top-holding parent entity, if available.


(9) The type of financial institution that it is, indicated by selecting the appropriate type or types of institution from the list provided.


(10) Whether the financial institution is voluntarily reporting covered applications from small businesses.


(c) *Procedures for the submission of data to the Bureau.* The Bureau shall make available a Filing Instructions Guide, containing technical instructions for the submission of data to the Bureau pursuant to this section, as well as any related materials, at *https://www.consumerfinance.gov/data-research/small-business-lending/filing-instructions-guide/.*

