# ยง 250.912   What plans must I submit under the Platform Verification Program?

If your platform, associated structure, or major modification meets the criteria in ยง 250.910, you must submit the following plans to the Regional Supervisor for approval:


(a) *Design verification plan.* You may submit your design verification plan to BSEE with or subsequent to the submittal of your Development and Production Plan (DPP) or Development Operations Coordination Document (DOCD) to BOEM. Your design verification must be conducted by, or be under the direct supervision of, a registered professional civil or structural engineer or equivalent, or a naval architect or marine engineer or equivalent, with previous experience in directing the design of similar facilities, systems, structures, or equipment. For floating platforms, you must ensure that the requirements of the USCG for structural integrity and stability, e.g., verification of center of gravity, *etc.,* have been met. Your design verification plan must include the following:


(1) All design documentation specified in ยง 250.905 of this subpart;


(2) Abstracts of the computer programs used in the design process; and


(3) A summary of the major design considerations and the approach to be used to verify the validity of these design considerations.


(b) *Fabrication verification plan.* The Regional Supervisor must approve your fabrication verification plan before you may initiate any related operations. Your fabrication verification plan must include the following:


(1) Fabrication drawings and material specifications for artificial island structures and major members of concrete-gravity and steel-gravity structures;


(2) For jacket and floating structures, all the primary load-bearing members included in the space-frame analysis; and


(3) A summary description of the following:


(i) Structural tolerances;


(ii) Welding procedures;


(iii) Material (concrete, gravel, or silt) placement methods;


(iv) Fabrication standards;


(v) Material quality-control procedures;


(vi) Methods and extent of nondestructive examinations for welds and materials; and


(vii) Quality assurance procedures.


(c) *Installation verification plan.* The Regional Supervisor must approve your installation verification plan before you may initiate any related operations. Your installation verification plan must include:


(1) A summary description of the planned marine operations;


(2) Contingencies considered;


(3) Alternative courses of action; and


(4) An identification of the areas to be inspected. You must specify the acceptance and rejection criteria to be used for any inspections conducted during installation, and for the post-installation verification inspection.


(d) You must combine fabrication verification and installation verification plans for manmade islands or platforms fabricated and installed in place.




