# ยง 21.9655   Rates of supplemental educational assistance.

In addition to basic educational assistance, an individual who is eligible for supplemental educational assistance and entitled to it will be paid supplemental educational assistance at the rate described in this section unless a lesser rate is required by ยง 21.9675.


(a) *Individuals eligible for supplemental educational assistance under chapter 33.* (1) The monthly amount of supplemental educational assistance payable to an individual whose initial eligibility for educational assistance is acquired under 38 U.S.C. chapter 33 is set by the Secretary of the military department concerned, but may not exceed $300 per month for full-time training. Individuals pursuing training at less than full-time will receive a percentage of the amount set by the Secretary of the military department concerned based on the individual's rate of pursuit of training.


(2) The increase payable under paragraph (a) of this section will only be paid to the individual as part of the monthly housing allowance if the individual is entitled to receive a monthly housing allowance under ยง 21.9640(b)(1)(ii) or (b)(2)(ii) for that term, quarter, or semester.


(b) *Individuals who were eligible for supplemental educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 30.* (1) An individual who is eligible for educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 33 by reason of an irrevocable election under ยง 21.9520(c) and was entitled to supplemental educational assistance under subchapter III of 38 U.S.C. chapter 30 remains entitled to such additional amount under chapter 33.


(2) The amount of the increase is set by the Secretary of the military department concerned, but may not exceed $300 per month for full-time training. Individuals pursuing training at less than full-time will receive a percentage of the amount set by the Secretary of the military department concerned based on the individual's rate of pursuit of training.


(3) The supplemental increase amount payable under paragraph (b) of this section will be paid to the individual as a lump sum in an amount for the entire quarter, semester, or term, as applicable, based on the monthly amount to which the individual was entitled at the time of the election of chapter 33.


