# § 156.206   General statements.

(a) *Application restrictions.* Each product shall bear the statement: “Do not apply this product in a way that will contact workers or other persons, either directly or through drift. Only protected handlers may be in the area during application.” This statement shall be near the beginning of the DIRECTIONS FOR USE section of the labeling under the heading AGRICULTURAL USE REQUIREMENTS.


(b) *40 CFR part 170 reference statement.* (1) Each product shall bear the reference statement: “Use this product only in accordance with its labeling and with the Worker Protection Standard, 40 CFR part 170.” This statement shall be placed on the product label under the heading AGRICULTURAL USE REQUIREMENTS.


(2) Each product shall bear the statement: “This standard contains requirements for the protection of agricultural workers on farms, forests, nurseries, and greenhouses, and handlers of agricultural pesticides. It contains requirements for training, decontamination, notification, and emergency assistance. It also contains specific instructions and exceptions pertaining to the statements on this label [in this labeling] about [use any of the following that are applicable] personal protective equipment, restricted-entry interval, and notification to workers.” These statements shall be placed immediately following the reference statement required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, or they shall be placed in the supplemental product labeling under the heading AGRICULTURAL USE REQUIREMENTS.


(3) If the statements in paragraph (b)(2) of this section are included in supplemental labeling rather than on the label of the pesticide container, the container label must contain this statement immediately following the statement required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section: “Refer to supplemental labeling entitled AGRICULTURAL USE REQUIREMENTS in the DIRECTIONS FOR USE section of the labeling for information about this standard.”


(4) If the statements in paragraph (b)(2) of this section are included in supplemental labeling, they must be preceded immediately by the statement in paragraph (b)(1) of this section under the heading AGRICULTURAL USE REQUIREMENTS in the labeling.


(c) *Product-type identification.* (1) If the product contains an organophosphate (*i.e.*, an organophosphorus ester that inhibits cholinesterase) or an *N*-methyl carbamate (*i.e.*, an *N*-methyl carbamic acid ester that inhibits cholinesterase), the label shall so state. The statement shall be associated with the product name or product-type identification or shall be in the STATEMENT OF PRACTICAL TREATMENT or FIRST AID section of the label.


(2) If the product is a fumigant, the label shall so state. The identification shall appear:


(i) As part of the product name; or


(ii) Close to the product name, as part of the product-type identification or as a separate phrase or sentence.


(d) *State restrictions.* Each product shall bear the statement: “For any requirements specific to your State, consult the agency in your State responsible for pesticide regulation.” This statement shall be under the heading AGRICULTURAL USE REQUIREMENTS in the labeling.


(e) *Spanish warning statements.* If the product is classified as toxicity category I or toxicity category II according to the criteria in § 156.62, the signal word shall appear in Spanish in addition to English followed by the statement, “Si Usted no entiende la etiqueta, busque a alguien para que se la explique a Usted en detalle. (If you do not understand the label, find some one to explain it to you in detail.)” The Spanish signal word “PELIGRO” shall be used for products in toxicity category I, and the Spanish signal word “AVISO” shall be used for products in toxicity category II. These statements shall appear on the label close to the English signal word.



---

[N] [57 FR 38146, Aug. 21, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34203, June 23, 1993; 73 FR 75596, Dec. 12, 2008]




