# ยง 401.408   Affordability and use restrictions required.

(a) *General.* The Restructuring Plan must provide that the project will be subject to affordability and use restrictions in a Use Agreement acceptable to HUD. The Use Agreement must be recorded and in effect for at least 30 years. It must include at least the provisions required by paragraphs (b) through (j) of this section. 


(b) *Use restriction.* The project must continue to be used for residential use with no reduction in the number of residential units without prior HUD approval. 


(c) *Affordability restrictions.* Except during a period when at least 20 percent of the units in a project receive project-based assistance: 


(1) At least 20 percent of the units in the project must be leased to families whose adjusted income does not exceed 50 percent of the area median income as determined by HUD, with adjustments for household size, at rents no greater than 30 percent of 50 percent of the area median income; or 


(2) At least 40 percent of the units in the project must be leased to families whose adjusted income does not exceed 60 percent of the area median income as determined by HUD, with adjustments for household size, at rents no greater than 30 percent of 60 percent of the area median income. 


(d) *Comparable configuration.* The type and size of the units that satisfy the affordability restrictions of paragraph (c) of this section must be comparable to the type and size of the units for the project as a whole. 


(e) *Nondiscrimination against voucher holders.* An owner must comply with the nondiscrimination provisions of ยง 401.556. 


(f) *Enforcement.* The Use Agreement must contain remedies for breach of the Use Agreement, including monetary damages for non-compliance with paragraphs (c) and (g) of this section. 


(g) *Compliance with physical condition standards.* The Use Agreement must require that the property be maintained in compliance with the requirements of ยง 401.558. 


(h) *Reporting.* The Use Agreement must contain appropriate financial and other reporting requirements for the owner. These reports must comply with the Real Estate Assessment Center protocol or subsequent standards required by HUD. 


(i) *Enforcement and amendment.* The Use Agreement will be enforceable by interested parties to be specified in the Agreement, which will include HUD, the PAE, project tenants, organizations representing project tenants, and the unit of local government. The Use Agreement must require the party bringing enforcement action to give the owner notice and a reasonable opportunity to cure any violations. 


(j) *Modifications.* HUD will retain the right to approve modifications of the Use Agreement agreed to by the owner without the consent of any other party, including those having the right of enforcement. The owner must post prominently on project property notice of any modifications approved by HUD. 


(k) *Owner obligation to accept project-based assistance.* Subject to the availability of appropriated funds, the owner of the project must accept any offer of renewal of project-based assistance if the offer is in accordance with the terms and conditions specified in the Restructuring Plan.



---

[N] [65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 53900, Sept. 6, 2000]




