# § 409.20   Coverage of services.

(a) *Included services.* Subject to the conditions and limitations set forth in this subpart and subpart D of this part, “posthospital SNF care” means the following services furnished to an inpatient of a participating SNF, or of a participating hospital or critical access hospital (CAH) that has a swing-bed approval:


(1) Nursing care provided by or under the supervision of a registered professional nurse.


(2) Bed and board in connection with the furnishing of that nursing care.


(3) Physical therapy, occupational therapy, and speech-language pathology services.


(4) Medical social services.


(5) Drugs, biologicals, supplies, appliances, and equipment.


(6) Services furnished by a hospital with which the SNF has a transfer agreement in effect under § 483.70(j) of this chapter.


(7) Other services that are generally provided by (or under arrangements made by) SNFs.


(b) *Excluded services*—(1) *Services that are not considered inpatient hospital services.* No service is included as posthospital SNF care if it would not be included as an inpatient hospital service under §§ 409.11 through 409.18.


(2) *Services not generally provided by (or under arrangements made by) SNFs.* Except as specifically listed in §§ 409.21 through 409.27, only those services generally provided by (or under arrangements made by) SNFs are considered as posthospital SNF care. For example, a type of medical or surgical procedure that is ordinarily performed only on an inpatient basis in a hospital is not included as “posthospital SNF care,” because such procedures are not generally provided by (or under arrangements made by) SNFs.


(c) *Terminology.* In § 409.21 through § 409.36—.


(1) The terms *SNF* and *swing-bed hospital* are used when the context applies to the particular facility.


(2) The term *facility* is used to mean both SNFs and swing-bed hospitals.


(3) The term *swing-bed hospital* includes a CAH with swing-bed approval under subpart F of part 485 of this chapter.


(4) The term *post-hospital SNF care* includes SNF care that does not follow a hospital stay when the beneficiary is enrolled in a plan, as defined in § 422.4 of this chapter, offered by a Medicare + Choice (M + C) organization, that includes the benefits described in § 422.101(c) of this chapter.



---

[N] [48 FR 12541, Mar. 25, 1983, as amended at 50 FR 33033, Aug. 16, 1985; 58 FR 30667, May 26, 1993; 63 FR 26306, May 12, 1998; 64 FR 3648, Jan. 25, 1999; 64 FR 41681, July 30, 1999; 68 FR 46070, Aug. 4, 2003; 68 FR 50854, Aug. 22, 2003; 69 FR 35529, June 25, 2004; 75 FR 73613, Nov. 29, 2010; 82 FR 32258, July 13, 2017]




