# § 407.62   Termination of coverage.

(a) *Other coverage.* An individual who enrolls in other coverage as described in § 407.55(b) will have his or her enrollment in the Part B-ID benefit terminated on either of the following bases:


(1) If the individual notifies SSA of such coverage consistent with § 407.59(b), their enrollment in the Part B-ID benefit will be terminated effective the first day of the month after the month of notification unless the individual requests a different, prospective termination date that is not after the effective date of enrollment in other health insurance coverage, as described in § 407.55(b).


(2) If the individual does not notify SSA of this coverage consistent with § 407.59(b), their enrollment in the Part B-ID benefit will be terminated effective the first day of the month after the month in which there is a determination of the individual's enrollment in coverage described in § 407.55(b).


(b) *Death.* Enrollment in the Part B-ID benefit ends on the last day of the month in which the individual dies.


(c) *Nonpayment of premiums.* If an individual fails to pay the premiums, the Part B-ID benefit enrollment will end as provided in the rules for Part B premiums set forth in part 408 of this chapter.


(d) *Request by individual.* An individual may request disenrollment at any time by notifying SSA that he or she no longer wants to be enrolled in the Part B-ID benefit. Such individual's enrollment in the Part B-ID benefit ends with the last day of the month in which the individual provides the disenrollment request, except for an individual who loses coverage under a State buy-in agreement, as described in § 407.50(b)(2)(i).


(e) *Entitlement to Hospital Insurance benefits.* Enrollment in the Part B-ID benefit ends effective the last day of the month prior to the month that the individual becomes entitled to benefits under § 406.5, § 406.12, or § 406.13 of this subchapter.


(f) *Appeals.* An involuntary termination of the Part B-ID benefit for reasons described at § 407.62(a)(2), (b), or (c) of this subsection, will be considered an initial determination that is appealable under § 405.904(a)(1) of this subchapter. An individual can request to continue receiving Part B-ID benefits while waiting for an appeals decision.










