# ยง 13.55   Permits.

(a) *Application.* (1) Application for a permit required by any section of this part shall be submitted to the Superintendent having jurisdiction over the affected park area, or in the absence of the Superintendent, the Regional Director. If the applicant is unable or does not wish to submit the application in written form, the Superintendent shall provide the applicant an opportunity to present the application orally and shall keep a record of such oral application.


(2) The Superintendent shall grant or deny the application in writing within 45 days. If this deadline cannot be met for good cause, the Superintendent shall so notify the applicant in writing. If the permit application is denied, the Superintendent shall specify in writing the reasons for the denial.


(b) *Denial and appeal procedures.* (1) An applicant whose application for a permit, required pursuant to this part, has been denied by the Superintendent has the right to have the application reconsidered by the Regional Director by contacting him/her within 180 days of the issuance of the denial. For purposes of reconsideration, the permit applicant shall present the following information:


(i) Any statement or documentation, in addition to that included in the initial application, which demonstrates that the applicant satisfies the criteria set forth in the section under which the permit application is made.


(ii) The basis for the permit applicant's disagreement with the Superintendent's findings and conclusions; and


(iii) Whether or not the permit applicant requests an informal hearing before the Regional Director.


(2) The Regional Director shall provide a hearing if requested by the applicant. After consideration of the written materials and oral hearing, if any, and within a reasonable period of time, the Regional Director shall affirm, reverse, or modify the denial of the Superintendent and shall set forth in writing the basis for the decision. A copy of the decision shall be forwarded promptly to the applicant and shall constitute final agency action.




