# § 1.1311(b)-1   Maintenance of an inconsistent position.

(a) *In general.* Under the circumstances stated in § 1.1312-1, § 1.1312-2, paragraph (a) of § 1.1312-3, § 1.1312-5, § 1.1312-6, and § 1.1312-7, the maintenance of an inconsistent position is a condition necessary for adjustment. The requirement in such circumstances is that a position maintained with respect to the taxable year of the determination and which is adopted in the determination be inconsistent with the erroneous inclusion, exclusion, omission, allowance, disallowance, recognition, or nonrecognition, as the case may be, with respect to the taxable year of the error. That is, a position successfully maintained with respect to the taxable year of the determination must be inconsistent with the treatment accorded an item which was the subject of an error in the computation of the tax for the closed taxable year. Adjustments under the circumstances stated in paragraph (b) of § 1.1312-3 and in § 1.1312-4 are made without regard to the maintenance of an inconsistent position.


(b) *Adjustments resulting in refund or credit.* (1) An adjustment under any of the circumstances stated in § 1.1312-1, § 1.1312-5, § 1.1312-6, or § 1.1312-7 which would result in the allowance of a refund or credit is authorized only if (i) the Commissioner, in connection with a determination, has maintained a position which is inconsistent with the erroneous inclusion, omission, disallowance, recognition, or nonrecognition, as the case may be, in the year of the error, and (ii) such inconsistent position is adopted in the determination.


(2) An adjustment under circumstances stated in § 1.1312-1, § 1.1312-5, § 1.1312-6, or § 1.1312-7 which would result in the allowance of a refund or credit is not authorized if the taxpayer with respect to whom the determination is made, and not the Commissioner, has maintained such inconsistent position.


(c) *Adjustments resulting in additional assessments.* (1) An adjustment under any of the circumstances stated in § 1.1312-2, paragraph (a) of § 1.1312-3, § 1.1312-5, § 1.1312-6, or § 1.1312-7 which would result in an additional assessment is authorized only if (i) the taxpayer with respect to whom the determination is made has, in connection therewith, maintained a position which is inconsistent with the erroneous exclusion, omission, allowance, recognition, or nonrecognition, as the case may be, in the year of the error, and (ii) such inconsistent position is adopted in the determination.


(2) An adjustment under the circumstances stated in § 1.1312-2, paragraph (a) of § 1.1312-3, § 1.1312-5, § 1.1312-6, or § 1.1312-7 which would result in an additional assessment is not authorized if the Commissioner, and not the taxpayer, has maintained such inconsistent position.



---

[N] [T.D. 6500, 25 FR 12032, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6617, 27 FR 10823, Nov. 7, 1962]




