# § 147.700   State-administered program—Class I, III, IV, and V wells.

The UIC program for Class I, III, IV and V wells in the State of Illinois, except those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of the approval was published in the _Federal Register_ on February 1, 1984 (49 FR 3991); the effective date of this program is March 3, 1984. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:


(a) *Incorporation by reference.* The requirements set forth in the state statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Illinois. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.


(1) Illinois Environmental Protection Act, Illinois ch. 111
1/2, sections 1001 to 1051 (Smith-Hurd 1977 Revised Statutes and Supp. 1983), as amended by Public Act No. 83-431, 1983 Illinois Legislative Service, pages 2910 to 2916 (West);


(2) Illinois Pollution Control Board Rules and Regulations at Title 35, Illinois Administrative Code, Chapter I, Part 700, Outline of Waste Disposal Regulations; Part 702, RCRA and UIC Permit Programs; Part 704, UIC Permit Program; Part 705, Procedures for Permit Issuance and Part 730, Underground Injection Control Operating Requirements as amended by IPCB Order No. R-83039 on December 15, 1983.


(b) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region V and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on March 22, 1984.


(c) *Statement of legal authority.* Letter from Illinois Attorney General to Regional Administrator, EPA Region V, and attached statement, December 16, 1982.


(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.



---

[N] [49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43087, Oct. 25, 1988]




