# § 831.304   Service with the Cadet Nurse Corps during World War II.

(a) *Definitions and special usages.* In this section—


(1) *Basic pay* is computed at the rate of $15 per month for the first 9 months of study; $20 per month for the 10th through the 21st month of study; and $30 per month for any month in excess of 21. 


(2) *Cadet Nurse Corps service* means any student or graduate nurse training, in a non-Federal institution, as a participant in a plan approved under section 2 of the Act of June 15, 1943 (57 Stat. 153). 


(3) *CSRS* means the Civil Service Retirement System. 


(b) *Conditions for creditability.* As provided by Pub. L. 99-638, an individual who performed service with the Cadet Nurse Corps is entitled to credit under CSRS if— 


(1) The service as a participant in the Corps totaled 2 years or more; 


(2) The individual submits an application for service credit to OPM no later than January 10, 1988; 


(3) The individual is employed by the Federal Government in a position subject to CSRS at the time he or she applies to OPM for service credit; and 


(4) The individual makes a deposit for the service before separating from the Federal Government for retirement purposes. Contrary to the policy “deeming” the deposit to be made for alternative annuity computation purposes, these deposits must be physically in the possession of the individual's employing agency before his or her separation for retirement purposes. 


(c) *Processing the application for service credit.* Upon receiving an application requesting credit for service with the Cadet Nurse Corps, OPM will determine whether all conditions for creditability have been met, compute the deposit (including any interest) as specified by sections 8334(e) (2) and (3) of title 5, United States Code, based upon the appropriate percentage of basic pay that would have been deducted from the individual's pay at the time the service was performed, and advise the agency and the employee of the total amount of the deposit due. 


(d) *Agency collection and submission of deposit.* (1) The individual's employing agency must establish a deposit account showing the total amount due and a payment schedule (unless deposit is made in one lump sum), and record the date and amount of each payment. 


(2) lf the individual cannot make payment in one lump sum, the employing agency must accept installment payments (by allotments or otherwise). However, the employing agency is not required to accept individual checks in amounts less than $50. 


(3) If the employee dies before completing the deposit, the surviving spouse may elect to complete the payment to the employing agency in one lump sum; however, the surviving spouse will not be able to initiate an application for such service credit. 


(4) Payments received by the employing agency must be remitted to OPM immediately for deposit to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund. 


(5) Once the employee's deposit has been paid in full or closed out, the employing agency must submit the documentation pertaining to the deposit to OPM in accordance with published instructions. 



---

[N] [52 FR 43047, Nov. 9, 1987]




