# § 234.411   Changes requiring submission of updated information to the Crossing Inventory.

(a) *Crossing sale.* (1) If a railroad that is not a primary operating railroad sells all or part of a highway-rail or pathway crossing on or after June 10, 2016, it shall report the crossing sale to the primary operating railroad within three (3) months of the date of sale.


(2) If the primary operating railroad:


(i) Sells all or part of a highway-rail or pathway crossing on or after June 10, 2016 for which it has reporting and updating responsibility under this subpart; or


(ii) Is notified of the sale of all or part of a highway-rail or pathway crossing on or after June 10, 2016 under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, then the primary operating railroad shall submit an Inventory Form, or its electronic equivalent, which reflects the crossing sale to the Crossing Inventory consistent with § 234.403 and the Inventory Guide within three (3) months of the date of sale or three months of notification, respectively.


(b) *Crossing closure.* The primary operating railroad shall report the closure of any highway-rail or pathway crossing that occurs on or after June 10, 2016 to the Crossing Inventory within three (3) months of the date on which the crossing is closed. The primary operating railroad shall submit an Inventory Form, or its electronic equivalent, that reflects closure of the crossing to the Crossing Inventory consistent with § 234.403 and the Inventory Guide.


(c) *Changes in crossing characteristics.* (1) The primary operating railroad shall report any change in crossing surface or change in warning device at a public highway-rail grade crossing that occurs on or after June 10, 2016 to the Crossing Inventory within three (3) months of the date of the change. The primary operating railroad shall submit an Inventory Form, or its electronic equivalent, that reflects up-to-date and accurate crossing data for the crossing (including the change in crossing surface or change in warning device) to the Crossing Inventory consistent with § 234.403 and the Inventory Guide.


(2) For purposes of this subpart, a “change in warning device” means the addition or removal of a crossbuck, yield or stop sign, flashing lights, or gates at a public highway-rail grade crossing. The installation of a crossbuck, yield or stop sign, flashing lights, or gates that will be in place for less than six months does not constitute a “change in warning device” for purposes of this subpart.



---

[N] [81 FR 37533, June 10, 2016]




