# ยง 165.1313   Security zone regulations, tank ship protection, Puget Sound and adjacent waters, Washington

(a) *Notice of enforcement or suspension of enforcement.* The tank ship security zone established by this section will be enforced only upon notice by the Captain of the Port Puget Sound. Captain of the Port Puget Sound will cause notice of the enforcement of the tank ship security zone to be made by all appropriate means to effect the widest publicity among the affected segments of the public including publication in the _Federal Register_ as practicable, in accordance with 33 CFR 165.7(a). Such means of notification may also include but are not limited to, Broadcast Notice to Mariners or Local Notice to Mariners. The Captain of the Port Puget Sound will issue a Broadcast Notice to Mariners and Local Notice to Mariners notifying the public when enforcement of the tank ship security zone is suspended. 


(b) The following definitions apply to this section: 


(1) *Federal Law Enforcement Officer* means any employee or agent of the United States government who has the authority to carry firearms and make warrantless arrests and whose duties involve the enforcement of criminal laws of the United States. 


(2) *Navigable waters of the United States* means those waters defined as such in 33 CFR part 2. 


(3) *Navigation Rules* means the Navigation Rules, International-Inland. 


(4) *Official patrol* means those persons designated by the Captain of the Port to monitor a tank ship security zone, permit entry into the zone, give legally enforceable orders to persons or vessels with in the zone and take other actions authorized by the Captain of the Port. Persons authorized in paragraph (k) to enforce this section are designated as the official patrol. 


(5) *Public vessel* means vessels owned, chartered, or operated by the United States, or by a State or political subdivision thereof. 


(6) *Tank ship security zone* is a regulated area of water, established by this section, surrounding tank ships for a 500-yard radius that is necessary to provide for the security of these vessels. 


(7) *Tank ship* means a self-propelled tank vessel that is constructed or adapted primarily to carry oil or hazardous material in bulk as cargo or cargo residue in the cargo spaces. The definition of tank ship does not include tank barges. 


(8) *Washington Law Enforcement Officer* means any General Authority Washington Peace Officer, Limited Authority Washington Peace Officer, or Specially Commissioned Washington Peace Officer as defined in Revised Code of Washington section 10.93.020. 


(c) *Security zone:* There is established a tank ship security zone extending for a 500-yard radius around all tank ships located in the navigable waters of the United States in Puget Sound, WA, east of 123 degrees, 30 minutes West Longitude. [Datum: NAD 1983] 


(d) *Compliance:* The tank ship security zone established by this section remains in effect around tank ships at all times, whether the tank ship is underway, anchored, or moored. Upon notice of enforcement by the Captain of the Port Puget Sound, the Coast Guard will enforce the tank ship security zone in accordance with rules set out in this section. Upon notice of suspension of enforcement by the Captain of the Port Puget Sound, all persons and vessels are authorized to enter, transit, and exit the tank ship security zone, consistent with the Navigation Rules. 


(e) The Navigation Rules shall apply at all times within a tank ship security zone. 


(f) When within a tank ship security zone all vessels shall operate at the minimum speed necessary to maintain a safe course and shall proceed as directed by the on-scene official patrol or tank ship master. No vessel or person is allowed within 100 yards of a tank ship, unless authorized by the on-scene official patrol or tank ship master. 


(g) To request authorization to operate within 100 yards of a tank ship, contact the on-scene official patrol or tank ship master on VHF-FM channel 16 or 13. 


(h) When conditions permit, the on-scene official patrol or tank ship master should: 


(1) Permit vessels constrained by their navigational draft or restricted in their ability to maneuver to pass within 100 yards of a tank ship in order to ensure a safe passage in accordance with the Navigation Rules; 


(2) Permit commercial vessels anchored in a designated anchorage area to remain at anchor when within 100 yards of a passing tank ship; and 


(3) Permit vessels that must transit via a navigable channel or waterway to pass within 100 yards of a moored or anchored tank ship with minimal delay consistent with security. 


(i) *Exemption.* Public vessels as defined in paragraph (b) of this section are exempt from complying with paragraphs (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), (j), and (k) of this section. 


(j) *Exception.* 33 CFR Part 161 promulgates Vessel Traffic Service regulations. Measures or directions issued by Vessel Traffic Service Puget Sound pursuant to 33 CFR Part 161 shall take precedence over the regulations in this section. 


(k) *Enforcement.* Any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant or petty officer may enforce the rules in this section. In the navigable waters of the United States to which this section applies, when immediate action is required and representatives of the Coast Guard are not present or not present in sufficient force to provide effective enforcement of this section in the vicinity of a tank ship, any Federal Law Enforcement Officer or Washington Law Enforcement Officer may enforce the rules contained in this section pursuant to 33 CFR ยง 6.04-11. In addition, the Captain of the Port may be assisted by other federal, state or local agencies in enforcing this section.



---

[N] [CGD13-02-018, 68 FR 15374, Mar. 31, 2003]




