# § 36.4501   Definitions.

Wherever used in 38 U.S.C. 3711, 3762 or the regulations concerning direct loans to veterans, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined in this section shall have the meaning herein stated, namely: 


*Cost* means the entire consideration paid or payable for or on account of the application of materials and labor to tangible property. 


*Default* means failure of a borrower to comply with the terms of a loan agreement. 


*Department of Veterans Affairs* means the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, or any employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs authorized to act in the Secretary's stead.


*Dwelling* means a building designed primarily for use as a home, consisting of one residential unit only and not containing any business unit. 


*Energy conservation improvement.* An improvement to an existing dwelling or farm residence through the installation of a solar heating system, a solar heating and cooling system, or a combined solar heating and cooling system, or through application of a residential energy conservation measure as prescribed in 38 U.S.C. 3710(d) or by the Secretary.


*Farm residence* means a dwelling located on a farm which is to be occupied by the veteran as the veteran's home. 


*Guaranty* means the obligation of the United States, incurred pursuant to 38 U.S.C. chapter 37, to repay a specified percentage of a loan upon the default of the primary debtor. 


*Home* means a place of residence. 


*Improvement* means any addition or alteration which enhances the utility of the property for residential purposes. 


*Indebtedness* means the unpaid principal and interest plus any other sums a borrower is obligated to pay Department of Veterans Affairs under the terms of the loan instruments or of the regulations concerning direct loans to veterans. 


*Loan* means a loan made to a veteran by Department of Veterans Affairs pursuant to the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 3711 or 3762 and the regulations concerning direct loans to veterans. 


*Meaningful interest* means a leasehold estate or other interest in trust land and any improvements thereon which permits the use, occupancy and enjoyment of that land and any improvements by the grantee. This interest must be capable of being conveyed (1) as security for a loan made under 38 CFR 36.4527, (2) by the grantee to a third party subject to the approval of the tribal organization and the Secretary or designee, and (3) by the Secretary or other foreclosing mortgagee, subject to the provisions of a memorandum of understanding entered into by the Secretary or designee, the tribal organization, and the Bureau of Indian Affairs. 


*Native American* means: 


(1) An Indian, as defined in section 4(d) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(d)); 


(2) A native Hawaiian, as defined in section 201(a)(7) of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act of 1920, (Public Law 67-34, 42 Stat. 108); 


(3) An Alaska Native within the meaning provided for the term 'Native' in section 3(b) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602(b)); and 


(4) A Pacific Islander, within the meaning of the Native American Programs Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 2991 *et seq.*) 


*Native American veteran* means any veteran who is a Native American. 


*Period of more than 180 days* means 181 or more calendar days of continuous active duty. 


*Purchase price* means the entire legal consideration paid or payable upon or on account of the sale of property, exclusive of acquisition costs, or for the cost of materials and labor to be applied thereto. 


*Reasonable value* means that figure which represents the amount a reputable and qualified appraiser, unaffected by personal interest, bias, or prejudice, would recommend to a prospective purchaser as proper price or cost in the light of prevailing conditions. 


*Repairs* means any alteration of existing realty which is necessary or advisable for protective, safety, or restorative purposes.


*Safe harbor qualified mortgage* means a mortgage that meets the Ability-to-Repay requirements of sections 129B and 129C of the Truth-in-Lending Act (TILA) regardless of whether the loan might be considered a high cost mortgage transaction as defined by section 103bb of TILA (15 U.S.C. 1602bb). 


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, or any employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs authorized to act in the Secretary's stead. 


*Tribal organization* has the same meaning given in section 4(l) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(1)) and includes the Department of Hawaiian Homelands, in the case of native Hawaiians, and such other organizations as the Secretary may prescribe. 


*Trust land* means any land that: 


(1) Is held in trust by the United States for Native Americans; 


(2) Is subject to restrictions on alienation imposed by the United States on Indian lands (including native Hawaiian homelands); 


(3) Is owned by a Regional Corporation or a Village Corporation, as such terms are defined in section 3(g) and 3(j) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, respectively (43 U.S.C. 1602(g), (j)); or 


(4) Is on any island in the Pacific Ocean if such land is, by cultural tradition, communally-owned land, as determined by the Secretary. 


*Vendee loan* means a loan made by the Secretary for the purpose of financing the purchase of a property acquired pursuant to chapter 37 of title 38, United States Code. The terms of a vendee loan (*e.g.,* amount of down payment; amortization term; whether to escrow taxes, insurance premiums, or homeowners' association dues; fees, etc.) are negotiated between the Secretary and the borrower on a case-by-case basis, subject to the requirements of 38 U.S.C. 2041 or 3733. Terms related to allowable fees are also subject to §§ 36.4528 through 36.4530.



---

[N] [24 FR 2658, Apr. 7, 1959, as amended at 31 FR 16713, Dec. 30, 1966; 35 FR 17180, Nov. 7, 1970; 40 FR 4143, Jan. 28, 1975; 41 FR 32218, Aug. 2, 1976; 41 FR 44859, Oct. 13, 1976; 45 FR 20472, Mar. 28, 1980; 46 FR 43674, Aug. 31, 1981; 58 FR 59660, Nov. 10, 1993; 79 FR 26628, May 9, 2014; 82 FR 35904, Aug. 2, 2017]




