# § 173.242   Bulk packagings for certain medium hazard liquids and solids, including solids with dual hazards.

When § 172.101 of this subchapter specifies that a hazardous material be packaged under this section, only the following bulk packagings are authorized, subject to the requirements of subparts A and B of part 173 of this subchapter and the special provisions specified in column 7 of the § 172.101 table.


(a) *Rail cars:* Class DOT 103, 104, 105, 109, 111, 112, 114, 115, 117, or 120 tank car tanks; Class 106 or 110 multi-unit tank car tanks and AAR Class 206W tank car tanks. Additional operational requirements apply to high-hazard flammable trains (*see* § 171.8 of this subchapter) as prescribed in § 174.310 of this subchapter. Except as otherwise provided in this section, DOT Specification 111 tank cars and DOT Specification 111 tank cars built to the CPC-1232 industry standard are no longer authorized to transport unrefined petroleum products, ethanol, and other Class 3 (flammable) liquids in Packing Group II or III, unless retrofitted to the DOT Specification 117R retrofit standards, or the DOT Specification 117P performance standards provided in part 179, subpart D of this subchapter.


(1) DOT Specification 111 tank cars and DOT Specification 111 tank cars built to the CPC-1232 industry standard are no longer authorized for transport of Class 3 flammable liquids unless retrofitted prior to the dates corresponding to the specific material in the following table:


(2) Conforming retrofitted tank cars are to be marked “DOT-117R.”


(3) Conforming performance standard tank cars are to be marked “DOT-117P.”


(b) *Cargo tanks:* Specification MC 300, MC 301, MC 302, MC 303, MC 304, MC 305, MC 306, MC 307, MC 310, MC 311, MC 312, MC 330, MC 331, DOT 406, DOT 407, and DOT 412 cargo tank motor vehicles; and non-DOT specification cargo tank motor vehicles when in compliance with § 173.5a(c). Cargo tanks used to transport Class 3, Packing Group I or II, or Packing Group III with a flash point of less than 38 °C (100 °F); Class 6, Packing Group I or II; and Class 8, Packing Group I or II materials must conform to the following special requirements:


(1) Pressure relief system: Except as provided by § 173.33(d), each cargo tank must be equipped with a pressure relief system meeting the requirements of § 178.346-3 or § 178.347-4 of this subchapter. However, pressure relief devices on MC 310, MC 311 and MC 312 cargo tanks must meet the requirements for a Specification MC 307 cargo tank (except for Class 8, Packing Group I and II). Pressure relief devices on MC 330 and MC 331 cargo tanks must meet the requirement in § 178.337-9 of this subchapter.


(2) Bottom outlets: DOT 406, DOT 407 and DOT 412 must be equipped with stop-valves meeting the requirements of § 178.345-11 of this subchapter; MC 304, MC 307, MC 310, MC 311, and MC 312 cargo tanks must be equipped with stop-valves capable of being remotely closed within 30 seconds of actuation by manual or mechanic means and (except for Class 8, Packing Group I and II) by a closure activated at a temperature not over 121 °C (250 °F); MC 330 and MC 331 cargo tanks must be equipped with internal self-closing stop-valves meeting the requirements in § 178.337-11 of this subchapter.


(c) *Portable tanks.* DOT Specification 51, 56, 57 and 60 portable tanks; Specification IM 101, IM 102, and UN portable tanks when a T Code is specified in Column (7) of the § 172.101 Hazardous Materials Table for a specific hazardous material; and marine portable tanks conforming to 46 CFR part 64 are authorized. DOT Specification 57 portable tanks used for the transport by vessel of Class 3, Packaging Group II materials must conform to the following:


(1) *Minimum design pressure.* Each tank must have a minimum design pressure of 62 kPa (9 psig); 


(2) *Pressure relief devices.* Each tank must be equipped with at least one pressure relief device, such as a spring-loaded valve or fusible plug, conforming to the following: 


(i) Each pressure relief device must communicate with the vapor space of the tank when the tank is in a normal transportation attitude. Shutoff valves may not be installed between the tank opening and any pressure relief device. Pressure relief devices must be mounted, shielded, or drained to prevent the accumulation of any material that could impair the operation or discharge capability of the device; 


(ii) Frangible devices are not authorized; 


(iii) No pressure relief device may open at less than 34.4 kPa (5 psig); 


(iv) If a fusible device is used for relieving pressure, the device must have a minimum area of 1.25 square inches. The device must function at a temperature between 104 °C. and 149 °C. (220 °F. and 300 °F.) and at a pressure less than the design test pressure of the tank, unless this latter function is accomplished by a separate device; and 


(v) No relief device may be used which would release flammable vapors under normal conditions of transportation (temperature up to and including 54 °C. (130 °F.).); and


(3) *Venting capacity.* The minimum venting capacity for pressure activated vents must be 6,000 cubic feet of free air per hour (measured at 101.3 kPa (14.7 psi) and 15.6 °C. (60 °F.)) at not more than 34.4 kPa (5 psi). The total emergency venting capacity (cu. ft./hr.) of each portable tank must be at least that determined from the following table:


(4) Unless provided by § 173.32(h)(3), an IM 101, 102 or UN portable tank with a bottom outlet and used to transport a liquid hazardous material that is a Class 3, PG I or II, or PG III with a flash point of less than 38 °C (100 °F); Division 5.1 PG I or II; or Division 6.1, PG I or II, must have internal valves conforming to § 178.275(d)(3) of this subchapter.


(d) *IBCs.* IBCs are authorized subject to the conditions and limitations of this section provided the IBC type is authorized according to the IBC packaging code specified for the specific hazardous material in Column (7) of the § 172.101 Table of this subchapter and the IBC conforms to the requirements in subpart O of part 178 of this subchapter at the Packing Group performance level as specified in Column (5) of the § 172.101 Table of this subchapter for the material being transported.


(1) IBCs may not be used for the following hazardous materials:


(i) Packing Group I liquids; and


(ii) Packing Group I solids that may become liquid during transportation.


(2) The following IBCs may not be used for Packing Group II and III solids that may become liquid during transportation:


(i) Wooden: 11C, 11D and 11F;


(ii) Fiberboard: 11G;


(iii) Flexible: 13H1, 13H2, 13H3, 13H4, 13H5, 13L1, 13L2, 13L3, 13L4, 13M1 and 13M2; and


(iv) Composite: 11HZ2 and 21HZ2.


(e) *Large Packagings.* Large Packagings are authorized subject to the conditions and limitations of this section provided the Large Packaging type is authorized according to the IBC packaging code specified for the specific hazardous material in Column (7) of the § 172.101 Table of this subchapter and the Large Packaging conforms to the requirements in subpart Q of part 178 of this subchapter at the Packing Group performance level as specified in Column (5) of the § 172.101 Table for the material being transported.


(1) Except as specifically authorized in this subchapter, Large Packagings may not be used for Packing Group I or II hazardous materials.


(2) Large Packagings with paper or fiberboard inner receptacles may not be used for solids that may become liquid in transportation.



---

[N] [Amdt. 173-224, 55 FR 52663, Dec. 21, 1990]




