# § 203.251   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, the following terms shall have the meaning indicated: 


(a) *Commissioner* means the Federal Housing Commissioner or his authorized representative. 


(b) *Act* means the National Housing Act, as amended. 


(c) *FHA* means the Federal Housing Administration. 


(d) *Mortgage* is defined at § 203.17(a)(1).


(e) *Mortgagor* means the original borrower under a mortgage and his heirs, executors, administrators and assigns. 


(f) *Mortgagee* means the original lender under a mortgage and its successors and such of its assigns as are approved by the Commissioner. 


(g)-(h) [Reserved]


(i) *Insured mortgage* means a mortgage which has been insured as evidenced by the issuance of a Mortgage Insurance Certificate or by the endorsement of the credit instrument for insurance by the Commissioner. 


(j) *Contract of Insurance* means the agreement evidenced by the issuance of a Mortgage Insurance Certificate or by the endorsement of the Commissioner upon the credit instrument given in connection with an insured mortgage, incorporating by reference the regulations in this subpart and the applicable provisions of the Act. 


(k) *MIP* means the mortgage insurance premium paid by the mortgagee to the Commissioner in consideration of the contract of insurance. 


(l)-(m) [Reserved] 


(n) *Open-end advance* means an insured advance made by an approved mortgagee in connection with a previously insured mortgage, pursuant to an open-end provision in the mortgage. 


(o) *Open-end insurance charge* means the charge paid by the mortgagee to the Commissioner in consideration of the insurance of an open-end advance. 


(p) *Beginning of amortization* means the date one month prior to the date of the first monthly payment to principal and interest. 


(q) *Maturity* means the date on which the mortgage indebtedness would be extinguished if paid in accordance with periodic payments provided for in the mortgage. 


(r) *Debentures* means registered, transferable securities in certificated or book entry form which are valid and binding obligations, issued in the name of the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund in accordance with the provisions of this part; such debentures are the primary liability of the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund and are unconditionally guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States. 


(s) *State* includes the several States, Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, and the Virgin Islands. 


(t) *TOTAL* is an acronym that stands for “Technology Open to Approved Lenders.” TOTAL is a mortgage scorecard based on a mathematical equation that is to be used within an automated underwriting system (AUS). TOTAL is a tool to assist the mortgagee in managing its workflow and expediting the endorsement process, and is not a substitute for the mortgagee's reasonable consideration of risk and credit worthiness. Direct Endorsement mortgagees using TOTAL remain solely responsible for the underwriting decision.



---

[N] [36 FR 24508, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 37 FR 8661, Apr. 29, 1972; 41 FR 49734, Nov. 10, 1976; 49 FR 12697, Mar. 30, 1984; 53 FR 34282, Sept. 6, 1988; 59 FR 49815, Sept. 30, 1994; 61 FR 36265, July 9, 1996; 68 FR 65826, Nov. 21, 2003] 




