# ยง 982.630   Homeownership option: Homeownership counseling.

(a) *Pre-assistance counseling.* Before commencement of homeownership assistance for a family, the family must attend and satisfactorily complete the pre-assistance homeownership and housing counseling program required by the PHA (pre-assistance counseling). 


(b) *Counseling topics.* Suggested topics for the PHA-required pre-assistance counseling program include: 


(1) Home maintenance (including care of the grounds); 


(2) Budgeting and money management; 


(3) Credit counseling; 


(4) How to negotiate the purchase price of a home; 


(5) How to obtain homeownership financing and loan preapprovals, including a description of types of financing that may be available, and the pros and cons of different types of financing; 


(6) How to find a home, including information about homeownership opportunities, schools, and transportation in the PHA jurisdiction; 


(7) Advantages of purchasing a home in an area that does not have a high concentration of low-income families and how to locate homes in such areas; 


(8) Information on fair housing, including fair housing lending and local fair housing enforcement agencies; and 


(9) Information about the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (12 U.S.C. 2601 *et seq.*) (RESPA), state and Federal truth-in-lending laws, and how to identify and avoid loans with oppressive terms and conditions. 


(c) *Local circumstances.* The PHA may adapt the subjects covered in pre-assistance counseling (as listed in paragraph (b) of this section) to local circumstances and the needs of individual families. 


(d) *Additional counseling.* The PHA may also offer additional counseling after commencement of homeownership assistance (ongoing counseling). If the PHA offers a program of ongoing counseling for participants in the homeownership option, the PHA shall have discretion to determine whether the family is required to participate in the ongoing counseling. 

 


(e) *HUD-certified housing counselor.* Any homeownership counseling provided to families in connection with this section must be conducted by a HUD certified housing counselor working for an agency approved to participate in HUD's Housing Counseling Program.



---

[N] [65 FR 55163, Sept. 12, 2000, as amended at 89 FR 38304, May 7, 2024]








