# § 721.530   Propanoyl chloride, 3-chloro-2,2-dimethyl-.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as propanoyl chloride, 3-chloro-2,2-dimethyl- (PMN P-84-491; CAS No. 4300-97-4) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are: 


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i) through (a)(5)(iii), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (b)(2), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f) and (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i) through (g)(2)(v), and (g)(4)(i). The provisions of § 721.72(d) requiring employees to be provided with information on the location and availability of a written hazard communication program and SDSs do not apply when the written program and SDS are not required under § 721.72 (a) and (c), respectively. The provision of § 721.72(g) requiring placement of specific information on an SDS does not apply when an SDS is not required under § 721.72(c). 


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k).


(iv) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85 (a)(1), (b)(1) and (c)(1). (In lieu of incineration, persons subject to this section may dispose of wastes containing the substance by chemically treating liquid wastes so that the first hydrolysis product is less than 10 ppm prior to discharge or purifying the waste stream so that the first hydrolysis product is less than 10 ppm. Those purified waste streams may be reused or sold. All of the substance removed by these processes must be incinerated or treated and released as described in this paragraph (a)(2)(iv).)


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph. 


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance, as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (c), (e) through (f), (i) and (j). 


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [55 FR 32412, Aug. 9, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 79 FR 34636, June 18, 2014]




