# § 214.204   Application.

(a) *Jurisdiction.* USCIS has sole jurisdiction over all applications for T nonimmigrant status.


(b) *Filing an application.* An applicant seeking T-1 nonimmigrant status must submit an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status on the form designated by USCIS in accordance with 8 CFR 103.2 and with the evidence described in paragraph (c) of this section.


(1) *Applicants in pending immigration proceedings.* (i) An applicant in removal proceedings under section 240 of the Act, or in exclusion or deportation proceedings under former sections 236 or 242 of the Act (as in effect prior to April 1, 1997), and who wishes to apply for T-1 nonimmigrant status must file an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status directly with USCIS.


(ii) In its discretion, ICE may exercise prosecutorial discretion, as appropriate, while USCIS adjudicates the Application for T Nonimmigrant Status, including applications for derivatives.


(2) *Applicants with final orders of removal, deportation, or exclusion.* An applicant subject to a final order of removal, deportation, or exclusion may file an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status directly with USCIS.


(i) The filing of an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status has no effect on DHS authority or discretion to execute a final order of removal, although the applicant may request an administrative stay of removal pursuant to 8 CFR 241.6(a).


(ii) If the applicant is in detention pending execution of the final order, the period of detention (under the standards of 8 CFR 241.4) reasonably necessary to bring about the applicant's removal will be extended during the period the stay is in effect.


(iii) If USCIS subsequently determines under the procedures in § 214.205 that the application is bona fide, the final order of removal, deportation, or exclusion will be automatically stayed, and the stay will remain in effect until a final decision is made on the Application for T Nonimmigrant Status.


(3) *Referral of applicants for removal proceedings.* USCIS generally will not refer an applicant for T nonimmigrant status for removal proceedings while the application is pending or following denial of the application, absent serious aggravating circumstances, such as the existence of an egregious criminal history, a threat to national security, or where the applicant is complicit in committing an act of trafficking.


(4) *Minor applicants.* When USCIS receives an application from a principal applicant under the age of 18, USCIS will notify the Department of Health and Human Services to facilitate the provision of interim assistance.


(c) *Initial evidence.* An Application for T Nonimmigrant Status must include:


(1) A detailed, signed personal statement from the applicant, in their own words, addressing:


(i) The circumstances surrounding the applicant's victimization, including:


(A) The nature of the victimization; and


(B) To the extent possible, the following:


(*1*) When the victimization occurred;


(*2*) How long the trafficking lasted;


(*3*) How and when they escaped, were rescued, or otherwise became separated from the traffickers;


(*4*) The events surrounding the trafficking;


(*5*) Who was responsible for the trafficking; and


(*6*) The circumstances surrounding their entry into the United States, if related to the trafficking;


(ii) How the applicant's physical presence in the United States relates to the trafficking; 


(iii) The hardship, including harm or mistreatment the applicant fears if they are removed from the United States; and


(iv) Whether they have complied with any reasonable law enforcement request for assistance and whether any criminal, civil or administrative records relating to the acts of trafficking exist, if known, (or if applicable, why the age exemption or trauma exception applies); and


(2) Any credible evidence that supports any of the eligibility requirements set out in §§ 214.206 through 214.209.


(d) *Inadmissible applicants.* If an applicant is inadmissible to the United States, they must submit a request for a waiver of inadmissibility on the Application for Advance Permission to Enter as a Nonimmigrant, or successor form as designated by USCIS accordance with 8 CFR 103.2, in accordance with form instructions and 8 CFR 212.16, and accompanied by supporting evidence.


(e) *Evidence from law enforcement.* An applicant may wish to submit evidence from an LEA to help establish eligibility, including victimization and the compliance with reasonable requests for assistance. An LEA declaration:


(1) Is optional evidence;


(2) Is not given any special evidentiary weight;


(3) Does not grant an immigration benefit and does not lead to automatic approval of the Application for T Nonimmigrant Status;


(4) Must be submitted on the “Declaration for Trafficking Victim,” and must be signed by a supervising official responsible for the detection, investigation, or prosecution of severe forms of trafficking in persons;


(5) Is completed at the discretion of the certifying official; and


(6) Does not require that a formal investigation or prosecution be initiated.


(f) *Any credible evidence.* All evidence demonstrating cooperation with law enforcement will be considered under the any credible evidence standard.


(g) *USCIS determination.* USCIS, not the LEA, will determine if the applicant was or is a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons, and otherwise meets the eligibility requirements for T nonimmigrant status.


(h) *Disavowed or withdrawn LEA declaration.* An LEA may disavow or withdraw the contents of a previously submitted declaration and should provide a detailed explanation of its reasoning in writing. After disavowal or withdrawal, the LEA declaration generally will no longer be considered as evidence of the applicant's compliance with requests for assistance in the LEA's detection, investigation, or prosecution, but may be considered for other purposes.


(i) *Continued Presence.* An applicant granted Continued Presence under 28 CFR 1100.35 should submit documentation of the grant of Continued Presence. If revoked, the grant of Continued Presence will generally no longer be considered as evidence of the applicant's compliance with requests for assistance in the LEA's investigation or prosecution but may be considered for other purposes.


(j) *Other evidence.* An applicant may also submit any evidence regarding entry or admission into the United States or permission to remain in the United States. An applicant may also note that such evidence is contained in their immigration file.


(k) *Biometric services.* All applicants for T-1 nonimmigrant status must submit biometrics in accordance with 8 CFR 103.16.


(l) *Evidentiary standards, standard of proof, and burden of proof.* (1) The burden is on the applicant to demonstrate eligibility for T-1 nonimmigrant status by a preponderance of the evidence. The applicant may submit any credible evidence relating to a T nonimmigrant application for consideration by USCIS.


(2) USCIS will conduct a review of all evidence and may investigate any aspect of the application.


(3) Evidence previously submitted by the applicant for any immigration benefit request or relief may be used by USCIS in evaluating the eligibility of an applicant for T-1 nonimmigrant status. USCIS will not be bound by previous factual determinations made in connection with a prior application or petition for any immigration benefit or relief. USCIS will determine, in its sole discretion, the evidentiary value of previously or concurrently submitted evidence.


(4) USCIS will consider the totality of the evidence the applicant submitted and other evidence available to USCIS in evaluating an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status.


(m) *Bona fide determination.* Once an applicant submits an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status or Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status, USCIS will conduct an initial review to determine if the application is bona fide under the provisions of § 214.205. USCIS will conduct an initial review of an eligible family member's Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status to determine if the application is bona fide if the principal's Application for T Nonimmigrant Status has been deemed bona fide.


(n) *Decision.* After completing its review of the application and evidence, USCIS will issue a decision approving or denying the application in accordance with 8 CFR 103.3.


(o) *Approval.* If USCIS determines that the applicant is eligible for T-1 nonimmigrant status, USCIS will approve the application and grant T-1 nonimmigrant status, subject to the annual limitation as provided in § 214.210. USCIS will provide the applicant with evidence of T-1 nonimmigrant status. USCIS may also notify other parties and entities of the approval as it determines appropriate, including any LEA providing an LEA declaration and the Department of Health and Human Service's Office of Refugee Resettlement, consistent with 8 U.S.C. 1367.


(1) *Applicants with an outstanding order of removal, deportation, or exclusion issued by DHS.* For an applicant who is the subject of an order of removal, deportation, or exclusion issued by DHS, the order will be deemed cancelled by operation of law as of the date of the USCIS approval of the application.


(2) *Applicants with an outstanding order of removal, deportation, or exclusion issued by the Department of Justice.* An applicant who is the subject of an order of removal, deportation or exclusion issued by an immigration judge or the Board of Immigration Appeals (Board) may seek rescission of such order by filing a motion to reopen and terminate removal proceedings with the immigration judge or the Board. ICE may agree, as a matter of discretion, to join such motion to overcome any applicable time and numerical limitations of 8 CFR 1003.2 and 1003.23.


(3) *Employment authorization.* An individual granted T-1 nonimmigrant status is authorized to work incident to status. An applicant does not need to file a separate Application for Employment Authorization to be granted employment authorization. USCIS will issue an initial Employment Authorization Document (EAD) to such T-1 nonimmigrants for the duration of the T-1 nonimmigrant status. An applicant granted T-1 nonimmigrant status seeking to replace an EAD that was lost, stolen, or destroyed must file an Application for Employment Authorization in accordance with form instructions.


(p) *Travel abroad.* In order to return to the United States after travel abroad and continue to hold T-1 nonimmigrant status, a T-1 nonimmigrant must be granted advance parole pursuant to section 212(d)(5) of the Act prior to departing the United States.


(q) *Denial.* Upon denial of an application, USCIS will notify the applicant in accordance with 8 CFR 103.3. USCIS may also notify any LEA providing an LEA declaration and the Department of Health and Human Service's Office of Refugee Resettlement. If an applicant appeals a denial in accordance with 8 CFR 103.3, the denial will not become final until the administrative appeal is decided.


(1) *Effect on bona fide determination.* Upon denial of an application, any benefits derived from a bona fide determination will automatically be revoked when the denial becomes final.


(2) *Applicants previously in removal proceedings.* In the case of an applicant who was previously in removal proceedings that were terminated on the basis of a pending Application for T Nonimmigrant Status, once a denial becomes final, DHS may file a new Notice to Appear to place the individual in removal proceedings again.


(3) *Applicants subject to an order of removal, deportation, or exclusion.* In the case of an applicant who is subject to an order of removal, deportation, or exclusion that had been stayed due to the pending Application for T Nonimmigrant Status, the stay will be automatically lifted as of the date the denial becomes final.



---

[N] [89 FR 34931, Apr. 30, 2024; 89 FR 68082, Aug. 23, 2024]




