# § 17.111   Copayments for extended care services.

(a) *General.* This section sets forth requirements regarding copayments for extended care services provided to veterans by VA (either directly by VA or paid for by VA). 


(b) *Copayments.* (1) Unless exempted under paragraph (f) of this section, as a condition of receiving extended care services from VA, a veteran must agree to pay VA and is obligated to pay VA a copayment as specified by this section. A veteran has no obligation to pay a copayment for the first 21 days of extended care services that VA provided the veteran in any 12-month period (the 12-month period begins on the date that VA first provided extended care services to the veteran). However, for each day that extended care services are provided beyond the first 21 days, a veteran is obligated to pay VA the copayment amount set forth below to the extent the veteran has available resources. Available resources are based on monthly calculations, as determined under paragraph (d) of this section. The following sets forth the extended care services provided by VA and the corresponding copayment amount per day: 


(i) Adult day health care—$15. 


(ii) Domiciliary care—$5. 


(iii) Institutional respite care—$97. 


(iv) Institutional geriatric evaluation—$97. 


(v) Non-institutional geriatric evaluation—$15. 


(vi) Non-institutional respite care—$15. 


(vii) Nursing home care—$97. 


(2) For purposes of counting the number of days for which a veteran is obligated to make a copayment under this section, VA will count each day that adult day health care, non-institutional geriatric evaluation, and non-institutional respite care are provided and will count each full day and partial day for each inpatient stay except for the day of discharge. 


(3) For hospital care and medical services considered non-institutional care furnished through the Veterans Choice Program under §§ 17.1500 through 17.1540, as well as extended care services furnished through the Veterans Community Care Program under §§ 17.4000 through 17.4040, the copayment amount at the time of furnishing such care or services by a non-VA entity or provider is $0. VA will determine and assess the veteran's copayment amount at the end of the billing process, but at no time will a veteran's copayment be more than the amount identified in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section.


(c) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section: 


(1) *Adult day health care* is a therapeutic outpatient care program that provides medical services, rehabilitation, therapeutic activities, socialization, nutrition and transportation services to disabled veterans in a congregate setting. 


(2) *Domiciliary care* is defined in § 17.30(b). 


(3) *Extended care services* means adult day health care, domiciliary care, institutional geriatric evaluation, noninstitutional geriatric evaluation, nursing home care, institutional respite care, and noninstitutional respite care. 


(4) *Geriatric evaluation* is a specialized, diagnostic/consultative service provided by an interdisciplinary team that is for the purpose of providing a comprehensive assessment, care plan, and extended care service recommendations. 


(5) *Institutional* means a setting in a hospital, domiciliary, or nursing home of overnight stays of one or more days. 


(6) *Noninstitutional* means a service that does not include an overnight stay. 


(7) *Nursing home care* means the accommodation of convalescents or other persons who are not acutely ill and not in need of hospital care, but who require nursing care and related medical services, if such nursing care and medical services are prescribed by, or are performed under the general direction of, persons duly licensed to provide such care (nursing services must be provided 24 hours a day). Such term includes services furnished in skilled nursing care facilities. Such term excludes hospice care. 


(8) *Respite care* means care which is of limited duration, is furnished on an intermittent basis to a veteran who is suffering from a chronic illness and who resides primarily at home, and is furnished for the purpose of helping the veteran to continue residing primarily at home. (Respite providers temporarily replace the caregivers to provide services ranging from supervision to skilled care needs.) 


(d) *Effect of the veteran's financial resources on obligation to pay copayment.* (1) A veteran is obligated to pay the copayment to the extent the veteran and the veteran's spouse have available resources. For veterans who have been receiving extended care services for 180 days or less, their available resources are the sum of the income of the veteran and the veteran's spouse, minus the sum of the veterans allowance, the spousal allowance, and expenses. For veterans who have been receiving extended care services for 181 days or more, their available resources are the sum of the value of the liquid assets, the fixed assets, and the income of the veteran and the veteran's spouse, minus the sum of the veterans allowance, the spousal allowance, the spousal resource protection amount, and (but only if the veteran—has a spouse or dependents residing in the community who is not institutionalized) expenses. When a veteran is legally separated from a spouse, available resources do not include spousal income, expenses, and assets or a spousal allowance.


(2) For purposes of determining available resources under this section:


(i) *Income* means current income (including, but not limited to, wages and income from a business (minus business expenses), bonuses, tips, severance pay, accrued benefits, cash gifts, inheritance amounts, interest income, standard dividend income from non tax deferred annuities, retirement income, pension income, unemployment payments, worker's compensation payments, black lung payments, tort settlement payments, social security payments, court mandated payments, payments from VA or any other Federal programs, and any other income). The amount of current income will be stated in frequency of receipt, e.g., per week, per month.


(ii) *Expenses* means basic subsistence expenses, including current expenses for the following: rent/mortgage for primary residence; vehicle payment for one vehicle; food for veteran, veteran's spouse, and veteran's dependents; education for veteran, veteran's spouse, and veteran's dependents; court-ordered payments of veteran or veteran's spouse (e.g., alimony, child-support); and including the average monthly expenses during the past year for the following: utilities and insurance for the primary residence; out-of-pocket medical care costs not otherwise covered by health insurance; health insurance premiums for the veteran, veteran's spouse, and veteran's dependents; and taxes paid on income and personal property.


(iii) *Fixed Assets* means:


(A) Real property and other non-liquid assets; except that this does not include—


(*1*) Burial plots;


(*2*) A residence if the residence is:


(*i*) The primary residence of the veteran and the veteran is receiving only noninstitutional extended care service; or


(*ii*) The primary residence of the veteran's spouse or the veteran's dependents (if the veteran does not have a spouse) if the veteran is receiving institutional extended care service.


(*3*) A vehicle if the vehicle is:


(*i*) The vehicle of the veteran and the veteran is receiving only noninstitutional extended care service; or


(*ii*) The vehicle of the veteran's spouse or the veteran's dependents (if the veteran does not have a spouse) if the veteran is receiving institutional extended care service.


(B) [Reserved]


(iv) *Liquid assets* means cash, stocks, dividends received from IRA, 401K's and other tax deferred annuities, bonds, mutual funds, retirement accounts (e.g., IRA, 401Ks, annuities), art, rare coins, stamp collections, and collectibles of the veteran, spouse, and dependents. This includes household and personal items (e.g., furniture, clothing, and jewelry) except when the veteran's spouse or dependents are living in the community.


(v) *Spousal allowance* is an allowance of $20 per day that is included only if the spouse resides in the community (not institutionalized).


(vi) *Spousal resource protection amount* means the value of liquid assets equal to the Maximum Community Spouse Resource Standard published by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) as of January 1 of the current calendar year if the spouse is residing in the community (not institutionalized).


(vii) *Veterans allowance* is an allowance of $20 per day.


(3) The maximum amount of a copayment for any month equals the copayment amount specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section multiplied by the number of days in the month. The copayment for any month may be less than the amount specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section if the veteran provides information in accordance with this section to establish that the copayment should be reduced or eliminated.


(e) *Requirement to submit information.* (1) Unless exempted under paragraph (f) of this section, a veteran must submit to a VA medical facility a completed VA Form 10-10EC and documentation requested by the Form at the following times:


(i) At the time of initial request for an episode of extended care services;


(ii) At the time of request for extended care services after a break in provision of extended care services for more than 30 days; and


(iii) Each year at the time of submission to VA of VA Form 10-10EZ.


(2) When there are changes that might change the copayment obligation (*i.e.,* changes regarding marital status, fixed assets, liquid assets, expenses, income (when received), or whether the veteran has a spouse or dependents residing in the community), the veteran must report those changes to a VA medical facility within 10 days of the change.


(f) *Veterans and care that are not subject to the copayment requirements.* The following veterans and care are not subject to the copayment requirements of this section:


(1) A veteran with a compensable service-connected disability.


(2) A veteran whose annual income (determined under 38 U.S.C. 1503) is less than the amount in effect under 38 U.S.C. 1521(b).


(3) Care for a veteran's noncompensable zero percent service-connected disability.


(4) An episode of extended care services that began on or before November 30, 1999.


(5) Care authorized under 38 U.S.C. 1710(e) for Vietnam-era herbicide-exposed veterans, radiation-exposed veterans, Persian Gulf War veterans,post-Persian Gulf War combat-exposed veterans, or Camp Lejeune veterans pursuant to § 17.400.


(6) Care for treatment of sexual trauma as authorized under 38 U.S.C. 1720D.


(7) Care or services authorized under 38 U.S.C. 1720E for certain veterans regarding cancer of the head or neck.


(8) A veteran who VA determines to be catastrophically disabled, as defined in 38 CFR 17.36(e), is exempt from copayments for adult day health care, non-institutional respite care, and non-institutional geriatric care.


(9) A veteran receiving care for psychosis or a mental illness other than psychosis pursuant to § 17.109.


(10) A veteran who was awarded the Medal of Honor.




(11) A veteran who meets the definition of Indian or urban Indian, as defined in 25 U.S.C. 1603(13) and (28), is exempt from copayments for noninstitutional extended care including adult day health care, noninstitutional respite care, and noninstitutional geriatric evaluation provided on or after January 5, 2022. To demonstrate that they meet the definition of Indian or urban Indian, the veteran must submit to VA any of the documentation described in paragraphs (f)(11)(i) through (vi) of this section:


(i) Documentation issued by a federally recognized Indian Tribe that shows that the veteran is a member of the Tribe;


(ii) Documentation showing that the veteran, irrespective of whether they live on or near a reservation, is a member of a Tribe, band, or other organized group of Indians, including those tribes, bands, or groups terminated since 1940 and those recognized now or in the future by the State in which they reside, or who is a descendant, in the first or second degree, of any such member;


(iii) Documentation showing that the veteran is an Eskimo or Aleut or other Alaska Native;


(iv) Documentation issued by the Department of Interior (DOI) showing that the veteran is considered by DOI to be an Indian for any purpose;


(v) Documentation showing that the veteran is considered by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to be an Indian under that Department's regulations; or


(vi) Documentation showing that the veteran resides in an urban center and meets one or more of the following criteria:


(A) Irrespective of whether they live on or near a reservation, is a member of a Tribe, band, or other organized group of Indians, including those tribes, bands, or groups terminated since 1940 and those recognized now or in the future by the State in which they reside, or who is a descendant, in the first or second degree, of any such member;


(B) Is an Eskimo or Aleut or other Alaska Native;


(C) Is considered by DOI to be an Indian for any purpose; or


(D) Is considered by HHS to be an Indian under that Department's regulations.




(g) *Retroactive copayment reimbursement.* After VA determines the submitted documentation meets paragraph (f)(11) of this section and updates the veteran's record to reflect the veteran's status as an Indian or urban Indian, VA will reimburse veterans exempt under paragraph (f)(11) for any copayments that were paid to VA for adult day health care, non-institutional respite care, and non-institutional geriatric evaluation provided on or after January 5, 2022, if they would have been exempt from making such copayments if paragraph (f)(11) had been in effect.





---

[N] [67 FR 35040, May 17, 2002, as amended at 69 FR 39846, July 1, 2004; 76 FR 52274, Aug. 22, 2011; 78 FR 28143, May 14, 2013; 78 FR 70864, Nov. 27, 2013; 79 FR 57414, Sept. 24, 2014; 79 FR 65585, Nov. 5, 2014; 84 FR 7815, Mar. 5, 2019; 84 FR 26307, June 5, 2019; 88 FR 19872, Apr. 4, 2023; 88 FR 21478, Apr. 11, 2023]




