# § 232.717   Freight and passenger train car brakes.

(a) *Testing and repairing brakes on cars while on shop or repair tracks.*

(1) When a freight car having brake equipment due for periodic attention is on shop or repair tracks where facilities are available for making air brake repairs, brake equipment must be given attention in accordance with the requirements of Rules 3 and 4 of the 2020 Field Manual of the AAR Interchange Rules (AAR Field Manual); or an alternative procedure approved by FRA under paragraph (d) of this section. Brake equipment shall then be tested by use of a single car testing device as prescribed by § 232.305.


(2)(i) When a freight car having an air brake defect is on a shop or repair track, brake equipment must be tested by use of a single car testing device as prescribed by § 232.305.


(ii) All freight cars on shop or repair tracks shall be tested to determine that the air brakes apply and release. Piston travel on a standard body mounted brake cylinder which is less than 7 inches or more than 9 inches must be adjusted to nominally 7 inches. Piston travel of brake cylinders on all freight cars equipped with other than standard single capacity brake, must be adjusted as indicated on badge plate or stenciling on car located in a conspicuous place near brake cylinder. After piston travel has been adjusted and with brakes released, sufficient brake shoe clearance must be provided.


(iii) When a car equipped for use in passenger train service not due for periodical air brake repairs, as indicated by stenciled or recorded cleaning dates, is on shop or repair tracks, brake equipment must be tested by use of single car testing device as prescribed by the applicable standards referenced in § 232.305 or by the American Public Transportation Association (APTA) standard referenced in § 238.311(a) of this chapter. Piston travel of brake cylinders must be adjusted if required, to the standard travel for that type of brake cylinder. After piston travel has been adjusted and with brakes released, sufficient brake shoe clearance must be provided.


(iv) Before a car is released from a shop or repair track, it must be known that brake pipe is securely clamped, angle cocks in proper position with suitable clearance, valves, reservoirs and cylinders tight on supports and supports securely attached to car.


(b) *Clean, repair, lubricate and test (COT&S).* (1) Brake equipment on cars other than passenger cars must be cleaned, repaired, lubricated and tested (“COT&S”) as often as required to maintain it in a safe and suitable condition for service but not less frequently than as required by Rules 3 and 4 of the AAR Field Manual.


(2) Brake equipment on passenger cars must be cleaned, repaired, lubricated and tested (“COT&S”) as often as necessary to maintain it in a safe and suitable condition for service but not less frequently than as required in Standard S-4045-13 in the Manual of Standards and Recommended Practices of the AAR or an alternative procedure approved by FRA pursuant to § 232.717(d).


(c) *Discontinued brake systems.* For a brake system once, but no longer, included in AAR's current Code of Rules or Code of Tests (presently known as the Field Manual of the AAR Interchange Rules or the Manual of Standards and Recommended Practices), the brake system must be maintained in a safe and suitable condition for service according to a railroad's written maintenance plan. The maintenance plan, including its COT&S component and a periodic attention schedule, must be based upon a standard appropriate to the equipment. The railroad must comply with and make its written maintenance plan available to FRA upon request.


(d) *Modification of standards.* The AAR or other authorized representative of the railroad industry may seek modification of the industry standards identified in or approved pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. The request for modification will be handled and must be submitted in accordance with the modification procedures contained in § 232.307 of this part.


(e) *Incorporation by Reference.* The Director of the Federal Register approves the incorporation by reference of the standards required in this section into this section in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may inspect a copy of the material at the Federal Railroad Administration, Docket Clerk, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20590 (telephone: 855-368-4200). You may also inspect the material at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email *fedreg.legal@nara.gov,* or go to: *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.* You may obtain the material from the following source(s):


(1) Association of American Railroads (AAR), 425 Third Street SW, Washington, DC 20024, telephone: (202) 639-2345, email: *publications@aar.com,* website: *https://aarpublications.com.*

(i) 2020 Field Manual of the AAR Interchange Rules, Rule 3—Testing of Air Brakes and Rule 4—Air Brake Valves and Parts, effective January 1, 2020.


(ii) AAR Standard S-4045, “Passenger Equipment Maintenance Requirements,” Revised 2013 (contained in AAR Manual of Standards and Recommended Practices, Brakes and Brake Equipment), also referred to as AAR Standard S-4045-13.


(2) [Reserved]




