# § 63.7334   How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the work practice standards that apply to me?

(a) For each by-product coke oven battery with vertical flues subject to the work practice standards for fugitive pushing emissions in § 63.7291(a), you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section: 


(1) Observe and record the opacity of fugitive emissions for four consecutive pushes per operating day, except you may make fewer or non-consecutive observations as permitted by § 63.7291(a)(3). Maintain records of the pushing schedule for each oven and records indicating the legitimate operational reason for any change in the pushing schedule according to § 63.7291(a)(4). 


(2) Observe and record the opacity of fugitive emissions from each oven in a battery at least once every 90 days. If an oven cannot be observed during a 90-day period, observe and record the opacity of the first push of that oven following the close of the 90-day period that can be read in accordance with the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section. 




(3) Make all observations and calculations for opacity observations of fugitive pushing emissions in accordance with Method 9 in appendix A-4 to 40 CFR part 60 using a Method 9 certified observer unless you have an approved alternative procedure under paragraph (a)(7) of this section. Alternatively, ASTM D7520-16, (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) may be used with the following conditions:


(i) During the digital camera opacity technique (DCOT) certification procedure outlined in section 9.2 of ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), the owner or operator or the DCOT vendor must present the plumes in front of various backgrounds of color and contrast representing conditions anticipated during field use such as blue sky, trees, and mixed backgrounds (clouds and/or a sparse tree stand).


(ii) The owner or operator must also have standard operating procedures in place including daily or other frequency quality checks to ensure the equipment is within manufacturing specifications as outlined in section 8.1 of ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).


(iii) The owner or operator must follow the recordkeeping procedures outlined in § 63.10(b)(1) for the DCOT certification, compliance report, data sheets, and all raw unaltered JPEGs used for opacity and certification determination.


(iv) The owner or operator or the DCOT vendor must have a minimum of four independent technology users apply the software to determine the visible opacity of the 300 certification plumes. For each set of 25 plumes, the user may not exceed 15 percent opacity of anyone reading and the average error must not exceed 7.5 percent opacity.


(v) Use of this approved alternative does not provide or imply a certification or validation of any vendor's hardware or software. The onus to maintain and verify the certification and/or training of the DCOT camera, software, and operator in accordance with ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) and these requirements is on the facility, DCOT operator, and DCOT vendor.


(4) Record pushing opacity observations at 15-second intervals as required in section 2.4 of Method 9 in appendix A-4 to 40 CFR part 60. The requirement in section 2.4 of Method 9 for a minimum of 24 observations does not apply, and the data reduction requirements in section 2.5 of Method 9 do not apply. The requirement in § 63.6(h)(5)(ii)(B) for obtaining at least 3 hours of observations (thirty 6-minute averages) to demonstrate initial compliance does not apply. Alternatively, ASTM D7520-16, (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) may be used with the following conditions:


(i) During the digital camera opacity technique (DCOT) certification procedure outlined in section 9.2 of ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), the owner or operator or the DCOT vendor must present the plumes in front of various backgrounds of color and contrast representing conditions anticipated during field use such as blue sky, trees, and mixed backgrounds (clouds and/or a sparse tree stand).


(ii) The owner or operator must also have standard operating procedures in place including daily or other frequency quality checks to ensure the equipment is within manufacturing specifications as outlined in section 8.1 of ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).


(iii) The owner or operator must follow the recordkeeping procedures outlined in § 63.10(b)(1) for the DCOT certification, compliance report, data sheets, and all raw unaltered JPEGs used for opacity and certification determination.


(iv) The owner or operator or the DCOT vendor must have a minimum of four independent technology users apply the software to determine the visible opacity of the 300 certification plumes. For each set of 25 plumes, the user may not exceed 15 percent opacity of anyone reading and the average error must not exceed 7.5 percent opacity.


(v) Use of this approved alternative does not provide or imply a certification or validation of any vendor's hardware or software. The onus to maintain and verify the certification and/or training of the DCOT camera, software, and operator in accordance with ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) and these requirements is on the facility, DCOT operator, and DCOT vendor.














(5) If fewer than six but at least four 15-second observations can be made, use the average of the total number of observations to calculate average opacity for the push. Missing one or more observations during the push (*e.g.,* as the quench car passes behind a building) does not invalidate the observations before or after the interference for that push. However, a minimum of four 15-second readings must be made for a valid observation. 


(6) Begin observations for a push at the first detectable movement of the coke mass. End observations of a push when the quench car enters the quench tower. 


(i) For a battery without a cokeside shed, observe fugitive pushing emissions from a position at least 10 meters from the quench car that provides an unobstructed view and avoids interferences from the topside of the battery. This may require the observer to be positioned at an angle to the quench car rather than perpendicular to it. Typical interferences to avoid include emissions from open standpipes and charging. Observe the opacity of emissions above the battery top with the sky as the background where possible. Record the oven number of any push not observed because of obstructions or interferences. 


(ii) For a battery with a cokeside shed, the observer must be in a position that provides an unobstructed view and avoids interferences from the topside of the battery. Typical interferences to avoid include emissions from open standpipes and charging. Observations must include any fugitive emissions that escape from the top of the shed, from the ends of the shed, or from the area where the shed is joined to the battery. If the observer does not have a clear view to identify when a push starts or ends, a second person can be positioned to signal the start or end of the push and notify the observer when to start or end the observations. Radio communications with other plant personnel (*e.g.,* pushing ram operator or quench car operator) may also serve to notify the observer of the start or end of a push. Record the oven number of any push not observed because of obstructions or interferences. 


(iii) You may reposition after the push to observe emissions during travel if necessary. 


(7) If it is infeasible to implement the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section for an oven due to physical obstructions, nighttime pushes, or other reasons, you may apply to your permitting authority for permission to use an alternative procedure. The application must provide a detailed explanation of why it is infeasible to use the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section, identify the oven and battery numbers, and describe the alternative procedure. An alternative procedure must identify whether the coke in that oven is not completely coked, either before, during, or after an oven is pushed. 


(8) For each oven observed that exceeds an opacity of 30 percent for any short battery or 35 percent for any tall battery, you must take corrective action and/or increase the coking time in accordance with § 63.7291(a). Maintain records documenting conformance with the requirements in § 63.7291(a). 


(b) For each by-product coke oven battery with horizontal flues subject to the work practice standards for fugitive pushing emissions in § 63.7292(a), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by having met the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section: 


(1) Measuring and recording the temperature of all flues on two ovens per day within 2 hours before the oven's scheduled pushing time and ensuring that the temperature of each oven is measured and recorded at least once every month; 


(2) Recording the time each oven is charged and pushed and calculating and recording the net coking time for each oven; and 


(3) Increasing the coking time for each oven that falls below the minimum flue temperature trigger established for that oven's coking time in the written plan required in § 63.7292(a)(1), assigning the oven to the oven-directed program, and recording all relevant information according to the requirements in § 63.7292(a)(4) including, but not limited to, daily pushing schedules, diagnostic procedures, corrective actions, and oven repairs. 


(c) For each nonrecovery coke oven battery subject to the work practice standards in § 63.7293(a), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by maintaining records that document each visual inspection of an oven prior to pushing and that the oven was not pushed unless there was no smoke in the open space above the coke bed and there was an unobstructed view of the door on the opposite side of the oven.




(d) For each by-product coke oven battery subject to the work practice standard for soaking in § 63.7294(a), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by maintaining records that document conformance with requirements in § 63.7294(a)(1) through (5). 


(e) For each coke oven battery subject to the work practice standard for quenching in § 63.7295(b), you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to the requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section: 


(1) Maintaining baffles in each quench tower such that no more than 5 percent of the cross-sectional area of the tower is uncovered or open to the sky as required in § 63.7295(b)(1); 


(2) Maintaining records that document conformance with the washing, inspection, and repair requirements in § 63.7295(b)(2), including records of the ambient temperature on any day that the baffles were not washed; and 


(3) Maintaining records of the source of makeup water to document conformance with the requirement for acceptable makeup water in § 63.7295(a)(2). 









---

[N] [68 FR 18025, Apr. 14, 2003, as amended at 89 FR 55752, July 5, 2024]






