# § 129.9   Contents of operations specifications.

(a) The contents of operations specifications issued to a foreign air carrier conducting operations within the United States under § 129.1(a) shall include:


(1) The specific location and mailing address of the applicant's principal place of business in the State of the Operator and, if different, the address that will serve as the primary point of contact for correspondence between the FAA and the foreign air carrier;


(2) Within 1 year after February 10, 2011, the designation of an agent for service within the United States, including the agent's full name and office address or usual place of residence;


(3) The certificate number and validity of the foreign air carrier's air operator certificate;


(4) Each regular and alternate airport to be used in scheduled operations;


(5) The type of aircraft and registration markings of each aircraft;


(6) The approved maintenance program and minimum equipment list for United States registered aircraft authorized for use; and


(7) Any other item the Administrator determines is necessary.


(b) The contents of operations specifications issued to a foreign air carrier or foreign person operating U.S.-registered aircraft solely outside the United States in common carriage in accordance with § 129.1(b) shall include—


(1) The specific location and mailing address of the principal place of business in the State of the Operator and, if different, the address that will serve as the primary point of contact for correspondence between the FAA and the foreign air carrier or foreign person;


(2) Within 1 year after February 10, 2011, the designation of an agent for service within the United States, including the agent's full name and office address or usual place of residence;


(3) In the case of a foreign air carrier, the certificate number and validity of the foreign air carrier's air operator certificate;


(4) Any other business names under which the foreign air carrier or foreign person may operate;


(5) The type, registration markings, and serial number of each United States registered aircraft authorized for use;


(6) The approved maintenance program and minimum equipment list for United States registered aircraft authorized for use; and


(7) Any other item the Administrator determines is necessary.



---

[N] [Doc. No. FAA-2009-0140; 76 FR 7489, Feb. 10, 2011; Amdt. 129-49-A, 76 FR 15212, Mar. 21, 2011, as amended by FAA-2024-0176; Amdt. No. 129-55, 89 FR 101880, Dec. 17, 2024]




