# ยง 60.431   Definitions and notations.

(a) All terms used in this subpart that are not defined below have the meaning given to them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.


*Automatic temperature compensator* means a device that continuously senses the temperature of fluid flowing through a metering device and automatically adjusts the registration of the measured volume to the corrected equivalent volume at a base temperature.


*Base temperature* means an arbitrary reference temperature for determining liquid densities or adjusting the measured volume of a liquid quantity.


*Density* means the mass of a unit volume of liquid, expressed as grams per cubic centimeter, kilograms per liter, or pounds per gallon, at a specified temperature.


*Gravure cylinder* means a printing cylinder with an intaglio image consisting of minute cells or indentations specially engraved or etched into the cylinder's surface to hold ink when continuously revolved through a fountain of ink.


*Performance averaging period* means 30 calendar days, one calendar month, or four consecutive weeks as specified in sections of this subpart.


*Proof press* means any device used only to check the quality of the image formation of newly engraved or etched gravure cylinders and prints only non-saleable items.


*Publication rotogravure printing press* means any number of rotogravure printing units capable of printing simultaneously on the same continuous web or substrate and includes any associated device for continuously cutting and folding the printed web, where the following saleable paper products are printed:


*Raw ink* means all purchased ink.


*Related coatings* means all non-ink purchased liquids and liquid-solid mixtures containing VOC solvent, usually referred to as extenders or varnishes, that are used at publication rotogravure printing presses.


*Rotogravure printing unit* means any device designed to print one color ink on one side of a continuous web or substrate using a gravure cylinder.


*Solvent-borne ink systems* means ink and related coating mixtures whose volatile portion consists essentially of VOC solvent with not more than five weight percent water, as applied to the gravure cylinder.


*Solvent recovery system* means an air pollution control system by which VOC solvent vapors in air or other gases are captured and directed through a condenser(s) or a vessel(s) containing beds of activated carbon or other adsorbents. For the condensation method, the solvent is recovered directly from the condenser. For the adsorption method, the vapors are adsorbed, then desorbed by steam or other media, and finally condensed and recovered.


*VOC* means volatile organic compound.


*VOC solvent* means an organic liquid or liquid mixture consisting of VOC components.


*Waterborne ink systems* means ink and related coating mixtures whose volatile portion consists of a mixture of VOC solvent and more than five weight percent water, as applied to the gravure cylinder.


(b) Symbols used in this subpart are defined as follows:


(c) The following subscripts are used in this subpart with the above symbols to denote the applicable facility:



---

[N] [47 FR 50649, Nov. 8, 1982, as amended at 65 FR 61761, Oct. 17, 2000]




