# § 147.1600   State-administered program—Class II wells.

The UIC program for Class II wells in the State of New Mexico, except for those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the New Mexico Energy and Minerals Department, Oil Conservation Division, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1425 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the _Federal Register_ on February 5, 1982 (47 FR 5412); the effective date of this program is March 7, 1982. This program consists of the following elements as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:


(a) *Incorporation by reference.* The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of New Mexico. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.


(1) Oil and Gas Act, New Mexico Statutes Annotated sections 70-2-1 through -36 (1978);


(2) *State of New Mexico Energy and Mineral Department, Oil Conservation Division—Rules and Regulations* (dated 10-1-78), sections B-3, I-701 through I-708, M-1100 through M-1121.


(b)(1) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region VI and the New Mexico Energy and Minerals Department, Oil Conservation Division, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on December 10, 1981;


(2) Addendum No. 1 to the Memorandum of Agreement, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on June 28, 1982;


(3) Addendum No. 2 to the Memorandum of Agreement, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on November 18, 1982;


(4) Letter from Director, Oil Conservation Division, New Mexico Energy and Minerals Department, and Assistant Attorney General of New Mexico, to Regional Administrator, EPA Region VI, November 6, 1981.


(c) *Statement of legal authority.* “Statement of Legal Authority of the State of New Mexico by and through its Oil Conservation Division of the Energy and Mines Department to conduct an Underground Injection Control Program,” signed by Assistant Attorney General and General Counsel to the Oil Conservation Division.


(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.



---

[N] [49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43089, Oct. 25, 1988]




