# § 882.802   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions set forth in 24 CFR part 5 and § 882.102 (except for the definition of “*Single Room Occupancy (SRO) Housing*” therein) the following will apply: 


*Agreement to enter into housing assistance payments contract (Agreement).* A written agreement between the owner and the HA that, upon satisfactory completion of the rehabilitation in accordance with requirements specified in the Agreement, the HA will enter into a housing assistance payments contract with the owner. 


*Applicant.* A public housing agency or Indian housing authority (collectively referred to as HAs), or a private nonprofit organization that applies for assistance under this program. HUD will require private nonprofit applicants to subcontract with public housing agencies to administer their rental assistance. 


*Covered housing provider.* For the Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation Single Room Occupancy Program for Homeless Individuals, “covered housing provider,” as such term is used in HUD's regulations in 24 CFR part 5, subpart L (Protection for Victims of Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking), refers to the owner.


*Eligible individual (“individual”).* An individual who is capable of independent living and is authorized for admission to assisted housing under 24 CFR part 5.


*Homeless individual.* An individual as described in section 103 of the McKinney Act (42 U.S.C. 11302). 


*McKinney Act.* The Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11301 *et seq.*). 


*Moderate rehabilitation.* Rehabilitation involving a minimum expenditure of $3,000 for a unit, including its prorated share of work to be accomplished on common areas or systems, to upgrade to decent, safe, and sanitary condition to comply with the Housing Quality Standards or other standards approved by HUD, from a condition below those standards (improvements being of a modest nature and other than routine maintenance). 


*Private nonprofit organization.* An organization, no part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor, or individual. The organization must: 


(1) Have a voluntary board; 


(2) Have a functioning accounting system that is operated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or designate an entity that will maintain a functioning accounting system for the organization in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; and 


(3) Practice nondiscrimination in the provision of assistance. 


*Single room occupancy (SRO) housing.* A unit for occupancy by one person, which need not but may contain food preparation, sanitary facilities, or both. 


*Statement of individual responsibility.* An agreement, in the form prescribed by HUD, between the HA and an individual to be assisted under the program, stating the obligations and responsibilities of the two parties. 



---

[N] [61 FR 48057, Sept. 11, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 23855, Apr. 30, 1998; 81 FR 80812, Nov. 16, 2016]




