# ยง 1986.101   Definitions.

As used in this part:


(a) *Act* means the Seaman's Protection Act (SPA), 46 U.S.C. 2114, as amended.


(b) *Assistant Secretary* means the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health or the person or persons to whom he or she delegates authority under the Act.


(c) *Business days* means days other than Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays.


(d) *Citizen of the United States* means an individual who is a national of the United States as defined in section 101(a)(22) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 (a)(22)); a corporation incorporated under the laws of the United States or a State; a corporation, partnership, association, or other business entity if the controlling interest is owned by citizens of the United States or whose principal place of business or base of operations is in a State; or a governmental entity of the Federal Government of the United States, of a State, or of a political subdivision of a State. The controlling interest in a corporation is owned by citizens of the United States if a majority of the stockholders are citizens of the United States.


(e) *Complainant* means the seaman who filed a SPA whistleblower complaint or on whose behalf a complaint was filed.


(f) *Cooperated* means any assistance or participation with an investigation, at any stage of the investigation, and regardless of the outcome of the investigation.


(g) *Maritime safety law or regulation* includes any statute or regulation regarding health or safety that applies to any person or equipment on a vessel.


(h) *Notify* or *notified* includes any oral or written communications.


(i) *OSHA* means the Occupational Safety and Health Administration of the United States Department of Labor.


(j) *Person* means one or more individuals or other entities, including but not limited to corporations, companies, associations, firms, partnerships, societies, and joint stock companies.


(k) *Report* or *reported* means any oral or written communications.


(l) *Respondent* means the person alleged to have violated 46 U.S.C. 2114.


(m) *Seaman* means any individual engaged or employed in any capacity on board a U.S.-flag vessel or any other vessel owned by a citizen of the United States, except members of the Armed Forces. The term includes an individual formerly performing the work described above or an applicant for such work.


(n) *Secretary* means the Secretary of Labor or persons to whom authority under the Act has been delegated.


(o) *State* means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, and the Northern Mariana Islands.


(p) *Vessel* means every description of watercraft or other artificial contrivance used, or capable of being used, as a means of transportation on water.


(q) *Vessel owner* includes all of the agents of the owner, including the vessel's master.


(r) Any future amendments to SPA that affect the definition of a term or terms listed in this section will apply in lieu of the definition stated herein.




