# ยง 225.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this part:


*Agency* means a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government.


*Authenticate instructions* means to verify that the instructions received are from a bond official.


*Bearer* means that ownership of a Government obligation is not recorded. Title to such an obligation passes by delivery without endorsement and without notice. A bearer obligation is payable on its face to the holder at either maturity or call.


*Bond* means an executed written instrument, which guarantees the fulfillment of an obligation to the United States and sets forth the terms, conditions, and stipulations of the obligation.


*Bond official* means an agency official having authority under Federal law or regulation to approve a bond with surety or sureties and to approve a bond secured by Government obligations.


*Book-entry* means that the issuance and maintenance of a Government obligation is represented by an accounting entry or electronic record and not by a certificate.


*Custodian* means a Federal Reserve Bank or an entity within the United States designated by such Federal Reserve Bank under terms and conditions prescribed by such Federal Reserve Bank, a depositary specifically designated by the Secretary of the Treasury for purposes of this part, or such other entities as the Secretary of the Treasury may designate for purposes of this part.


*Definitive* means that a Government obligation is issued in engraved or printed form.


*Depositary* includes, but is not limited to:


(1) Any insured bank as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) or any bank which is eligible to make application to become an insured bank under section 5 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1815);


(2) Any mutual savings bank as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) or any bank which is eligible to make application to become an insured bank under section 5 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1815);


(3) Any savings bank as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) or any bank which is eligible to make application to become an insured bank under section 5 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1815);


(4) Any insured credit union as defined in section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752) or any credit union which is eligible to make application to become an insured credit union under section 201 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1781);


(5) Any savings association as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) which is an insured depository institution (as defined in such Act) (12 U.S.C. 1811 *et seq.*) or is eligible to apply to become an insured depository institution under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811 *et seq.*); and


(6) Any agency or branch of a foreign bank as defined in section 1(b) of the International Banking Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 3101).


*Federal Reserve* means a Federal Reserve Bank and its branches.


*Government obligation* means a public debt obligation of the United States Government and an obligation whose principal and interest is unconditionally guaranteed by the United States Government.


*Obligor* includes, but is not limited to, an individual, a trust, an estate, a partnership, a corporation, and a sole proprietor.


*Officer authorized to certify assignment* means the individual identified as a certifying individual at part 306, subpart F of this title.


*Person* means an individual, a trust, an estate, a partnership, and a corporation.


*Pledge* means a transfer of security interest in a Government obligation to a bond official's agency as collateral in lieu of a bond with a surety or sureties.


*Procedural instructions* means the Treasury Financial Manual, as amended, published by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service.


*Registered* means that ownership of a definitive Government obligation is listed in the issuer's records, and that the obligation is payable at maturity or call to the person in whose name the obligation is inscribed or to that person's assignee.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Treasury.




