# § 416.1166a   How we deem income to you from your sponsor if you are an alien.

Before we deem your sponsor's income to you if you are an alien, we determine how much earned and unearned income your sponsor has under § 416.1161(b). We then deduct allocations for the sponsor and the sponsor's dependents. This is an amount equal to the Federal benefit rate for an individual for the sponsor (or for each sponsor even if two sponsors are married to each other and living together) plus an amount equal to one-half the Federal benefit rate for an eligible individual for each dependent of the sponsor. An ineligible dependent's income is not subtracted from the sponsor's dependent's allocation. We deem the balance of the income to be your unearned income.


(a) *If you are the only alien applying for or already eligible for SSI benefits who has income deemed to you from your sponsor.* If you are the only alien who is applying for or already eligible for SSI benefits and who is sponsored by your sponsor, all the deemed income is your unearned income.


(b) *If you are not the only alien who is applying for or already eligible for SSI benefits and who has income deemed from your sponsor.* If you and other aliens applying for or already eligible for SSI benefits are sponsored by the same sponsor, we deem the income to each of you as though you were the only alien sponsored by that person. The income deemed to you becomes your unearned income.


(c) *When you are an alien and income is no longer deemed from your sponsor.* If you are an alien and have had your sponsor's income deemed to you, we stop deeming the income with the month in which the third anniversary of your admission into the United States occurs.


(d) *When sponsor deeming rules do not apply to you if you are an alien.* If you are an alien, we do not apply the sponsor deeming rules to you if—


(1) *You are a refugee.* You are a refugee admitted to the United States as the result of application of one of three sections of the Immigration and Nationality Act: (1) Section 203(a)(7), effective before April 1, 1980; (2) Section 207(c)(1), effective after March 31, 1980; or (3) Section 212(d)(5);


(2) *You have been granted asylum.* You have been granted political asylum by the Attorney General of the United States; or


(3) *You become blind or disabled.* If you become blind or disabled as defined in § 416.901 (at any age) after your admission to the United States, we do not deem your sponsor's income to you to determine your eligibility for SSI benefits beginning with the month in which your disability or blindness begins. However, to determine your benefit payment, we follow the rule in § 416.420 of counting your income in the second month prior to the current month.


(e) *Examples.* These examples show how we deem a sponsor's income to an eligible individual who is an alien when none of the exceptions in § 416.1160(b)(2) applies. The income, income exclusions, and the benefit rates are in monthly amounts. The Federal benefit rates are those effective January 1, 1986.



---

[N] [52 FR 8887, Mar. 20, 1987]




