# ยง 2402.5   Responses to requests.

(a) *In general.* In determining which records are responsive to a request, OSTP will ordinarily include only records in its possession as of the date it begins its search for records. If any other date is used, OSTP shall inform the requester of that date.


(b) *Authority to grant or deny requests.* OSTP shall make initial determinations to grant or deny, in whole or in part, a request for records.


(c) *Granting of requests.* When OSTP determines that any responsive records shall be made available, OSTP shall notify the requester in writing and provide copies of the requested records in whole or in part. Records disclosed in part shall be marked or annotated to show the exemption(s) applied to the withheld information and the amount of information withheld unless doing so would harm the interest protected by an applicable exemption. If a requested record contains exempted material along with nonexempt material, all reasonably segregable material shall be disclosed.


(d) *Adverse determinations.* If OSTP makes an adverse determination denying a request in any respect, it must notify the requester of that adverse determination in writing. Adverse determinations include decisions that: The requested record is exempt from disclosure, in whole or in part; the request does not reasonably describe the records sought, but only if, after discussion with the FOIA Public Liaison, the requester refuses to modify the terms of the request; the information requested is not a record subject to the FOIA; the requested record does not exist, cannot be located, or has been destroyed; or the requested record is not readily reproducible in the form or format sought by the requester; denials involving fees or fee waiver matters; and denials of requests for expedited processing.


(e) *Content of adverse determinations.* Any adverse determination issued by OSTP must include:


(1) A brief statement of the reason(s) for the adverse determination, including any FOIA exemption applied by the agency in denying access to a record unless such inclusion would harm the interest protected by an applicable exemption;


(2) An estimate of the volume of any records or information withheld, such as the number of pages or other reasonable form of estimation, although such an estimate is not required if the volume is otherwise indicated by deletions marked on records that are disclosed in part or if providing an estimate would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption;


(3) A statement that the adverse determination may be appealed under ยง 2402.8 of this subpart and a description of the appeal requirements; and


(4) A statement notifying the requester of the assistance available from OSTP's FOIA Public Liaison and the dispute resolution services offered by the Office of Government Information Services.


(f) *Consultations, referrals, and coordinations.* When OSTP receives a request for a record in its possession, it shall determine whether another agency of the Federal Government is better able to determine whether the record is exempt from disclosure under the FOIA and, if so, whether it should be disclosed as a matter of administrative discretion. If OSTP determines that it is best able to process the record in response to the request, then it shall do so. If OSTP determines that it is not best able to process the record, then it shall proceed in one of the following ways:


(1) *Consultation.* When records originating with OSTP contain information of interest to another Federal agency, OSTP should typically consult with that Federal agency prior to making a release determination.


(2) *Referral.* (i) When OSTP believes that a different Federal agency is best able to determine whether to disclose the record, OSTP should typically refer the responsibility for responding to the request regarding that record to that agency. Ordinarily, the agency creating the record is presumed to be the agency best able to determine whether the record should be disclosed. If OSTP and another Federal agency jointly agree that the agency processing the request is in the best position to respond regarding the record, then the record may be handled as a consultation.


(ii) Whenever OSTP refers any part of the responsibility for responding to a request to another agency, OSTP must document the referral, maintain a copy of the record that it refers, and notify the requester of the referral.


(iii) After OSTP refers a record to another Federal agency, the agency receiving the referral shall make a disclosure determination and respond directly to the requester. The referral of a record is not an adverse determination and no appeal rights accrue to the requester therefrom.


(3) *Coordination.* The standard referral procedure is not appropriate where disclosure of the identity of the Federal agency to which a referral would be made could harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption, such as an exemption that protects personal privacy or national security interests. For example, if a non-law enforcement agency responding to a request for records on a living third party locates within its files records originating with a law enforcement agency, and if the existence of that law enforcement interest in the third party is not publicly known, then to disclose that law enforcement interest could cause an unwarranted invasion into the personal privacy of the third party. Similarly, if an agency locates within its files material originating with an Intelligence Community agency, and the involvement of that agency in the matter is classified and not publicly acknowledged, then to disclose or give attribution to the involvement of that Intelligence Community agency could harm national security interests. In such instances, in order to avoid harm to an interest protected by an applicable exemption, OSTP will coordinate with the agency that created the record to seek its views on disclosure of the record. OSTP will then notify the requester of the disclosure determination for the record that is the subject of the coordination.




