# § 190.61   Verification of drawback claims.

(a) *Authority.* All claims are subject to verification by CBP.


(b) *Method.* CBP personnel will verify compliance with the law and this part, the accuracy of the related general manufacturing drawback ruling or specific manufacturing drawback ruling (as applicable), and the selected drawback claims. Verification may include an examination of all records relating to the transaction(s).


(c) *Liquidation.* When a claim has been selected for verification, liquidation will be postponed only on the drawback entry for the claim selected for verification. Postponement will continue in effect until the verification has been completed and a report is issued, subject to the limitation in 19 CFR 159.12(f). In the event that a substantial error is revealed during the verification, CBP may postpone liquidation of all related product line claims, or, in CBP's discretion, all claims made by that claimant.


(d) *Errors in specific or general manufacturing drawback rulings*—(1) *Specific manufacturing drawback ruling; action by CBP.* If verification of a drawback claim filed under a specific manufacturing drawback ruling (*see* § 190.8) reveals errors or deficiencies in the drawback ruling or application therefor, the verifying CBP official will promptly inform CBP Headquarters (Attention: Entry Process and Duty Refunds Branch, Regulations and Rulings, Office of Trade).


(2) *General manufacturing drawback ruling.* If verification of a drawback claim filed under a general manufacturing drawback ruling (*see* § 190.7) reveals errors or deficiencies in a general manufacturing drawback ruling, the letter of notification of intent to operate under the general manufacturing drawback ruling, or the acknowledgment of the letter of notification of intent, the verifying CBP official will promptly inform CBP Headquarters (Attention: Entry Process and Duty Refunds Branch, Regulations and Rulings, Office of Trade).


(3) *Action by CBP Headquarters.* CBP Headquarters will review the stated errors or deficiencies and take appropriate action (*see* 19 U.S.C. 1625; 19 CFR part 177).




