# ยง 247.3   Entitlement of tenants to occupancy.

(a) *General.* The landlord may not terminate any tenancy in a subsidized project except upon the following grounds: 


(1) Material noncompliance with the rental agreement, 


(2) Material failure to carry out obligations under any state landlord and tenant act, 


(3) Criminal activity by a covered person in accordance with sections 5.858 and 5.859, or alcohol abuse by a covered person in accordance with section 5.860. If necessary, criminal records can be obtained for lease enforcement purposes under section 5.903(d)(3).


(4) Other good cause. 


(b) *Notice of good cause.* The conduct of a tenant cannot be deemed other good cause under ยง 247.3(a)(4) unless the landlord has given the tenant prior notice that said conduct shall henceforth constitute a basis for termination of occupancy. Said notice shall be served on the tenant in the same manner as that provided for termination notices in ยง 247.4(b). 


(c) *Material noncompliance.* The term *material noncompliance with the rental agreement* includes:


(1) One or more substantial violations of the rental agreement;


(2) Repeated minor violations of the rental agreement that:


(i) Disrupt the livability of the project,


(ii) Adversely affect the health or safety of any person or the right of any tenant to the quiet enjoyment of the leased premises and related project facilities,


(iii) Interfere with the management of the project, or


(iv) Have an adverse financial effect on the project;


(3) If the tenant: 


(i) Fails to supply on time all required information on the income and composition, or eligibility factors, of the tenant household, as provided in 24 CFR part 5; or 


(ii) Knowingly provides incomplete or inaccurate information as required under these provisions; and 


(4) Non-payment of rent or any other financial obligation due under the rental agreement (including any portion thereof) beyond any grace period permitted under State law, except that the payment of rent or any other financial obligation due under the rental agreement after the due date, but within the grace period permitted under State law, constitutes a minor violation.



---

[N] [41 FR 43330, Sept. 30, 1976. Redesignated at 49 FR 6713, Feb. 23, 1984, and amended at 54 FR 39697, Sept. 27, 1989; 56 FR 7531, Feb. 22, 1991; 61 FR 13624, Mar. 27, 1996; 61 FR 47382, Sept. 6, 1996; 66 FR 28797, May 24, 2001]




