# ยง 37.206   Disciplinary procedures and sanctions.

A swap execution facility shall establish trading, trade processing, and participation rules that will deter abuses and have the capacity to enforce such rules through prompt and effective disciplinary action, including suspension or expulsion of members or market participants that violate the rules of the swap execution facility.


(a) *Enforcement staff.* A swap execution facility shall establish and maintain sufficient enforcement staff and resources to effectively and promptly prosecute possible rule violations within the disciplinary jurisdiction of the swap execution facility.


(b) *Disciplinary panels.* A swap execution facility shall establish one or more disciplinary panels that are authorized to fulfill their obligations under the rules of this subpart. Disciplinary panels shall meet the composition requirements of part 40 of this chapter, and shall not include any members of the swap execution facility's compliance staff or any person involved in adjudicating any other stage of the same proceeding.


(c) *Hearings.* A swap execution facility shall adopt rules that provide for the following minimum requirements for any hearing:


(1) The hearing shall be fair, shall be conducted before members of the disciplinary panel, and shall be promptly convened after reasonable notice to the respondent; and


(2) If the respondent has requested a hearing, a copy of the hearing shall be made and shall become a part of the record of the proceeding. The record shall not be required to be transcribed unless:


(i) The transcript is requested by Commission staff or the respondent;


(ii) The decision is appealed pursuant to the rules of the swap execution facility; or


(iii) The decision is reviewed by the Commission pursuant to section 8c of the Act or part 9 of this chapter. In all other instances, a summary record of a hearing is permitted.


(d) *Decisions.* Promptly following a hearing conducted in accordance with the rules of the swap execution facility, the disciplinary panel shall render a written decision based upon the weight of the evidence contained in the record of the proceeding and shall provide a copy to the respondent. The decision shall include:


(1) The notice of charges or a summary of the charges;


(2) The answer, if any, or a summary of the answer;


(3) A summary of the evidence produced at the hearing or, where appropriate, incorporation by reference of the investigation report;


(4) A statement of findings and conclusions with respect to each charge, and a complete explanation of the evidentiary and other basis for such findings and conclusions with respect to each charge;


(5) An indication of each specific rule that the respondent was found to have violated; and


(6) A declaration of all sanctions imposed against the respondent, including the basis for such sanctions and the effective date of such sanctions.


(e) *Disciplinary sanctions.* All disciplinary sanctions imposed by a swap execution facility or its disciplinary panels shall be commensurate with the violations committed and shall be clearly sufficient to deter recidivism or similar violations by other market participants. All disciplinary sanctions, including sanctions imposed pursuant to an accepted settlement offer, shall take into account the respondent's disciplinary history. In the event of demonstrated customer harm, any disciplinary sanction shall also include full customer restitution, except where the amount of restitution or to whom it should be provided cannot be reasonably determined.


(f) *Warning letters.* Where a rule violation is found to have occurred, no more than one warning letter may be issued per rolling twelve month period for the same violation.


(g) *Additional sources for compliance.* A swap execution facility may refer to the guidance and/or acceptable practices in appendix B of this part to demonstrate to the Commission compliance with the requirements of ยง 37.206.




