# ยง 61.31   Definitions.

Terms used in this subpart are defined in the act, in subpart A of this part, or in this section as follows: 


(a) *Beryllium* means the element beryllium. Where weights or concentrations are specified, such weights or concentrations apply to beryllium only, excluding the weight or concentration of any associated elements. 


(b) *Extraction plant* means a facility chemically processing beryllium ore to beryllium metal, alloy, or oxide, or performing any of the intermediate steps in these processes. 


(c) *Beryllium ore* means any naturally occurring material mined or gathered for its beryllium content. 


(d) *Machine shop* means a facility performing cutting, grinding, turning, honing, milling, deburring, lapping, electrochemical machining, etching, or other similar operations. 


(e) *Ceramic plant* means a manufacturing plant producing ceramic items. 


(f) *Foundry* means a facility engaged in the melting or casting of beryllium metal or alloy. 


(g) *Beryllium-containing waste* means material contaminated with beryllium and/or beryllium compounds used or generated during any process or operation performed by a source subject to this subpart. 


(h) *Incinerator* means any furnace used in the process of burning waste for the primary purpose of reducing the volume of the waste by removing combustible matter.


(i) *Propellant* means a fuel and oxidizer physically or chemically combined which undergoes combustion to provide rocket propulsion. 


(j) *Beryllium alloy* means any metal to which beryllium has been added in order to increase its beryllium content and which contains more than 0.1 percent beryllium by weight. 


(k) *Propellant plant* means any facility engaged in the mixing, casting, or machining of propellant. 




