# ยง 765.303   Use of proceeds from chattel security.

(a) *General.* (1) Proceeds from the sale of basic security and normal income security must be remitted to lienholders in order of lien priority.


(2) Proceeds remitted to the Agency may be used as follows:


(i) Applied to the FLP loan;


(ii) Pay customary costs appropriate to the transaction.


(3) With the concurrence of all lienholders, proceeds may be used to preserve the security because of a natural disaster or other severe catastrophe, when funds cannot be obtained by other means in time to prevent the borrower and the Agency from suffering a substantial loss.


(4) Security may be consumed as follows:


(i) Livestock may be used by the borrower's family for subsistence;


(ii) If crops serve as security and usually would be marketed, the Agency may allow such crops to be fed to the borrower's livestock, if this is preferable to marketing, provided the Agency obtains a lien or assignment on the livestock, and livestock products, at least equal to the lien on the crops.


(b) *Proceeds from the sale of normal income security.* In addition to the uses specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the agreement for the use of proceeds will allow for release of proceeds from the sale of normal income security to be used to pay essential family living and farm operating expenses. Such releases will be terminated when an account is accelerated.


(c) *Proceeds from the sale of basic security.* In addition to the uses specified in paragraph (a) of this section:


(1) Proceeds from the sale of basic security may not be used for any family living and farm operating expenses.


(2) Security may be exchanged for chattel property better suited to the borrower's farming needs if the Agency will acquire a lien on the new property at least equal in value to the lien held on the property exchanged.


(3) Proceeds may be used to purchase chattel property better suited to the borrower's farming needs if the Agency will acquire a lien on the purchased property. The value of the purchased property, together with any proceeds applied to the FLP loan, must at least equal the value of the Agency lien on the old security.



---

[N] [72 FR 63309, Nov. 8, 2007, as amended at 89 FR 65042, Aug. 8, 2024]








