# ยง 655.1   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this part:


*Act* or *authorizing statute* means the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended.


*Business day* means a day the Corporation is open for business, excluding the legal public holidays identified in 5 U.S.C. 6103(a).


*Corporation* means the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation and its affiliates.


*FCA* means the Farm Credit Administration, an independent Federal agency of the executive branch.


*Material,* when used to qualify a requirement to furnish information as to any subject, means the information required for those matters to which there is a substantial likelihood that a reasonable person would attach importance in making investor decisions or determining the financial condition of the Corporation.


*NYSE* means the New York Stock Exchange, a listing exchange.


*OSMO* means the FCA Office of Secondary Market Oversight, which is responsible for the general supervision of the safe and sound exercise of the Corporation's powers, functions, and duties and compliance with laws and regulations.


*Our* or *us* means the FCA or OSMO, as appropriate to the context of the provision employing the term.


*Person* means individual or entity.


*SEC* means the Securities and Exchange Commission.


*Securities Act* means the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a *et seq.*) or the Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a *et seq.*, or both, as appropriate to the context of the provision employing the term.


*Signed,* when referring to paper form, means a manual signature, and, when referring to electronic form, means marked in a manner that authenticates each signer's identity.




