# § 91.10   General.

(a) *Scope of boot camp program.* Funding is appropriated in fiscal year 1995 to provide grants to states and multi-state compacts to plan, develop, construct and expand correctional boot camps for adults and juveniles. 


(b) Adult and juvenile boot camps, referred to as “correctional boot camps,” are programs that “provide a structured environment for delivering non-traditional corrections programs to criminal offenders.” 


(c) With respect to this program, the mandates of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act (42 U.S.C. 5601 *et seq.*) shall apply. 


(d) *Eligibility.* (1) Funding is available for both adult and juvenile boot camps. To be eligible for the funding of boot camps, states must comply with the general assurances in § 91.3(b) or demonstrate steps taken toward compliance. While the majority of assurances are applicable to the adult correctional system, those states applying for grants for juvenile boot camps must include the juvenile system in the state comprehensive correctional plan and demonstrate how construction of the boot camp will make secure space available to house violent juvenile offenders. 


(2) For purposes of the FY '95 boot camp program, a “violent felony” means any crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year, or an act of juvenile delinquency that would be punishable by imprisonment for such term if committed by an adult, that: 


(i) Involves the use or attempted use of a firearm or other dangerous weapon against another person, or 


(ii) Results in death or serious bodily injury to another person. 


(3) States must document that the boot camp program does not involve more than six-months confinement (not including confinement prior to assignment to the boot camp) and includes: 


(i) Assignment for participation in the program, in conformity with state law, by prisoners other than prisoners who have been convicted at any time of a violent felony; 


(ii) Adherence by inmates to a highly regimented schedule that involves strict discipline, physical training and work; 


(iii) Participation by inmates in appropriate education, job training, and substance abuse counseling or treatment; and 


(iv) Post-incarceration aftercare services for participants that are coordinated with the program carried out during the period of imprisonment. 


(4) States must provide assurances that boot camp construction will free up secure institutional bed space for violent offenders. 


(e) *Evaluation.* (1) Recipients will be required to cooperate with a national evaluation team throughout the planning and implementation process. Recipients are also strongly encouraged to provide for an independent evaluation of the impact and effectiveness of the funded program. 


(2) Jurisdictions are strongly encouraged to engage in systematic planning activities and to develop and evaluate boot camps as part of a comprehensive and integrated correctional plan. 


(f) *Limitation on funds.* Grant funds cannot be used for operating costs. States will be required to show how operating expenses will be provided. 


(g) *Matching requirement.* The federal share of a grant received may not exceed 75 percent of the costs of the proposed boot camp program described in the appoved application. The matching requirement can only be met through a hard cash match, and must be satisfied by the end of the project period; facility operating expenses may not be used to meet the match requirement for the construction project supported. Match may be made through grantee contribution of construction-related costs. A certification to that effect will be required of each recipient of grant funds. 


(h) *Innovative boot camp programs.* Jurisdictions are encouraged to explore the development of “innovative” boot camp programs which incorporate principles based on the accumulation of research and practical experience, and reflect sound and effective correctional practice. 




