# ยง 1778.4   Definitions.

*Acute shortage.* An acute shortage is a situation in which the system either cannot deliver water at all through its distribution system or can only deliver water on a sporadic basis. 


*Contamination,* Any physical, chemical, biological, or radiological substance of matter in water, either exceeding or having potential to exceed State or Federal standards.


*Emergency.* Occurrence of an incident such as, but not limited to, a drought; earthquake; flood; tornado; hurricane; disease outbreak; or chemical spill, leakage, or seepage. 


*Rural areas.* Includes any area not in a city or town with a population in excess of 10,000 inhabitants located in any of the fifty States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Western Pacific Territories, Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Republic of Palau, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and which excludes certain populations pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(H) and (I). The population figure is obtained from the most recent decennial Census of the United States (decennial Census). If the applicable population figure cannot be obtained from the most recent decennial Census, RD will determine the applicable population figure based on available population data.


*Significant decline in quality.* A significant decline in quality of potable water occurs when the present community source or delivery system does not meet, as a result of an emergency, the current SDWA requirements. For a private source or delivery system a significant decline in quality occurs when the water is no longer potable as a result of an emergency. As used in this Subpart, the term significant decline in quality may also include a situation where a significant decline is likely to occur within one year from the date of the filing of an application. 


*Significant decline in quantity.* A significant decline in the quantity is caused by a disruption of the potable water supply by an emergency. The disruption in quantity of water prevents the present source or delivery system from supplying potable water needs to rural residents. This would not include a decline in excess water capacity. As used in this Subpart, the term significant decline in quantity may also include a situation where a significant decline is likely to occur within one year from the date of the filing of an application. 


*Statewide Nonmetropolitan Median Household Income (SNMHI).* Median household income of the State's nonmetropolitan counties and portions of metropolitan counties outside of cities, towns or places of 50,000 or more population.



---

[N] [68 FR 46078, Aug. 5, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 65519, Nov. 15, 2004; 80 FR 9863, Feb. 24, 2015; 85 FR 23211, Apr. 27, 2020; 87 FR 38643, June 29, 2022]




