# ยง 319.41-5   Condition of entry.

(a) The entry of the articles covered by ยง 319.41-1 is conditioned on their freedom from the European corn borer and other injurious insects and plant diseases, and upon their freedom from contamination with plant materials prohibited entry under other quarantines. All shipments of these articles shall be subject to inspection at the port of arrival by an inspector of the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs, in order to determine their freedom from such insects and diseases and from contaminating materials, and to such sterilization, grinding, or treatment in accordance with part 305 of this chapter, as the inspector may prescribe. Should an importation be found on inspection to be so infested or infected or contaminated that, in the judgment of the inspector, it can not be made safe by sterilization or other treatment in accordance with part 305 of this chapter, the entire shipment may be refused entry. 


(b) When entry under sterilization or other treatment in accordance with part 305 of this chapter is permitted, the importation will be released to the permittee for such treatment, upon the filing with the appropriate customs official of a bond in the amount of $5,000, or in an amount equal to the invoice value, if such value be less than $5,000, with approved sureties, and conditioned that the importation shall be sterilized or otherwise treated under the supervision of the inspector; that no bale or container shall be broken, opened, or removed from the port of arrival unless and until a written notice is given to said customs official by an inspector that the importation has been properly sterilized or treated; and that the importation shall be redelivered to said customs official within 30 days after its arrival. 


(c) Should a shipment requiring sterilization or other treatment in accordance with part 305 of this chapter under the provisions of the regulation in this subpart arrive at a port where facilities for such sterilization or other treatment in accordance with part 305 of this chapter are not maintained, such shipment shall either be promptly shipped under safeguards and by routing prescribed by the inspector to an approved port where facilities for sterilization or other treatment in accordance with part 305 of this chapter are available, or it shall be refused entry. 


(d) Other conditions of entry as applying to the certain classes of articles enumerated in ยง 319.41-1 are: 


(1) *Broomcorn.* All importations of broomcorn shall be so baled as to prevent breakage and scattering in connection with the necessary handling and sterilization; if in the judgment of the inspector they are not so baled, entry may be refused. All importations of broomcorn shall be subject to such sterilization or other treatment in accordance with part 305 of this chapter as the inspector may require. 


(2) *Articles made of broomcorn.* Brooms or similar articles made of broomcorn shall be subject to sterilization unless their manufacture involves the substantial elimination of stems or such treatment of the included stems as in the judgment of the inspector shall preclude such articles from being the means of carriage of the European corn borer and of other injurious insects and plant diseases. 


(3) *Shelled corn and other seeds.* If shipments of shelled corn and seeds of the other plants from countries other than those named in ยง 319.41-1 (b)(2) are found upon inspection at the port of arrival to be appreciably fouled with cobs or other portions of the plants the inspector may require sterilization or other treatment in accordance with part 305 of this chapter or may refuse entry. 



---

[N] [24 FR 10788, Dec. 29, 1959, as amended at 75 FR 4252, Jan. 26, 2010]




