# § 1013.3   General disclosure requirements.

(a) *General requirements.* A lessor shall make the disclosures required by § 1013.4, as applicable. The disclosures shall be made clearly and conspicuously in writing in a form the consumer may keep, in accordance with this section. The disclosures required by this part may be provided to the lessee in electronic form, subject to compliance with the consumer consent and other applicable provisions of the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act (E-Sign Act) (15 U.S.C. 7001 *et seq.*). For an advertisement accessed by the consumer in electronic form, the disclosures required by § 1013.7 may be provided to the consumer in electronic form in the advertisement, without regard to the consumer consent or other provisions of the E-Sign Act.


(1) *Form of disclosures.* The disclosures required by § 1013.4 shall be given to the lessee together in a dated statement that identifies the lessor and the lessee; the disclosures may be made either in a separate statement that identifies the consumer lease transaction or in the contract or other document evidencing the lease. Alternatively, the disclosures required to be segregated from other information under paragraph (a)(2) of this section may be provided in a separate dated statement that identifies the lease, and the other required disclosures may be provided in the lease contract or other document evidencing the lease. In a lease of multiple items, the property description required by § 1013.4(a) may be given in a separate statement that is included in the disclosure statement required by this paragraph.


(2) *Segregation of certain disclosures.* The following disclosures shall be segregated from other information and shall contain only directly related information: §§ 1013.4(b) through (f), (g)(2), (h)(3), (i)(1), (j), and (m)(1). The headings, content, and format for the disclosures referred to in this paragraph (a)(2) shall be provided in a manner substantially similar to the applicable model form in appendix A of this part.


(3) *Timing of disclosures.* A lessor shall provide the disclosures to the lessee prior to the consummation of a consumer lease.


(4) *Language of disclosures.* The disclosures required by § 1013.4 may be made in a language other than English provided that they are made available in English upon the lessee's request.


(b) *Additional information; nonsegregated disclosures.* Additional information may be provided with any disclosure not listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, but it shall not be stated, used, or placed so as to mislead or confuse the lessee or contradict, obscure, or detract attention from any disclosure required by this part.


(c) *Multiple lessors or lessees.* When a transaction involves more than one lessor, the disclosures required by this part may be made by one lessor on behalf of all the lessors. When a lease involves more than one lessee, the lessor may provide the disclosures to any lessee who is primarily liable on the lease.


(d) *Use of estimates.* If an amount or other item needed to comply with a required disclosure is unknown or unavailable after reasonable efforts have been made to ascertain the information, the lessor may use a reasonable estimate that is based on the best information available to the lessor, is clearly identified as an estimate, and is not used to circumvent or evade any disclosures required by this part.


(e) *Effect of subsequent occurrence.* If a required disclosure becomes inaccurate because of an event occurring after consummation, the inaccuracy is not a violation of this part.


(f) *Minor variations.* A lessor may disregard the effects of the following in making disclosures:


(1) That payments must be collected in whole cents;


(2) That dates of scheduled payments may be different because a scheduled date is not a business day;


(3) That months have different numbers of days; and


(4) That February 29 occurs in a leap year.




