# ยง 482.98   Condition of participation: Human resources.

The transplant program must ensure that all individuals who provide services and/or supervise services at the program, including individuals furnishing services under contract or arrangement, are qualified to provide or supervise such services.


(a) *Standard: Director of a transplant program.* The transplant program must be under the general supervision of a qualified transplant surgeon or a qualified physician-director. The director of a transplant program need not serve full-time and may also serve as a program's primary transplant surgeon or transplant physician in accordance with ยง 482.98(b). The director is responsible for planning, organizing, conducting, and directing the transplant program and must devote sufficient time to carry out these responsibilities, which include but are not limited to the following:


(1) Coordinating with the hospital in which the transplant program is located to ensure adequate training of nursing staff and clinical transplant coordinators in the care of transplant patients and living donors.


(2) Ensuring that tissue typing and organ procurement services are available.


(3) Ensuring that transplantation surgery is performed by, or under the direct supervision of, a qualified transplant surgeon in accordance with ยง 482.98(b).


(b) *Standard: Transplant surgeon and physician.* The transplant program must identify to the OPTN a primary transplant surgeon and a transplant physician with the appropriate training and experience to provide transplantation services, who are immediately available to provide transplantation services when an organ is offered for transplantation.


(1) The transplant surgeon is responsible for providing surgical services related to transplantation.


(2) The transplant physician is responsible for providing and coordinating transplantation care.


(c) *Standard: Clinical transplant coordinator.* The transplant program must have a clinical transplant coordinator to ensure the continuity of care of patients and living donors during the pre-transplant, transplant, and discharge phases of transplantation and the donor evaluation, donation, and discharge phases of donation. The clinical transplant coordinator must be a registered nurse or clinician licensed by the State in which the clinical transplant coordinator practices, who has experience and knowledge of transplantation and living donation issues. The clinical transplant coordinator's responsibilities must include, but are not limited to, the following:


(1) Ensuring the coordination of the clinical aspects of transplant patient and living donor care; and


(2) Acting as a liaison between a kidney transplant program and dialysis facilities, as applicable.


(d) *Standard: Independent living donor advocate or independent living donor advocate team.* The transplant program that performs living donor transplantation must identify either an independent living donor advocate or an independent living donor advocate team to ensure protection of the rights of living donors and prospective living donors.


(1) The independent living donor advocate or independent living donor advocate team must not be involved in transplantation activities on a routine basis.


(2) The independent living donor advocate or independent living donor advocate team must demonstrate:


(i) Knowledge of living organ donation, transplantation, medical ethics, and informed consent; and


(ii) Understanding of the potential impact of family and other external pressures on the prospective living donor's decision whether to donate and the ability to discuss these issues with the donor.


(3) The independent living donor advocate or independent living donor advocate team is responsible for:


(i) Representing and advising the donor;


(ii) Protecting and promoting the interests of the donor; and


(iii) Respecting the donor's decision and ensuring that the donor's decision is informed and free from coercion.


(e) *Standard: Transplant team.* The transplant program must identify a multidisciplinary transplant team and describe the responsibilities of each member of the team. The team must be composed of individuals with the appropriate qualifications, training, and experience in the relevant areas of medicine, nursing, nutrition, social services, transplant coordination, and pharmacology.


(f) *Standard: Resource commitment.* The transplant program must demonstrate availability of expertise in internal medicine, surgery, anesthesiology, immunology, infectious disease control, pathology, radiology, blood banking, and patient education as related to the provision of transplantation services.



---

[N] [72 FR 15273, Mar. 30, 2007, as amended at 84 FR 51822, Sept. 30, 2019]




