# § 156.3   Definitions.

For the purpose of this part:


(a) *Strength and redness of color* means at least as much red as obtained by comparison of the prepared product, with the blended color produced by spinning a combination of the following concentric Munsell color discs of equal diameter, or the color equivalent of such discs:


(b) *Tomato soluble solids* means the sucrose value as determined by the method prescribed in “Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists,” 13th Ed., 1980, sections 32.014 to 32.016 and 52.012, under the headings “Soluble Solids in Tomato Products Official Final Action” and “Refractive Indices (n) of Sucrose Solutions at 20°,” which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.* If no salt has been added, the sucrose value obtained from the referenced tables shall be considered the percent of tomato soluble solids. If salt has been added, either intentionally or through the application of the acidified break, determine the percent of such added sodium chloride as specified in paragraph (c) of this section. Subtract the percentage so found from the percentage of tomato soluble solids found (sucrose value from the refractive index tables) and multiply the difference by 1.016. The resultant value is considered the percent of “tomato soluble solids.”


(c) *Salt* means sodium chloride, determined as chloride and calculated as percent sodium chloride, by the method prescribed in “Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists,” 13th Ed., 1980, sections 32.025 to 32.030, under the heading “Method III (Potentiometric Method),” which is incorporated by reference.


(d) *Compliance* means the following: Unless otherwise provided in a standard, a lot of canned vegetable juice shall be deemed in compliance for the following factors, to be determined by the sampling and acceptance procedure as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, namely:


(1) *Quality.* The quality of a lot shall be considered acceptable when the number of defectives does not exceed the acceptance number (*c*) in the sampling plans.


(2) *Fill of container.* A lot shall be deemed to be in compliance for fill of container when the number of defectives does not exceed the acceptance number (*c*) in the sampling plans.


(e) *Sampling and acceptance procedure* means the following:


(1) *Definitions*—(i) *Lot.* A collection of primary containers or units of the same size, type, and style manufactured or packed under similar conditions and handled as a single unit of trade.


(ii) *Lot size.* The number of primary containers or units in the lot.


(iii) *Sample size (n).* The total number of sample units drawn for examination from a lot.


(iv) *Sample unit.* A container, a portion of the contents of a container, or a composite mixture of product from small containers that is sufficient for the examination or testing as a single unit. For fill of container, the sample unit shall be the entire contents of the container.


(v) *Defective.* Any sample unit shall be regarded as defective when the sample unit does not meet the criteria set forth in the standards.


(vi) *Acceptance number (c).* The maximum number of defective sample units permitted in the sample in order to consider the lot as meeting the specified requirements.


(vii) *Acceptable quality level (AQL).* The maximum percent of defective sample units permitted in a lot that will be accepted approximately 95 percent of the time.


(2) *Sampling plans:*


---

[N] [48 FR 3956, Jan. 28, 1983, as amended at 54 FR 24895, June 12, 1989; 63 FR 14035, Mar. 24, 1998] 




