# § 85.1710   Granting of exemptions.

(a) If upon completion of the review of an exemption request, as required by §§ 85.1705 and 85.1708, the granting of an exemption is deemed appropriate, a memorandum of exemption will be prepared and submitted to the person requesting the exemption. The memorandum will set forth the basis for the exemption, its scope, and such terms and conditions as are deemed necessary. Such terms and conditions will generally, include, but are not limited to, agreements by the applicant to conduct the exempt activity in the manner described to EPA, create and maintain adequate records accessible to EPA at reasonable times, employ labels for the exempt engines or vehicles setting forth the nature of the exemption, take appropriate measures to assure that the terms of the exemption are met, and advise EPA of the termination of the activity and the ultimate disposition of the vehicles or engines. 


(b) Any exemption granted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be deemed to cover any subject vehicle or engine only to the extent that the specified terms and conditions are complied with. A breach of any term or condition shall cause the exemption to be void ab initio with respect to any vehicle or engine. Consequently, the causing or the performing of an act prohibited under sections 203(a) (1) or (3) of the Clean Air Act other than in strict conformity with all terms and conditions of this exemption shall render the person to whom the exemption is granted, and any other person to whom the provisions of section 203 are applicable, liable to suit under sections 204 and 205 of the Act. 



---

[N] [39 FR 32611, Sept. 10, 1974, as amended at 45 FR 13733, Mar. 3, 1980. Redesignated and amended at 47 FR 30485, July 14, 1982] 




