# ยง 886.112   Rent adjustments.

This section applies to adjustments of the dollar amount stated in the Contract as the Maximum Unit Rent. It does not apply to adjustments in rents payable to Owners as required by HUD in connection with its mortgage insurance and/or lending functions.


(a) *Funding of adjustments.* Housing Assistance Payments will be made in increased amounts commensurate with Contract Rent adjustments up to the maximum annual amount of housing assistance payments specified in the Contract pursuant to ยง 886.108(b).


(b) *Annual adjustments.* The contract rents may be adjusted annually, or more frequently, at HUD's option, either (1) on the basis of a written request for a rent increase submitted by the owner and properly supported by substantiating evidence, or (2) by applying, on each anniversary date of the contract, the applicable Automatic Annual Adjustment Factor most recently published by HUD in the _Federal Register_ in accordance with 24 CFR part 888, subpart B. Published Automatic Annual Adjustment Factors will be reduced appropriately by HUD where utilities are paid directly by Families. If HUD requires that the owner submit a written request, HUD, within a reasonable time, shall approve a rental schedule that is necessary to compensate for any increase in taxes (other than income taxes) and operating and maintenance costs over which owners have no effective control, or shall deny the increase stating the reasons therefor. Increases in taxes and maintenance and operating costs shall be measured against levels of such expenses in comparable assisted and unassisted housing in the area to ensure that adjustments in the Contract Rents shall not result in material differences between the rents charged for assisted and comparable unassisted units. Contract Rents may be adjusted upward or downward as may be appropriate; however, in no case shall the adjusted rents be less than the contract rents on the effective date of the contract.


(c) *Special additional adjustments.* Special additional adjustments shall be granted, when approved by HUD, to reflect increases in the actual and necessary expenses of owning and maintaining the Contract units which have resulted from substantial general increases in real property taxes, utility rates or similar costs (i.e., assessment, and utilities not covered by regulated rates), but only if and to the extent that the Owner clearly demonstrates that such general increases have caused increases in the Owner's operating costs which are not adequately compensated for by automatic annual adjustments. The Owner shall submit to HUD financial statements which clearly support the increase. 


(d) *Overall limitation.* Notwithstanding any other provisions of the subpart, adjustments as provided in this section shall not result in material differences between the rents charged for assisted and comparable unassisted units, as determined by HUD. 


(e) *Incorporation of rent adjustments.* Any adjustment in Maximum Unit Rents shall be incorporated into the Contract by a dated addendum to the Contract establishing the effective date of the adjustment.



---

[N] [42 FR 5603, Jan. 28, 1977, as amended at 45 FR 59149, Sept. 8, 1980; 47 FR 24700, June 8, 1982]




