# § 1263.2   Membership application requirements.

(a) *Application.* Except as otherwise specified in this part, no institution may become a member of a Bank unless it has submitted to that Bank an application that satisfies the requirements of this part. The application shall include a written resolution or certification duly adopted by the applicant's board of directors, or by an individual with authority to act on behalf of the applicant's board of directors, of the following:


(1) *Applicant review.* The applicant has reviewed the requirements of this part and, as required by this part, has provided to the best of its knowledge the most recent, accurate, and complete information available; and


(2) *Duty to supplement.* The applicant will promptly supplement the application with any relevant information that comes to its attention prior to the Bank's decision on whether to approve or deny the application, and if the Bank's decision is appealed pursuant to § 1263.5, prior to resolution of any appeal by FHFA.


(b) *Digest.* The Bank shall prepare a written digest for each applicant stating whether or not the applicant meets each of the requirements in §§ 1263.6 to 1263.19, the Bank's findings, and the reasons therefor. In preparing a digest for an applicant whose satisfaction of the membership eligibility requirements of § 1263.6(a) is contingent upon its meeting the definition of “insurance company” set forth in § 1263.1, the Bank shall state its conclusion as to whether the applicant meets that definition and summarize the bases for that conclusion. In preparing a digest for a non-federally-insured credit union applicant, the Bank shall summarize the manner in which the applicant has complied with the requirements of § 1263.19(a).


(c) *File.* The Bank shall maintain a membership file for each applicant for at least three years after the Bank decides whether to approve or deny membership or, in the case of an appeal to FHFA, for three years after the resolution of the appeal. The membership file shall contain at a minimum:


(1) *Digest.* The digest required by paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) *Required documents.* All documents required by §§ 1263.6 to 1263.19, including documents required to establish or rebut a presumption under this part, shall be described in and attached to the digest. The Bank is not required to retain in the file portions of regulatory financial reports that are not relevant to its decision on the membership application. If an applicant's appropriate regulator requires return or destruction of a regulatory examination report, the date that the report is returned or destroyed shall be noted in the file.


(3) *Additional documents.* Any additional document submitted by the applicant, or otherwise obtained or generated by the Bank, concerning the applicant.


(4) *Decision resolution.* The decision resolution described in § 1263.3(b).



---

[N] [81 FR 3277, Jan. 20, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 25722, June 5, 2017]




