# § 181.5   How are applications ranked?

BIA ranks each timely filed application by assigning points based upon four factors. 


(a) *Factor No. 1—Magnitude of the problem* (Up to 50 points available). In awarding points under this factor, BIA will take into account the following: 


(1) Whether a highway safety problem exists. 


(2) Whether the problem is significant. 


(3) Whether the proposed tribal project will contribute to resolution of the identified highway safety problem. 


(4) The number of traffic accidents occurring within the applicant's jurisdiction over the previous 3 years. 


(5) The number of alcohol-related traffic accidents occurring within the applicant's jurisdiction over the previous 3 years. 


(6) The number of reported traffic fatalities occurring within the applicant's jurisdiction over the previous 3 years. 


(7) The number of reported alcohol-related traffic fatalities occurring within the applicant's jurisdiction over the previous 3 years. 


(b) *Factor No. 2—Countermeasure selection* (Up to 40 points available). In awarding points under this factor, BIA will take into account the following: 


(1) Whether the countermeasures selected are the most effective for the identified highway safety problem. 


(2) Whether the countermeasures selected are cost effective. 


(3) Whether the applicant's objectives are realistic and attainable. 


(4) Whether the applicant's objectives are time framed and, if so, whether the time frames are realistic and attainable. 


(c) *Factor No. 3—Tribal Leadership and Community Support* (Up to 10 points available). In awarding points under this factor, BIA will take into account the following: 


(1) Whether the applicant proposes using tribal resources in the project. 


(2) Whether the appropriate tribal governing body supports the proposal plan, as evidenced by a tribal resolution or otherwise. 


(3) Whether the community supports the proposal plan, as evidenced by letters or otherwise. 


(d) *Factor No. 4—Past Performance* (+ or −10 points available). In awarding points under this factor, BIA will take into account the following: 


(1) Financial and programmatic reporting requirements. 


(2) Project accomplishments. 




