# ยง 1236.48   File format requirements.

(a) The agency must encode, retain, and transfer digitized records in one of the following file formats, either uncompressed or using one of the specified compression codecs in tables 1 and 2 to this section.


(1) Agencies that combine multiple uncompressed TIFF images into PDF/A files using JPEG2000 compression must perform the quality inspection step specified in 1236.46(d) against the resulting PDF/A files.


(2) When using JPEG 2000 visually lossless compression, agencies must determine the amount of compression to apply, not to exceed 20:1, by performing tests and visually evaluating for compression artifacts that obscure or alter the information content.


(b) The agency must encode, retain, and transfer digitized permanent paper records in one of the following file formats, either uncompressed or with one of the compression codecs specified in table 1 to this paragraph (b).


(c) The agency must encode, retain, and transfer digitized photographic print records in one of the following file formats, either uncompressed or with one of the compression codecs specified in the table 2 to this paragraph (c).


(1) For a series of predominantly textual records with interspersed photographic prints, use the formats in table 1 to paragraph (b) of this section for paper records. All photographic prints must be digitized according to the standards in ยง 1236.50.


(2) For a series of predominantly printed photographs, including those with paper records interspersed, use the file formats in table 2 to this paragraph (c) for photographic print records.


(3) However, the agency must not transcode, or interpolate (upsample) files anywhere in the workflow.


