# ยง 1271.30   Definitions.

As used in this subpart:


*Administrative expenses.* (1) Include general office and operating expenses such as telephone and photocopy charges, printing, legal, and professional fees, postage, courier services, and office supplies; and


(2) Do not include any form of employee compensation, custodian fees, issuance costs, or any interest on (and any redemption premium with respect to) any Financing Corporation obligations.


*Custodian fees* means any fee incurred by the Financing Corporation in connection with the transfer of any security to, or maintenance of any security in, the segregated account established under section 21(g)(2) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441(g)(2)), and any other expense incurred by the Financing Corporation in connection with the establishment or maintenance of such account.


*Directorate* means the board established under section 21(b) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441(b)) to manage the Financing Corporation.


*Insured depository institution* has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).


*Issuance costs* means issuance fees and commissions incurred by the Financing Corporation in connection with the issuance or servicing of Financing Corporation obligations, including legal and accounting expenses, trustee, fiscal, and paying agent charges, securities processing charges, joint collection agent charges, advertising expenses, and costs incurred in connection with preparing and printing offering materials to the extent the Financing Corporation incurs such costs in connection with issuing any obligations.


*Non-administrative expenses* means custodian fees, issuance costs, and interest on Financing Corporation obligations.


*Obligations* means debentures, bonds, and similar debt securities issued by the Financing Corporation under sections 21(c)(3) and (e) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441(c)(3) and (e)).


*Receivership proceeds* means the liquidating dividends and payments made on claims received by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation Resolution Fund established under section 11A of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821a) from receiverships, that are not required by the Resolution Funding Corporation to provide funds for the Funding Corporation Principal Fund established under section 21B of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441b).




