# § 63.3400   What notifications and reports must I submit?

(a) *Reports.* Each owner or operator of an affected source subject to this subpart must submit the reports specified in paragraphs (b) through (k) of this section to the Administrator.


(b) *Initial notifications.* You must submit an initial notification as required by § 63.9(b), using the procedure in § 63.3400(h).


(1) Initial notification for existing affected sources must be submitted no later than 1 year before the compliance date specified in § 63.3330(a), or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.


(2) Initial notification for new and reconstructed affected sources must be submitted as required by § 63.9(b). 


(3) For the purpose of this subpart, a title V or part 70 permit application may be used in lieu of the initial notification required under § 63.9(b), provided the same information is contained in the permit application as required by § 63.9(b) and the State to which the permit application has been submitted has an approved operating permit program under part 70 of this chapter and has received delegation of authority from the EPA to implement and enforce this subpart. 


(4) If you are using a permit application in lieu of an initial notification in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the permit application must be submitted by the same due date specified for the initial notification. 


(c) You must submit a semiannual compliance report according to paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section. 


(1) Compliance report dates. 


(i) The first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.3330 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the calendar half immediately following the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.3330. 


(ii) The first compliance report is due no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date follows the end of the calendar half immediately following the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.3330. Prior to the electronic template being available in CEDRI for one year, the report must be postmarked or delivered by the aforementioned dates. After the electronic template has been available in CEDRI for 1 year, the next full report must be submitted electronically as described in paragraph (h) of this section.


(iii) Each subsequent compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31. 


(iv) Each subsequent compliance report must be submitted electronically no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period.


(v) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, and the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to § 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or § 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section. 


(2) *Compliance report contents.* The compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (viii) of this section:


(i) Company name and address. 


(ii) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature certifying the accuracy of the content of the report. 


(iii) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. 


(iv) If there are no deviations from any emission limitations (emission limit or operating limit) that apply to you, a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limitations during the reporting period, and that no CMS was inoperative, inactive, malfunctioning, out-of-control, repaired, or adjusted. 


(v) For each deviation from an emission limitation (emission limit or operating limit) that applies to you and that occurs at an affected source where you are not using a CMS to comply with the emission limitations in this subpart, the compliance report must contain the following information:


(A) The total operating time of the web coating line(s) during the reporting period.


(B) Information on the number, duration, and cause of deviations (including unknown cause), if applicable, and the corrective action taken.


(C) An estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over the emission limits in § 63.3320 for each monthly period covered in the report if the source failed to meet an applicable emission limit of this subpart.


(vi) For each deviation from an emission limit occurring at an affected source where you are using a CEMS or CPMS to comply with the emission limit in this subpart, you must include the following information:


(A) The total operating time of the web coating line(s) during the reporting period.


(B) The date and time that each CEMS and CPMS, if applicable, was inoperative except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.


(C) The date and time that each CEMS and CPMS, if applicable, was out-of-control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).


(D) The date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether each deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction or during another period.


(E) A summary of the total duration (in hours) of each deviation during the reporting period and the total duration of each deviation as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.


(F) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due to startup, shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.


(G) A summary of the total duration (in hours) of CEMS and/or CPMS downtime during the reporting period and the total duration of CEMS and/or CPMS downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.


(H) A breakdown of the total duration of CEMS and/or CPMS downtime during the reporting period into periods that are due to monitoring equipment malfunctions, non-monitoring equipment malfunctions, quality assurance/quality control calibrations, other known causes, and other unknown causes.


(I) The date of the latest CEMS and/or CPMS certification or audit.


(J) A description of any changes in CEMS, CPMS, or controls since the last reporting period.


(K) An estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over the emission limits in § 63.3320 for each monthly period covered in the report if the source failed to meet an applicable emission limit of this subpart.


(d) You must submit a Notification of Performance Tests as specified in §§ 63.7 and 63.9(e) if you are complying with the emission standard using a control device and you are required to conduct a performance test of the control device. This notification and the site-specific test plan required under § 63.7(c)(2) must identify the operating parameters to be monitored to ensure that the capture efficiency of the capture system and the control efficiency of the control device determined during the performance test are maintained. Unless EPA objects to the parameter or requests changes, you may consider the parameter approved. 


(e) *Notification of Compliance Status.* You must submit a Notification of Compliance Status as specified in § 63.9(h). For affected sources that commence construction or reconstruction after September 19, 2019, the Notification of Compliance Status must be submitted electronically using the procedure in paragraph (h) of this section. For affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 19, 2019, the Notification of Compliance Status must be submitted electronically using the procedure in paragraph (h) starting July 9, 2021.


(f) *Performance test reports.* You must submit performance test reports as specified in § 63.10(d)(2) if you are using a control device to comply with the emission standard and you have not obtained a waiver from the performance test requirement or you are not exempted from this requirement by § 63.3360(b). Catalyst activity test results are not required to be submitted but must be maintained onsite. Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section. For affected sources that commence construction or reconstruction after September 19, 2019, the performance test reports must be submitted electronically using the procedure in paragraph (h) of this section. For affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 19, 2019, the performance test reports must be submitted electronically using the procedure in paragraph (h) starting July 9, 2021.


(1) *Data collected using test methods supported by EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on EPA's ERT website (https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert) at the time of the test.* Submit the results of the performance test to EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*https://cdx.epa.gov/).* The data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on EPA's ERT website.


(2) *Data collected using test methods that are not supported by EPA's ERT as listed on EPA's ERT website at the time of the test.* The results of the performance test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on EPA's ERT website. Submit the ERT generated package or alternative file to EPA via CEDRI.


(3) *Confidential business information (CBI).* If you claim some of the information submitted under paragraph (f)(1) of this section is CBI, you must submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to EPA. The file must be generated through the use of EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on EPA's ERT website. Submit the file on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Mail the electronic medium to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to EPA via EPA's CDX as described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.


(g) *Performance evaluation reports.* You must submit the results of performance evaluations within 60 days of completing each CMS performance evaluation (as defined in § 63.2) following the procedures specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section. For affected sources that commence construction or reconstruction after September 19, 2019, the performance evaluation reports must be submitted electronically using the procedure in paragraph (h) of this section. For affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 19, 2019, the performance evaluation reports must be submitted electronically using the procedure in paragraph (h) starting July 9, 2021.


(1) *Performance evaluations of CMS measuring relative accuracy test audit (RATA) pollutants that are supported by EPA's ERT as listed on EPA's ERT website at the time of the evaluation.* Submit the results of the performance evaluation to EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through EPA's CDX. The data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on EPA's ERT website.


(2) *Performance evaluations of CMS measuring RATA pollutants that are not supported by EPA's ERT as listed on EPA's ERT website at the time of the evaluation.* The results of the performance evaluation must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on EPA's ERT website. Submit the ERT generated package or alternative file to EPA via CEDRI.


(3) *Confidential business information (CBI).* If you claim some of the information submitted under paragraph (g)(1) of this section is CBI, you must submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to EPA. The file must be generated through the use of EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on EPA's ERT website. Submit the file on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Mail the electronic medium to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to EPA via EPA's CDX as described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section.


(h) *Electronic reporting.* If you are required to submit reports following the procedure specified in this paragraph, you must submit reports to EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through EPA's CDX (*https://cdx.epa.gov/).* Initial notifications and notifications of compliance status must be submitted as portable document formats (PDF) to CEDRI using the attachment module of the ERT. You must use the semiannual compliance report template on the CEDRI website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/compliance-and-emissions-data-reporting-interface-cedri)* for this subpart 1 year after it becomes available. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. The report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted. If you claim some of the information required to be submitted via CEDRI is CBI, submit a complete report, including information claimed to be CBI to EPA. The report must be generated using the appropriate form on the CEDRI website. Submit the file on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Mail the electronic medium to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to EPA via EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.


(i) *Extension for CDX/CEDRI outage.* If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (i)(1) through (7) of this section.


(1) You must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.


(2) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date that the submission is due.


(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.


(4) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.


(5) You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:


(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;


(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;


(iii) Measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and


(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.


(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(7) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.


(j) *Extension for force majeure events.* If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of force majeure for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. To assert a claim of force majeure, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (j)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) You may submit a claim if a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (*e.g.,* hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (*e.g.,* large scale power outage).


(2) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.


(3) You must provide to the Administrator:


(i) A written description of the force majeure event;


(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event;


(iii) Measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and


(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.


(4) The decision to accept the claim of force majeure and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(5) In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the force majeure event occurs.


(k) *SSM reports.* For affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction before September 19, 2019, you must submit SSM reports as specified in § 63.10(d)(5), except that the provisions in subpart A of this part pertaining to startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions do not apply unless a control device is used to comply with this subpart. On and after, July 9, 2021, and for affected sources that commence construction or reconstruction after September 19, 2019, this section is no longer relevant.


(1) If actions taken by an owner or operator during a startup, shutdown, or malfunction of an affected source (including actions taken to correct a malfunction) are not consistent with the procedures specified in the affected source's SSMP required by § 63.6(e)(3), the owner or operator must state such information in the report. The startup, shutdown, or malfunction report must consist of a letter containing the name, title, and signature of the responsible official who is certifying its accuracy and must be submitted to the Administrator. 


(2) Separate startup, shutdown, and malfunction reports are not required if the information is included in the report specified in paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section. 



---

[N] [67 FR 72341, Dec. 4, 2002, as amended at 85 FR 41313, July 9, 2020; 85 FR 73905, Nov. 19, 2020]




