# § 174.93   Requesting EPA confirmation.

To request EPA confirmation of eligibility for exemption of a plant-incorporated protectant listed under § 174.21(d), a developer must comply with all of the following requirements.


(a) *When to submit a request for EPA confirmation.* Unless the developer has received confirmation of receipt of a letter of self-determination, the request for EPA confirmation must be submitted prior to engaging in any activity that would be subject to FIFRA absent an exemption.


(b) *Contents of a request for EPA confirmation of exemption eligibility.* The request must contain information as specified in § 174.91(b) and supporting documentation, as specified in exemption-specific sections of this subpart (e.g., § 174.95).


(c) *EPA review and response.* Upon receipt of a request, EPA will review and evaluate the information provided to determine whether the plant-incorporated protectant meets the exemption criteria in § 174.21. EPA may require additional information to assess whether a plant-incorporated protectant meets the criteria for exemption. EPA will notify the submitter in writing of its determination. If EPA determines that the plant-incorporated protectant does not meet the criteria for exemption, EPA will notify the submitter in writing of any actions that will be required.


(d) *Effective date of exemption.* If the plant-incorporated protectant is not already exempt pursuant to the self-determination process under § 174.91, this exemption applies once EPA notifies the submitter in writing, confirming that the plant-incorporated protectant meets the criteria for exemption.






