# ยง 161.2   Performance of accredited duties in additional States.

(a) If an accredited veterinarian wishes to perform accredited duties in a State other than the State in which the veterinarian was initially accredited in accordance with ยง 161.1(e), the accredited veterinarian must complete an application to request authorization to perform accredited duties in the additional State from the Veterinary Official of that State. The Veterinary Official of the additional State may require the accredited veterinarian to complete, prior to performing any accredited duties in the additional State, an orientation in animal health procedures and issues relevant to the additional State. The Veterinary Official shall review the content of each such orientation and shall approve its use after determining that it includes adequate information about animal health agencies, regulatory requirements, administrative procedures, and animal disease issues in the additional State, to prepare an accredited veterinarian from another State to perform accredited duties in the additional State. The Veterinary Official shall also give the State Animal Health Official of the additional State an opportunity to review the contents of the orientation, and invite him or her to participate in developing orientation materials and conducting the orientation.


(b) An accredited veterinarian may not perform accredited duties in a State in which the accredited veterinarian is not licensed or otherwise permitted by the State's veterinary licensing authority to practice veterinary medicine in that State without a license.


(c) An accredited veterinarian may not perform accredited duties in a State other than the one in which the veterinarian was initially accredited until the veterinarian receives written authorization from APHIS to perform accredited duties in the additional State.



---

[N] [74 FR 65011, Dec. 9, 2009, as amended at 85 FR 10564, Feb. 25, 2020]




