# § 192.712   Analysis of predicted failure pressure and critical strain level.

(a) *Applicability.* Whenever required by this part, operators of onshore steel transmission pipelines must analyze anomalies or defects to determine the predicted failure pressure at the location of the anomaly or defect, and the remaining life of the pipeline segment at the location of the anomaly or defect, in accordance with this section.


(b) *Corrosion metal loss.* When analyzing corrosion metal loss under this section, an operator must use a suitable remaining strength calculation method including, ASME/ANSI B31G (incorporated by reference, *see* § 192.7); R-STRENG (incorporated by reference, *see* § 192.7); or an alternative equivalent method of remaining strength calculation that will provide an equally conservative result.


(1) If an operator would choose to use a remaining strength calculation method that could provide a less conservative result than the methods listed in paragraph (b) introductory text, the operator must notify PHMSA in advance in accordance with § 192.18(c).


(2) The notification provided for by paragraph (b)(1) of this section must include a comparison of its predicted failure pressures to R-STRENG or ASME/ANSI B31G, all burst pressure tests used, and any other technical reviews used to qualify the calculation method(s) for varying corrosion profiles.


(c) *Dents and other mechanical damage.* To evaluate dents and other mechanical damage that could result in a stress riser or other integrity impact, an operator must develop a procedure and perform an engineering critical assessment as follows:


(1) Identify and evaluate potential threats to the pipe segment in the vicinity of the anomaly or defect, including ground movement, external loading, fatigue, cracking, and corrosion.


(2) Review high-resolution magnetic flux leakage (HR-MFL) high-resolution deformation, inertial mapping, and crack detection inline inspection data for damage in the dent area and any associated weld region, including available data from previous inline inspections.


(3) Perform pipeline curvature-based strain analysis using recent HR-Deformation inspection data.


(4) Compare the dent profile between the most recent and previous in-line inspections to identify significant changes in dent depth and shape.


(5) Identify and quantify all previous and present significant loads acting on the dent.


(6) Evaluate the strain level associated with the anomaly or defect and any nearby welds using Finite Element Analysis, or other technology in accordance with this section. Using Finite Element Analysis to quantify the dent strain, and then estimating and evaluating the damage using the Strain Limit Damage (SLD) and Ductile Failure Damage Indicator (DFDI) at the dent, are appropriate evaluation methods.


(7) The analyses performed in accordance with this section must account for material property uncertainties, model inaccuracies, and inline inspection tool sizing tolerances.


(8) Dents with a depth greater than 10 percent of the pipe outside diameter or with geometric strain levels that exceed the lessor of 10 percent or exceed the critical strain for the pipe material properties must be remediated in accordance with § 192.713, § 192.714, or § 192.933, as applicable.


(9) Using operational pressure data, a valid fatigue life prediction model that is appropriate for the pipeline segment, and assuming a reassessment safety factor of 5 or greater for the assessment interval, estimate the fatigue life of the dent by Finite Element Analysis or other analytical technique that is technically appropriate for dent assessment and reassessment intervals in accordance with this section. Multiple dent or other fatigue models must be used for the evaluation as a part of the engineering critical assessment.


(10) If the dent or mechanical damage is suspected to have cracks, then a crack growth rate assessment is required to ensure adequate life for the dent with crack(s) until remediation or the dent with crack(s) must be evaluated and remediated in accordance with the criteria and timing requirements in § 192.713, § 192.714, or § 192.933, as applicable.


(11) An operator using an engineering critical assessment procedure, other technologies, or techniques to comply with paragraph (c) of this section must submit advance notification to PHMSA, with the relevant procedures, in accordance with § 192.18.


(d) *Cracks and crack-like defects*—(1) *Crack analysis models.* When analyzing cracks and crack-like defects under this section, an operator must determine predicted failure pressure, failure stress pressure, and crack growth using a technically proven fracture mechanics model appropriate to the failure mode (ductile, brittle or both), material properties (pipe and weld properties), and boundary condition used (pressure test, ILI, or other).


(2) *Analysis for crack growth and remaining life.* If the pipeline segment is susceptible to cyclic fatigue or other loading conditions that could lead to fatigue crack growth, fatigue analysis must be performed using an applicable fatigue crack growth law (for example, Paris Law) or other technically appropriate engineering methodology. For other degradation processes that can cause crack growth, appropriate engineering analysis must be used. The above methodologies must be validated by a subject matter expert to determine conservative predictions of flaw growth and remaining life at the maximum allowable operating pressure. The operator must calculate the remaining life of the pipeline by determining the amount of time required for the crack to grow to a size that would fail at maximum allowable operating pressure.


(i) When calculating crack size that would fail at MAOP, and the material toughness is not documented in traceable, verifiable, and complete records, the same Charpy v-notch toughness value established in paragraph (e)(2) of this section must be used.


(ii) Initial and final flaw size must be determined using a fracture mechanics model appropriate to the failure mode (ductile, brittle or both) and boundary condition used (pressure test, ILI, or other).


(iii) An operator must re-evaluate the remaining life of the pipeline before 50% of the remaining life calculated by this analysis has expired. The operator must determine and document if further pressure tests or use of other assessment methods are required at that time. The operator must continue to re-evaluate the remaining life of the pipeline before 50% of the remaining life calculated in the most recent evaluation has expired.


(3) *Cracks that survive pressure testing.* For cases in which the operator does not have in-line inspection crack anomaly data and is analyzing potential crack defects that could have survived a pressure test, the operator must calculate the largest potential crack defect sizes using the methods in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. If pipe material toughness is not documented in traceable, verifiable, and complete records, the operator must use one of the following for Charpy v-notch toughness values based upon minimum operational temperature and equivalent to a full-size specimen value:


(i) Charpy v-notch toughness values from comparable pipe with known properties of the same vintage and from the same steel and pipe manufacturer;


(ii) A conservative Charpy v-notch toughness value to determine the toughness based upon the material properties verification process specified in § 192.607;


(iii) A full size equivalent Charpy v-notch upper-shelf toughness level of 120 ft.-lbs.; or


(iv) Other appropriate values that an operator demonstrates can provide conservative Charpy v-notch toughness values of the crack-related conditions of the pipeline segment. Operators using an assumed Charpy v-notch toughness value must notify PHMSA in accordance with § 192.18.


(e) *Data.* In performing the analyses of predicted or assumed anomalies or defects in accordance with this section, an operator must use data as follows.


(1) An operator must explicitly analyze and account for uncertainties in reported assessment results (including tool tolerance, detection threshold, probability of detection, probability of identification, sizing accuracy, conservative anomaly interaction criteria, location accuracy, anomaly findings, and unity chart plots or equivalent for determining uncertainties and verifying tool performance) in identifying and characterizing the type and dimensions of anomalies or defects used in the analyses, unless the defect dimensions have been verified using *in situ* direct measurements.


(2) The analyses performed in accordance with this section must utilize pipe and material properties that are documented in traceable, verifiable, and complete records. If documented data required for any analysis is not available, an operator must obtain the undocumented data through § 192.607. Until documented material properties are available, the operator shall use conservative assumptions as follows:


(i) *Material toughness.* An operator must use one of the following for material toughness:


(A) Charpy v-notch toughness values from comparable pipe with known properties of the same vintage and from the same steel and pipe manufacturer;


(B) A conservative Charpy v-notch toughness value to determine the toughness based upon the ongoing material properties verification process specified in § 192.607;


(C) If the pipeline segment does not have a history of reportable incidents caused by cracking or crack-like defects, maximum Charpy v-notch toughness values of 13.0 ft.-lbs. for body cracks and 4.0 ft.-lbs. for cold weld, lack of fusion, and selective seam weld corrosion defects;


(D) If the pipeline segment has a history of reportable incidents caused by cracking or crack-like defects, maximum Charpy v-notch toughness values of 5.0 ft.-lbs. for body cracks and 1.0 ft.-lbs. for cold weld, lack of fusion, and selective seam weld corrosion; or


(E) Other appropriate values that an operator demonstrates can provide conservative Charpy v-notch toughness values of crack-related conditions of the pipeline segment. Operators using an assumed Charpy v-notch toughness value must notify PHMSA in advance in accordance with § 192.18 and include in the notification the bases for demonstrating that the Charpy v-notch toughness values proposed are appropriate and conservative for use in analysis of crack-related conditions.


(ii) *Material strength.* An operator must assume one of the following for material strength:


(A) Grade A pipe (30,000 psi), or


(B) The specified minimum yield strength that is the basis for the current maximum allowable operating pressure.


(iii) *Pipe dimensions and other data.* Until pipe wall thickness, diameter, or other data are determined and documented in accordance with § 192.607, the operator must use values upon which the current MAOP is based.


(f) *Review.* Analyses conducted in accordance with this section must be reviewed and confirmed by a subject matter expert.


(g) *Records.* An operator must keep for the life of the pipeline records of the investigations, analyses, and other actions taken in accordance with the requirements of this section. Records must document justifications, deviations, and determinations made for the following, as applicable:


(1) The technical approach used for the analysis;


(2) All data used and analyzed;


(3) Pipe and weld properties;


(4) Procedures used;


(5) Evaluation methodology used;


(6) Models used;


(7) Direct in situ examination data;


(8) In-line inspection tool run information evaluated, including any multiple in-line inspection tool runs;


(9) Pressure test data and results;


(10) In-the-ditch assessments;


(11) All measurement tool, assessment, and evaluation accuracy specifications and tolerances used in technical and operational results;


(12) All finite element analysis results;


(13) The number of pressure cycles to failure, the equivalent number of annual pressure cycles, and the pressure cycle counting method;


(14) The predicted fatigue life and predicted failure pressure from the required fatigue life models and fracture mechanics evaluation methods;


(15) Safety factors used for fatigue life and/or predicted failure pressure calculations;


(16) Reassessment time interval and safety factors;


(17) The date of the review;


(18) Confirmation of the results by qualified technical subject matter experts; and


(19) Approval by responsible operator management personnel.


(h) *Reassessments.* If an operator uses an engineering critical assessment method in accordance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section to determine the maximum reevaluation intervals, the operator must reassess the anomalies as follows:


(1) If the anomaly is in an HCA, the operator must reassess the anomaly within a maximum of 7 years in accordance with § 192.939(a), unless the safety factor is expected to go below what is specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section.


(2) If the anomaly is outside of an HCA, the operator must perform a reassessment of the anomaly within a maximum of 10 years in accordance with § 192.710(b), unless the anomaly safety factor is expected to go below what is specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section.



---

[N] [Amdt. 192-125, 84 FR 52251, Oct. 1, 2019, as amended by Amdt. 192-132, 87 FR 52270, Aug. 24, 2022]




