# ยง 2556.130   What is the procedure for denial or reduction of VISTA assistance to an existing VISTA project?

(a) AmeriCorps will notify the sponsor in writing, at least 75 calendar days before the anticipated denial or reduction of VISTA assistance, that AmeriCorps proposes to deny or reduce VISTA assistance. AmeriCorps' written notice will state the reasons for the decision to deny or reduce assistance and will provide an opportunity period for the sponsor to respond to the merits of the proposed decision. AmeriCorps retains sole authority to make the final determination as to whether the VISTA assistance at issue will be denied or reduced, as appropriate.


(b) Where AmeriCorps' notice of proposed decision is based upon a specific charge of the sponsor's failure to comply with the applicable term(s) or condition(s) of a contract, grant agreement, or an applicable Memorandum of Agreement, the notice will offer the sponsor an opportunity period to respond in writing to the notice, with any affidavits or other supporting documentation, and to request an informal hearing before a mutually agreed-upon impartial hearing officer. The authority of such a hearing officer will be limited to conducting the hearing and offering recommendations to AmeriCorps. Regardless of whether or not an informal hearing takes place, AmeriCorps will retain full authority to make the final determination as to whether the VISTA assistance is denied or reduced, as appropriate.


(c) If the recipient requests an informal hearing, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, such hearing will be held on a date specified by AmeriCorps and held at a location convenient to the sponsor.


(d) If AmeriCorps' proposed decision is based on ineffective management of resources, or on the substantial failure to comply with AmeriCorps policy and overall objectives under a contract, grant agreement, or an applicable Memorandum of Agreement, AmeriCorps will inform the sponsor in the notice of proposed decision of the opportunity to show cause why VISTA assistance should not be denied or reduced, as appropriate. AmeriCorps retains full authority to make the final determination whether the VISTA assistance at issue will be denied or reduced, as appropriate.


(e) The recipient will be informed of AmeriCorps' final determination on whether the VISTA assistance at issue is denied or reduced, and the basis for the determination.


(f) The procedure in this section does not apply to a denial or reduction of VISTA assistance based on legislative requirements, availability of funding, or on general policy.






