# § 405.517   Payment for drugs and biologicals that are not paid on a cost or prospective payment basis.

(a) *Applicability*—(1) *Payment for drugs and biologicals before January 1, 2004.* Payment for a drug or biological that is not paid on a cost or prospective payment basis is determined by the standard methodology described in paragraph (b) of this section. Examples of when this procedure applies include a drug or biological furnished incident to a physician's service, a drug or biological furnished by an independent dialysis facility that is not included in the ESRD composite rate set forth in § 413.170(c) of this chapter, and a drug or biological furnished as part of the durable medical equipment benefit.


(2) *Payment for drugs and biologicals on or after January 1, 2004.* Effective January 1, 2004, payment for drugs and biologicals that are not paid on a cost or prospective payment basis are paid in accordance with part 414, subpart I of this chapter. 


(3) *Payment for drugs and biologicals on or after January 1, 2005.* Effective January 1, 2005, payment for drugs and biologicals that are not paid on a cost or prospective payment basis are paid in accordance with part 414, subpart K of this chapter. 


(b) *Methodology.* Payment for a drug or biological described in paragraph (a) of this section is based on the lower of the actual charge on the Medicare claim for benefits or 95 percent of the national average wholesale price of the drug or biological.


(c) *Multiple-source drugs.* For multiple-source drugs and biologicals, for purposes of this regulation, the average wholesale price is defined as the lesser of the median average wholesale price for all sources of the generic forms of the drug or biological or the lowest average wholesale price of the brand name forms of the drug or biological.



---

[N] [63 FR 58905, Nov. 2, 1998, as amended at 69 FR 1116, Jan. 7, 2004; 69 FR 66420, Nov. 15, 2004]




