# § 59.2   Definitions.

As used in this subpart:


*Act* means the Public Health Service Act, as amended.


*Adolescent-friendly health services* are services that are accessible, acceptable, equitable, appropriate and effective for adolescents.


*Clinical services provider* includes physicians, physician assistants, nurse practitioners, certified nurse midwives, and registered nurses with an expanded scope of practice who are trained and permitted by state-specific regulations to perform all aspects of the user (male and female) physical assessments recommended for contraceptive, related preventive health, and basic infertility care.


*Client-centered care* is respectful of, and responsive to, individual client preferences, needs, and values; client values guide all clinical decisions.


*Culturally and linguistically appropriate services* are respectful of and responsive to the health beliefs, practices and needs of diverse patients.


*Family* means a social unit composed of one person, or two or more persons living together, as a household.


*Family planning services* include a broad range of medically approved services, which includes Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved contraceptive products and natural family planning methods, for clients who want to prevent pregnancy and space births, pregnancy testing and counseling, assistance to achieve pregnancy, basic infertility services, sexually transmitted infection (STI) services, and other preconception health services.


*Health equity* is when all persons have the opportunity to attain their full health potential and no one is disadvantaged from achieving this potential because of social position or other socially determined circumstances.


*Inclusive* is when all people are fully included and can actively participate in and benefit from family planning, including, but not limited to, individuals who belong to underserved communities, such as Black, Latino, and Indigenous and Native American persons, Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders and other persons of color; members of religious minorities; lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ+) persons; persons with disabilities; persons who live in rural areas; and persons otherwise adversely affected by persistent poverty or inequality.


*Low-income family* means a family whose total annual income does not exceed 100 percent of the most recent Poverty Guidelines issued pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 9902(2). “Low-income family” also includes members of families whose annual family income exceeds this amount, but who, as determined by the project director, are unable, for good reasons, to pay for family planning services. For example, unemancipated minors who wish to receive services on a confidential basis must be considered on the basis of their own resources.


*Nonprofit,* as applied to any private agency, institution, or organization, means that no part of the entity's net earnings benefit, or may lawfully benefit, any private shareholder or individual.


*Quality healthcare* is safe, effective, client-centered, timely, efficient, and equitable.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) and any other officer or employee of the Department of Health and Human Services to whom the authority involved has been delegated.


*Service site* is a clinic or other location where Title X services are provided to clients. Title X recipients and/or their subrecipients may have service sites.


*State* includes, in addition to the several States, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, the U.S. Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the U.S. Outlaying Islands (Midway, Wake, et al.), the Marshall Islands, the Federated State of Micronesia, and the Republic of Palau.


*Trauma-informed* means a program, organization, or system that is trauma-informed realizes the widespread impact of trauma and understands potential paths for recovery; recognizes the signs and symptoms of trauma in clients, families, staff, and others involved with the system; and responds by fully integrating knowledge about trauma into policies, procedures, and practices, and seeks to actively resist re-traumatization.






