# § 1269.1   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Applicant* means a person or entity at whose request or for whose account a standby letter of credit is issued.


*Beneficiary* means a person or entity who, under the terms of a standby letter of credit, is entitled to have its complying presentation honored.


*Community lending* means providing financing for economic development projects for targeted beneficiaries, and, for community financial institutions (as defined in § 1263.1 of this title), purchasing or funding small business loans, small farm loans or small agri-business loans (as defined in § 1266.1 of this chapter).


*Confirm* means to undertake, at the request or with the consent of the issuer, to honor a presentation under a standby letter of credit issued by a member or housing associate.


*Document* means a draft or other demand, document of title, investment security, certificate, invoice, or other record, statement, or representation of fact, law, right, or opinion that is presented under the terms of a standby letter of credit.


*Issuer* means a person or entity that issues a standby letter of credit.


*Presentation* means delivery of a document to an issuer, or an entity that has undertaken a confirmation at the request or with the consent of the issuer, for the giving of value under a standby letter of credit.


*Residential housing finance* means:


(1) The purchase or funding of “residential housing finance assets,” as that term is defined in § 1266.1 of this chapter; or


(2) Other activities that support the development or construction of residential housing.


*SHFA associate* means a housing associate that is a “state housing finance agency,” as that term is defined in § 1264.1 of this chapter, and that has met the requirements of § 1269.3(b) of this chapter.


*Standby letter of credit* means a definite undertaking by an issuer on behalf of an applicant that represents an obligation to the beneficiary, pursuant to a complying presentation: to repay money borrowed by, advanced to, or for the account of the applicant; to make payment on account of any indebtedness undertaken by the applicant; or to make payment on account of any default by the applicant in the performance of an obligation. The term *standby letter of credit* does not include a commercial letter of credit, or any short-term self-liquidating instrument used to finance the movement of goods.



---

[N] [63 FR 65699, Nov. 30, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 8265, Feb. 18, 2000; 65 FR 44431, July 18, 2000. Redesignated and amended at 67 FR 12853, Mar. 20, 2002; 75 FR 8240, Feb. 24, 2010; 75 FR 76623, Dec. 9, 2010; 78 FR 2324, Jan. 11, 2013; 78 FR 67009, Nov. 8, 2013]




