# ยง 165.1411   Security zone; waters surrounding U.S. Forces vessel SBX-1, HI.

(a) *Location.* The following area, in U.S. navigable waters within the Honolulu Captain of the Port Zone (see 33 CFR 3.70-10), from the surface of the water to the ocean floor, is a security zone: All waters extending 500 yards in all directions from U.S. Forces vessel SBX-1. The security zone moves with the SBX-1 while it is in transit and becomes fixed when the SBX-1 is anchored, position-keeping, or moored.


(b) *Regulations.* The general regulations governing security zones contained in 33 CFR 165.33 apply. Entry into, transit through, or anchoring within this zone while it is activated, and thus subject to enforcement, is prohibited unless authorized by the Captain of the Port or a designated representative thereof.


(c) *Suspension of enforcement.* The Coast Guard will suspend enforcement of the security zone described in this section whenever the SBX-1 is within the Honolulu Defensive Sea Area (see 6 FR 6675).


(d) *Informational notice.* The Captain of the Port of Honolulu will cause notice of the enforcement of the security zone described in this section to be made by broadcast notice to mariners. The SBX-1 is easy to recognize because it contains a large white object shaped like an egg supported by a platform that is larger than a football field. The platform in turn is supported by six pillars similar to those on large oil-drilling platforms.


(e) *Authority to enforce.* Any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer, and any other Captain of the Port representative permitted by law, may enforce the security zone described in this section.


(f) *Waiver.* The Captain of the Port may waive any of the requirements of this rule for any person, vessel, or class of vessel upon finding that application of the security zone is unnecessary or impractical for the purpose of maritime security.


(g) *Penalties.* Vessels or persons violating this rule are subject to the penalties set forth in 46 U.S.C. 70036 and 46 U.S.C. 70052.



---

[N] [USCG-2007-0195, 73 FR 13131, Mar. 12, 2008, as amended by USCG-2018-1049, 84 FR 7813, Mar. 5, 2019]




