# ยง 14.2   Policy.

The interests of the United States and its citizens are best served when information regarding the affairs of Government is readily available to the public. Provisions for such an informed citizenry are reflected in the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and in the current public information policies of the executive branch.


(a) *Safeguarding national security information.* Some official information within the Federal Government is directly concerned with matters of national defense and the conduct of foreign relations. This information must, therefore, be subject to security constraints, and limited in term of its distribution.


(b) *Exemption from public disclosure.* Official information of a sensitive nature, hereinafter referred to as national security information, is expressly exempted from compulsory public disclosure by Section 552(b)(1) of title 5 U.S.C. Persons wrongfully disclosing such information are subject to prosecution under United States criminal laws.


(c) *Scope.* To ensure that national security information is protected, but only to the extent and for such a period as is necessary, these regulations:


(1) Identify information to be protected.


(2) Prescribe procedures on classification, declassification, downgrading, and safeguarding of information.


(3) Establish a monitoring system to ensure the effectiveness of the Department of Labor (DOL) security program and regulations.


(d) *Limitation.* The need to safeguard national security information in no way implies an indiscriminate license to withhold information from the public. It is important that the citizens of the United States have access, consistent with national security, to information concerning the policies and programs of their Government.




