# § 680.40   Crab Quota Share (QS), Processor QS (PQS), Individual Fishing Quota (IFQ), and Individual Processor Quota (IPQ) Issuance.

(a) *Crab QS and Crab QS fisheries.* The Regional Administrator will issue crab QS for the crab QS fisheries defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The Regional Administrator will annually issue IFQ based on the amount of QS a person holds. Crab harvested and retained in each crab QS fishery may be harvested and retained only by persons holding the appropriate crab IFQ for that crab QS fishery.


(1) *Allocations.* With the exception of the WAI golden king crab fishery, the Regional Administrator shall annually apportion 10 percent of the TAC specified by the State of Alaska for each of the fisheries described in Table 1 to this part to the Western Alaska CDQ program. Ten percent of the TAC in the Western Aleutian Islands golden king crab fishery will be allocated to the Adak community entity. The remaining TACs for the crab QS fisheries will be apportioned for use by QS holders in each fishery.


(2) *Official crab rationalization record.* The official crab rationalization record will be used to determine the amount of QS that is to be allocated for each crab QS fishery. The official crab rationalization record is presumed to be correct. An applicant for QS has the burden to prove otherwise. For the purposes of creating the official crab rationalization record the Regional Administrator will presume the following:


(i) An LLP license is presumed to have been used onboard the same vessel from which that LLP is derived, unless documentation is provided establishing otherwise.


(ii) If more than one person is claiming the same legal landings or legal processing activities, then each person eligible to receive QS or PQS based on those activities will receive an equal share of any resulting QS or PQS unless the applicants can provide written documentation establishing an alternative means for distributing the QS or PQS.


(iii) For the purposes of determining eligibility for CPO QS, a person is presumed to have processed BSAI crab in 1998 or 1999 if the vessel on which the applicant's LLP license is based processed such crab in those years.


(b) *QS sectors and regional designations*—(1) *General.* The Regional Administrator shall initially assign to qualified persons, crab QS that are specific to the crab QS fisheries defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The crab QS amount issued will be based on legal landings made on vessels authorized to participate in those fisheries in four QS sectors:


(i) *Catcher Vessel Owner (CVO) QS* shall be initially issued to qualified persons defined in paragraph (b)(3) of this section based on legal landings of unprocessed crab.


(ii) *Catcher Vessel Crew (CVC) QS* shall be initially issued to qualified persons defined in paragraph (b)(3) of this section based on legal landings of unprocessed crab.


(iii) *Catcher/Processor Owner (CPO) QS* shall be initially issued to qualified persons defined in paragraph (b)(3) of this section based on legal landings of crab that were harvested and processed on the same vessel.


(iv) *Catcher/Processor Crew (CPC) QS* shall be initially issued to qualified persons defined in paragraph (b)(3) of this section based on legal landings of crab that were harvested and processed on the same vessel.


(2) *Regional designations.* (i) Regional designations apply to:


(A) *North QS* if the legal landings that gave rise to the QS for a crab QS fishery were landed in the Bering Sea subarea north of 56°20′ N. lat.; or


(B) *South QS* if the legal landings that gave rise to the QS for a crab QS fishery were not landed in the North Region, and all CVO QS allocated to the WAI crab QS fishery; or


(C) *West QS* for a portion of the QS allocated to the WAG crab QS fishery subject to the provisions under § 680.40(c)(4).


(ii) Regional designations do not apply (Undesignated QS) to:


(A) Crab QS for the EBT or WBT crab QS fishery;


(B) Crab QS for that portion of the WAG QS fishery not regionally designated for the West region;


(C) CVC QS;


(D) CPO QS unless that QS is transferred to the CVO QS sector, in which case the regional designation is made by the recipient of the resulting CVO QS at the time of transfer; and


(E) CPC QS.


(iii) The regional designations that apply to each of the crab QS fisheries are specified in the following table: 


(iv) The regional designation ratios applied to QS and PQS for each crab QS fishery will be established based on the regional designations determined on August 1, 2005. QS or PQS issued after this date will be issued in the same ratio.


(3) *Qualified person* means, for the purposes of QS issuance, a person, as defined in § 679.2, who at the time of application for QS meets the following criteria for each of the QS sectors:


(i) *CVO QS.* Holds one or more permanent, fully transferable crab LLP licenses and is a citizen of the United States;


(ii) *CPO QS.* (A) Holds one or more permanent, fully transferable crab LLP licenses with a Catcher/Processor designation and is a citizen of the United States; and


(B) Harvested and processed at sea any crab species in any BSAI crab fishery during the years 1998 or 1999.


(iii) *CVC QS and CPC QS.* (A) Is an individual who is a citizen of the United States, or his or her successor-in-interest if that individual is deceased;


(B) Has historical participation in the fishery demonstrated by being the individual named on a State of Alaska Interim Use Permit for a QS crab fishery and made at least one legal landing per year for any 3 eligibility years under that permit based on data from fish tickets maintained by the State of Alaska. The qualifying years are described in Column C of Table 7 to this part.


(C) Has recent participation in the fishery demonstrated by being the individual named on a State of Alaska Interim Use Permit for a QS crab fishery and made at least one legal landing under that permit in any 2 of 3 seasons based on data from fish tickets maintained by the State of Alaska. Those seasons are defined in Column D of Table 7 to this part; except that the requirement for recent participation does not apply if:


(*1*) The legal landings that qualify the individual for QS in the PIK crab QS fishery were made from a vessel that was less than 60 feet length overall; or


(*2*) If the individual who is otherwise eligible to receive an initial issuance of QS died while working as part of a harvesting crew in any U.S. commercial fishery.


(4) *Qualification for initial allocation of QS*—(i) *Qualifying year.* The qualifying years for each crab QS fishery are described in Column B of Table 7 to this part.


(ii) *Legal landing of crab* means, for the purpose of initial allocation of QS, crab harvested during the qualifying years specified in Column B of Table 7 to this part and landed in compliance with state and Federal permitting, landing, and reporting regulations in effect at the time of the landing.


(A) Legal landings exclude any deadloss, test fishing, fishing conducted under an experimental, exploratory, or scientific activity permit, or the fishery conducted under the Western Alaska CDQ Program.


(B) Landings made onboard a vessel that gave rise to a crab LLP license or made under the authority of an LLP license are non-severable from the crab LLP license until QS has been issued for those legal landings, except as provided for in paragraph (c)(2)(vii) of this section.


(C) Landings may only be used once for each QS sector for the purposes of allocating QS.


(D) Landings made from vessels which are used for purposes of receiving compensation through the BSAI Crab Capacity Reduction Program may not be used for the allocation of CVO QS or CPO QS.


(E) Legal landings for purposes of allocating QS for a crab QS fishery only include those landings that resulted in the issuance of an LLP license endorsed for that crab QS fishery, or landings that were made in that crab QS fishery under the authority of an LLP license endorsed for that crab QS fishery, except as provided for in paragraph (c)(2)(vii) of this section.


(iii) *Documentation.* Evidence of legal landings shall be limited to State of Alaska fish tickets.


(c) *Calculation of QS allocation*—(1) *General.* (i) For each permanent, fully transferable crab LLP license under which an applicant applies, CVO and CPO QS will be based on legal landings that resulted in the issuance of that license or from legal landings that were made under the authority of that license.


(ii) For each State of Alaska Interim Use Permit under which an applicant applies for CVC QS or CPC QS, the initial allocation of QS will be based on the legal landings that were made under the authority of that permit.


(2) *Computation for initial issuance of QS.* (i) Based on the official crab rationalization record the Regional Administrator shall derive the annual harvest denominator (AHD) that represents the amount of legally landed crab in each crab QS fishery in each qualifying year as established in Column B of Table 7 to this part.


(ii) The initial QS pool is described in Table 8 to this part.


(iii) A person's initial allocation of QS shall be based on a percentage of the legal landings for the applicable sector in each crab QS fishery:


(A) Associated with crab LLP licenses held by the applicant for CVO or CPO QS; or


(B) Authorized under a State of Alaska Interim Use Permit held by the applicant for CVC or CPC QS.


(iv) The Regional Administrator shall calculate the allocation of CVO and CPO QS for each crab QS fishery “f” based on each fully transferable LLP license “l” held by a qualified person by the following formulas:


(A) Sum legal landings for each qualifying year, as described in Column B of Table 7 to this part, and divide that amount by the AHD for that year as follows:


(B) In those fisheries where only a subset of the qualifying years are applied, the Regional Administrator will use the years that yield the highest percentages of each AHD as calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A) of this section.


(C) Sum the highest percentages of the AHD's for that license as calculated under paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(B) of this section and divide by the number in Column E of Table 7 to this part (Subset of Qualifying Years). This yields the Average Percentage as presented in the following equation:


(D) Divide the Average percentage in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(C) of this section for a license and fishery by the Sum of all Average Percentages for all licenses for that fishery as presented in the following equation:


(E) Multiply the Percentage of the Total Percentages in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(D) of this section by the Initial QS Pool as described in Table 8 to this part. This yields the unadjusted number of QS units derived from a license for a fishery.


(F) Multiply the unadjusted number of QS units in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(E) of this section by 97 percent. This yields the number of QS units to be allocated.


(G) Determine the percentage of legal landings in the subset of qualifying years associated with a LLP license with a catcher/processor designation that were processed on that vessel and multiply the amount calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(F) of this section by this percentage. This yields the amount of CPO QS to be allocated.


(H) Determine the percentage of legal landings in the subset of qualifying years associated with a LLP license that were not processed on that vessel and multiply the amount calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(F) of this section by this percentage. This yields the amount of CVO QS to be allocated.


(I) Determine the percentage of legal landings associated with an LLP license in the subset of qualifying years that were delivered in each region as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The amount calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(H) of this section is multiplied by the percentage for each region.


(J) The percentage calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(I) of this section may be adjusted according to the provisions at paragraphs (c)(3) and (c)(4) of this section.


(v) As shown in the formulas under this paragraph (c)(2)(v), the allocation of CVC and CPC QS for each crab QS fishery “f” based on each State of Alaska Interim Use Permit “i” held by each qualified person shall be calculated by the Regional Administrator as follows:


(A) Sum legal landings for each qualifying year as described in Column B of Table 7 to this part and divide that amount by the AHD for that year using the following equation:


(B) In those fisheries where only a subset of the qualifying years are applied, the Regional Administrator will use the years that yield the highest percentages of the AHD as calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(v)(A) of this section.


(C) Sum the highest percentages of the AHDs for that license calculated under paragraph (c)(2)(v)(B) of this section and divide by the number in Column E of Table 7 to this part (Subset of Qualifying Years). This yields the Average Percentage as presented in the following equation:


(D) Divide the Average Percentage in paragraph (c)(2)(v)(C) of this section for a permit and fishery by the Sum of all Average Percentages for all permits for that fishery as presented in the following equation:


(E) Multiply the Percentage of the Total Percentages in paragraph (c)(2)(v)(E) of this section by the Initial QS Pool as described in Table 8 to this part. This yields the unadjusted number of QS units derived from a permit for a fishery.


(F) Multiply the unadjusted number of QS units in paragraph (c)(2)(v)(E) of this section by 3 percent. This yields the number of QS units to be allocated.


(G) Determine the percentage of legal landings in the subset of qualifying years associated with a permit that were processed on that vessel and multiply the amount calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(v)(F) of this section by this percentage. This yields the amount of CPC QS to be allocated.


(H) Determine the percentage of legal landings in the subset of qualifying years associated with a permit that were not processed on that vessel and multiply the amount calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(v)(F) of this section by this percentage. This yields the amount of CVC QS to be allocated.


(I) Determine the percentage of legal landings associated with a permit in the subset of qualifying years that were delivered in each region as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The amount calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(v)(H) of this section is multiplied by the percentage for each region.


(J) The percentage calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(v)(I) of this section may be adjusted according to the provisions at paragraphs (c)(3) and (c)(4) of this section. The amount calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(v)(H) of this section is multiplied by the percentage for each region. These regional QS designations do not apply to CVC QS.


(vi) *Sunken vessel provisions.* (A) If a person applies for CVO QS or CPO QS based, in whole or in part, on the activities of a vessel that sank, the Regional Administrator shall presume landings for that vessel for the crab fishing years between the time of vessel loss and the replacement of the vessel under § 679.4(k)(5)(v) of this chapter. These presumed landings shall be equivalent to 50 percent of the average legal landings for the qualifying years established in Column B of Table 7 to this part unaffected by the sinking. If the vessel sank during a qualifying year, the legal landings for that year will not be used as the basis for presumed landings;


(B) If a person applies for CVO QS or CPO QS based, in whole or in part, on the activities of a vessel that sank and:


(*1*) The person who owned the vessel that sank would have been denied eligibility to replace a sunken vessel under the provisions of Public Law 106-554; and


(*2*) The vessel that sank was replaced with a newly constructed vessel, with that vessel under construction no later than June 10, 2002. For purposes of this section a vessel is considered under construction once the keel for that vessel has been laid; and


(*3*) The newly constructed vessel participated in any Bering Sea crab fishery no later than October 31, 2002;


(*4*) Then the Regional Administrator shall presume landings for that vessel for the crab fishing years between the time of vessel loss and the replacement of the vessel. These presumed landings shall be equivalent to 50 percent of the average legal landings for the qualifying years established in Column B of Table 7 to this part unaffected by the sinking. If the vessel sank during a qualifying year, the legal landings for that year will not be used as the basis for presumed landings.


(vii) *LLP license history exemption.* An applicant for CVO or CPO QS who:


(A) Deployed a vessel in a crab QS fishery under the authority of an interim or permanent fully transferable LLP license; and


(B) Prior to January 1, 2002, received by transfer, as authorized by NMFS, a permanent fully transferable LLP license for use in that crab QS fishery to insure that a vessel would remain authorized to participate in the fishery, may choose to use as the legal landings which are the basis for QS allocation on his or her application for crab QS or PQS either:


(*1*) The legal landings made on that vessel for that crab QS fishery prior to the transfer of the permanent fully transferable LLP license for use on that vessel; or


(*2*) The legal landings made on the vessel that gave rise to the permanent fully transferable LLP license and the legal landings made under the authority of that same LLP license in that crab QS fishery prior to January 1, 2002.


(C) If the history described in paragraph (c)(2)(vii)(B)(*1*) of this section is being used by another person for an allocation with an LLP license, then the allocation in paragraph (c)(2)(vii) will be based on the legal landings as described under paragraph (c)(2)(vii)(B)(*2*) of this section.


(3) *Adjustment of CVO and CVC QS allocation for North and South regional designation.* The Regional Administrator may adjust the regional designation of QS to ensure that it is initially allocated in the same proportion as the regional designation of PQS for that crab QS fishery. A person who would receive QS based on the legal landings in only one region, will receive QS with only that regional designation. A person who would receive QS with more than one regional designation for that crab QS fishery would have his or her QS holdings regionally adjusted on a pro rata basis as follows:


(i) Determine the ratio of the Initial PQS pool in the North and South regions.


(ii) Multiply the Initial QS pool by the ratio of North and South PQS. This will yield the target QS pool for each region.


(iii) Sum the QS for all persons who are eligible to receive North QS yielding the unadjusted North QS pool, and sum the QS for all persons who are eligible to receive South QS yielding the unadjusted South QS pool.


(iv) To calculate the amount of QS available for adjustment, subtract the amount of QS for persons receiving North only QS from the unadjusted North QS pool and subtract the amount of QS for persons receiving South only QS from the unadjusted South QS pool, as presented in the following equations:


(A) Unadj. North QS −North QS only = North QS for [North & South] QS holders. 


(B) Unadj. South QS −South QS only = South QS for [North & South] QS holders. 


(v) Determine which region becomes the gaining region if the target QS pool is greater than the unadjusted QS pool.


(vi) Subtract the gaining region unadjusted QS pool from the gaining region target QS pool to calculate the number of QS units that need to be applied to the gaining region. This amount is the Adjustment Amount as presented in the following equation: 


(vii) Divide the Adjustment Amount by the unadjusted losing region QS pool for North and South QS holders. This yields the regional adjustment factor (RAF) for each person as presented in the following equation:


(viii) For each person (p) who holds both North and South Region QS, the QS adjustment (QS Adj. (p)) to that person's Unadjusted losing region QS is expressed in the following equation as:


(ix) The QS adjustment for person (p) is made by subtracting the QS adjustment from that person's unadjusted losing region QS amount and added to that person's unadjusted gaining region QS. These adjustments will yield the regional adjustment QS amounts for that person.


(4) *Regional designation of Western Aleutian Islands golden king crab.* Fifty percent of the CVO QS that is issued in the WAG crab QS fishery will be initially issued with a West regional designation. The West regional designation applies to QS for delivery west of 174° W. longitude. The remaining 50 percent of the CVO QS initially issued for this fishery is not subject to regional designation (Undesignated QS). A person (p) who would receive QS based on the legal landings in only one region will receive QS with only that regional designation. A person who would receive QS with more than one regional designation for that crab QS fishery would have his or her QS holdings regionally adjusted on a pro rata basis as follows:


(i) The West QS pool is equal to 50 percent of the initial QS pool.


(ii) The Undesignated QS pool is equal to 50 percent of the initial QS pool.


(iii) Sum the QS for all persons who are eligible to receive West QS yielding the unadjusted West QS pool, and sum the QS for all persons who are eligible to receive undesignated QS yielding the unadjusted undesignated QS pool.


(iv) To calculate the amount of QS available for adjustment, subtract the amount of QS for persons receiving West only QS from the unadjusted West QS pool and subtract the amount of QS for persons receiving undesignated only QS from the unadjusted undesignated QS pool, as presented in the following equation:


(A) Unadj. West QS−West QS only = West QS for [West & Undesignated] QS holders. 


(B) Unadj. Undesignated QS−Undesignated QS only = Undesignated QS for [West & Undesignated] QS holders. 


(v) Subtract the gaining region Unadjusted QS pool from the gaining region Target QS pool to calculate the number of QS units that will need to be applied to the gaining region. This amount is the Adjustment Amount as presented in the following equation: 


(vi) Divide the Adjustment Amount by the unadjusted losing region QS pool for West and Undesignated QS holders. This yields the regional adjustment factor (RAF) for each person as presented in the following equation: 


(vii) For each person (p) who holds both unadjusted West and Undesignated Region QS, the QS adjustment (QS Adj. p) to that person's Unadjusted West QS is expressed in the following equation as: 


(viii) The QS adjustment for person (p) is made by subtracting the QS adjustment for that person's unadjusted losing region QS amount and subtracted from that person's unadjusted gaining region QS. These adjustments will yield the regional adjustment QS amounts for that person.


(5) *Issuance of converted CPO QS.* (i) For each crab fishing year, the Regional Administrator may issue converted CPO QS for the BBR or BSS crab QS fishery with a North Region designation to an entity described in paragraph (c)(5)(ii), (c)(5)(iii), or (c)(5)(iv) of this section if NMFS has approved an application for converted CPO QS/IFQ for that crab fishing year.


(ii) Entity A is comprised only of Yardarm Knot, Inc. (NMFS ID # 675).


(iii) Entity B is comprised only of Blue Dutch, LLC (NMFS ID # 3163).


(iv) Entity C is comprised only of Trident Seafoods, Inc. (NMFS ID # 8184).


(v) NMFS will issue Entity A, B, or C, described in paragraphs (c)(5)(ii) through (c)(5)(iv) of this section, one unit of converted CPO for each unit of CVO QS and 0.9 units of PQS indicated in an approved application for converted CPO QS/IFQ.


(vi) For each crab fishing year, the Regional Administrator will not issue CPO QS for the BBR or BSS crab QS fishery:


(A) To Entity A described in paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section that is greater than the amount of converted CPO QS that may be derived from the amount of PQS units with a North Region designation initially issued by NMFS to Yardarm Knot, Inc. (NMFS ID # 675), and any affiliates of Yardarm Knot, Inc., as listed on an annual application for converted CPO QS/IFQ for that crab fishing year;


(B) To Entity B described in paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section that is greater than the amount of converted CPO QS that may be derived from the amount of PQS units with a North Region designation initially issued by NMFS to Blue Dutch, LLC, (NMFS ID # 3163) under paragraph (e)(3) of this section and any affiliates of Blue Dutch, LLC, as listed on an annual application for annual application for converted CPO QS/IFQ for that crab fishing year; and


(C) To Entity C described in paragraph (c)(5)(iv) of this section that is greater than the amount of converted CPO QS that may be derived from the amount of CVO QS units with a North Region designation initially issued by NMFS to Trident Seafoods, Inc. (NMFS ID # 8184), and any affiliates of Trident Seafoods, Inc., as listed on an annual application for converted CPO QS/IFQ for that crab fishing year;


(vii) CPO IFQ derived from converted CPO QS may be issued to a crab harvesting cooperative only if the entity described in paragraph (c)(5)(ii), (c)(5)(iii), or (c)(5)(iv) of this section holding the converted CPO QS is a member of that crab harvesting cooperative.


(6) *Offloading requirements for CPO IFQ derived from converted CPO QS.* Any crab harvested under a CPO IFQ permit derived from converted CPO QS must be offloaded in the Bering Sea subarea north of 56°20′ N. lat.


(d) *Crab PQS and Crab PQS Fisheries*—(1) *General.* The Regional Administrator shall initially assign to qualified persons defined in paragraph (d)(3) of this section crab PQS specific to crab QS fisheries defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The crab PQS amount issued will be based on total legal processing of crab made in those crab QS fisheries. PQS shall yield annual IPQ as defined under paragraph (j) of this section.


(2) *Regional designations.* For each crab QS fishery, PQS shall be initially regionally designated based on the legal processing that gave rise to the PQS as follows:


(i) *North PQS* if the processing that gave rise to the PQS for a crab QS fishery occurred in the Bering Sea subarea north of 56°20′ N. lat.; or


(ii) *South PQS* if the processing that gave rise the PQS for a crab QS fishery did not occur in the North Region, and PQS allocated to the WAI crab QS fishery; or


(iii) *West PQS* for a portion of the PQS allocated to the WAG crab QS fishery subject to the provisions under paragraph (e)(2) of this section; or


(iv) *Undesignated.* Regional designations do not apply to:


(A) That portion of the WAG crab QS fishery that is not regionally designated as West Region PQS; and


(B) The EBT or WBT crab QS fishery.


(v) The specific regional designations that apply to PQS in each of the crab QS fisheries are described in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section.


(3) *Qualified person,* for the purposes of PQS issuance, means a person, as defined at § 679.2, who at the time of application for PQS is a U.S. citizen, or a U.S. corporation, partnership, association, or other entity, and who:


(i) Legally processed any crab QS species established in paragraph (a)(1) of this section during 1998 or 1999 as demonstrated on the official crab rationalization record; or


(ii) Did not legally process any crab QS species during 1998 or 1999 according to the official crab rationalization record, but who:


(A) Processed BSS crab QS species in each crab season for that fishery during the period from 1988 through 1997; and


(B) From January 1, 1996, through June 10, 2002, invested in a processing facility, processing equipment, or a vessel for use in processing operations, including any improvements made to existing facilities with a total expenditure in excess of $1,000,000; or


(C) Is the person to whom the history of legal processing of crab has been transferred by the express terms of a written contract that clearly and unambiguously provides that such legal processing of crab has been transferred. This provision would apply only if that applicant for PQS:


(*1*) Legally processed any crab QS species established in paragraph (a)(1) of this section during 1998 or 1999, as demonstrated on the official crab rationalization record; or


(*2*) Received history of crab processing that was legally processed during 1998 or 1999, as demonstrated on the official crab rationalization record.


(iii) Qualified persons, or their successors-in-interest, must exist at the time of application for PQS.


(iv) A former partner of a dissolved partnership or a former shareholder of a dissolved corporation who would otherwise be a qualified person may apply for PQS in proportion to his or her ownership interest in the dissolved partnership or corporation.


(v) A person who has acquired a processing corporation, partnership, or other entity that has a history of legal processing of crab is presumed to have received by transfer all of that history of legal processing of crab unless a clear and unambiguous written contract establishes otherwise.


(4) *Qualification for initial allocation of PQS*—(i) *Years.* The qualifying years for each crab QS fishery are designated in Table 9 to this part.


(ii) *Ownership interest.* Documentation of ownership interest in a dissolved partnership or corporation, association, or other entity shall be limited to corporate documents (e.g., articles of incorporation) or notarized statements signed by each former partner, shareholder or director, and specifying their proportions of interest.


(iii) *Legal processing of crab* means, for the purpose of initial allocation of PQS, raw crab pounds processed in the crab QS fisheries designated under paragraph (a)(1) of this section in compliance with state and Federal permitting, landing, and reporting regulations in effect at the time of the landing. Legal processing excludes any deadloss, processing of crab harvested in a test fishery or under a scientific, education, exploratory, or experimental permit, or under the Western Alaska CDQ Program.


(iv) *Documentation.* Evidence of legal processing shall be limited to State of Alaska fish tickets, except that:


(A) NMFS may use information from a State of Alaska Commercial Operators Annual Report, State of Alaska fishery tax records, or evidence of direct payment from a receiver of crab to a harvester if that information indicates that the buyer of crab differs from the receiver indicated on State of Alaska fish ticket records; however:


(B) Information on State of Alaska fish tickets shall be presumed to be correct for the purpose of determining evidence of legal processing of crab. An applicant will have the burden of proving the validity of information submitted in an application that is inconsistent with the information on the State of Alaska fish ticket.


(e) *Calculation of PQS allocation*—(1) *Computation for initial issuance of PQS.* (i) The Regional Administrator shall establish the Total Processing Denominator (TPD) which represents the amount of legally processed raw crab pounds in each crab QS fishery in all qualifying years.


(ii) For each crab QS fishery, the percentage of the initial PQS pool that will be distributed to each qualified person shall be based on their percentage of the TPD according to the following procedure:


(A) Sum the raw crab pounds purchased for each person for all qualifying years.


(B) Divide the sum calculated in paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(A) of this section by the TPD. Multiply by 100. This yields a person's percentage of the TPD.


(C) Sum the TPD percentages of all persons.


(D) Divide the percentage for a person calculated in paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(B) of this section by the sum calculated in paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(C) of this section for all persons. This yields a person's percentage of the TPD.


(E) Multiply the amount calculated in paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(D) of this section by the PQS pool for that crab QS fishery as that amount is defined in Table 8 to this part.


(F) Determine the percentages of legally processed crab that were processed in each region. The percentages calculated in paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(E) of this section are multiplied by the amount determined within each regional designation. Regional designations will apply to that PQS according to the provisions established in paragraphs (d)(2) and (e)(2) of this section.


(2) *Regional designation of Western Aleutian Islands golden king crab.* (i) Fifty percent of the PQS that is issued in the WAG crab QS fishery will be issued with a West regional designation. The West regional designation applies to PQS for processing west of 174° N. long. The remaining 50 percent of the PQS issued for this fishery is Undesignated region PQS.


(ii) A person will receive only West PQS if, at the time of application, that person owns a crab processing facility that is located in the West region. A person will receive West region and Undesignated Region PQS if, at the time of application, that person does not own a crab processing facility located in the West region. Expressed algebraically, for any person (p) allocated both West region PQS and undesignated region PQS the formula is as follows: 


(A) PQS_West_ = PQS × 0.50 


(B) PQS_Und._ = PQS × 0.50 


(C) PQS_West_ for PQS_West & Und._ holders = PQS_West_−PQS_West only_

(D) PQS_West_ for Person_p West & Und._ = PQS_p_ × PQS_West_ for PQS_West & Und._ holders/(PQS_West_ for PQS_West & Und._ holders + PQS_Und._)


(E) PQS_Und._ for Person_p_ = PQS_p_−PQS_West_ for Person_p_

(iii) For purposes of the allocation of PQS in the WAG crab fishery:


(A) Ownership of a processing facility is defined as:


(*1*) A sole proprietor; or


(*2*) A relationship between two or more entities in which a person directly or indirectly owns a 10 percent or greater interest in another, or a third entity directly or indirectly owns a 10 percent or greater interest in both.


(B) A processing facility is a shoreside crab processor or a stationary floating crab processor.


(3) *PQS issued to Blue Dutch, LLC.* (i) Pursuant to Public Law 109-241, NMFS issued 3,015,229 units of PQS for the BBR crab QS fishery and 7,516,253 units of PQS for the BSS crab QS fishery.


(ii) PQS units issued to Blue Dutch, LLC, under paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section were assigned a regional designation according to the procedures established in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section.


(iii) PQS units issued to Blue Dutch, LLC, under paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section may not be transferred to any other person.


(f) *Application for crab QS or PQS*—(1) *General.* The Regional Administrator will issue QS and/or PQS to an applicant if a complete application for crab QS or PQS is submitted by or on behalf of the applicant during the specified application period, and if the applicant meets all criteria for eligibility as specified at paragraphs (b)(3) and (d)(3) of this section.


(i) The Regional Administrator will send application materials to the person identified by NMFS as an eligible applicant based on the official crab rationalization record. An application form may also be obtained from the Internet or requested from the Regional Administrator.


(ii) An application for crab QS or PQS may be submitted to NMFS as instructed on the application. Forms are available on the NMFS Alaska Region website at *http://alaskafisheries.noaa.gov*, or by contacting NMFS at 800-304-4846, Option 2.


(iii) An application that is postmarked, faxed, or hand delivered after the ending date for the application period for the Crab QS Program specified in the _Federal Register_ will be denied.


(2) *Contents of application.* A complete application for crab QS or PQS must be signed by the applicant, or the individual representing the applicant, and include the following, as applicable:


(i) *Type of QS or PQS for which the person is applying.* Select the type of QS or PQS for which the applicant is applying.


(A) If applying for CVO QS or CPO QS, submit information required in paragraphs (f)(2)(ii) through (f)(2)(iv) of this section;


(B) If applying for CVC QS or CPC QS, submit information required in paragraphs (f)(2)(ii), (f)(2)(iii) and (f)(2)(v) of this section;


(C) If applying for PQS, submit information required in paragraphs (f)(2)(ii), (f)(2)(iii) and (f)(2)(vi) of this section.


(ii) *Applicant information.* (A) Enter the applicant's name, NMFS person ID (if applicable), tax ID or social security number (required), permanent business mailing address, business telephone number, facsimile number, and e-mail (if available);


(B) Indicate (YES or NO) whether applicant is a U.S. citizen; if YES, enter his or her date of birth. You must be a U.S. citizen or U.S. corporation, partnership, or other business entity to obtain CVO, CPO, CVC, or CPC QS.


(C) Indicate (YES or NO) whether applicant is a U.S. corporation, partnership, association, or other business entity; if YES, enter the date of incorporation;


(D) Indicate (YES or NO) whether applicant is deceased; if YES, enter date of death. A copy of the death certificate must be attached to the application;


(E) Indicate (YES or NO) whether applicant described in paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(C) of this section is no longer in existence; if YES, enter date of dissolution and attach evidence of dissolution to the application;


(iii) *Fishery and QS/PQS type.* Indicate the crab QS fishery and type of QS/PQS for which applying.


(iv) *CVO or CPO QS.* (A) For vessels whose catch histories are being claimed for purposes of the crab QS program, enter the following information: name of the vessel, ADF&G vessel registration number, USCG documentation number, moratorium crab permit number(s), and crab LLP license number(s) held by the applicant and used on that vessel, qualifying years or seasons fished by fishery, and dates during which those permits were used on that vessel.


(B) Indicate (YES or NO) whether applicant is applying for QS for any crab QS fishery for which the applicant purchased an LLP license prior to January 1, 2002, in order to remain in that fishery. If YES, include LLP crab license number, and the vessel's name, ADF&G vessel registration number, and USCG documentation number.


(C) Indicate (YES or NO) whether QS is being claimed based on the fishing history of a vessel that was lost or destroyed. If YES, include the name, ADF&G registration number, and USCG documentation number of the lost or destroyed vessel, the date the vessel was lost or destroyed, and evidence of the loss or destruction.


(D) Indicate (YES or NO) whether the lost or destroyed vessel described in paragraph (f)(2)(iv)(C) of this section was replaced with a newly constructed vessel. If YES, include the name, ADF&G vessel registration number, and USCG documentation number of the replacement vessel, date of vessel construction, and date vessel entered fishery(ies). Indicate (YES or NO) if the replacement vessel participated in a Bering Sea crab fishery by October 31, 2002. If YES, provide documentation of the replacement vessel's participation by October 31, 2002, in a Bering Sea crab fishery.


(E) If the applicant is applying for CPO QS, indicate (YES or NO) whether the applicant processed crab from any of the crab QS fisheries listed on Table 1 to this part on board a vessel authorized by one of the LLP licenses listed in paragraph (f)(2)(iv)(A) of this section in 1998 or 1999. If YES, enter information for the processed crab, including harvest area, date of landing, and crab species.


(v) *CVC or CPC QS.* (A) Indicate (YES or NO) whether applicant had at least one landing in three of the qualifying years for each crab species for which the applicant is applying for QS (see Table 7 to this part).


(B) Indicate (YES or NO) whether applicant has recent participation in a crab QS fishery as defined in Table 7 to this part.


(C) If the answer to paragraph (f)(2)(v)(A) or paragraph (f)(2)(v)(B) of this section is YES, enter State of Alaska Interim Use Permit number and the name, ADF&G vessel registration number, and USCG documentation number of vessel on which harvesting occurred. Select the qualifying years or seasons fished by QS fishery, and the dates during which those permits were used on that vessel;


(D) Indicate (YES or NO) whether a person is applying as the successor-in-interest to an eligible applicant. If YES, attach to the application documentation proving the person's status as a successor-in-interest and evidence of the death of the eligible applicant.


(vi) *Processor QS.* (A) Indicate (YES or NO) whether applicant processed any of the crab species included in the Crab QS program (see Table 1 to this part) in 1998 or 1999.


(B) If answer to paragraph (f)(2)(vi)(A) of this section is YES, enter the facility name and ADF&G processor code for each processing facility where crab, from any of the crab QS fisheries listed in Table 1 of this part, were processed and the qualifying years or seasons by fishery for which applicant is claiming eligibility for PQS.


(C) If answer to paragraph (f)(2)(vi)(A) of this section is NO, indicate (YES or NO) whether applicant is claiming eligibility under hardship provisions;


(D) If answer to paragraph (f)(2)(vi)(C) of this section is YES, both of the following provisions must apply to a processor to obtain hardship provisions. Attach documentation of the following circumstances:


(*1*) Applicant processed QS crab during 1998 or 1999, or processed BSS crab in each season between 1988 and 1997; and


(*2*) Applicant invested a total expenditure in excess of $1,000,000 for any processing facility, processing equipment, or a vessel for use in processing operations, including any improvements made to existing facilities from January 1, 1996, to June 10, 2002;


(E) Indicate (YES or NO) whether applicant has entered into a Community Right of First Refusal (ROFR) contract consistent with paragraph (f)(3) of this section pertaining to the transfer of any PQS and/or IPQ subject to ROFR and issued as a result of this application.


(F) Contract that the legal processing history and rights to apply for and receive PQS based on that legal processing history have been transferred or retained; and


(G) Any other information deemed necessary by the Regional Administrator.


(H) If applicant is applying to receive PQS for the WAG crab QS fishery, indicate (YES or NO) whether applicant owns a crab processing facility in the West region (*see* paragraph (b)(2) (iii) of this section).


(vii) *Applicant signature and certification.* The applicant must sign and date the application certifying that all information is true, correct, and complete to the best of his/her knowledge and belief. If the application is completed by an authorized representative, then authorization must accompany the application.


(3) *Notice and contract provisions for community right of first refusal (ROFR) for initial issuance of PQS.* (i) To be complete, an application for PQS from a person based on legal processing that occurred in an ECC, other than Adak, must also include an affidavit signed by the applicant stating that notice has been provided to the ECC of the applicant's intent to apply for PQS. If the ECC designates an entity to represent it in the exercise of ROFR under § 680.41(l), then the application also must include an affidavit of completion of a contract for ROFR that includes the terms enacted under section 313(j) of the Magnuson-Stevens Act. The affidavit must be signed by the applicant for initial allocation of PQS and the ECC entity designated under § 680.41(l)(2). A list of contract terms is available from the NMFS Alaska Region Web site at *http://www.fakr.noaa.gov.* A copy of these contract terms also will be made available by mail or facsimile by contacting the Regional Administrator at 907-586-7221.


(ii) To be complete, an application for crab QS or PQS from a person based on legal processing that occurred in the GOA north of a line at 56°20′ N. lat. must also include an affidavit signed by the applicant stating that notice has been provided to the City of Kodiak and Kodiak Island Borough of the applicant's intent to apply for PQS. If the City of Kodiak and Kodiak Island Borough designate an entity to represent it in the exercise of ROFR under § 680.41(l), then the application also must include an affidavit of completion of a contract for ROFR that includes the terms enacted under the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2004 (Pub. L. 108-199) and that is signed by the applicant for initial allocation of PQS and the ECC entity designated by the City of Kodiak and Kodiak Island Borough under § 680.41(l)(2). A list of contract terms is available from the NMFS Alaska Region Web site at *http://www.fakr.noaa.gov.* A copy of these contract terms also will be made available by mail or facsimile by contacting the Regional Administrator at (907) 586-7221.


(4) *Application evaluation.* The Regional Administrator will evaluate Applications for Crab QS or PQS submitted during the specified application period and compare all claims in an application with the information in the official crab rationalization record. Claims in an application that are consistent with information in the official crab rationalization record will be accepted by the Regional Administrator. Inconsistent claims in the Applications for Crab QS or PQS, unless verified by documentation, will not be accepted. An applicant who submits inconsistent claims, or an applicant who fails to submit the information specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, will be provided a single 30-day evidentiary period as provided in paragraph (f)(5) of this section to submit the specified information, submit evidence to verify his or her inconsistent claims, or submit a revised application with claims consistent with information in the official crab rationalization record. An applicant who submits claims that are inconsistent with information in the official crab rationalization record has the burden of proving that the submitted claims are correct.


(5) *Additional information or evidence.* The Regional Administrator will evaluate additional information or evidence to support an applicant's inconsistent claims submitted prior to or within the 30-day evidentiary period. If the Regional Administrator determines that the additional information or evidence meets the applicant's burden of proving that the inconsistent claims in his or her application are correct, the official crab rationalization record will be amended and the information will be used in determining whether the applicant is eligible for QS or PQS. However, if the Regional Administrator determines that the additional information or evidence does not meet the applicant's burden of proving that the inconsistent claims in his or her application are correct, the applicant will be notified by an IAD, that the applicant did not meet the burden of proof to change the information in the official crab rationalization record.


(6) *30-day evidentiary period.* The Regional Administrator will specify by letter a single 30-day evidentiary period during which an applicant may provide additional information or evidence to support the claims made in his or her application, or to submit a revised application with claims consistent with information in the official crab rationalization record, if the Regional Administrator determines that the applicant did not meet the burden of proving that the information on the application is correct through evidence provided with the application. Also, an applicant who fails to submit information as specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(iii) and (b)(3)(iv) of this section will have 30 days to provide that information. An applicant will be limited to one 30-day evidentiary period per application. Additional information or evidence, or a revised application, received after the 30-day evidentiary period specified in the letter has expired will not be considered for purposes of the IAD.


(7) *Right of First Refusal (ROFR) contract provisions.* If an ECC designates an entity to represent it in the exercise of ROFR under § 680.41(l), then the Regional Administrator will not prepare an IAD on unverified claims or issue PQS until an affidavit is received from the applicant confirming the completion of a civil contract for ROFR as required under section 313(j) of the Magnuson-Stevens Act.


(8) *Initial administrative determinations (IAD).* The Regional Administrator will prepare and send an IAD to the applicant following the expiration of the 30-day evidentiary period if the Regional Administrator determines that the information or evidence provided by the applicant fails to support the applicant's claims and is insufficient to rebut the presumption that the official crab rationalization record is correct, or if the additional information, evidence, or revised application is not provided within the time period specified in the letter that notifies the applicant of his or her 30-day evidentiary period. The IAD will indicate the deficiencies in the application, including any deficiencies with the information, the evidence submitted in support of the information, or the revised application. The IAD will also indicate which claims cannot be approved based on the available information or evidence. An applicant who receives an IAD may appeal pursuant to § 679.43. An applicant who avails himself or herself of the opportunity to appeal an IAD will not receive crab QS or PQS until after the final resolution of that appeal in the applicant's favor.


(g) *Annual allocation of IFQ*—(1) *General.* IFQ is assigned based on the underlying QS. Except for CVC and CPC QS permit holders who fail to meet the participation requirements at paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the Regional Administrator shall assign crab IFQs to each person who holds QS and submits a complete annual application for crab IFQ/IPQ permit as described under § 680.4. IFQ will be assigned to a crab QS fishery with the appropriate regional designation, QS sector, and IFQ class. This amount will represent the maximum amount of crab that may be harvested from the specified crab QS fishery by the person to whom it is assigned during the specified crab fishing year, unless the IFQ assignment is changed by the Regional Administrator because of an approved transfer, revoked, suspended, or modified under 15 CFR part 904.


(2) *Eligibility for CVC IFQ and CPC IFQ.* For each crab fishing year after June 30, 2027, individuals holding CVC QS or CPC QS permits must meet the participation requirements set forth in paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section in order to receive CVC IFQ or CPC IFQ, unless the CVC QS permit holder or CPC QS permit holder meets the exemption provided in paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section.


(i) During one of the 3 crab fishing years preceding the crab fishing year for which the individual is filing an annual crab IFQ permit application, the individual has participated as crew in at least:


(A) One fishing trip where a delivery of crab is made in any CR fishery; or


(B) 30 days of:


(*1*) Fishing in a commercial fishery managed by the State of Alaska or in a Federal commercial fishery in the EEZ off Alaska. Individuals may combine their participation as crew in State of Alaska and Federal commercial fisheries in waters off Alaska to meet this requirement; or


(*2*) On a tender vessel operating in support of a commercial fishery managed by the State of Alaska or in a Federal commercial fishery in the EEZ off Alaska. Individuals may combine their participation as crew on a tender vessel in State of Alaska and Federal commercial fisheries in waters off Alaska to meet this requirement.


(C) Individuals may combine their participation specified in paragraphs (g)(2)(i)(B)(*1*) and (*2*) of this section to meet this requirement.


(D) If the individual holds CVC QS or CPC QS in one or more CR fisheries and all CR crab fisheries for which the QS holder holds QS are closed, NMFS will exclude that crab fishing year when determining whether the individual has satisfied the participation requirements specified in paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section.


(ii) All of the CVC QS or CPC QS permits held by the individual were acquired using the eligibility criteria in § 680.41(c)(1)(vii)(B) or reissued under paragraph (m)(6) of this section and the individual has held those CVC QS or CPC QS permits for less than 3 crab fishing years.


(3) *Withholding of CVC IFQ or CPC IFQ.* Beginning July 1, 2027, the Regional Administrator will withhold issuance of CVC IFQ or CPC IFQ to an individual who has not met the participation requirements set forth in paragraph (g)(2) of this section. The Regional Administrator will withhold an individual's CVC IFQ or CPC IFQ in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraphs (g)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) *Notice of C Share IFQ Withholding.* The Regional Administrator will issue a Notice of C Share IFQ Withholding to an individual holding CVC or CPC QS if, after reviewing the CVC or CPC QS holder's Application for Annual Crab IFQ Permit, the Regional Administrator determines that the CVC or CPC QS holder has failed to meet the participation requirements in paragraph (g)(2) of this section. A CVC or CPC QS holder who receives a Notice of C Share IFQ Withholding will have 30 days to provide the Regional Administrator with information demonstrating participation as crew that meets the requirements of paragraph (g)(2) of this section.


(ii) *Initial administrative determination (IAD).* The Regional Administrator will prepare and send an IAD to the CVC or CPC QS holder following the expiration of the 30-day evidentiary period if the Regional Administrator determines that the information or evidence provided by the CVC or CPC QS holder fails to demonstrate participation as crew and is insufficient to rebut the information included in the CVC or CPC QS holder's Applications for Annual Crab IFQ Permit, or if the additional information or evidence is not provided within the time period specified in the Notice of C Share IFQ Withholding. The IAD will explain the basis for the withholding of IFQ. A CVC or CPC QS holder who receives an IAD withholding IFQ may appeal under the appeals procedures set forth at 15 CFR part 906. A CVC or CPC QS holder who avails himself or herself of the opportunity to appeal an IAD withholding IFQ will not receive crab IFQ until after the final resolution of that appeal in the QS holder's favor.


(h) *Calculation of annual IFQ allocation*—(1) *General.* (i) The annual allocation of IFQ to any person (p) in any crab QS fishery (f) will be based on the TAC of crab for that crab QS fishery less the allocation to the Western Alaska CDQ Program (“CDQ Reserve”) and Western Aleutian Islands golden king crab fishery. Expressed algebraically, the annual IFQ allocation formula is as follows:


(A) IFQ TAC_f_ = TAC_f_ − (CDQ Reserve_f_ + Allocation for the Western Aleutian Island golden king crab fishery)


(B) IFQ_pf_ = IFQ TAC_f_ × (QS_pf_/QS pool_f_)


(ii) *CVO, CPO, CVC, and CPC IFQ.* Each year, 3 percent of the IFQ TAC_f_ will be allocated as CVC IFQ or CPC IFQ and 97 percent of the IFQ TAC_f_ will be allocated as CVO IFQ or CPO IFQ. Expressed algebraically, the formulas for the annual IFQ allocations are as follows:


(A) CVC/CPC IFQ_f_ = IFQ TAC_f_ × 0.03


(B) CVO/CPO IFQ_f_ = IFQ TAC_f_ × 0.97


(2) *Class A/B IFQ.* (i) QS shall yield Class A or Class B IFQ if:


(A) Initially assigned to the CVO QS sector; or


(B) Transferred to the CVO QS sector from the CPO QS sector.


(ii) The Class A/B IFQ TAC is the portion of the TAC assigned as Class A/B IFQ under paragraphs (h)(2)(i)(A) and (B) of this section.


(3) *Class A/B IFQ issuance ratio.* (i) Class A and Class B IFQ shall be assigned on an annual basis such that the total amount of Class A and B IFQ assigned in a crab fishing year in each crab QS fishery for each region will be in a ratio of 90 percent Class A IFQ and 10 percent Class B IFQ.


(ii) The Regional Administrator will determine the amount of Class A and Class B IFQ that is assigned to each QS holder. The Class A IFQ is calculated by allocating 90 percent of the Class A/B IFQ TAC (TAC a) to Class A IFQ. A portion of the IFQ TAC a is allocated to persons eligible to hold only Class A IFQ (TAC a only), the remaining IFQ TAC (TAC r) is allocated for harvest by a person (p) eligible to receive both Class A IFQ and Class B IFQ. Expressed algebraically, for an individual person (p) eligible to hold both Class A and Class B IFQ the annual allocation formula is as follows: 


(A) TAC_a_ = Class A/B IFQ TAC × 0.90 


(B) TAC_r_ = TAC_a_−TAC_a only_

(C) IFQ_ap_ = TAC_r_/(Class A/B IFQ TAC−TAC_a only_) × IFQ_p_

(D) IFQ_bp_ = IFQ_p_−IFQ_ap_

(4) *Class A IFQ and Class B IFQ issuance to IPQ holders.* If a person holds IPQ and IFQ, than that person will be issued Class A IFQ only for the amount of IFQ equal to the amount of IPQ held by that person. Any remaining IFQ held by that person will be issued as Class A and Class B IFQ in a ratio so that the total Class A and Class B IFQ issued in that crab QS fishery is issued as 90 percent Class A IFQ and 10 percent Class B IFQ;


(5) *Class A IFQ and Class B IFQ issuance to persons affiliated with IPQ holders.* If an IPQ holder holds IPQ in excess of the amount of IFQ held by that person, all IFQ holders affiliated with that IPQ holder will receive only Class A IFQ in proportion to the amount of IFQ held by those affiliated persons relative to that amount of IPQ held by that IPQ holder. Any remaining IFQ held by persons affiliated with the IPQ holder will be issued as Class A and Class B IFQ in a ratio so that the total Class A and Class B IFQ issued in that fishery is issued as 90 percent Class A IFQ and 10 percent Class B IFQ.


(6) *CVC IFQ.* (i) QS that is initially allocated to the CVC QS sector shall yield CVC IFQ.


(ii) CVC IFQ is not subject to regional designation.


(7) *CPO IFQ.* (i) QS that is initially allocated to the CPO QS sector shall yield CPO IFQ.


(ii) CPO IFQ is not subject to regional designation.


(8) *CPC IFQ.* (i) QS that is initially allocated to the CPC QS sector shall yield CPC IFQ.


(ii) CPC IFQ is not subject to regional designation.


(9) *QS amounts for IFQ calculation.* For purposes of calculating IFQ for any crab fishing year, the amount of a person's QS and the amount of the QS pool for any crab QS fishery will be the amounts on record with the Alaska Region, NMFS, at the time of calculation.


(10) *Class A IFQ.* (i) The amount of Class A IFQ issued in excess of the IPQ issuance limits for the BSS or BBR crab QS fisheries, as described in paragraph (j)(3) of this section, will be issued to all Class A IFQ recipients on a pro rata basis in proportion to the amount of Class A IFQ held by each person.


(ii) Any amount of Class A IFQ that is issued in excess of the IPQ issuance limits for the BSS or BBR crab QS fisheries, as described in paragraph (j)(3) of this section, is not required to be delivered to an RCR with unused IPQ.


(i) *Annual allocation of IPQ.* IPQ is assigned based on the underlying PQS. The Regional Administrator shall assign crab IPQs to each person who submits a complete annual application for crab IFQ/IPQ permit as described under § 680.4. Each assigned IPQ will be specific to a crab QS fishery with the appropriate regional designation. This amount will represent the maximum amount of crab that may be received from the specified crab QS fishery by the person to whom it is assigned during the specified crab fishing year, unless the IPQ assignment is changed by the Regional Administrator because of an approved transfer, revoked, suspended, or modified under 15 CFR part 904.


(j) *Calculation of annual IPQ allocation*—(1) *General.* The annual allocation of TAC to PQS and the resulting IPQ in any crab QS fishery (f) is the Class A IFQ TAC (TAC_a_). A person's annual IPQ is based on the amount of PQS held by a person (PQS p) divided by the PQS pool for that crab QS fishery for all PQS holders (PQS pool f). Expressed algebraically, the annual IPQ allocation formula is as follows: 


(2) *PQS amounts for IPQ calculation.* For purposes of calculating IPQs for any crab fishing year, the amount of a person's PQS and the amount of the PQS pool for any crab PQS fishery will be the amounts on record with the Alaska Region, NMFS, at the time of calculation.


(3) *IPQ issuance limits.* The amount of IPQ issued in any crab fishing year shall not exceed:


(i) 157,500,000 raw crab pounds (71,441.5 mt) in the BSS crab QS fishery; and


(ii) 18,000,000 raw crab pounds (8,164.7 mt) in the BBR crab QS fishery.


(4) *IPQ issued to Blue Dutch, LLC*—(i) *BBR IPQ.* For each crab fishing year that the total allowable catch for BBR CR crab is greater than 15,732,480 lb (7,136.2 mt), NMFS will issue IPQ for the 3,015,229 units of PQS issued to Blue Dutch, LLC, pursuant to Public Law 109-241.


(ii) *BSS IPQ.* For each crab fishing year that the total allowable catch for BSS CR crab is greater than 21,350,640 lb (9,684.6 mt), NMFS will issue IPQ for the 7,516,253 units of PQS issued to Blue Dutch, LLC, pursuant to Public Law 109-241.


(k) *Timing for issuance of IFQ or IPQ.* IFQ and IPQ will be issued once the TAC for that crab QS fishery in that crab fishing year has been specified by the State of Alaska. All IFQ and IPQ for all persons will be issued once for a crab fishing year for a crab QS fishery. QS issued after NMFS has issued annual IFQ for a crab QS fishery for a crab fishing year will not result in IFQ for that crab QS fishery for that crab fishing year.


(l) *Harvesting and processing privilege.* QS and PQS allocated or permits issued pursuant to this part do not represent either an absolute right to the resource or any interest that is subject to the “takings” provision of the Fifth Amendment of the U.S. Constitution. Rather, such QS, PQS, or permits represent only a harvesting or processing privilege that may be revoked or amended pursuant to the Magnuson-Stevens Act and other applicable law. IPQs do not create a right, title, or interest in any crab until that crab is purchased from a fisherman.


(m) *Participation requirements for retention of CVC QS and CPC QS.* (1) Beginning July 1, 2028, and each crab fishing year thereafter, individuals allocated CVC QS or CPC QS must meet the participation requirements set forth in paragraph (m)(2) of this section in order to retain their CVC QS or CPC QS unless the CVC QS holder or CPC QS holder meets the exemption provided in paragraph (m)(5) of this section.


(2) During one of the 4 crab fishing years preceding the crab fishing year for which the individual is filing an annual crab IFQ permit application, the individual has participated as crew in at least:


(i) One fishing trip where a delivery of crab is made in any CR fishery; or


(ii) 30 days of:


(A) Fishing in a commercial fishery managed by the State of Alaska or in a Federal commercial fishery in the EEZ off Alaska. Individuals may combine their participation as crew in State and Federal commercial fisheries to meet this requirement; or


(B) On a tender vessel operating in support of a commercial fishery managed by the State of Alaska or in a Federal commercial fishery in the EEZ off Alaska. Individuals may combine their participation as crew on a tender vessel in State and Federal commercial fisheries to meet this requirement.


(iii) Individuals may combine participation specified in paragraphs (m)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section to meet this requirement.


(iv) If the individual holds CVC QS or CPC QS in one or more CR crab fisheries and all CR crab fisheries for which the QS holder holds QS are closed, NMFS will exclude that crab fishing year when determining whether the individual has satisfied the participation requirement specified in this paragraph (m)(2).


(3) An individual issued a CVC QS or CPC QS permit may include information demonstrating compliance with the participation requirements in paragraph (m)(2) of this section with the individual's annual Application for Crab IFQ.


(4) If an individual issued a CVC QS or CPC QS permit fails to meet the participation requirements in paragraph (m)(2) of this section or fails to qualify for the exemption in paragraph (m)(5) of this section, NMFS will revoke all of the individual's CVC QS or CPC QS in accordance with § 680.43.


(5) All of the CVC QS or CPC QS permits held by the individual were acquired using the eligibility criteria in § 680.41(c)(1)(vii)(B) or reissued under paragraph (m)(6) of this section, and the person has held those CVC QS or CPC QS permits for less than 4 crab fishing years.


(6) For CVC QS or CPC QS revoked by NMFS under regulations paragraph (m)(2) of this section from July 1, 2019, through May 31, 2024, an individual may apply for reissuance of QS with the individual's annual crab IFQ permit application from May 31, 2024 through June 15, 2025.



---

[N] [70 FR 10241, Mar. 2, 2005, as amended at 70 FR 33395, June 8, 2005; 70 FR 75421, Dec. 20, 2005; 71 FR 32864, June 7, 2006; 73 FR 29983, May 23, 2008; 73 FR 30320, May 27, 2008; 73 FR 35088, June 20, 2008; 73 FR 76190, Dec. 15, 2008; 74 FR 51520, Oct. 7, 2009; 80 FR 15897, Mar. 26, 2015; 87 FR 42394, July 15, 2022; 89 FR 47877, June 4, 2024]






