# § 386.4   What definitions apply?

The following definitions apply to this program:


(a) Definitions in 34 CFR 385.4.


(b) *Other definitions.* The following definitions also apply to this part:


*Academic year* means a full-time course of study—


(i) Taken for a period totaling at least nine months; or


(ii) Taken for the equivalent of at least two semesters, two trimesters, or three quarters.


*Certificate* means a recognized educational credential awarded by a grantee under this part that attests to the completion of a specified series of courses or program of study.


*Professional corporation or professional practice* means—


(i) A professional service corporation or practice formed by one or more individuals duly authorized to render the same professional service, for the purpose of rendering that service; and


(ii) The corporation or practice and its members are subject to the same supervision by appropriate State regulatory agencies as individual practitioners.


*Related agency* means—


(i) An American Indian rehabilitation program; or


(ii) Any of the following agencies that provide services to individuals with disabilities under an agreement or other arrangement with a designated State agency in the area of specialty for which training is provided:


(A) A Federal, State, or local agency.


(B) A nonprofit organization.


(C) A professional corporation or professional practice group.


*Scholar* means an individual who is enrolled in a certificate or degree granting course of study in one of the areas listed in § 386.1(b) and who receives scholarship assistance under this part.


*Scholarship* means an award of financial assistance to a scholar for training and includes all disbursements or credits for student stipends, tuition and fees, books and supplies, and student travel in conjunction with training assignments.


*State vocational rehabilitation agency* means the designated State agency as defined in 34 CFR 361.5(c)(13).


