# § 56.14130   Roll-over protective structures (ROPS) and seat belts.

(a) *Equipment included.* Roll-over protective structures (ROPS) and seat belts shall be installed on— 


(1) Crawler tractors and crawler loaders; 


(2) Graders; 


(3) Wheel loaders and wheel tractors; 


(4) The tractor portion of semi-mounted scrapers, dumpers, water wagons, bottom-dump wagons, rear-dump wagons, and towed fifth wheel attachments; 


(5) Skid-steer loaders; and 


(6) Agricultural tractors. 


(b) *ROPS construction.* ROPS shall meet the requirements of the following Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) publications, as applicable, which are incorporated by reference: 


(1) SAE J1040, “Performance Criteria for Roll-Over Protective Structures (ROPS) for Construction, Earthmoving, Forestry, and Mining Machines,”, 1986; or 


(2) SAE J1194, “Roll-Over Protective Structures (ROPS) for Wheeled Agricultural Tractors”, 1983. 


(c) *ROPS labelling.* ROPS shall have a label permanently affixed to the structure identifying— 


(1) The manufacturer's name and address; 


(2) The ROPS model number; and 


(3) The make and model number of the equipment for which the ROPS is designed. 


(d) *ROPS installation.* ROPS shall be installed on the equipment in accordance with the recommendations of the ROPS manufacturer. 


(e) *ROPS maintenance.* (1) ROPS shall be maintained in a condition that meets the performance requirements applicable to the equipment. If the ROPS is subjected to roll-over an abnormal structural loading, the equipment manufacturer or a registered professional engineer with knowledge and experience in ROPS design shall recertify that the ROPS meets the applicable performance requirements before it is returned to service. 


(2) Alterations or repairs on ROPS shall be performed only with approval from the ROPS manufacturer or under the instructions of a registered professional engineer with knowledge and experience in ROPS design. The manufacturer or engineer shall certify that the ROPS meets the applicable performance requirements. 


(f) *Exemptions.* (1) This standard does not apply to— 


(i) Self-propelled mobile equipment manufactured prior to July 1, 1969; 


(ii) Over-the-road type tractors that pull trailers or vans on highways;


(iii) Equipment that is only operated by remote control; and 


(2) Self-propelled mobile equipment manufactured prior to October 24, 1988, that is equipped with ROPS and seat belts that meet the installation and performance requirements of 30 CFR 56.9088 (1986 edition) shall be considered in compliance with paragraphs (b) and (h) of this section.


(g) *Wearing seat belts.* Seat belts shall be worn by the equipment operator except that when operating graders from a standing position, the grader operator shall wear safety lines and a harness in place of a seat belt.


(h) *Seat belts construction.* Seat belts required under this section shall meet the requirement of SAE J386, “Operator Restraint System for Off-Road Work Machines” (1985, 1993, or 1997), or SAE J1194, “Roll-Over Protective Structures (ROPS) for Wheeled Agricultural Tractors” (1983, 1989, 1994, or 1999), as applicable, which are incorporated by reference.


(i) *Seat belt maintenance.* Seat belts shall be maintained in functional condition, and replaced when necessary to assure proper performance.


(j) *Publications.* The incorporation by reference of these publications is approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of these publications may be examined at any Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Office; at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.* Copies may be purchased from the Society of Automotive Engineers, 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, PA 15096-0001; 724-776-4841; *http://www.sae.org.*


---

[N] [53 FR 32521, Aug. 25, 1988; 53 FR 44588, Nov. 4, 1988, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995; 67 FR 38385, June 4, 2002; 68 FR 19347, Apr. 21, 2003; 80 FR 52987, Sept. 2, 2015]




