# § 148.170   Standards relating to benefits for mothers and newborns.

(a) *Hospital length of stay*—(1) *General rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, an issuer offering health insurance coverage in the individual market that provides benefits for a hospital length of stay in connection with childbirth for a mother or her newborn may not restrict benefits for the stay to less than—


(i) 48 hours following a vaginal delivery; or


(ii) 96 hours following a delivery by cesarean section.


(2) *When stay begins*—(i) *Delivery in a hospital.* If delivery occurs in a hospital, the hospital length of stay for the mother or newborn child begins at the time of delivery (or in the case of multiple births, at the time of the last delivery).


(ii) *Delivery outside a hospital.* If delivery occurs outside a hospital, the hospital length of stay begins at the time the mother or newborn is admitted as a hospital inpatient in connection with childbirth. The determination of whether an admission is in connection with childbirth is a medical decision to be made by the attending provider.


(3) *Examples.* The rules of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section are illustrated by the following examples. In each example, the issuer provides benefits for hospital lengths of stay in connection with childbirth and is subject to the requirements of this section, as follows:


(4) *Authorization not required*—(i) *In general.* An issuer is prohibited from requiring that a physician or other health care provider obtain authorization from the issuer for prescribing the hospital length of stay specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. (See also paragraphs (b)(2) and (c)(3) of this section for rules and examples regarding other authorization and certain notice requirements.)


(ii) *Example.* The rule of this paragraph (a)(4) is illustrated by the following example:


(5) *Exceptions*—(i) *Discharge of mother.* If a decision to discharge a mother earlier than the period specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is made by an attending provider, in consultation with the mother, the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section do not apply for any period after the discharge.


(ii) *Discharge of newborn.* If a decision to discharge a newborn child earlier than the period specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is made by an attending provider, in consultation with the mother (or the newborn's authorized representative), the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section do not apply for any period after the discharge.


(iii) *Attending provider defined.* For purposes of this section, attending provider means an individual who is licensed under applicable state law to provide maternity or pediatric care and who is directly responsible for providing maternity or pediatric care to a mother or newborn child. Therefore, an issuer, plan, hospital, or managed care organization is not an attending provider.


(iv) *Example.* The rules of this paragraph (a)(5) are illustrated by the following example:


(b) *Prohibitions*—(1) *With respect to mothers*—(i) *In general.* An issuer subject to the requirements of this section may not—


(A) Deny a mother or her newborn child eligibility or continued eligibility to enroll in or renew coverage solely to avoid the requirements of this section; or


(B) Provide payments (including payments-in-kind) or rebates to a mother to encourage her to accept less than the minimum protections available under this section.


(ii) *Examples.* The rules of this paragraph (b)(1) are illustrated by the following examples. In each example, the issuer is subject to the requirements of this section, as follows:


(2) *With respect to benefit restrictions*—(i) *In general.* Subject to paragraph (c)(3) of this section, an issuer may not restrict the benefits for any portion of a hospital length of stay specified in paragraph (a) of this section in a manner that is less favorable than the benefits provided for any preceding portion of the stay.


(ii) *Example.* The rules of this paragraph (b)(2) are illustrated by the following example:


(3) *With respect to attending providers.* An issuer may not directly or indirectly—


(i) Penalize (for example, take disciplinary action against or retaliate against), or otherwise reduce or limit the compensation of, an attending provider because the provider furnished care to a covered individual in accordance with this section; or


(ii) Provide monetary or other incentives to an attending provider to induce the provider to furnish care to a covered individual in a manner inconsistent with this section, including providing any incentive that could induce an attending provider to discharge a mother or newborn earlier than 48 hours (or 96 hours) after delivery.


(c) *Construction.* With respect to this section, the following rules of construction apply:


(1) *Hospital stays not mandatory.* This section does not require a mother to—


(i) Give birth in a hospital; or


(ii) Stay in the hospital for a fixed period of time following the birth of her child.


(2) *Hospital stay benefits not mandated.* This section does not apply to any issuer that does not provide benefits for hospital lengths of stay in connection with childbirth for a mother or her newborn child.


(3) *Cost-sharing rules*—(i) *In general.* This section does not prevent an issuer from imposing deductibles, coinsurance, or other cost-sharing in relation to benefits for hospital lengths of stay in connection with childbirth for a mother or a newborn under the coverage, except that the coinsurance or other cost-sharing for any portion of the hospital length of stay specified in paragraph (a) of this section may not be greater than that for any preceding portion of the stay.


(ii) *Examples.* The rules of this paragraph (c)(3) are illustrated by the following examples. In each example, the issuer is subject to the requirements of this section, as follows:


(4) *Compensation of attending provider.* This section does not prevent an issuer from negotiating with an attending provider the level and type of compensation for care furnished in accordance with this section (including paragraph (b) of this section).


(5) *Applicability.* This section applies to all health insurance coverage issued in the individual market, and is not limited in its application to coverage that is provided to eligible individuals as defined in section 2741(b) of the PHS Act.


(d) *Notice requirement.* Except as provided in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, an issuer offering health insurance in the individual market must meet the following requirements with respect to benefits for hospital lengths of stay in connection with childbirth:


(1) Required statement. The insurance contract must disclose information that notifies covered individuals of their rights under this section.


(2) Disclosure notice. To meet the disclosure requirements set forth in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the following disclosure notice must be used:


(3) *Timing of disclosure.* The disclosure notice in paragraph (d)(2) of this section shall be furnished to the covered individuals in the form of a copy of the contract, or a rider (or equivalent amendment to the contract) no later than December 19, 2008. To the extent an issuer has already provided the disclosure notice in paragraph (d)(2) of this section to covered individuals, it need not provide another such notice by December 19, 2008.


(4) *Exception.* The requirements of this paragraph (d) do not apply with respect to coverage regulated under a state law described in paragraph (e) of this section.


(e) *Applicability in certain states*—(1) *Health insurance coverage.* The requirements of section 2751 of the PHS Act and this section do not apply with respect to health insurance coverage in the individual market if there is a state law regulating the coverage that meets any of the following criteria:


(i) The state law requires the coverage to provide for at least a 48-hour hospital length of stay following a vaginal delivery and at least a 96-hour hospital length of stay following a delivery by cesarean section.


(ii) The state law requires the coverage to provide for maternity and pediatric care in accordance with guidelines that relate to care following childbirth established by the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, the American Academy of Pediatrics, or any other established professional medical association.


(iii) The state law requires, in connection with the coverage for maternity care, that the hospital length of stay for such care is left to the decision of (or is required to be made by) the attending provider in consultation with the mother. State laws that require the decision to be made by the attending provider with the consent of the mother satisfy the criterion of this paragraph (e)(1)(iii).


(2) *Relation to section 2762(a) of the PHS Act.* The preemption provisions contained in section 2762(a) of the PHS Act and § 148.210(b) do not supersede a state law described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.


(f) *Applicability date.* Section 2751 of the PHS Act applies to health insurance coverage offered, sold, issued, renewed, in effect, or operated in the individual market on or after January 1, 1998. This section applies to health insurance coverage offered, sold, issued, renewed, in effect, or operated in the individual market on or after January 1, 2009.



---

[N] [73 FR 62427, Oct. 20, 2008]




