# § 457.109   Sugar Beet Crop Insurance Provisions.

The Sugar Beet Crop Insurance Provisions effective for the 2024 and succeeding crop years in states with a November 30 contract change date and for the 2025 and succeeding crop years in all other states, are as follows:


(a) Applicability:


(1) If provided in the actuarial documents, you may elect the Stage Removal Option.


(2) You must have an additional coverage policy to elect this option.


(3) You must elect this option in writing on or before the sales closing date for the first year it is in effect.


(4) This election is continuous, in accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, unless canceled by the cancellation date. Your election of the Catastrophic Risk Protection Endorsement for your sugar beets in any crop year will be deemed to be cancellation of this option by you.


(5) All insurable acreage of sugar beets in the county will be included under this option unless any acreage is specifically excluded by the Special Provisions.


(b) Insurance Guarantees:


(1) The production guarantee (per acre) will be the final stage guarantee.


(2) The terms and conditions contained in sections 3(b) and 3(d) do not apply under this option.


(c) Premium Adjustment Factor: The premium adjustment factor in the actuarial documents for the stage removal option will apply to the premium computation method in section 7.


(d) Settlement of Claim:


(1) The “respective production guarantee” referenced in section 14(b) will be the final stage guarantee.


(2) The terms and conditions of section 14(c)(1)(iv) do not apply under this option.


(a) Applicability:


(1) If provided in the actuarial documents, you may elect the Early Harvest Adjustment Option to adjust your actual yield(s) for early harvested production.


(2) You must have additional coverage to elect this option.


(3) You must elect this option in writing on or before the sales closing date.


(4) This election is continuous, in accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, unless canceled by the cancellation date. Your election of the Catastrophic Risk Protection Endorsement for your sugar beets will cancel this option.


(b) Insurance Guarantees:


(1) APH database—On or before the production reporting date, you may replace actual yields with early harvest adjusted yields in your APH database, if this option is elected.


(i) The early harvest adjusted yields will be used in the same manner as actual yields for the purpose of calculating the approved yield.


(ii) Once an early harvest adjusted yield replaces an actual yield, the early harvest adjusted yield will remain in effect until such time as that crop year is no longer included in the APH database, this option is canceled in accordance with section 18(a)(4), or the insured chooses to no longer replace that actual yield(s) by the production reporting date.


(iii) If you cancel the option, the actual yield will be used in the APH database.


(2) Premium—Your approved yield will be used to determine your amount of premium owed. The premium will be increased to cover the additional risk associated with the resulting higher yields.


(3) Adjustment—The adjustment will equal an increase of your actual yield by 1 percent per day for each day the sugar beets were harvested prior to full maturity.


(4) Threshold—The adjustment will only be made if the early harvested percentage of insured acreage in the unit meets or exceeds 15 percent, unless otherwise specified in the Special Provisions.


(5) Cap—The adjustment cannot result in a yield greater than the higher of:


(i) Your approved yield from the unit;


(ii) The actual yield of the acreage harvested after full maturity from the unit; or


(iii) The unadjusted actual yield of the early harvested acreage from the unit.


(6) Processor requirement—The adjustment will only be made if:


(i) Early harvest is required in the production agreement; or


(ii) The processor requests early harvest.


(c) Settlement of Claim—If this option is elected, production to count from the unit will be determined by:


(1) The adjustment will be made for any early harvested production if the threshold is exceeded for the unit.


(2) The adjustment will not be made if the sugar beets are damaged by an insurable cause of loss and leaving the crop in the field would reduce production.


(3) If the production agreement does not require early harvest and the processor has not requested early harvest, and the processor:


(i) Accepts the early harvested production, the early harvested production will be counted but no adjustment will apply.


(ii) Does not accept the early harvested production, the production to count will be the production guarantee for the acreage harvested early.



---

[N] [61 FR 58775, Nov. 19, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 63633, Dec. 2, 1997; 62 FR 65167, Dec. 10, 1997; 81 FR 84399, Nov. 23, 2016; 83 FR 45538, Sept. 10, 2018; 84 FR 65638, Nov. 29, 2019; 87 FR 72862, Nov. 28, 2022; 88 FR 78229, Nov. 15, 2023]




