# § 742.6   Regional stability.

(a) *License requirements.* The following controls are maintained in support of U.S. foreign policy to maintain regional stability:


(1) *RS Column 1 license requirements in general.* A license is required for exports and reexports to all destinations, except Australia, Canada, or the United Kingdom, for all items in ECCNs on the CCL that include RS Column 1 in the Country Chart column of the “License Requirements” section. Transactions described in paragraph (a)(2), (3), or (9) of this section are subject to the RS Column 1 license requirements set forth in those paragraphs rather than the license requirements set forth in this paragraph (a)(1).


(2) *Special RS Column 1 license requirements applicable to certain thermal imaging cameras.* (i) As indicated in the CCL and in RS Column 1 of the Commerce Country Chart, cameras described in 6A003.b.4.b require a license to all destinations other than Australia, Canada, or the United Kingdom if such cameras have a frame rate greater than 60 Hz.


(ii) Except as noted in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, as indicated in the CCL and in RS Column 1 of the Commerce Country Chart, cameras described in 6A003.b.4.b require a license to all destinations other than Australia, Canada, or the United Kingdom if such cameras incorporate a focal plane array with more than 111,000 elements and a frame rate of 60 Hz or less, or cameras described in 6A003.b.4.b that are being exported or reexported to be embedded in a civil product.




(iii) BIS may issue licenses for cameras subject to the license requirement of paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section that are fully-packaged for use as consumer-ready civil products that, in addition to the specific transactions authorized by such license, authorize exports and reexports of such cameras without a license to any civil end-user to whom such exports or reexport are not otherwise prohibited by U.S. law in a destination in Country Group A:1 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR). The license requirements of this paragraph (a)(2) shall not apply to exports or reexports so authorized. In this paragraph, the term “civil end-user” means any entity that is not a national armed service (army, navy, marine, air force, or coast guard), national guard, national police, government intelligence organization or government reconnaissance organization, or any person or entity whose actions or functions are intended to support “military end-uses” as defined in § 744.17(d) of the EAR.


(iv) Except as noted in paragraph (a)(2)(v) of this section, as indicated in the CCL and in RS Column 1 of the Commerce Country Chart, cameras described in 6A003 b.4.b require a license to all destinations other than Australia, Canada, or the United Kingdom if such cameras incorporate a focal plane array with 111,000 elements or less and a frame rate of 60 Hz or less and are being exported or reexported to be embedded in a civil product.


(v) BIS may also issue licenses for the cameras described in paragraph (a)(2)(iv) of this section that, in addition to the specific transactions authorized by such license, authorize exports and reexports to authorized companies described in the license for the purpose of embedding such cameras into a completed product that will be distributed only in countries in Country Group A:1 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR). The license requirements of this paragraph (a)(2) shall not apply to exports or reexports so authorized. In this paragraph, the term “authorized companies” means companies that have been previously licensed for export, are not the subject of relevant negative intelligence or open source information, have not been the subject of a Department of Commerce or Department of State enforcement action within the past two years, have demonstrable production capacity, and do not pose an unacceptable risk of diversion.


(3) *Special RS Column 1 license requirement applicable to military commodities.* A license is required for reexports to all destinations except Australia, Canada, or the United Kingdom for items classified under ECCN 0A919 except when such items are being reexported as part of a military deployment by a unit of the government of a country in Country Group A:1 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR) or the United States.


(4) *RS Column 2 license requirements*—(i) *License requirements applicable to most RS Column 2 items.* As indicated in the CCL and in RS Column 2 of the Commerce Country Chart (see supplement no. 1 to part 738 of the EAR), a license is required to any destination except those in Country Group A:1 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR) and India for all items in ECCNs on the CCL that include RS Column 2 in the Country Chart column of the “License Requirements” section. A license continues to be required for items controlled under ECCNs 6A003.b.4.b and 9A515.e for RS Column 2 reasons when destined to India.


(ii) *Special RS Column 2 license requirements applicable only to certain cameras.* As indicated by the CCL, and RS column 2 and footnote number 4 to the Commerce Country Chart, a license is required to any destination except a country in Country Group A:1 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR) for fully-packaged thermal imaging cameras for use as consumer-ready civil products controlled by 6A003.b.4.b when incorporating “focal plane arrays” that have not more than 111,000 elements and a frame rate of 60Hz or less and that are not being exported or reexported to be embedded in a civil product.


(5) *RS requirements that apply to Iraq.* As indicated on the CCL, a license is required for the export or reexport to Iraq or transfer within Iraq of the following items controlled for RS reasons on the CCL: 0B999, 0D999, 1B999, 1C992, 1C995, 1C997, 1C999 and 6A992. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine RS licensing requirements for these ECCNs.










(6) *RS requirement that applies to advanced computing and semiconductor manufacturing items*—(i) *Exports, reexports, transfers (in-country) to or within Macau or Country Group D:5*—(A) *Certain semiconductor manufacturing equipment and associated software and technology*—(*1*) *Scope.* A license is required for exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) to or within either Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5 in supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR of items specified in 3B001.a.4, c, d, f.1, f.5, f.6, k to n, p.2, p.4, r, 3B002.c, 3D992, or 3E992.


(*2*) *Exclusions.* The license requirements in this paragraph (a)(6)(i)(A) do not apply to any of the following:


(*i*) Deemed exports or deemed reexports.


(*ii*) An item subject to the EAR pursuant to §§ 734.4(a)(8) or 734.9(k) if the item is reexported or exported from abroad by an entity located in a country specified in supplement. no. 4 to this part, and the entity is not headquartered or have an ultimate parent company headquartered in Country Group D:5 or Macau.


(*iii*) An item subject to the EAR pursuant to §§ 734.4(a)(8) or 734.9(k) if the item is reexported or exported from abroad by an entity located in a country that has implemented equivalent controls for items specified in paragraph (a)(6)(i)(A)(*1*) of this section, and the entity is not headquartered or have an ultimate parent company headquartered in Country Group D:5 or Macau. For the purposes of this paragraph, 'equivalent' means the item is listed on the country's export control list and the country applies the same license review policy. To receive assistance in determining countries with equivalent controls, you may submit an advisory opinion request in accordance with § 748.3(c) of the EAR.


(B) *High Bandwidth Memory (HBM).* A license is required for items specified in ECCNs 3A090.c, 3D001 (for 3A090.c), and 3E001 (for 3A090.c) when exported, reexported, or transferred (in-country) to or within Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5 in supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR. The license requirements in this paragraph (a)(6)(i)(B) do not apply to deemed exports or deemed reexports.






(ii) *Exports from abroad originating in either Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5.* A license is also required for the export from abroad originating in either Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5 to any destination worldwide excluding any destination also specified in Country Groups A:5 or A:6, of 3E001 (for 3A090) technology developed by an entity headquartered in, or whose ultimate parent company is headquartered in, either Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5 that is the direct product of software subject to the EAR and is for the “production” of commodities identified in ECCNs 3A090, 4A090, 3A001.z, 4A003.z, 4A004.z, 4A005.z, 5A002.z, 5A004.z, or 5A992.z, consistent with § 734.9(h)(1)(i)(B)(*1*) and (h)(2)(ii) of the EAR.






(iii)(A) *Worldwide license requirement.* A license is required to export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) items specified in ECCNs 3A001.z.1.a, z.2.a, z.3.a, z.4.a; 3A090.a; 3D001 (for “software” for commodities controlled by 3A001.z.1.a, z.2.a, z.3.a, z.4.a, or 3A090.a); 3E001 (for “technology” for commodities controlled by 3A001.z.1.a, z.2.a, z.3.a, z.4.a, or 3A090.a); 4A003.z.1.a, z.2.a; 4A004.z.1; 4A005.z.1; 4A090.a; 4D001 (for “software” for commodities controlled by 4A003.z.1.a, z.2.a, 4A004.z.1, and 4A005.z.1); 4D090 (for “software” for commodities controlled by 4A090.a); 4E001 (for commodities controlled by 4A003.z.1.a, z.2.a, 4A004.z.1, 4A005.z.1, 4A090.a or “software” specified by 4D001 (for 4A003.z.1.a, z.2.a, 4A004.z.1, or 4A005.z.1), or 4D090 (for “software” for commodities controlled by 4A090.a)); 5A002.z.1.a, z.2.a, z.3.a, z.4.a, z.5.a; 5A004.z.1.a, z.2.a; 5A992.z.1; 5D002.z.1.a, z.2.a, z.3.a, z.4.a, z.5.a, z.6.a, z.7.a, z.8.a, and z.9.a; 5D992.z.1; 5E002 (for “technology” for commodities controlled by 5A002.z.1.a, z.2.a, z.3.a, z.4.a, z.5.a or 5A004.z.1.a, z.2.a or “software” specified by 5D002 (for 5A002.z.1.a, z.2.a, z.3.a, z.4.a, z.5.a or 5A004.z.1.a, z.2.a commodities)); or 5E992 (for “technology” for commodities controlled by 5A992.z.1 or “software” controlled by 5D992.z.1.) to or within any destination worldwide.


(B) *Country Groups D:1, D:4, or D:5 license requirement excluding destination also specified in Country Groups A:5 or A:6.* A license is required to export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) items specified in ECCNs 3A001.z.1.b, z.2.b, z.3.b, z.4.b; 3A090.b; 3D001 (for “software” for commodities controlled by 3A001.z.1.b, z.2.b, z.3.b, z.4.b; 3A090.b); 3E001 (for “technology” for commodities controlled by 3A001.z.1.b, z.2.b, z.3.b, z.4.b, or 3A090.b); 4A003.z.1.b, z.2.b; 4A004.z.2; 4A005.z.2; 4A090.b; 4D001 (for “software” for commodities controlled by 4A003.z.1.b, z.2.b, 4A004.z.2, and 4A005.z.2); 4D090 (for “software” for commodities controlled by 4A090.b); 4E001 (for commodities controlled by 4A003.z.1.b, z.2.b, 4A004.z.2, 4A005.z.2, 4A090.b or “software” specified by 4D001 (for 4A003.z.1.b, z.2.b, 4A004.z.2, or 4A005.z.2), or 4D090 (for “software” for commodities controlled by 4A090.b)); 5A002.z.1.b, z.2.b, z.3.b, z.4.b, z.5.b; 5A004.z.1.b, z.2.b; 5A992.z.2; 5D002.z.1.b, z.2.b, z.3.b, z.4.b, z.5.b, z.6.b, z.7.b, z.8.b, and z.9.b; 5D992.z.2; 5E002 (for “technology” for commodities controlled by 5A002.z.1.b, z.2.b, z.3.b, z.4.b, z.5.b or 5A004.z.1.b, z.2.b or “software” specified by 5D002 (for 5A002. z.1.b, z.2.b, z.3.b, z.4.b, z.5.b or 5A004.z.1.b, z.2.b commodities)); or 5E992 (for “technology” for commodities controlled by 5A992.z.2 or “software” controlled by 5D992.z.2.) to or within a destination in Country Groups D:1, D:4, or D:5 excluding destinations also specified in Country Groups A:5 or A:6.










(iv) *Deemed exports and reexports.* The license requirements in paragraphs (a)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section do not apply to deemed exports or deemed reexports.










(7) *RS requirement that applies to the People's Republic of China (China), Russia, or Venezuela.* A license is required to export or reexport to China, Russia, or Venezuela any item described in a .y paragraph of a 9x515 or “600 series” ECCN, except for exports or reexports to Russia for use in, with, or for the International Space Station (ISS), including launch to the ISS. (See § 740.11(e)(1) of the EAR for a definition of the ISS.)


(8) *RS Column 1 license requirements and related policies for ECCN 0Y521 items*—(i) *Scope.* This paragraph (a)(8) supplements the information in the 0Y521 ECCNs and in Supplement No. 5 to part 774 (Items Classified Under ECCNs 0A521, 0B521, 0C521, 0D521 and 0E521). This paragraph alerts exporters, reexporters and transferors to the procedures that apply to items classified under the 0Y521 ECCNs.


(ii) *0Y521 Items.* Items subject to the EAR that are not listed elsewhere in the CCL, but which the Department of Commerce, with the concurrence of the Departments of Defense and State, has determined should be controlled for export because the items provide at least a significant military or intelligence advantage to the United States or for foreign policy reasons are classified under ECCNs 0A521, 0B521, 0C521, 0D521 and 0E521. These items are typically emerging technologies (including emerging commodities, software and technology) that are not yet included in the CCL, so such items are listed on the CCL in 0Y521 ECCNs while the U.S. Government determines whether classification under a revised or new ECCN, or an EAR 99 designation, is appropriate. The list of items classified under a 0Y521 ECCN is limited to those listed in supplement no. 5 to part 774.


(iii) *Requirement to be classified under another ECCN within one calendar year of classification under ECCN 0Y521.* Items classified under an ECCN 0Y521 entry must be re-classified under another ECCN within one calendar year from the date they are listed in supplement no. 5 to part 774 of the EAR. If such re-classification does not occur within that period, classification under an ECCN 0Y521 entry expires, and such items are designated as EAR99 items unless either the CCL is amended to impose a control on such items under another ECCN or the ECCN 0Y521 classification is extended. BIS may extend an item's ECCN 0Y521 classification for two one-year periods, provided that the U.S. Government has submitted a proposal to the relevant multilateral regime(s) to obtain multilateral controls over the item. Further extension beyond three years may occur only if the Under Secretary for Industry and Security makes a determination that such extension is in the national security or foreign policy interests of the United States. Any extension or re-extension of control of an ECCN 0Y521 item, including the determination by the Under Secretary, shall be published in the _Federal Register._

(9) *Special RS Column 1 license requirement applicable to certain spacecraft and related items.* A license is required for all destinations, except for Australia, Canada, and the United Kingdom, for spacecraft and related items classified under ECCN 9A515.a.1, a.2, a.3, a.4, .g, and ECCN 9E515.f.






(10)(i) *Scope.* A license is required for regional stability reasons to export or reexport any item subject to the EAR and listed on the Commerce Control List (supplement no. 1 to part 774) to any destination worldwide when the ECCN includes an RS license requirement that references this (a)(10) paragraph in the license requirement table.




(ii) *Deemed export and deemed reexport exclusions.* The license requirements in paragraph (a)(10)(i) of this section do not apply to deemed exports or deemed reexports to the extent consistent with paragraphs (a)(10)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.






(A) *Grandfather clause.* Except for deemed exports or deemed reexports of “technology” in ECCN 3E905 to foreign persons whose most recent country of citizenship or permanent residency is a destination specified in Country Group D:1 or D:5 in supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR (see GAAFET General License in supplement no. 1 to part 736 general order no. 6), the license requirements in paragraph (a)(10)(i) of this section do not apply to deemed exports or deemed reexports of “technology” or “software,” including for future advancements or versions of the same “technology” or “software,” to employees or contractors already employed by entities subject to this control as of September 6, 2024, and who are not prohibited persons under part 744 of the EAR, *e.g.,* not listed on the Entity List (supplement no. 4 to part 744), Unverified List (supplement no.6 to part 744), Military End-User List (supplement no. 7 to part 744) or listed on the Denied Persons List (*https://www.bis.doc.gov*). For purposes of this paragraph (a)(10)(ii), the employee need not be a permanent and regular employee as that term is defined in § 734.20(d), *e.g.,* they may be newly hired.


(B) *Deemed export and deemed reexport exclusion*—(*1*) *Limited exclusion.* There is a limited deemed export or deemed reexport exclusion from the license requirements in paragraph (a)(10)(i) of this section for the following “software” or “technology” ECCNs, unless for foreign persons whose most recent citizenship or permanent residency is a destination specified in Country Group D:1 or D:5: 2D910; 2E910;3D001 (“software” for “EUV” masks and reticles in ECCN 3B001. q); 3D901 (for “software” for quantum items in ECCNs 3A901.b, 3B904 and scanning electron microscopes (SEM) in ECCN 3B903); 3D907 “software” designed to extract “GDSII” or equivalent data; 3E001 (“technology” for “EUV” masks and reticles in ECCN 3B001.q), 3E901 (for “technology for quantum items in 3A901, 3A904, 3B904, 3C907, 3C908, and 3C909, and for SEMs in ECCN 3B903); 3E905 (“technology” according to the General Technology Note for the “development” or “production” of integrated circuits or devices, using “Gate all-around Field-Effect Transistor” (“GAAFET”) structures); and “technology” for quantum items in ECCNs 4D906 or 4E906.


(*2*) *Full exclusion.* There is a full deemed export and reexport exclusion in § 742.6(a)(6)(iv) that conveys to the license requirement in this paragraph (a)(10) for “technology” and “software” in ECCNs 3D001, 3D002, and 3E001 for anisotropic dry plasma etch equipment and isotropic dry etch equipment in 3B001.c.1.a and c.1.c.






(11) *License requirement for ECCN 3B993, 3B994, 3D993, 3D994, 3E993, and 3E994.* A license is required for the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of items specified in ECCN 3B993, 3B994, 3D993, 3D994, 3E993, or 3E994 to a Footnote 5 designated entity listed on the Entity List in supplement no. 4 to part 744 of the EAR when the item is not subject to the EAR pursuant to § 734.4(a)(9) or § 734.9(e)(3) of the EAR. See § 744.11(a)(2)(v)(a) for license requirements for these items when subject to the EAR pursuant to §§ 734.4(a)(9) and 734.9(e)(3) of the EAR.




(12) *RS requirements that apply to Pakistan.* A license is required to export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) to or within Pakistan the following items: 1B999 (“Specific Processing Equipment, n.e.s.”); 2A992 (“Piping, fittings and valves made of, or lined with stainless, copper-nickel alloy or other alloy steel containing 10% or more nickel and/or chromium”); 2B999 (“Specific Processing Equipment, n.e.s.”), except 2B999.h.2; 3A992 (“General purpose electronic equipment not controlled by 3A002”); 3A999 (“Specific Processing Equipment, n.e.s.”); and 6A996 (“  'Magnetometers' not controlled by ECCN 6A006, 'Superconductive' electromagnetic sensors, and 'specially designed' 'components' therefor”).










(13) *RS requirement that applies to artificial intelligence model weights.* A license is required for the export, reexport, and transfer (in-country) of items specified in ECCN 4E091 to all destinations worldwide. The license requirements in this paragraph (a)(13) do not apply to deemed exports or deemed reexports for 'permanent regular employees,' as that term is defined § 734.20(d)(2), employed by entities headquartered in or with an ultimate parent headquartered in a destination specified in paragraph (a) of supplement no. 5 to part 740.








(b) *Licensing policy*—(1) *Licensing policy for RS Column 1 items.* (i) Applications for exports and reexports of ECCN 0A501, 0A502, 0A504, 0A505, 0A506, 0A507, 0A508, 0A509, 0B501, 0B505, 0D501, 0D505, 0E501, 0E504, and 0E505 items, 9x515, and “600 series” items will be reviewed under the following policies:


(A) Applications for exports and reexports of ECCN 0A501, 0A502, 0A504, 0A505, 0A506, 0A507, 0A508, 0A509, 0B501, 0B505, 0D501, 0D505, 0E501, 0E504, and 0E505 items; 9x515 and “600 series” items will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis to determine whether the transaction is contrary to the national security or foreign policy interests of the United States, including the foreign policy interest of promoting the observance of human rights throughout the world.


(B) Other applications for exports and reexports described in paragraph (a)(1), (2), (6), or (8) of this section will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis to determine whether the export or reexport could contribute directly or indirectly to any country's military capabilities in a manner that would alter or destabilize a region's military balance contrary to the foreign policy interests of the United States.


(C) Applications for reexports of items described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section will be reviewed applying the policies for similar commodities that are subject to the ITAR.


(D) Applications for export or reexport of items classified under ECCNs 0A501, 0A502, 0A505, 0A506, 0A507, 0A508, or 0A509, or any 9x515 or “600 series” ECCN requiring a license in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) or (9) of this section, will also be reviewed consistent with United States arms embargo policies in § 126.1 of the ITAR (22 CFR 126.1), if destined to a country set forth in Country Group D:5 in Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR.


(E) Applications for export or reexport of “parts,” “components,” “accessories,” “attachments,” “software,” or “technology” “specially designed” or otherwise required for the F-14 aircraft will generally be denied.


(F) Applications for exports and reexports of items classified under ECCNs 0A501, 0A502, 0A504, 0A505, 0A506, 0A507, 0A508, 0A509, 0B501, 0B505, 0D501, 0D505, 0E501, 0E504, or 0E505, or any 9x515 ECCN will be subject to a policy of denial, when destined to China or a country listed in E:1 in Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR.


(G) Applications for exports and reexports of ECCNs 0A501, 0A502, 0A504, 0A505, 0A506, 0A507, 0A508, 0A509, 0B501, 0B505, 0D501, 0D505, 0E501, 0E504, and 0E505 items will be subject to a policy of denial when there is reason to believe the transaction involves criminal organizations, rebel groups, street gangs, or other similar groups or individuals, that may be disruptive to regional stability, including within individual countries.


(ii) Applications for exports and reexports to a country listed in Country Group D:5 (in supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR) of technology controlled under 6E001 for the development of focal plane arrays, read-out integrated circuits (ROICs) or image intensifier tubes described in 6A002 or technology controlled under 6E002 for the production of focal plane arrays, read-out integrated circuits (ROICs) or image intensifier tubes described in 6A002 will be reviewed with a presumption of denial.


(2) *Licensing policy for RS Column 2 items.* (i) Except as described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii), applications to export and reexport commodities described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section will generally be considered favorably on a case-by-case basis unless there is evidence that the export or reexport would contribute significantly to the destabilization of the region to which the equipment is destined.


(ii) Applications to export and reexport items controlled under ECCNs 2A984, 2D984 and 2E984 will be reviewed under a presumption of approval when exported or reexported to Austria, Cyprus, Finland, Ireland, Israel, Malta, Mexico, Singapore or Sweden, provided the items to be exported or reexported are being made to a government end-user or to a person designated by the government end-user pursuant to contract. License applications to export to a designated person must include a statement from the government end-user that the person is so designated. See supplement no. 2 to part 748, paragraph (k)(2).


(3) For terrorist-designated countries, the applicable licensing policies are found in parts 742 and 746 of the EAR.


(4) See § 746.3(b) of the EAR for the applicable licensing policies for items controlled for RS reasons to Iraq.


(5) *Spacecraft for launch.* (i) Applications to export or reexport a “spacecraft” controlled under ECCN 9A515.a for launch in or by a country that is not a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) or a major non-NATO ally of the United States (as defined in 22 CFR 120.31 and 120.32), will require a technology transfer control plan approved by the Department of Defense, an encryption technology control plan approved by the National Security Agency, and Department of Defense monitoring of all launch activities.


(ii) Applications to export or reexport a “spacecraft” controlled under ECCN 9A515.a for launch in or by a country that is a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) or a major non-NATO ally of the United States (as defined in 22 CFR 120.31 and 120.32), may require a technology transfer control plan approved by the Department of Defense, an encryption technology control plan approved by the National Security Agency, or Department of Defense monitoring of launch activities.


(6) *Remote sensing spacecraft.* Applications to export or reexport a “spacecraft” described in ECCN 9A515.a.1,.a.2, a.3, or .a.4, sensitive remote sensing components described in 9A515.g, or “technology” described in ECCN 9E515.f may require a government-to-government agreement at the discretion of the U.S. Government.


(7) For India, there is a general policy of approval for license applications to export, reexport, or transfer items, including “600 series” items, for civil or military end uses in India, for ultimate end use by the Government of India, for reexport to countries in Country Group A:5, or for return to the United States, so long as such items are not for use in nuclear, “missile,” or chemical or biological weapons activities.


(8) *China or Venezuela.* Applications to export or reexport items described in paragraph (a)(7) of this section to China or Venezuela will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis to determine whether the transaction is contrary to the national security or foreign policy interests of the United States, including the foreign policy interest of promoting the observance of human rights throughout the world. Such applications will also be reviewed consistent with United States arms embargo policies in § 126.1 of the ITAR (22 CFR 126.1). When destined to China, items classified under any 9x515.y ECCN will be subject to a policy of denial consistent with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(9) *Russia or Belarus.* Applications to export or reexport items described in paragraph (a)(7) of this section will be reviewed pursuant to the licensing policy set forth in § 746.8(b) of the EAR, as well as the foreign policy interest of promoting the observance of human rights throughout the world and consistent with United States arms embargo policies in § 126.1 of the ITAR (22 CFR 126.1).












(10) *Advanced computing and semiconductor manufacturing items*—(i) *License review policy for paragraphs (a)(6)(i)(A) and (ii) of this section.* License applications for items specified in paragraphs (a)(6)(i)(A) and (ii) of this section will be reviewed consistent with license review policies in § 744.23(d) of the EAR. However, if § 744.23 does not apply, applications will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis if no license would be required under part 744 of the EAR.


(ii) *License review policy for paragraph (a)(6)(i)(B) of this section (for 3A090.c).* There is a presumption of approval review policy for license applications for items specified in paragraph (a)(6)(i)(B) to or within Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5 in supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR for entities neither headquartered in nor whose ultimate parent company is headquartered in either Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5. There is a presumption of denial policy for all other license applications.






(iii) *License review policy for paragraph (a)(6)(iii)(A)*—(A)(*1*) *Policy for Country Group D:5 and Macau.* For items specified in paragraph (a)(6)(iii)(A) of this section, applications for exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country) to or within Macau or destinations specified in Country Group D:5 or to an entity headquartered in, or whose ultimate parent company is headquartered in, either Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5 will be reviewed under a presumption of denial.


(*2*) *Policy for countries in paragraph (a)of supplement no. 5 to part 740.* For items specified in paragraph (a)(6)(iii)(A) of this section, applications for exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country) to or within destinations listed in paragraph (a) to supplement no. 5 of Part 740, or to entities headquartered in, or whose ultimate parent company is headquartered in, a destination listed in paragraph (a) to supplement no. 5 of Part 740 will be reviewed under a presumption of approval.


(B) *Country Allocations and licensing policy for all other destinations.* For items specified in paragraph (a)(6)(iii)(A) of this section, applications for exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country) to or within a destination or to entities headquartered, or whose ultimate parent is headquartered, in a destination not listed in either paragraph (a) or (b) of supplement no. 5 of Part 740:


(*1*) *Not exceeding the country allocation.* Applications for exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country) will be reviewed under a presumption of approval, up to a per-country allocation of 790,000,000 TPP for the period from 2025 to 2027, to or within destinations other than Country Group D:5 or Macau or to entities not headquartered in or whose ultimate parent company is not headquartered in destinations in Country Group D:5 or Macau. These TPP allocations represent permitted cumulative installed base, not newly available TPP in addition to previous-year installed bases. BIS will calculate progress toward country allocations by totaling the TPP of 3A090.a, 4A090.a, and corresponding .z items licensed to each destination cumulatively beginning in 2025. Items exported, re-exported, or transferred (in-country) before 2025 will not count toward country allocations. Please visit *www.bis.gov*/advanced-compute-resources for an update on whether the country allocations have been met.


(*2*) *Exceeding the country allocation.* After the country allocations above are met, applications will be reviewed under a policy of denial. Together with the Departments of State, Energy, and Defense, BIS will review allocations for subsequent years on an annual basis.


(C) For items specified in paragraph (a)(6)(iii)(A) of this section, applications for exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country) to or within destinations listed in paragraph (b) of supplement no. 5 to Part 740, TPP allocations may be increased up to 100% for that destination pursuant to government-to-government assurances, as applicable. Accordingly, the licensing policy in paragraph (b)(10)(iii)(B) will apply, up to the adjusted country allocations.










(11) *License review policy for items specified in paragraph (a)(10).* License applications to export or reexport items described in paragraph (a)(10) of this section to destinations specified in Country Group A:1, A:5, and A:6, see supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR, will be reviewed with a presumption of approval. License applications to export or reexport items described in paragraph (a)(10) of this section to destinations specified in Country Groups D:1 or D:5 of supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR will be reviewed under a presumption of denial. License applications to export or reexport items described in paragraph (a)(10) of this section to any other destination will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis, unless subject to a more restrictive RS policy in this section.










(12) *License review policy for paragraph (a)(11).* The license review policy for items subject to a license pursuant to paragraph (a)(11) of this section will be reviewed as specified in the license review policy column for the listed entity. See also § 744.11(a)(2)(v) of the EAR.




(13) Applications for the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of any item that requires a license pursuant to paragraph (a)(12) of this section will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis to determine whether the proposed export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) presents an unacceptable risk of use in, or diversion to, an end use or end user of concern, as set forth in part 744 of the EAR. If it is determined that the proposed export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) poses an unacceptable risk of use in, or diversion to, an end use or end user of concern, the application will be denied.






(14) *License Review Policy for AI Model Weights in (a)(13) of this section.* Applications to export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) items classified under ECCN 4E091 will be reviewed under a presumption of denial for end users headquartered, or with an ultimate parent headquartered, outside of destinations listed in paragraph (a) to supplement No. 5 to part 740.


(c)(1) *Contract sanctity date:* March 21, 2003. This contract sanctity date applies only to items controlled under ECCNs 2A983, 2D983 and 2E983 destined for countries not listed in Country Group E (supplement 1 to part 740). See parts 742 and 746 for the contract sanctity requirements applicable to exports and reexports to countries listed in Country Group E.


(2) *Contract sanctity date:* March 19, 2010. This contract sanctity date applies only to items controlled under ECCNs 2A984, 2D984 and 2E984 destined for countries not listed in Country Group E (supplement 1 to part 740). See parts 742 and 746 for the contract sanctity requirements applicable to exports and reexports to countries listed in Country Group E.


(d) *U.S. controls.* Although the United States seeks cooperation from like-minded countries in maintaining regional stability controls, at this time these controls are maintained only by the United States.



---

[N] [61 FR 12786, Mar. 25, 1996]


