# § 354.45   Denial of service.

(a) The acts or practices set forth in §§ 354.46 through 354.51 or the causing thereof may be deemed sufficient cause, for the debarment, by the Secretary, of any person, including any agents, officers, subsidiaries, or affiliates of such person, from any or all benefits of the Act for a specified period after notice and opportunity for hearing has been afforded. 


(b) Whenever the Administrator has reason to believe that any person or his employee, agent, or representative has flagrantly or repeatedly committed any of the acts or practices specified in §§ 354.46 to 354.51, he may, without hearing, direct that the benefits of the Act be denied such person, including any agents, officers, subsidiaries, or affiliates of such person, pending investigation and hearing, and shall give notice thereof to any such person in the manner prescribed in § 1.147(b) of the rules of practice (7 CFR 1.147(b)). The Administrator's decision to deny the benefits of the Act to any such person, including any agents, officers, subsidiaries, or affiliates of such person, shall be effective upon service of such notice. A written petition for reconsideration of such interim denial may be filed with the Administrator by any person so denied the benefits of the Act within 10 days after notice of the interim denial. Such petition shall state specifically the errors alleged to have been made by the Administrator in denying the benefits of the Act pending investigation and hearing. Within 20 days following the receipt of such petition for reconsideration, the Administrator shall reinstate the benefits of the Act or notify the petitioner of the reasons for continued interim denial. 



---

[N] [41 FR 23702, June 11, 1976, as amended at 43 FR 11148, Mar. 17, 1978] 




