# § 278.9   Implementation of amendments relating to the participation of retail food stores, wholesale food concerns and insured financial institutions.

(a) *Amendment 224.* Retail food stores shall have signs posted as required by this amendment no later than 30 days after distribution of the signs by FNS.


(b) *Amendment 257.* With the exception of the provisions in § 278.5 requiring redeeming financial institutions to verify that coupons are supported by redemption certificates, the revisions to part 278 shall be effective September 14, 1984. Redeeming financial institutions shall begin verifying coupon deposits as required by § 278.5 in accordance with the schedule determined by the Federal Reserve Board. Insured financial institutions shall adhere to preexisting requirements for handling redemption certificates (at 7 CFR 278.5(a)) until their Federal Reserve District implements the procedures contained in this final rule. FNS shall not be liable for any losses of coupons in transit to Federal Reserve Banks or as a result of a burglary or robbery of an insured financial institution which occur after September 14, 1984.


(c) *Amendment 267.* The federally insured credit unions authorized to redeem SNAP benefits under this amendment may begin accepting SNAP benefits for redemption not later than March 27, 1986.


(d) The program changes of *Amendment 272* at § 278.5(a) (1) and (3) are effective upon publication of the amendment. Financial institutions must implement the provisions no later than April 21, 1986.


(e) *Amendment No. 286.* The provisions for part 278 of *Amendment No. 286* were effective March 11, 1987 for purposes of submitting applications for authorization to accept SNAP benefits. For all other purposes, the effective date was April 1, 1987.


(f) *Amendment No. 280.* The provisions for part 271 and §§ 278.1(r) and 278.6(f) of No. 280 are effective retroactively to April 1, 1987. The provision for § 278.1(o) is effective May 22, 1987.


(g) *Amendment No. 304.* The technical amendment for part 278 of *Amendment No. 304* was effective August 1, 1988.


(h) *Amendment No. 323.* The program changes made to § 278.6 by this amendment are retroactively effective October 1, 1988.


(i) *Amendment No. 334.* The program changes made to §§ 278.1 and 278.6 by this amendment are effective February 1, 1992. The program changes made to § 271.2 and § 271.5 by this amendment are retroactively effective to November 28, 1990, as specified in Pub. L. No. 101-624.


(j) *Amendment No. 354.* The program changes made to §§ 271.2 and 278.6 by this amendment are effective October 1, 1993.


(k) *Amendment No. 331.* The program changes made to §§ 271.2 and 278.5 by this amendment are effective December 22, 1994.


(l) *Amendment No. 335.* Expanded authority to use and disclose information about firms participating in the FSP under CFR 278.1(r) for currently authorized firms is effective and will be implemented beginning February 25, 1997 but not before 60-days after the date of notices to such firms, notifying them of the changes. The only exception to the above is that such disclosure of information shall not apply to firms that are withdrawn or are disqualified from FSP participation prior to implementation, unless such firms participate in the FSP at a future date subsequent to the implementation date.


(m) *Amendment No. 383.* The program changes made to § 278.1 by this amendment are effective September 29, 2000.



---

[N] [Amdt. 136, 43 FR 43274, Sept. 22, 1978]


