# ยง 671.8   Permit administration.

(a) *Issuance of permits.* The Director may approve an application for a permit in whole or in part, and may condition such approval upon compliance with additional terms and conditions. Permits shall be issued in writing, shall be signed by the Director, shall specify duration, and shall contain such terms and conditions as may be established by the Director and as are consistent with the Act and this part. 


(b) *Denial.* An applicant shall be notified in writing of the denial of any permit request or part of a request, and the reason for such denial. If authorized in the notice of denial, the applicant may submit further information, or reasons why the permit should not be denied. Such further submissions shall constitute amendments of the application. 


(c) *Amendment of applications or permits.* An applicant or permit holder desiring to have any term or condition of his application or permit modified must submit full justification and supporting information in conformance with the provisions of this part. Any application for modification of a permit that involves a material change beyond the terms originally requested will be subject to the same procedures as a new application. 


(d) *Public notice of issuance or denial.* Within 10 days after the date of the issuance or denial of a permit, the Director shall publish notice of the issuance or denial in the _Federal Register,_ including the conditions of issuance or basis for denial, as appropriate. 




