# § 831.22   International aviation investigations.

(a) *General.* (1) Annex 13 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation, *Aircraft Accident and Incident Investigation* (Annex 13) contains standards and recommended practices for the notification, investigation, and reporting of certain accidents involving international civil aviation.


(2) Annex 13 provides that the state of occurrence of an accident or incident is responsible for the investigation when the state is a signatory to the Convention.


(b) The NTSB—


(1) Is the U.S. agency that fulfills the obligations of the United States under Annex 13, in coordination with and consistent with the requirements of the United States Department of State.


(2) Participates in the investigation as the accredited representative to an international investigation when the accident involves a civil aircraft—


(i) of a U.S. operator;


(ii) of U.S. registry;


(iii) of U.S. manufacture; or


(iv) when the U.S. is the state of design or manufacture of the aircraft or parts thereof.


(c) *Technical advisers.* Once designated the accredited representative in an international investigation, the NTSB may elect to receive assistance by appointing one or more advisers to serve under the NTSB's direction. Such technical advisers—


(1) Work at the direction and under the supervision of the NTSB accredited representative.


(2) Are subject to the provisions of § 831.13 of this part while working under the supervision of the NTSB accredited representative.


(d) If an accident occurs in a foreign state that is not a signatory to the Convention, or if an accident or incident involves an aircraft that is not a civil aircraft, the NTSB will participate in the investigation in accordance with any agreement between the United States and the foreign state that addresses such occurrences.


(e) The NTSB's disclosure of records of a foreign investigation is limited by statute (49 U.S.C 1114(f)) and by § 831.6 of this part.




