# ยง 906.35   Accounting.

(a) If, at the end of a fiscal period, the assessments collected are in excess of expenses incurred, such excess shall be accounted for in accordance with one of the following:


(1) If such excess is not retained in a reserve, as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, it shall be refunded proportionately to the persons from whom collected.


(2) The committee, with the approval of the Secretary may carry over such excess into subsequent fiscal periods as a reserve: *Provided,* That funds already in the reserve do not equal approximately 1 fiscal period's expenses. Such reserve funds may be used for any expenses authorized pursuant to ยง 906.32 and for necessary expenses of liquidation in the event of termination of this part. Upon such termination, any funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be disposed of in such manner as the Secretary may determine to be appropriate. To the extent practical, such funds shall be returned pro rata to the persons from whom such funds were collected.


(b) All funds received by the committee pursuant to the provisions of this part shall be used solely for the purpose specified in this part and shall be accounted for in the manner provided in this part. The Secretary may at any time require the committee and its members to account for all receipts and disbursements.


(c) Upon the removal or expiration of the terms of office of any member of the committee, such member shall account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property and funds in his possession to the committee, and shall execute such assignments and other instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to vest in the committee full title to all of the property, funds, and claims vested in such member pursuant to this part.


(d) The committee may make recommendations to the Secretary for one or more of the members thereof, or any other person, to act as a trustee for holding records, funds, or any other committee property during periods of suspension of this subpart, or during any period or periods when regulations are not in effect, and if the Secretary determines such action appropriate, he may direct that such person or persons shall act as trustee or trustees for the committee.



---

[N] [25 FR 9093, Sept. 22, 1960. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 31 FR 10462, Aug. 4, 1966]




