# § 1081.107   Appearance and practice in adjudication proceedings.

(a) *Appearance before the Bureau or a hearing officer*—(1) *By attorneys.* Any member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any State may represent others before the Bureau if such attorney is not currently suspended or debarred from practice before the Bureau or by a court of the United States or of any State.


(2) *By non-attorneys.* So long as such individual is not currently suspended or debarred from practice before the Bureau:


(i) An individual may appear on the individual's own behalf;


(ii) A member of a partnership may represent the partnership;


(iii) A duly authorized officer of a corporation, trust, or association may represent the corporation, trust, or association; and


(iv) A duly authorized officer or employee of any government unit, agency, or authority may represent that unit, agency, or authority.


(3) *Notice of appearance.* Any individual acting as counsel on behalf of a party, including Enforcement counsel, must file a notice of appearance at or before the time that the individual submits papers or otherwise appears on behalf of a party in the adjudication proceeding. The notice of appearance must include a written declaration that the individual is currently qualified as provided in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section and is authorized to represent the particular party, and if applicable, must include the attorney's jurisdiction of admission or qualification, attorney identification number, and a statement by the appearing attorney attesting to the attorney's good standing within the legal profession. By filing a notice of appearance on behalf of a party in an adjudication proceeding, the counsel agrees and represents that counsel is authorized to accept service on behalf of the represented party and that, in the event of withdrawal from representation, counsel will, if required by the hearing officer, continue to accept service until a new counsel has filed a notice of appearance or until the represented party indicates that the party will proceed on a pro se basis. The notice of appearance must provide the representative's email address, telephone number, and business address and, if different from the representative's addresses, electronic or other address at which the represented party may be served.


(b) *Sanctions.* Dilatory, obstructionist, egregious, contemptuous, or contumacious conduct at any phase of any adjudication proceeding may be grounds for exclusion or suspension of counsel from the proceeding. An order imposing a sanction must describe the sanctioned conduct and explain the basis for the sanction.


(c) *Standards of conduct; disbarment.* (1) All attorneys practicing before the Bureau must conform to the standards of ethical conduct required by the bars of which the attorneys are members.


(2) If for good cause shown, the Director believes that any attorney is not conforming to such standards, or that an attorney or counsel to a party has otherwise engaged in conduct warranting disciplinary action, the Director may issue an order requiring such person to show cause why the attorney should not be suspended or disbarred from practice before the Bureau. The alleged offender will be granted due opportunity to be heard in the alleged offender's own defense and may be represented by counsel. Thereafter, if warranted by the facts, the Director may issue against the attorney or counsel an order of reprimand, suspension, or disbarment.




