# § 1108.22   Statement of purpose, organization, and jurisdiction.

(a) *The Board's intent.* The Board favors the resolution of disputes through the use of mediation and arbitration procedures, in lieu of formal Board proceedings, whenever possible. This subpart establishes a binding and voluntary arbitration program, the Small Rate Case Arbitration Program, that is tailored to rate disputes and open to all parties eligible to bring or defend rate disputes before the Board.


(1) The Small Rate Case Arbitration Program serves as an alternative to, and is separate and distinct from, the broader arbitration program set forth in subpart A of this part.


(2) By participating in the Small Rate Case Arbitration Program, parties consent to arbitrate rail rate disputes subject to the limits on potential liability set forth in § 1108.28.


(3) The Small Rate Case Arbitration Program will become operative only if all Class I carriers initially commit to participate in the program. Class I carriers that participate in the program agree to arbitrate rate disputes that meet the requirements of this subpart for a term of five years from the date the program becomes effective.


(4) In the event the Small Rate Case Arbitration program becomes operative, Class I carriers that participate will be exempt from having their rates challenged under Final Offer Rate Review, pursuant to § 1108.33, as long as they remain in the program.


(b) *Establishment and Term of the Small Rate Case Arbitration Program*. (1) The regulations contained in this subpart will not become operable until the Board issues a notice in the _Federal Register_ commencing the Small Rate Case Arbitration Program. A copy of the notice will also be issued in Docket No. EP 765 and will be posted on the Board's website.


(2) The Board will promptly issue the notice commencing the arbitration program upon receipt of the required opt-in notices specified in § 1108.23(a) from all existing Class I carriers. If the Board does not receive opt-in notices from all existing Class I carriers, the notice will not be issued and the regulations in this subpart will not become operable, including any exemption from FORR. The notice will establish an initial five-year term for the program, beginning from the date the notice is issued.


(3) Class I carriers must indicate whether they choose to voluntarily participate in the Small Rate Case Arbitration Program by February 23, 2023, by filing the notice specified in § 1108.23(a) with the Board.


(c) *Renewal of the Small Rate Case Arbitration Program.* (1) Approximately 60 days before the five-year term expires, the Board will issue another notice in the _Federal Register,_ requesting that all existing Class I carriers that wish to participate in the program for another 5-year period file an opt-in notice pursuant to § 1108.23(a).


(2) The Small Rate Case Arbitration Program will become operative for an additional 5-year period only if all Class I carriers again commit to participate in the program. This requirement will apply even if one or more of the Class I carriers has previously withdrawn from the program pursuant to § 1108.23(c).


(3) The Board will promptly issue a notice in the _Federal Register_ renewing the Small Rate Case Arbitration Program for an additional five years upon receipt of the required opt-in notices specified in § 1108.23(a) from all existing Class I carriers. The regulations contained in this subpart will only remain operative if the Board issues such a notice. If the program is renewed, all of the regulations within this subpart shall remain in effect for the entirety of the 5-year renewal period, with the exception of § 1108.32.


(4) The Board will repeat this process to renew the arbitration program every five years for as long as the program remains in effect.


(5) At the end of any five-year period, if the arbitration program is not renewed, any pending arbitrations will continue until they are completed.


(d) *Limitations to the use of the Small Rate Case Arbitration Program.* The Small Rate Case Arbitration Program may be used only for rate disputes within the statutory jurisdiction of the Board.


(e) *No limitation on other avenues of arbitration.* Nothing in this subpart shall be construed in a manner to prevent parties from independently seeking or utilizing private arbitration services to resolve any disputes they may have.






