# § 203.478   Payment of insurance benefits.

(a) *Claim computation, items included.* Upon acceptable assignment of the note and security instruments, the Commissioner shall pay the lender an amount equal to the unpaid principal balance of the loan, plus: 


(1) Any accrued interest due as of the date of execution of the assignment of the loan to the Commissioner. 


(2) Any advances made previously under the provisions of the loan instrument and approved by the Commissioner. 


(3) Reimbursement for such reasonable collection costs, court costs and attorney's fees as may be approved by the Commissioner. 


(4) Reimbursement for premiums paid on any hazard insurance policies held on the property. 


(5)(i) If payment is made in cash on a mortgage endorsed for insurance on or before January 23, 2004, an amount equivalent to the debenture interest that would have been earned, as of the date insurance settlement occurs, except that where the lender fails to meet any one of the requirements of §§ 203.476 and 203.477 and such failure continues for more than 30 days (or such further time as the Commissioner may approve in writing), the debenture interest shall be computed for 30 days or the extended period;


(ii) If payment is made in cash on a mortgage endorsed for insurance after January 23, 2004, debenture interest at the rate specified in § 203.479 from the date specified in § 203.486 to the date insurance settlement occurs, except that where the lender fails to meet any one of the requirements of §§ 203.476 and 203.477 and such failure continues for more than 30 days (or such further time as the Commissioner may approve in writing), the debenture interest shall be computed for 30 days or the extended period.


(b) *Claim computation, items deducted.* If the lender is to receive cash, there shall be deducted from the total of the added items in paragraph (a) of this section any cash held by the lender or to which it is entitled including deposits made for the account of the borrower and which have not been applied in reduction of the principal loan indebtedness. 


(c) *Method of payment.* Payment of an insurance claim shall be made in cash, in debentures, or in a combination of both, as determined by the Commissioner either at, or prior to, the time of payment.


(d) *Special provision—payment in debentures.* All of the provisions of §§ 203.479 through 203.487 of this subpart shall be applicable in connection with the payment in debentures of insurance benefits under this subpart. 



---

[N] [36 FR 24508, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 71 FR 35994, June 22, 2006; 80 FR 51468, Aug. 25, 2015]




