# § 9.37   California Shenandoah Valley.

(a) *Name.* The name of the viticultural area described in this section is “Shenandoah Valley” qualified by the word “California” in direct conjunction with the name “Shenandoah Valley.”


(b) *Approved maps.* The appropriate maps for determining the boundaries of the California Shenandoah Valley viticultural area are two 1962 U.S.G.S. maps. The maps are titled: “Fiddletown Quadrangle California” 7.5 minute series and “Amador City Quadrangle California-Amador Co.” 7.5 minute series.


(c) *Boundaries.* The Shenandoah Valley viticultural Area is located in portions of Amador and El Dorado Counties of California. The boundaries are as follows:


(1) Beginning at the point where the Consumnes River meets Big Indian Creek.


(2) Then south, following Big Indian Creek, until Big Indian Creek meets the boundary between Sections 1 and 2 of Township 7 North Range 10 East.


(3) Then following this boundary south until it meets the Oleta (Fiddletown) Road.


(4) Then following the Oleta Road east until it meets the boundary between Sections 6 and 5 of Township 7 North Range 11 East.


(5) Then following that boundary north into Township 8 North Range 11 East, and continues north on the boundary between Sections 31 and 32 until this boundary meets Big Indian Creek.


(6) Then following Big Indian Creek in a northeasterly direction until Big Indian Creek meets the boundary between Sections 28 and 27 of Township 8 North Range 11 East.


(7) Then following this boundary north until it reaches the southeast corner of Section 21 of Township 8 North Range 11 East.


(8) The boundary then proceeds east, then north, then west along the boundary of the western half of Section 22 of Township 8 North Range 11 East to the intersection of Sections 16, 15, 21, and 22.


(9) Then proceeding north along the boundary line between Sections 16 and 15 of Township 8 North Range 11 East and continues north along the boundary of Sections 9 and 10 of Township 8 North Range 11 East to the intersection of Sections 9, 10, 3, and 4 of Township 8 North Range 11 East.


(10) Then proceeding west along the boundary of Sections 9 and 4.


(11) Then continuing west along the boundary of Sections 5 and 8 of Township 8 North Range 11 East to the Consumnes River.


(12) Then the boundary proceeds west along the Consumnes River to the point of the beginning.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-121, 47 FR 57696, Dec. 28, 1982, as amended by T.D. ATF-249, 52 FR 5957, Feb. 27, 1987]




