# ยง 2201.1-2   Segregative effect.

(a) If a proposal is made to exchange Federal lands, the authorized officer may direct the appropriate State Office of the Bureau of Land Management to segregate the Federal lands by a notation on the public land records. Subject to valid existing rights, the Federal lands shall be segregated from appropriation under the public land laws and mineral laws for a period not to exceed 5 years from the date of record notation. 


(b) Any interests of the United States in the non-Federal lands that are covered by the exchange proposal may be segregated from appropriation under the mineral laws for a period not to exceed 5 years from the date of notation by noting the public land status records. 


(c) The segregative effect shall terminate upon the occurrence of any of the following events, whichever occurs first: 


(1) Automatically, upon issuance of a patent or other document of conveyance to the affected lands; 


(2) On the date and time specified in an opening order, such order to be promptly issued and published by the appropriate State Office of the Bureau of Land Management in the _Federal Register,_ if a decision is made not to proceed with the exchange or upon removal of any lands from an exchange proposal; or 


(3) Automatically, at the end of the segregation period not to exceed 5 years from the date of notation of the public land records. 


(d) The provisions of this section apply equally to proposals to exchange National Forest System lands under the authority and provisions of the Act of March 20, 1922, 42 Stat. 465, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 485, and the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, 43 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq.,* except that if a proposal is made to exchange National Forest System lands, which proposal shall be filed in compliance with 36 CFR part 254, the authorized officer may request that the appropriate BLM State Office segregate such lands by a notation on the public land records.



---

[N] [46 FR 1638, Jan. 6, 1981, as amended at 63 FR 23681, Apr. 30, 1998; 65 FR 70112, Nov. 21, 2000]




