# § 63.3521   How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations?

You may use the compliant material option for any individual coating operation, for any group of coating operations within a subcategory or coating type segment, or for all the coating operations within a subcategory or coating type segment. You must use either the emission rate without add-on controls option, the emission rate with add-on controls option, or the control efficiency/outlet concentration option for any coating operation in the affected source for which you do not use that option. To demonstrate initial compliance using the compliant material option, the coating operation or group of coating operations must use no coating with an organic HAP content that exceeds the applicable emission limit in § 63.3490 and must use no thinner that contains organic HAP as determined according to this section. Any coating operation for which you use the compliant material option is not required to meet the operating limits or work practice standards required in §§ 63.3492 and 63.3493, respectively. You must conduct a separate initial compliance demonstration for each one and two-piece draw and iron can body coating, sheetcoating, three-piece can body assembly coating, and end coating affected source. You must meet all the requirements of this section for the coating operation or group of coating operations using this option. Use the procedures in this section on each coating and thinner in the condition it is in when it is received from its manufacturer or supplier and prior to any alteration (*e.g.,* mixing or thinning). Do not include any coatings or thinners used on coating operations for which you use the emission rate without add-on controls option, the emission rate with add-on controls option, or the control efficiency/outlet concentration option. You do not need to redetermine the HAP content of coatings or thinners that have been reclaimed onsite and reused in the coating operation(s) for which you use the compliant material option, provided these materials in their condition as received were demonstrated to comply with the compliant material option. All required calculations and compliance demonstrations may be performed with either metric or English units.


(a) *Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each material used.* You must determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each coating and thinner used during the compliance period by using one of the options in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section. 


(1) *Method 311 (appendix A to 40 CFR part 63).* You may use Method 311 for determining the mass fraction of organic HAP. Use the procedures specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section when performing a Method 311 test. 


(i) Count each organic HAP in Table 8 to this subpart that is measured to be present at 0.1 percent by mass or more and at 1.0 percent by mass or more for other compounds. For example, if toluene (not listed in Table 8 to this subpart) is measured to be 0.5 percent of the material by mass, you do not have to count it. Express the mass fraction of each organic HAP you count as a value truncated to four places after the decimal point (*e.g.,* 0.3791).


(ii) Calculate the total mass fraction of organic HAP in the test material by adding up the individual organic HAP mass fractions and truncating the result to three places after the decimal point (*e.g.,* 0.763). 


(2) *Method 24 (appendix A to 40 CFR part 60).* For coatings, you may use Method 24 to determine the mass fraction of nonaqueous volatile matter and use that value as a substitute for mass fraction of organic HAP. As an alternative to using Method 24, you may use ASTM D2369-10 (2015), “Test Method for Volatile Content of Coatings” (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).


(3) *Alternative method.* You may use an alternative test method for determining the mass fraction of organic HAP once the Administrator has approved it. You must follow the procedure in § 63.7(f) to submit an alternative test method for approval. 


(4) *Information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material.* You may rely on information other than that generated by the test methods specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, such as manufacturer's formulation data, if it represents each organic HAP in Table 8 to this subpart that is present at 0.1 percent by mass or more and at 1.0 percent by mass or more for other compounds. For example, if toluene (not listed in Table 8 to this subpart) is 0.5 percent of the material by mass, you do not have to count it. If there is a disagreement between such information and results of a test conducted according to paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, then the test method results will take precedence unless, after consultation, a regulated source can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the enforcement agency that the formulation data are correct.


(5) *Solvent blends.* Solvent blends may be listed as single components for some materials in data provided by manufacturers or suppliers. Solvent blends may contain organic HAP which must be counted toward the total organic HAP mass fraction of the materials. When test data and manufacturer's data for solvent blends are not available, you may use the default values for the mass fraction of organic HAP in those solvent blends listed in Table 6 or 7 to this subpart. If you use the tables, you must use the values in Table 6 to this subpart for all solvent blends that match Table 6 entries, and you may only use Table 7 to this subpart if the solvent blends in the materials you use do not match any of the solvent blends in Table 6 and you only know whether the blend is aliphatic or aromatic. However, if the results of a Method 311 (40 CFR part 63, appendix A) test indicate higher values than those listed on Table 6 or 7 to this subpart, the Method 311 results will take precedence. 


(b) *Determine the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating.* You must determine the volume fraction of coating solids (liters of coating solids per liter of coating) for each coating used during the compliance period by a test or by information provided by the supplier or the manufacturer of the material as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section. If test results obtained according to paragraph (b)(1) of this section do not agree with the information obtained under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the test results will take precedence. 


(1) *ASTM Method D2697-03 (2014) or D6093-97 (2016).* You may use ASTM D2697-*03* (2014), “Standard Test Method for Volume Nonvolatile Matter in Clear or Pigmented Coatings,” (incorporated by reference, *see* § 63.14) or ASTM D6093-97 (2016), “Standard Test Method for Percent Volume Nonvolatile Matter in Clear or Pigmented Coatings Using a Helium Gas Pycnometer” (incorporated by reference, *see* § 63.14), to determine the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating. Divide the nonvolatile volume percent obtained with the methods by 100 to calculate volume fraction of coating solids. If these values cannot be determined using these methods, the owner/operator may submit an alternative technique for determining the values for approval by the Administrator.


(2) *Information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material.* You may obtain the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating from the supplier or manufacturer. 


(c) *Determine the density of each coating.* Determine the density of each coating used during the compliance period from test results using ASTM Method D1475-13 “Standard Test Method for Density of Liquid Coatings, Inks, and Related Products” (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) or information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material. If there is disagreement between ASTM Method D1475-13 test results and the supplier's or manufacturer's information, the test results will take precedence.


(d) *Calculate the organic HAP content of each coating.* Calculate the organic HAP content, kg organic HAP per liter coating solids, of each coating used during the compliance period, using Equation 1 of this section.


(e) *Compliance demonstration.* The organic HAP content for each coating used during the initial compliance period, determined using Equation 1 of this section, must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.3490 and each thinner used during the initial compliance period must contain no organic HAP, determined according to paragraph (a) of this section. You must keep all records required by §§ 63.3512 and 63.3513. As part of the Notification of Compliance Status required in § 63.3510, you must identify the coating operation(s) for which you used the compliant material option and submit a statement that the coating operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because you used no coatings for which the organic HAP content exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.3490, and you used no thinners that contained organic HAP, determined according to paragraph (a) of this section. 



---

[N] [68 FR 64446, Nov. 13, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 1383, Jan. 6, 2006; 85 FR 10851, Feb. 25, 2020]




