# § 622.5   Recordkeeping and reporting—general.

This section contains recordkeeping and reporting requirements that are broadly applicable, as specified, to most or all fisheries governed by this part. Additional recordkeeping and reporting requirements specific to each fishery are contained in the respective subparts B through U of this part.


(a) *Collection of additional data and fish inspection.* In addition to data required to be reported as specified in subparts B through U of this part, as applicable, additional data will be collected by authorized statistical reporting agents and by authorized officers. A person who fishes for or possesses species in or from the EEZ governed in this part is required to make the applicable fish or any part thereof available for inspection by the SRD or an authorized officer on request.


(b) *Commercial vessel, charter vessel, and headboat inventory.* The owner or operator of a commercial vessel, charter vessel, or headboat operating in a fishery governed in this part who is not selected to report by the SRD under the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in subparts B through U of this part, must provide the following information when interviewed by the SRD:


(1) Name and official number of vessel and permit number, if applicable.


(2) Length and tonnage.


(3) Current home port.


(4) Fishing areas.


(5) Ports where fish were offloaded during the last year.


(6) Type and quantity of gear.


(7) Number of full- and part-time fishermen or crew members.


(c) *Dealers*—(1) *Permitted Gulf and South Atlantic dealers.* (i) A person issued a Gulf and South Atlantic dealer permit must submit a detailed electronic report of all fish first received for a commercial purpose within the time period specified in this paragraph via the dealer electronic trip ticket reporting system. These electronic reports must be submitted at weekly intervals via the dealer electronic trip ticket reporting system by 11:59 p.m., local time, the Tuesday following a reporting week. If no fish were received during a reporting week, an electronic report so stating must be submitted for that reporting week. In addition, during the open season, dealers must submit daily reports for Gulf migratory group king mackerel harvested by the run-around gillnet component in the Florida west coast southern subzone via the port agents, telephone, internet, or other similar means determined by NMFS. From the beginning of the open season until the commercial ACL (commercial quota) for the run-around gillnet sector for Gulf migratory group king mackerel is reached, dealers must submit a daily report if no king mackerel were received during the previous day. NMFS will provide written notice to dealers that first receive Gulf king mackerel harvested by the run-around gillnet component prior to the beginning of each fishing year if the reporting methods or deadline change from the previous year.


(ii) Dealers must retain either the paper forms or electronic reports for at least 1 year after the submittal date and must provide such records for inspection upon the request of an authorized officer or the SRD.


(iii) During catastrophic conditions only, the ACL monitoring program provides for use of paper-based components for basic required functions as a backup. The RA will determine when catastrophic conditions exist, the duration of the catastrophic conditions, and which participants or geographic areas are deemed affected by the catastrophic conditions. The RA will provide timely notice to affected participants via publication of notification in the _Federal Register,_ NOAA weather radio, fishery bulletins, and other appropriate means and will authorize the affected participants' use of paper-based components for the duration of the catastrophic conditions. The paper forms will be available from NMFS. During catastrophic conditions, the RA has the authority to waive or modify reporting time requirements.


(iv) Gulf and South Atlantic dealers are not authorized to first receive Gulf reef fish, Gulf red drum, South Atlantic golden crab, South Atlantic snapper-grouper, South Atlantic wreckfish, South Atlantic rock shrimp, coastal migratory pelagic fish, spiny lobster, or Atlantic dolphin or wahoo from a federally permitted vessel if the required reports have not been submitted and received by NMFS according to the reporting requirements under this section. Delinquent reports automatically result in a Gulf and South Atlantic dealer becoming ineligible to first receive such fish, regardless of any notification to dealers by NMFS. Gulf and South Atlantic dealers who become ineligible to receive such fish due to delinquent reports are authorized to first receive such fish only after all required and delinquent reports have been submitted and received by NMFS according to the reporting requirements under this section.


(2) *Non-permitted dealers.* See § 622.51 for a person who purchases Gulf shrimp from a vessel, or person, that fishes for shrimp in the Gulf EEZ or in adjoining state waters, or that lands shrimp in an adjoining state.



---

[N] [78 FR 22952, Apr. 17, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 19493, Apr. 9, 2014; 80 FR 78674, Dec. 17, 2015; 87 FR 56215, Sept. 13, 2022]




