# § 162.72   Penalties and forfeitures under sections 466 and 584(a)(1), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended.

(a) *Foreign repairs and equipment purchases; election to proceed.* If the Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer has reasonable cause to believe that a violation of section 466, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1466), has occurred, he may elect to proceed against the vessel or aircraft, or against the violator for forfeiture of a monetary amount up to the domestic value of the vessel or aircraft. 


(b) *Lack of manifest or discrepancy in manifest.* The penalties for violation of section 584(a)(1), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1584(a)(1)), are as follows: 


(1) A penalty of $1,000 against the master of a vessel, the commander of an aircraft, or the person in charge of a vehicle bound to the United States who does not produce the manifest on demand. 


(2) A penalty of $1,000 against the master of a vessel, the commander of an aircraft, the person in charge of a vehicle, or the owner of the vessel, aircraft, or vehicle, or any person directly or indirectly responsible for the discrepancy, if any merchandise described in the manifest is not found on board (a “shortage”). 


(3)(i) A penalty equal to the lesser of $10,000 or the domestic value of merchandise found on board of or after having been unladen from a vessel or vehicle, or 


(ii) A penalty of $1,000 (see § 122.161 of this chapter) if merchandise (other than narcotics or marihuana—see § 162.65 of this chapter) is found on board of or after having been unladen from an aircraft—if the merchandise is not included or described in the manifest or does not agree with the manifest (an “overage”).


(iii) Unmanifested merchandise belonging to or consigned to the master or crew of the vessel, the commander or crew of the aircraft, or to the owner or person in charge of the vehicle, also shall be subject to forfeiture.


(c) *Exception.* There is no violation, and consequently no penalty incurred under paragraph (b), in the circumstances described in §§ 4.12(a)(5) and 122.162 of this chapter. 



---

[N] [T.D. 79-160, 44 FR 31958, June 4, 1979, as amended by T.D. 86-59, 51 FR 8490, Mar. 12, 1986; T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9315, Mar. 22, 1988; T.D. 99-27, 64 FR 13676, Mar. 22, 1999; T.D. 99-64, 64 FR 43267, Aug. 10, 1999]




