# § 32.41   Michigan.

The following refuge units are open for hunting and/or fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional refuge-specific regulations.


(a) *Detroit River International Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, rail, gallinule, coot, woodcock, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You must remove all of your blinds, boats, and decoys from the refuge each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(ii) We allow refuge access from 1
1/2 hours prior to legal sunrise until 1 hour after legal sunset.


(iii) We allow the use of dogs while hunting, provided the dog is under the immediate control of the hunter at all times.


(iv) We allow hunting of waterfowl only on the Plum Creek Bay Unit of the refuge and only through boat access.


(v) We allow hunting of waterfowl only on the Brancheau Unit of the refuge as governed by Pointe Mouillee State Game Area special hunt regulations and subject to the following conditions:


(A) You must obtain and possess a State-issued permit for this unit by entering the Michigan Department of Natural Resources' daily drawing at the Pointe Mouillee State Game Area.


(B) You must remain with 75 feet (22.5 meters) of your assigned blind or numbered post. We allow an exception for unarmed (hunting weapons) retrieval of waterfowl.


(C) We allow only nonmotorized boats.


(D) We prohibit shot size larger than BBB.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of pheasant, squirrel, rabbit, fox, raccoon, and coyote on designated areas of the refuge and subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section apply.


(ii) You may possess only approved nontoxic shot (see § 32.2(k)) while in the field with the following exception: While hunting fox, coyotes, and raccoons in units where we allow it, you may use single projectile shot such as bullets, slugs, or muzzleloader bullets containing lead. We prohibit the use of buckshot for any hunting on the refuge.


(iii) On the Humbug Island Unit, you may only hunt with shotgun shells or archery equipment.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of deer and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(ii) For wild turkey hunting, you may possess only approved nontoxic shot (see § 32.2(k)) while in the field.


(iii) For deer hunting, you may possess only single projectile shot. We prohibit the use of buckshot for any hunting on the refuge.


(iv) We allow portable tree stands for deer hunting. We allow only one tree stand per hunter per refuge unit.


(v) For Humbug Marsh Mainland only:


(A) You must obtain and possess a State-issued permit for this unit by entering the Michigan Department of Natural Resources' annual drawing.


(B) You must obtain and possess a state access permit (issued by the refuge) for the date on which you are hunting in the Humbug Marsh Unit.


(C) You must hunt from a provided fixed hunting platform and/or blind.


(vi) The Humbug Island Unit is closed to firearm deer hunting. We allow only archery deer hunting on Humbug Island.


(vii) The Fix Unit is closed to firearm deer hunting. We allow only archery deer hunting in the Fix Unit.


(4) [Reserved]


(b) *Harbor Island National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of migratory game birds on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 1 hour before legal sunrise and must leave the refuge no later than 1 hour after legal sunset.


(ii) You must remove boats, blinds, blind materials, stands, decoys, and other hunting equipment from the refuge at the end of each day (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(iii) We allow the use of dogs while hunting in accordance with Michigan State regulations, provided the dog is under the immediate control of the hunter at all times.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow upland game hunting on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section apply.


(ii) For hunting, you may possess only approved nontoxic shot shells while in the field, including shot shells used for hunting wild turkey (see § 32.2(k)).


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of big game subject to the following conditions:


(i) The condition set forth at paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section applies.


(ii) We prohibit dogs for big game hunting.


(iii) Deer hunters may place one portable stand or blind on the refuge for use while deer hunting, but only during the open deer season. The stand must be clearly labeled with the hunter's Michigan license/sportsmen's identification number. The stand must be removed by the end of the season (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We prohibit the taking of any mussel (clam), crayfish, leech, frog, toad, salamander, snake, lizard, turtle, and other non-fish species by any method on the refuge (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(c) *Kirtland's Warbler Wildlife Management Area*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow migratory game bird hunting.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow upland game hunting.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow big game hunting.


(4) [Reserved]


(d) *Michigan Wetland Management District*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of migratory game birds subject to the following conditions:


(i) Hunters must remove boats, decoys, blinds, and blind materials at the end of each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(ii) We allow the use of dogs while hunting, provided the dog is under the immediate control of the hunter at all times.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of upland game subject to the following condition: The conditions set forth at paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow the hunting of big game.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge.


(e) *Seney National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of woodcock and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We allow the use of dogs when hunting migratory birds, provided the dog is under the immediate control of the hunter at all times.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of ruffed grouse and snowshoe hare on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We allow the use of dogs when hunting upland game, provided the dog is under the immediate control of the hunter at all times.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow the hunting of deer and bear on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We prohibit the use of dogs while deer or bear hunting.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit the use of fishing weights or lures containing lead.


(ii) We allow ice fishing from January 1 through the end of February.


(iii) Anglers must remove ice fishing shelters and all other personal property from the refuge each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iv) We allow fishing on designated refuge pools from May 15 through September 30.


(v) We allow fishing only from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(f) *Shiawassee National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of waterfowl (duck and goose), American woodcock, American crow, American coot, common gallinule, sora, Virginia rail, and Wilson's snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You must possess and carry a refuge check-in card (FWS Form 3-2405, Self-Clearing Check-in Permit).


(ii) We allow waterfowl hunting on Saturdays, Sundays, Tuesdays, and Thursdays during the regular goose season after September 30.


(iii) We allow hunter access to the refuge 2 hours before legal shooting time to 2 hours after legal shooting time.


(iv) You may possess no more than 25 shotgun shells while hunting in the field.


(v) We allow the use of dogs while hunting, provided the dog is under the immediate control of the hunter at all times.


(vi) We allow the take of feral hogs incidental to other lawful hunting using legal methods of take.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of turkey, small game (eastern fox squirrel, eastern cottontail, and ring-necked pheasant), and furbearers (raccoon, coyote, and red fox) on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (f)(1)(iii) and (vi) of this section apply, except we allow hunter access to the refuge for furbearer hunting from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise to 
1/2 hour after legal sunset.


(ii) You may only hunt turkey during the spring season.


(iii) We allow dogs for hunting. Raccoon hunting dogs must wear global positioning system (GPS) or radio collars.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (f)(1)(iii) and (vi) of this section apply.


(ii) You must possess and carry a refuge permit (State-issued permit).


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow fishing by boat in navigable waterways but not within any managed refuge units.


(ii) We allow bank fishing from legal sunrise to legal sunset only at designated sites along the Tittabawassee and Cass Rivers.





---

[N] [58 FR 5064, Jan. 19, 1993, as amended at 86 FR 48868, Aug. 31, 2021; 89 FR 88166, Nov. 7, 2024]










