# § 110.205   Chicago Harbor, Ill.

(a) *The anchorage grounds*—(1) *Anchorage A, exterior breakwater.* Southwest of a line parallel with and 150 feet southwestward of the exterior breakwater; west of a line parallel with and 150 feet west of the south extension of the exterior breakwater; northeast of a line parallel with and 1,500 feet southwestward of the exterior breakwater; and east of a line parallel with the south extension of the exterior breakwater and 500 feet eastward of the east face of the filtration plant. 


(2) *Anchorage B, south arm.* West of a line parallel with and 150 feet west of the south arm of the exterior breakwater; north of a line perpendicular to the south arm at its south end; east of a line parallel with the south arm, about 2,200 feet therefrom and on line with the east face of the Municipal Pier; and south of a line perpendicular to the south arm 700 feet from its north end. 


(3) *Anchorage C, shore arm.* South of a line parallel with and 150 feet southward of the shore arm of the exterior breakwater; west of a line parallel with the south extension of the exterior breakwater, 100 feet westward of the east end of the shore arm; northwest of a line perpendicular to the Lake Shore Drive revetment and 300 feet northwest of the northwest corner of the filtration plant; and east of a line parallel with and 600 feet lakeward of the Lake Shore Drive revetment. 


(4) *Anchorage D, Chicago Harbor Lock South.* Beginning at a point 35.5 feet South (16 feet South of the South face of the Southeast guidewall) and 28.0 feet West of the SE Guide Wall Light; thence Westerly and parallel to the guidewall 800 feet to a point that is 16 feet South of the South face of the Southeast guidewall; thence Southerly 80 feet to a point that is 96 feet South of the South face of the Southeast guidewall; thence Easterly 800 feet to a point that is 96 feet South of the south face of the southeast guidewall; thence Northerly 80 feet to the point of beginning.


(5) *Anchorage E, Chicago Harbor Lock North.* Beginning at a point 156.75 feet North (16 feet North of the North face of the Northeast guidewall) and 590 feet West of the SE Guidewall Light; thence Westerly and parallel to the guidewall 600 feet to a point that is 16 feet North of the North face of the Northeast guidewall; thence Northerly 80 Feet to a point that is 96 feet North of the North face of the Northeast guidewall; thence Easterly 600 feet to a point that is North of the North face of the Northeast guidewall; thence Southerly 80 feet to the point of beginning.


(b) *The rules and regulations.* (1) Except in cases of emergency, no vessel may be anchored in Chicago Harbor outside of the anchorage grounds in paragraph (a) of this section or the special anchorage areas prescribed in § 110.83. 


(2) Anchors must not be placed outside the anchorage areas, nor shall any vessel be so anchored that any portion of the hull or rigging shall at any time extend outside the boundaries of the anchorage area. 


(3) Any vessel anchoring under circumstances of great emergency outside of the anchorage areas must be placed near the edge of the channel and in such position as not to interfere with the free navigation of the channel nor obstruct the approach to any pier nor impede the movement of any boat, and shall move away immediately after the emergency ceases, or upon notification by the Captain of the Port. 


(4) The maneuvering of a vessel by means of a dragged anchor, except within an established anchorage ground or in stress of weather or to avoid collision, is prohibited. Unnecessary maneuvering in any of the anchorage grounds is prohibited. 


(5) The directions of the Captain of the Port assigning vessels to parts of the anchorage grounds suitable to their draft, requiring vessels to anchor bow and stern, requiring shifting the anchorage of any vessel within any anchorage ground for the common convenience, or for otherwise enforcing this section, shall be promptly executed by owners, masters, and persons in charge of vessels. 


(6) Nothing in this section shall be construed as relieving the owner or person in charge of any vessel from the penalties of the law for obstructing navigation or for obstructing or interfering with range lights, or for not complying with the navigation laws in regard to lights, fog signals, or for otherwise violating law. 


(7) No vessel may use anchorages A, B, D, and E except commercial vessels operated for profit. No person may place floats or buoys for making moorings or anchors in place in anchorages A and B. No person may place fixed moorings piles or stakes in anchorages A and B. (Mooring facilities are available adjacent to the lakeside guidewalls of the Chicago Harbor Lock in anchorages D and E.) All vessels using anchorages D and E shall moor against pile clusters adjacent to the respective anchorage.


Any time barges are moored in anchorage D or E, a manned towing vessel shall be present in one of these anchorages. Exceptions to this surveillance requirement are allowable for periods not to exceed one hour.


(8) No commercial vessels operated for profit that measure 50 gross tons or more may anchor in anchorage C. Temporary floats or buoys for marking moorings or anchors in place may be used in anchorage C. No person may place a fixed mooring pile or stake in anchorage C. 



---

[N] [CGFR 67-46, 32 FR 17728, Dec. 12, 1967, as amended by CGFR 70-65a, 36 FR 7967, Apr. 28, 1971; CGD9-85-01, 50 FR 29224, July 18, 1985] 




