# ยง 801.5   Comprehensive plan.

(a) The Compact requires that the Commission formulate and adopt a comprehensive plan for the immediate and long-range development and use of the water resources of the basin.


(1) The plan will include existing and proposed public and private programs, projects, and facilities which are required, in the judgment of the Commission, to meet present and future water resources needs of the basin. Consideration shall be given to the effect of the plan, or any part of the plan, on the receiving waters of the Chesapeake Bay. The Commission shall consult with interested public bodies and public utilities and fully consider the findings and recommendations of the signatory parties, their various subdivisions and interested groups. Prior to adoption of the plan the Commission shall conduct at least one public hearing in each signatory State.


(2) The plan will reflect consideration of multiple objectives, including economic growth; sustainable regional development and environmental resilience; coordinated study and consideration of water quantity and water quality and the nexus with existing and proposed land uses; and the promotion of cooperation and collaboration between all levels of government and non-governmental entities.


(3) The Commission will strive to complete a comprehensive update of the comprehensive plan every 20 years. If adjustments are needed during the life span of the plan to address emergent priorities, goals, or objectives, the comprehensive plan will be revised in accordance with requirements of the Compact.


(4) Projects requiring Commission review and approval will be included in the comprehensive plan after formal action is taken at Commission business meetings. Approved projects will be incorporated into the comprehensive plan and accessible via the Commission's Water Application and Approval Viewer or successor viewer applications.


(b) The comprehensive plan shall provide for the immediate and long-range use, development, conservation, preservation, and management of the water resources of the basin. The plan will be presented in a form and order as determined by the Commission and shall include but not be limited to the following:


(1) Statement of authority, purpose, objectives, and scope.


(2) Identification of priorities, goals, and objectives of the Commission.


(3) Inventory of the basin's water resources and existing developments, projects, and facilities.


(4) Projection of immediate and long-range water resources needs of the basin.


(5) Outline of plan implementation measures.


(6) Procedures for updating and modifying the plan.


(7) Necessary appendices.



---

[N] [89 FR 78234, Sept. 25, 2024] 










