# § 983.207   HAP contract amendments (to add or substitute contract units).

(a) *Amendment to substitute contract units.* At the discretion of the PHA, the PHA and owner may execute an amendment to the HAP contract to substitute a different unit with the same number of bedrooms in the same project for a previously covered contract unit. Prior to such substitution, the PHA must inspect the proposed substitute unit (the unit must comply with HQS to be substituted) and must determine the reasonable rent for such unit (the rent to owner must be reasonable for the unit to be substituted). The proposed substituted unit may be vacant or, subject to the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, it may be occupied. The proposed substituted unit may undergo repairs or renovation prior to amending the PBV HAP contract to substitute the unit, as provided in paragraph (d) of this section. The proposed substituted unit must have existed at the time described in paragraph (e) of this section.


(b) *Amendment to add contract units.* At the discretion of the PHA, and provided that the total number of units in a project that will receive PBV assistance will not exceed the limitations in § 983.6 or § 983.54, the PHA and owner may execute an amendment to the HAP contract to add PBV units in the same project to the contract, without a new proposal selection. Prior to such addition, the PHA must inspect the proposed added unit (the unit must comply with HQS to be added) and must determine the reasonable rent for such unit (the rent to owner must be reasonable for the unit to be added).


(1) Added units that qualify for an exclusion from the program cap (as described in § 983.59) or an exception to or exclusion from the project cap (as described in § 983.54(c) and § 983.59, respectively) will not count toward such cap(s).


(2) The anniversary and expiration dates of the HAP contract for the additional units must be the same as the anniversary and expiration dates of the HAP contract term for the PBV units originally placed under HAP contract.


(3) The added unit may be vacant or, subject to the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, it may be occupied.


(4) The unit may undergo repairs or renovation prior to amending the PBV HAP contract to add the unit, as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.


(5) The added unit must have existed at the time described in paragraph (e) of this section.


(c) *Substituting or adding occupied units.* The PHA may place occupied units on the HAP contract under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, subject to the following:


(1) The family occupying the unit must be eligible for assistance per §§ 983.53(a)(3) and 983.251(a);


(2) The unit must be appropriate for the size of the family occupying the unit under the PHA's subsidy standards;


(3) The family must be selected from the waiting list in accordance with the applicable selection policies; and


(4) The unit may be occupied by a family who was assisted with a tenant-based voucher immediately prior to the unit being placed on the PBV HAP contract. The tenant-based HAP contract for the unit must terminate before the unit may be placed under the PBV HAP contract. The family occupying the unit is not a new admission to the voucher program. The option described in this paragraph (c)(4) is subject to the following conditions:


(i) If the family is in the initial term of the tenant-based lease, the family agreed to mutually terminate the tenant-based lease with the owner and enter into a PBV lease.


(ii) If the initial term of the tenant-based lease has passed or the end of that term coincides with the time at which the unit will be placed on the PBV HAP contract, upon the owner's decision not to renew the tenant-based lease or to terminate the tenant-based lease in accordance with 24 CFR 982.308 or 982.310, respectively, the family agreed to relinquish the tenant-based voucher and enter into a PBV lease.


(d) *Substituting or adding units that underwent repairs or renovation.* A unit that is not under a HAP contract but is in a project with other units that are under a HAP contract may undergo repairs or renovation prior to amending the PBV HAP contract to add or substitute the unit, except in the case of a contract subject to a rider under the rehabilitated housing option for development activity after HAP contract execution in accordance with § 983.157. If such repairs or renovation constitute substantial improvement as defined in § 983.3, then:


(1) The substantial improvement must not proceed prior to the first two years of the effective date of the HAP contract, except in extraordinary circumstances (*e.g.,* the units were damaged by fire, natural disaster, etc.).


(2) The substantial improvement is subject to the Federal equal employment opportunity requirements of Executive Orders 11246 as amended (3 CFR, 1964-1965 Comp., p. 339), 11625 (3 CFR, 1971-1975 Comp., p. 616), 12432 (3 CFR, 1983 Comp., p. 198), and 12138 (3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 393).


(3) As applicable, the design and construction requirements of the Fair Housing Act and implementing regulations at 24 CFR 100.205; the accessibility requirements of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 8, including 8.22 and 8.23; and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12131-12134) and implementing regulations at 28 CFR part 35, including §§ 35.150 and 35.151, apply to substantial improvement.


(4) Any substantial improvement that constitutes substantial rehabilitation as defined by 24 CFR 5.100 of a building with more than four rental units and where the proposal or project selection date or the start of the substantial improvement while under a HAP contract is after January 19, 2017, must include installation of broadband infrastructure, as this term is defined in 24 CFR 5.100, except where the owner determines and documents the determination that:


(i) The location of the substantial rehabilitation makes installation of broadband infrastructure infeasible;


(ii) The cost of installing broadband infrastructure would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of its program or activity or in an undue financial burden; or


(iii) The structure of the housing to be substantially rehabilitated makes installation of broadband infrastructure infeasible.


(5) An owner or project principal who is on the U.S. General Services Administration list of parties excluded from Federal procurement and non-procurement programs, or who is debarred, suspended subject to a limited denial of participation, or otherwise excluded under 2 CFR part 2424, may not participate in substantial improvement. The HAP contract must include a certification by the owner that the owner and other project principals (including the officers and principal members, shareholders, investors, and other parties having a substantial interest in the project) are not on such list and are not debarred, suspended subject to a limited denial of participation, or otherwise excluded under 2 CFR part 2424.


(6) An owner must disclose any possible conflict of interest that would be a violation of the HAP contract or HUD regulations, in accordance with § 982.161 of this title.


(7) The requirements for additional assistance after HAP contract at § 983.11(d) apply.


(8) Section 983.155, Completion of work, applies.


(9) Paragraphs (a), (b)(4), and (d) of § 983.156, PHA acceptance of completed units, apply.


(e) *Restriction on substituting or adding newly built units.* Units may only be added to the HAP contract or substituted for a previously covered contract unit if one of the following conditions applies:


(1) The units to be added or substituted existed at the time of HAP contract execution;


(2) In the case of a project completed in stages, the units to be added or substituted existed at the time of PHA acceptance of the last completed unit(s) per § 983.156(c); or


(3) A unit, office space, or common area within the interior of a building containing contract units existed at the time described in paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable, and is reconfigured without impacting the building envelope, subject to paragraph (d) of this section, into one or more units to be added or substituted.


(f) *Administrative Plan requirement.* The PHA must describe in the Administrative Plan the circumstances under which it will add or substitute contract units, and how those circumstances support the goals of the PBV program.


(g) *Staged completion of contract units.* Even if contract units are placed under the HAP contract in stages commencing on different dates, there is a single annual anniversary for all contract units under the HAP contract. The annual anniversary for all contract units is the annual anniversary date for the first contract units placed under the HAP contract. The expiration of the HAP contract for all the contract units completed in stages must be concurrent with the end of the HAP contract term for the units originally placed under HAP contract.


(h) *Amendment to merge or bifurcate HAP contracts.* HUD may establish a process allowing the PHA and owner to agree to merge two or more HAP contracts for PBV assistance on the same project, or to bifurcate a HAP contract, by _Federal Register_ notice subject to public comment.





---

[N] [89 FR 38326, May 7, 2024]










