# § 97.3   Symbols and terms used in procedures.

As used in the standard instrument procedures prescribed in this part—


*Aircraft approach category* means a grouping of aircraft based on a speed of VREF, if specified, or if VREF is not specified, 1.3 V_so_ at the maximum certificated landing weight. VREF, V_so_, and the maximum certificated landing weight are those values as established for the aircraft by the certification authority of the country of registry. The categories are as follows—


(1) Category A: Speed less than 91 knots.


(2) Category B: Speed 91 knots or more but less than 121 knots.


(3) Category C: Speed 121 knots or more but less than 141 knots.


(4) Category D: Speed 141 knots or more but less than 166 knots.


(5) Category E: Speed 166 knots or more.


*Approach procedure segments* for which altitudes (minimum altitudes, unless otherwise specified) and paths are prescribed in procedures, are as follows—


(1) Initial approach is the segment between the initial approach fix and the intermediate fix or the point where the aircraft is established on the intermediate course or final approach course.


(2) Initial approach altitude is the altitude (or altitudes, in high altitude procedure) prescribed for the initial approach segment of an instrument approach.


(3) Intermediate approach is the segment between the intermediate fix or point and the final approach fix.


(4) Final approach is the segment between the final approach fix or point and the runway, airport, or missed approach point.


(5) Missed approach is the segment between the missed approach point, or point of arrival at decision altitude or decision height (DA/DH), and the missed approach fix at the prescribed altitude.


*Ceiling* means the minimum ceiling, expressed in feet above the airport elevation, required for takeoff or required for designating an airport as an alternate airport.


*Copter procedures* means helicopter procedures, with applicable minimums as prescribed in § 97.35. Helicopters may also use other procedures prescribed in subpart C of this part and may use the Category A minimum descent altitude (MDA), or decision altitude or decision height (DA/DH). For other than “copter-only” approaches, the required visibility minimum for Category I approaches may be reduced to one-half the published visibility minimum for Category A aircraft, but in no case may it be reduced to less than one-quarter mile prevailing visibility, or, if reported, 1,200 feet RVR. Reduction of visibility minima on Category II instrument approach procedures is prohibited.


*FAF* means final approach fix.


*HAA* means height above airport and is expressed in feet.


*HAL* means height above landing and is the height of the DA/MDA above a designated helicopter landing area elevation used for helicopter instrument approach procedures and is expressed in feet.


*HAS* means height above the surface and is the height of the DA/MDA above the highest terrain/surface within a 5,200-foot radius of the missed approach point used in helicopter instrument approach procedures and is expressed in feet above ground level (AGL).


*HAT* means height above touchdown.


*HCH* means helipoint crossing height and is the computed height of the vertical guidance path above the helipoint elevation at the helipoint expressed in feet.


*Helipoint* means the aiming point for the final approach course. It is normally the center point of the touchdown and lift-off area (TLOF).


*Hold in lieu of PT* means a holding pattern established under applicable FAA criteria, and used in lieu of a procedure turn to execute a course reversal.


*MAP* means missed approach point.


*More than 65 knots* means an aircraft that has a stalling speed of more than 65 knots (as established in an approved flight manual) at maximum certificated landing weight with full flaps, landing gear extended, and power off.


*MSA* means minimum safe altitude, expressed in feet above mean sea level, depicted on an approach chart that provides at least 1,000 feet of obstacle clearance for emergency use within a certain distance from the specified navigation facility or fix.


*NA* means not authorized.


*NOPT* means no procedure turn required. Altitude prescribed applies only if procedure turn is not executed.


*Procedure turn* means the maneuver prescribed when it is necessary to reverse direction to establish the aircraft on an intermediate or final approach course. The outbound course, direction of turn, distance within which the turn must be completed, and minimum altitude are specified in the procedure. However, the point at which the turn may be begun, and the type and rate of turn, is left to the discretion of the pilot.


*RA* means radio altimeter setting height.


*RVV* means runway visibility value.


*SIAP* means standard instrument approach procedure.


*65 knots or less* means an aircraft that has a stalling speed of 65 knots or less (as established in an approved flight manual) at maximum certificated landing weight with full flaps, landing gear extended, and power off.


*T* means nonstandard takeoff minimums or specified departure routes/procedures or both.


*TDZ* means touchdown zone.


*Visibility minimum* means the minimum visibility specified for approach, landing, or takeoff, expressed in statute miles, or in feet where RVR is reported.



---

[N] [Doc. No. FAA-2002-14002, 72 FR 31679, June 7, 2007]




