# § 301.7701-13A   Post-1969 domestic building and loan association.

(a) *In general.* For taxable years beginning after July 11, 1969, the term “domestic building and loan association” means a domestic building and loan association, a domestic savings and loan association, a Federal savings and loan association, and any other savings institution chartered and supervised as a savings and loan or similar association under Federal or State law which meets the supervisory test (described in paragraph (b) of this section), the business operations test (described in paragraph (c) of this section), and the assets test (described in paragraph (d) of this section). For the definition of the term “domestic building and loan association” for taxable years beginning after October 16, 1962, and before July 12, 1969, see § 301.7701-13.


(b) *Supervisory test.* A domestic building and loan association must be either (1) an insured institution within the meaning of section 401(a) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1724(a)) or (2) subject by law to supervision and examination by State or Federal authority having supervision over such associations. An “insured institution” is one the accounts of which are insured by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation.


(c) *Business operations test*—(1) *In general.* An association must utilize its assets so that its business consists principally of acquiring the savings of the public and investing in loans. The requirement of this paragraph is referred to in this section as the business operations test. The business of acquiring the savings of the public and investing in loans includes ancillary or incidental activities which are directly and primarily related to such acquisition and investment, such as advertising for savings, appraising property on which loans are to be made by the association, and inspecting the progress of construction in connection with construction loans. Even though an association meets the supervisory test described in paragraph (b) of this section and the assets test described in paragraph (d) of this section, it will nevertheless not qualify as a domestic building and loan association if it does not meet the requirements of both paragraphs (2) and (3) of this paragraph (c), relating, respectively, to acquiring the savings of the public and investing in loans.


(2) *Acquiring the savings of the public.* The requirement that an association's business (other than investing in loans) must consist principally of acquiring the savings of the public ordinarily will be considered to be met if savings are acquired in all material respects in conformity with the rules and regulations of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board or substantially equivalent rules of a State law or supervisory authority. Alternatively, such requirement will be considered to be met if more than 75 percent of the dollar amount of the total deposits, withdrawable shares, and other obligations of the association are held during the taxable year by the general public, as opposed to amounts deposited or held by family or related business groups or persons who are officers or directors of the association. However, the preceding sentence shall not apply if the dollar amount of other obligations of the association outstanding during the taxable year exceeds 25 percent of the dollar amount of the total deposits, withdrawable shares, and other obligations of the association outstanding during such year. For purposes of this paragraph, the term “other obligations” means notes, bonds, debentures, or other obligations, or other securities (except capital stock), issued by an association in conformity with the rules and regulations of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board or substantially equivalent rules of a State law or supervisory authority. The term “other obligations” does not include an advance made by a Federal Home Loan Bank under the authority of section 10 or 10b of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430, 1430b) as amended and supplemented. Both percentages specified in this paragraph shall be computed either as of the close of the taxable year or, at the option of the taxpayer, on the basis of the average of the dollar amounts of the total deposits, withdrawable shares, and other obligations of the association held during the taxable year. Such averages shall be determined by computing each percentage specified either as of the close of each month, as of the close of each quarter, or semiannually during the taxable year and by using the yearly average of the monthly, quarterly, or semiannual percentages obtained. The method selected must be applied uniformly for the taxable year to both percentages, but the method may be changed from year to year.


(3) *Investing in loans*—(i) *In general.* The requirement that an association's business (other than acquiring the savings of the public) must consist principally of investing in loans will be considered to be met for a taxable year only if more than 75 percent of the gross income of the association consists of—


(*a*) Interest or dividends on assets defined in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of paragraph (e) of this section,


(*b*) Interest on loans,


(*c*) Income attributable to the portion of property used in the association's business, as defined in paragraph (e)(11) of this section,


(*d*) So much of the amount of premiums, discounts, commissions, or fees (including late charges and penalties) on loans which have at some time been held by the association, or for which firm commitments have been issued, as is not in excess of 20 percent of the gross income of the association,


(*e*) Net gain from sales and exchanges of governmental obligations, as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, or


(*f*) Income, gain or loss attributable to foreclosed property, as defined in paragraph (e)(9) of this section, but not including such income, gain or loss which, pursuant to section 595 and the regulations thereunder, is not included in gross income.


(ii) *Computation of gross income.* For purposes of this paragraph, gross income is computed without regard to—


(*a*) Gain or loss on the sale or exchange of the portion of property used in the association's business as defined in paragraph (e)(11) of this section.


(*b*) Gain or loss on the sale or exchange of the rented portion of property used as the principal or branch office of the association, as defined in paragraph (e)(11) of this section, and


(*c*) Gains or losses on sales of participations, and loans, other than governmental obligations defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.


(iii) *Reporting requirement.* In the case of income tax returns for taxable years beginning after July 11, 1969, there is required to be filed with the return a statement showing the amount of gross income for the taxable year in each of the categories described in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section.


(d) *60 percent of assets test.* At least 60 percent of the amount of the total assets of a domestic building and loan association must consist of the assets defined in paragraph (e) of this section. The percentage specified in this paragraph is computed as of the close of the taxable year or, at the option of the taxpayer, may be computed on the basis of the average assets outstanding during the taxable year. Such average is determined by making the appropriate computation described in this section either as of the close of each month, as of the close of each quarter, or semiannually during the taxable year and by using the yearly average of the monthly, quarterly, or semiannual percentage obtained for each category of assets defined in paragraph (e) of this section. The method selected must be applied uniformly for the taxable year to all categories of assets, but the method may be changed from year to year. For purposes of this paragraph, it is immaterial whether the association originated the loans defined in paragraphs (4) through (8) and (10) of paragraph (e) of this section or purchased or otherwise acquired them in whole or in part from another. See paragraph (f) of this section for definition of certain terms used in this paragraph and in paragraph (e) of this section, and for the determination of amount and character of loans.


(e) *Assets defined.* The assets defined in this paragraph are—


(1) *Cash.* The term “cash” means cash on hand, and time or demand deposits with, or withdrawable accounts in, other financial institutions.


(2) *Governmental obligations.* The term “governmental obligations” means—


(i) Obligations of the United States,


(ii) Obligations of a State or political subdivision of a State, and


(iii) Stock or obligations of a corporation which is an instrumentality of the United States, a State, or a political subdivision of a State,


(3) *Deposit insurance company securities.* The term “deposit insurance company securities” means certificates of deposit in, or obligations of, a corporation organized under a State law which specifically authorizes such corporation to insure the deposits or share accounts of member associations.


(4) *Passbook loan.* The term “passbook loan” means a loan to the extent secured by a deposit, withdrawable share, or savings account in the association, or share of a member of the association, with respect to which a distribution is allowable as a deduction under section 591.


(5) *Residential real property loan.* [Reserved]


(6) *Church loan.* [Reserved]


(7) *Urban renewal loan.* [Reserved]


(8) *Institutional loan.* [Reserved]


(9) *Foreclosed property.* [Reserved]


(10) *Educational loan.* [Reserved]


(11) *Property used in the association's business*—(i) *In general.* The term “property used in the association's business” means land, buildings, furniture, fixtures, equipment, leasehold interests, leasehold improvements, and other assets used by the association in the conduct of its business of acquiring the savings of the public and investing in loans. Real property held for the purpose of being used primarily as the principal or branch office of the association constitutes property used in the association's business so long as it is reasonably anticipated that such property will be occupied for such use by the association, or that construction work preparatory to such occupancy will be commenced thereon, within 2 years after acquisition of the property. Stock of a wholly owned subsidiary corporation which has as its exclusive activity the ownership and management of property more than 50 percent of the fair rental value of which is used as the principal or branch office of the association constitutes property used in such business. Real property held by an association for investment or sale, even for the purpose of obtaining mortgage loans thereon, does not constitute property used in the association's business.


(ii) *Property rented to others.* Except as provided in the second sentence of paragraph (11)(i) of this paragraph (e), property or a portion thereof rented by the association to others does not constitute property used in the association's business. However, if the fair rental value of the rented portion of a single piece of real property (including appurtenant parcels) used as the principal or branch office of the association constitutes less than 50 percent of the fair rental value of such piece of property, or if such property has an adjusted basis of not more than $150,000, the entire property shall be considered used in such business. If such rented portion constitutes 50 percent or more of the fair rental value of such piece of property, and such property has an adjusted basis of more than $150,000, an allocation of its adjusted basis is required. The portion of the total adjusted basis of such piece of property which is deemed to be property used in the association's business shall be equal to an amount which bears the same ratio to such total adjusted basis as the amount of the fair rental value of the portion used as the principal or branch office of the association bears to the total fair rental value of such property. In the case of all property other than real property used or to be used as the principal or branch office of the association, if the fair rental value of the rented portion thereof constitutes less than 15 percent of the fair rental value of such property, the entire property shall be considered used in the association's business. If such rented portion constitutes 15 percent or more of the fair rental value of such property, an allocation of its adjusted basis (in the same manner as required for real property used as the principal or branch office) is required.


(12) *Regular or residual interest in a REMIC*—(i) *In general.* If for any calendar quarter at least 95 percent of a REMIC's assets (as determined in accordance with § 1.860F-4(e)(1)(ii) or § 1.6049-7(f)(3) of this chapter) are assets defined in paragraph (e)(1) through (e)(11) of this section, then for that calendar quarter all the regular and residual interests in that REMIC are treated as assets defined in this paragraph (e). If less than 95 percent of a REMIC's assets are assets defined in paragraph (e)(1) through (e)(11) of this section, the percentage of each REMIC regular or residual interest treated as an asset defined in this paragraph (e) is equal to the percentage of the REMIC's assets that are assets defined in paragraph (e)(1) through (e)(11) of this section. See §§ 1.860F-4(e)(1)(ii)(B) and 1.6049-7(f)(3) of this chapter for information required to be provided to regular and residual interest holders if the 95 percent test is not met.


(ii) *Loans secured by manufactured housing.* For purposes of paragraph (e)(12)(i) of this section, a loan secured by manufactured housing treated as a single family residence under section 25(e)(10) is an asset defined in paragraph (e)(1) through (e)(11) of this section.


(f) *Special rules.* [Reserved]



---

[N] [T.D. 7622, 44 FR 28661, May 16, 1979; 44 FR 29048, May 18, 1979, as amended by T.D. 8458, 57 FR 61313, Dec. 24, 1992] 




