# ยง 66.102   Definitions.

As used in this subpart:


(a) *Act* means the Public Health Service Act, as amended.


(b) *Secretary* means the Secretary of Health and Human Services and any other officer or employee of the Department of Health and Human Services to whom the authority involved has been delegated.


(c) *Nonprofit* institution means a corporation or association in which no part of the net earnings inures or may lawfully inure to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.


(d) *Award* means a National Research Service Award under section 487 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 288).


(e) *Residency* means post-graduate training for doctors of medicine, osteopathy, dentistry, optometry, and podiatry, nurses, and other individuals providing health care directly to patients, in which the majority of the time is spent in non-research clinical training.


(f) *Noncitizen national of the United States* means a person who, though not a citizen of the United States, owes permanent allegiance to the United States [8 U.S.C. 1101(a) (22)].


(g) *Predoctoral training* means training at the post-baccalaureate level in a program leading to the award of a doctor of philosophy of science, or equivalent degree. For purposes of Awards under the Minority Access to Research Careers programs of the National Institute of General Medical Sciences and the Career Opportunities in Research Education and Training programs of the National Institute of Mental Health, *predoctoral training* also means training in a program leading to the award of a baccalaureate in science or equivalent degree.


(h) *Postdoctoral training* means training of individuals holding a doctor of philosophy, science, medicine, dentistry, osteopathy, optometry, podiatry, veterinary medicine, engineering, nursing sciences, public health, or equivalent degree.



---

[N] [48 FR 24880, June 3, 1983, as amended at 66 FR 29499, May 31, 2001]




