# § 169.1   Definitions.

Terms used in this part shall have the meanings set forth for such terms in the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, as amended. In addition, as used in this part, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:


(a) *Amount of pesticide or active ingredient.* The term “amount of pesticide or active ingredient” means the weight or volume of the pesticide or active ingredient used in producing a pesticide expressed as weight for solid or semi-solid products and as weight or volume of liquid products.


(b) *Batch.* The term “batch” means a quantity of a pesticide product or active ingredient used in producing a pesticide made in one operation or lot or if made in a continuous or semi-continuous process or cycle, the quantity produced during an interval of time to be specified by the producer.


(c) *Device.* The term “device” means any device or class of device as defined by the Act and determined by the Administrator to be subject to the provisions of the Act.


(d) *Inability.* The term “inability” means the incapacity of any person to maintain, furnish or permit access to any records under this Act and regulations, where such incapacity arises out of causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of such person. Such causes may include, but are not restricted to acts of God or of the public enemy, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, and unusually severe weather, but in every case, the failure must be beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of said person.


(e) *Producer.* The term “producer” means the person, as defined by the Act, who produces or imports any pesticide or device or active ingredient used in producing a pesticide.




