# § 1511.1   Definitions of terms.

In this part, unless the context indicates otherwise: 


*Act* means the Federal Home Loan Bank Act as amended (12 U.S.C. 1421 *et seq.*).


*Adverse Claim* means a claim that a claimant has a property interest in a Book-entry Funding Corporation Security and that it is a violation of the rights of the claimant for another Person to hold, transfer, or deal with the Book-entry Funding Corporation Security. 


*Book-entry Funding Corporation Security* means a Funding Corporation Security in book-entry form that is issued or maintained in the Book-entry System. Solely for the purposes of this Part, it also means the separate interest and principal components of a Book-entry Funding Corporation Security if such security has been divided into such components as authorized by the Securities Documentation and the components are maintained separately on the books of one or more Federal Reserve Banks. 


*Book-entry System* means the automated book-entry system operated by the Federal Reserve Banks acting as the fiscal agent for the Funding Corporation, on which Book-entry Funding Corporation Securities are issued, recorded, transferred and maintained in book-entry form.


*Entitlement Holder* means a Person to whose account an interest in a Book-entry Funding Corporation Security is credited on the records of a Securities Intermediary. 


*Federal Reserve Bank or Reserve Bank* means a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch. 


*Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular* means the publication issued by each Federal Reserve Bank that sets forth the terms and conditions under which the Reserve Bank maintains book-entry Securities accounts (including Book-entry Funding Corporation Securities) and transfers book-entry Securities (including Book-entry Funding Corporation Securities). 


*Funding Corporation* means the Resolution Funding Corporation established pursuant to section 21B(b) of the Act. 


*Funding Corporation Security* or *Security* means a Funding Corporation bond, note, debenture and similar obligations issued under section 21B of the Act. 


*Funds Account* means a reserve and/or clearing account at a Federal Reserve Bank to which debits or credits are posted for transfers against payment, book-entry securities transaction fees, or principal and interest payments. 


*Participant* means a Person that maintains a Participant's Securities Account with a Federal Reserve Bank. 


*Participant's Securities Account* means an account in the name of a Participant at a Federal Reserve Bank to which Book-entry Funding Corporation Securities held for a Participant are or may be credited. 


*Person* means and includes an individual, corporation, company, governmental entity, association, firm, partnership, trust, estate, representative, and any other similar organization, but does not mean or include the United States, the Funding Corporation, or a Federal Reserve Bank. 


*Revised Article 8* means Uniform Commercial Code, Revised Article 8, Investment Securities (with Conforming and Miscellaneous Amendments to Articles 1, 3, 4, 5, 9, and 10) 1994 Official Text. Revised Article 8 of the Uniform Commercial Code is incorporated by reference in this Part pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR Part 51. Article 8 was adopted by the American Law Institute and the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State laws and approved by the American Bar Association on February 14, 1995. Copies of this publication are available from the Executive Office of the American Law Institute, 4025 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104, and the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, 676 North St. Clair Street, Suite 1700, Chicago, IL 60611. Copies are also available for public inspection at the Department of the Treasury Library, Room 5030, main Treasury Building, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington DC 20220, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

*Securities Documentation* means the applicable offering circular, supplement, or other documents establishing the terms of a Book-entry Funding Corporation Security. 


*Securities Intermediary* means: 


(1) A Person that is registered as a “clearing agency” under the Federal securities laws; a Federal Reserve Bank; any other Person that provides clearance or settlement services with respect to a Book-entry Funding Corporation Security that would require it to register as a clearing agency under the Federal securities laws but for an exclusion or exemption from the registration requirement, if its activities as a clearing corporation, including promulgation of rules, are subject to regulation by a Federal or State governmental authority; or 


(2) A Person (other than an individual, unless such individual is registered as a broker or dealer under the federal securities laws) including a bank or broker, that in the ordinary course of its business maintains securities accounts for others and is acting in that capacity. 


*Security Entitlement* means the rights and property interest of an Entitlement Holder with respect to a Book-entry Funding Corporation Security. 


*State* means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, or any other territory or possession of the United States. 


*Transfer message* means an instruction of a Participant to a Federal Reserve Bank to effect a transfer of a Book-entry Funding Corporation Security, as set forth in Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circulars. 



---

[N] [61 FR 66875, Dec. 19, 1996, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]




