# ยง 270.20a-1   Solicitation of proxies, consents and authorizations.

(a) No person shall solicit or permit the use of his or her name to solicit any proxy, consent, or authorization with respect to any security issued by a registered fund, except upon compliance with Regulation 14A (ยง 240.14a-1 of this chapter), Schedule 14A (ยง 240.14a-101 of this chapter), and all other rules and regulations adopted pursuant to section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that would be applicable to such solicitation if it were made in respect of a security registered pursuant to section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Unless the solicitation is made in respect of a security registered on a national securities exchange, none of the soliciting material need be filed with such exchange. 


(b) If the solicitation is made by or on behalf of the management of the investment company, then the investment adviser or any prospective investment adviser and any affiliated person thereof as to whom information is required in the solicitation shall upon request of the investment company promptly transmit to the investment company all information necessary to enable the management of such company to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to such solicitation. If the solicitation is made by any person other than the management of the investment company, on behalf of and with the consent of the investment adviser or prospective investment adviser, then the investment adviser or prospective investment adviser and any affiliated person thereof as to whom information is required in the solicitation shall upon request of the person making the solicitation promptly transmit to such person all information necessary to enable such person to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to the solicitation. 


*Instruction.* Registrants that have made a public offering of securities and that hold security holder votes for which proxies, consents, or authorizations are not being solicited pursuant to the requirements of this section should refer to section 14(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78n(c)) and the information statement requirements set forth in the rules thereunder. 



---

[N] [25 FR 1865, Mar. 3, 1960, as amended at 37 FR 1472, Jan. 29, 1972; 52 FR 48985, Dec. 29, 1987; 57 FR 1102, Jan. 10, 1992; 59 FR 52700, Oct. 19, 1994; 87 FR 22446, Apr. 15, 2022] 




