# § 1.6050L-2   Information returns by donees relating to qualified intellectual property contributions.

(a) *In general.* Each donee organization described in section 170(c), except a private foundation (as defined in section 509(a)), other than a private foundation described in section 170(b)(1)(F), that receives or accrues net income during a taxable year from any qualified intellectual property contribution (as defined in section 170(m)(8)) must make an annual information return on the form prescribed by the IRS. The information return is required for any taxable year of the donee that includes any portion of the 10-year period beginning on the date of the contribution, but not for taxable years beginning after the expiration of the legal life of the qualified intellectual property.


(b) *Information required to be provided on return.* The information return required by section 6050L and paragraph (a) of this section shall include the following—


(1) The name, address, taxable year, and employer identification number of the donee making the information return;


(2) The name, address, and taxpayer identification number of the donor;


(3) A description of the qualified intellectual property in sufficient detail to identify the qualified intellectual property received by such donee;


(4) The date of the contribution to the donee;


(5) The amount of net income of the donee for the taxable year that is properly allocable to the qualified intellectual property (determined without regard to paragraph (10)(B) of section 170(m) and with the modifications described in paragraphs (5) and (6) of such section); and


(6) Such other information as may be specified by the form or its instructions.


(c) *Special rule—statement to be furnished to donors.* Every donee making an information return under section 6050L and this section with respect to a qualified intellectual property contribution shall furnish a copy of the information return to the donor of the property. The information return required by section 6050L and this section shall be furnished to the donor on or before the date the donee is required to file the return with the IRS.


(d) *Place and time for filing information return*—(1) *Place for filing.* The information return required by section 6050L and this section shall be filed with the IRS location listed on the prescribed form or in its instructions.


(2) *Time for filing.* A donee is required to file the return required by section 6050L and this section on or before the last day of the first full month following the close of the donee's taxable year to which net income from the qualified intellectual property is properly allocable.


(e) *Penalties.* For penalties for failure to comply with the requirements of this section, see sections 6721 through 6724.


(f) *Effective/applicability date.* The rules of this section apply to qualified intellectual property contributions made after June 3, 2004.



---

[N] [T.D. 9392, 73 FR 18709, Apr. 7, 2008]










