# § 318.47-1   Definitions.

For the purpose of the regulations in this subpart the following words, names, and terms shall be construed, respectively, to mean: 


(a) *Cotton.* Parts and products of plants of the genus Gossypium, including seed cotton; cottonseed; cotton lint, linters and other forms of cotton fiber; cottonseed hulls, cake, meal, and other cottonseed products, except oil; cotton waste; and all other unmanufactured parts of cotton plants; and second-hand burlap and other fabric which have been used, or are of the kinds ordinarily used, for wrapping or containing cotton. 


(b) *Seed cotton.* The unginned lint and seed admixture, just as it is picked from the cotton boll. 


(c) *Cottonseed.* The seed of the cotton plant, either separated from the lint or as a component part of seed cotton. 


(d) *Lint.* All forms of raw or unmanufactured ginned cotton, either baled or unbaled, including all cotton fiber, except linters, which has not been woven or spun, or otherwise manufactured. 


(e) *Linters.* All forms of unmanufactured cotton fiber separated from cottonseed after the lint has been removed, including that form referred to as “hull fiber.” 


(f) *Waste.* All forms of cotton waste derived from the manufacture of cotton lint, in any form or under any trade designation, including gin waste; and waste products derived from the milling of cottonseed. 


(g) *Seedy waste.* Picker waste, gin waste, and oil mill waste, and any other cotton by-products capable of carrying a high percentage of cottonseed. 


(h) *Clean waste.* Wastes derived from the processing of lint in machines after the card machine, including card strips but not card fly. 


(i) *Bale covers.* Second-hand burlap and other second-hand fabric by whatever trade designation, which have been used, or are of the kinds ordinarily used, for wrapping or otherwise containing cotton. Burlap and other fabric of the kinds ordinarily used for wrapping cotton, when new or unused, are excluded from this definition. 


(j) *Certificate* (*certification, certified*). A type of authorization, evidencing freedom from infestation, issued by the Deputy Administrator of the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs to allow the movement of lint, linters, waste, seed cotton, cottonseed, cottonseed hulls, cake, and meal, and bale covers in accordance with the regulations in this subpart. “Certification” and “certified” shall be construed accordingly. 


(k) *Permit.* A type of general authorization issued by the Deputy Administrator of the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs to allow the movement of lint, linters, waste other than seedy waste, cottonseed cake and meal, and bale covers in accordance with the regulations in this subpart. 


(l) *Fumigated.* Fumigated under the supervision of an inspector of the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs in a fumigation plant approved by the Deputy Administrator of said Programs and in accordance with methods approved by him. 


(m) *Moved* (*movement, move*). Shipped, offered for shipment to a common carrier, received for transportation or transported by a common carrier, or carried, transported, moved, or allowed to be moved, directly or indirectly, from Hawaii, Puerto Rico, or the Virgin Islands of the United States, into or through any other State, Territory, or District of the United States. “Movement” and “move” shall be construed accordingly. 




