# § 102-117.25   What definitions apply to this part?

The following definitions apply to this part: 


*Accessorial charges* means charges that are applied to the base tariff rate or base contract of carriage rate. Examples of accessorial charges are:


(1) Bunkers, destination/delivery, container surcharges, and currency exchange for international shipments.


(2) Inside delivery, redelivery, re-consignment, and demurrage or detention for freight.


(3) Packing, unpacking, appliance servicing, blocking and bracing, and special handling for household goods.


*Agency* means a department, agency, and independent establishment in the executive branch of the Government as defined in 5 U.S.C. 101 *et seq.,* and a wholly-owned Government corporation as defined in 31 U.S.C. 9101(3).


*Bill of lading (BOL),* sometimes referred to as a commercial bill of lading, but includes a Government bill of lading (GBL), means the document used as a receipt of goods, a contract of carriage, and documentary evidence of title.


*Cargo preference* is the legal requirement for all, or a portion of all, ocean-borne cargo to be transported on U.S. flag vessels. 


*Commuted rate system* is the system under which an agency may allow its employees to make their own household goods shipping arrangements, and apply for reimbursement. 


*Consignee* is the person or agent to whom freight or household goods are delivered. 


*Consignor,* also referred to as the shipper, is the person or firm that ships freight or household goods to a consignee.


*Contract of carriage* is a contract between the TSP and the agency to transport freight or household goods. 


*Debarment* is an action to exclude a TSP, for a period of time, from providing services under a rate tender or any contract under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.406). 


*Declared value* means the actual value of cargo as declared by the agency for reimbursement purposes or to establish duties, taxes, or other customs fees. The *declared value* is the maximum amount that could be recovered by the agency in the event of loss or damage for the shipments of freight and household goods, unless the declared value exceeds the carrier's released value (see “Released value”). The statement of declared value must be shown on any applicable tariff, tender, contract, bill of lading, or other document covering the shipment.


*Demurrage* is the penalty charge to an agency for delaying the agreed time to load or unload shipments by rail or ocean TSPs. 


*Detention* is the penalty charge to an agency for delaying the agreed time to load or unload shipments by truck TSPs. It is also a penalty charge in some ocean shipping contracts of carriage that take effect after the demurrage time ends.


*Electronic commerce* is an electronic technique for carrying out business transactions (ordering and paying for goods and services), including electronic mail or messaging, Internet technology, electronic bulletin boards, charge cards, electronic funds transfers, and electronic data interchange. 


*Foreign flag vessel* is any vessel of foreign registry including vessels owned by U.S. citizens but registered in a foreign country. 


*Freight* is property or goods transported as cargo. 


*Government bill of lading (GBL)* means the transportation document used as a receipt of goods, evidence of title, and a contract of carriage for Government international shipments (see Bill of Lading (BOL) definition).


*Government-wide Transportation Policy Council (GTPC)* is an interagency forum to help GSA formulate policy. It provides agencies managing transportation programs a forum to exchange information and ideas to solve common problems. For further information on this council, see website: *https://gsa.gov/transportationpolicy*.


*Hazardous material (HAZMAT)* is a substance or material the Secretary of Transportation determines to be an unreasonable risk to health, safety, and property when transported in commerce, and labels as hazardous under section 5103 of the Federal Hazardous Materials Transportation Law (49 U.S.C. 5103 *et seq.*). When transported internationally hazardous material may be classified as “Dangerous Goods.” All such freight must be marked in accordance with applicable regulations and the carrier must be notified in advance. 


*Household goods (HHG)* are the personal effects of Government employees and their dependents. 


*Line-Haul* is the movement of freight between cities excluding pickup and delivery service. 


*Mode* is a method of transportation, such as rail, motor, air, water, or pipeline. 


*Rate schedule* is a list of freight rates, taxes, and charges assessed against non-household goods cargo. 


*Rate tender* is an offer a TSP sends to an agency, containing service rates and charges. 


*Receipt* is a written or electronic acknowledgment by the consignee or TSP as to when and where a shipment was received. 


*Released value* means an assigned value of the cargo for reimbursement purposes that is not necessarily the actual value of the cargo. Released value may be more or less than the actual value of the cargo; however, in the event of loss or damage to the shipment, if the released value exceeds the actual value, reimbursement would be the lesser of the two values. When the released value is agreed upon as the basis of reimbursement and the actual value exceeds the released value, the released value is the maximum amount that could be recovered by the agency in the event of loss or damage to the shipments of freight or household goods. When negotiating for rates and the released value is proposed to be less than the actual value of the cargo, the TSP should offer a rate lower than other rates for shipping cargo at full value. The statement of released value may be shown in any applicable tariff, tender, contract, transportation document or other documents covering the shipment.


*Reparation* is a payment to or from an agency to correct an improper transportation billing involving a TSP. Improper routing, overcharges or duplicate payments may cause such improper billing. This is different from a payment to settle a claim for loss and damage. 


*Suspension* is an action taken by an agency to disqualify a TSP from receiving orders for certain services under a contract or rate tender (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.407). 


*Third Party Logistics (3PL)* is an entity that provides multiple logistics services for use by customers. Among the transportation services that 3PLs generally provide are integration transportation, warehousing, cross-docking, inventory management, packaging, and freight forwarding.


*Transportation document (TD)* means any executed document for transportation service, such as a bill of lading, a tariff, a tender, a contract, a Government Transportation Request (GTR), invoices, paid invoices, any transportation bills, or other equivalent documents, including electronic documents.


*Transportation Officer (TO)* is a person authorized, in accordance with this part, to select transportation service providers using rate tenders. Duties may include, but are not limited to, selecting Third Party Logistics (3PL) or Transportation Service Providers (TSP), and issuing bills of lading.


*Transportation Officer Warrant* is an agency-issued document that authorizes a Transportation Officer (TO) to procure transportation services using rate tenders, which may include, but are not limited to, selecting Third Party Logistics (3PL) or Transportation Service Providers (TSP), issuing bills of lading, and otherwise performing the duties of a TO.


*Transportation service provider (TSP)* means any party, person, agent, or carrier that provides freight, household goods, or passenger transportation or related services to an agency.


*U.S. flag air carrier* is an air carrier holding a certificate issued by the United States under 49 U.S.C. 41102 (49 U.S.C. 40118, 48 CFR part 47, subpart 47.4). 


*U.S. flag vessel* is a commercial vessel, registered and operated under the laws of the U.S., owned and operated by U.S. citizens, and used in commercial trade of the United States. 



---

[N] [65 FR 60060, Oct. 6, 2000; 65 FR 81405, Dec. 26, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 51393, Aug. 20, 2010; 79 FR 55365, Sept. 16, 2014; 81 FR 65298, Sept. 22, 2016; 87 FR 32322, May 31, 2022]




