# § 220.11   Special rules for automobile liability insurance and no-fault automobile insurance.

(a) *Active duty members covered.* In addition to Uniformed Services beneficiaries covered by other provisions of this part, this section also applies to active duty members of the Uniformed Services. As used in this section, “beneficiaries” includes active duty members.


(b) *Effect of concurrent applicability of the Federal Medical Care Recovery Act*—(1) *In general.* In many cases covered by this section, the United States has a right to collect under both 10 U.S.C. 1095 and the Federal Medical Care Recovery Act (FMCRA), Pub. L. 87-693 (42 U.S.C. 2651 *et seq.*). In such cases, the authority is concurrent and the United States may pursue collection under both statutory authorities.


(2) *Cases involving tort liability.* In cases in which the right of the United States to collect from the automobile liability insurance carrier is premised on establishing some tort liability on some third person, matters regarding the determination of such tort liability shall be governed by the same substantive standards as would be applied under the FMCRA including reliance on state law for determinations regarding tort liability. In addition, the provisions of 28 CFR part 43 (Department of Justice regulations pertaining to the FMCRA) shall apply to claims made under the concurrent authority of the FMCRA and 10 U.S.C. 1095. All other matters and procedures concerning the right of the United States to collect shall, if a claim is made under the concurrent authority of the FMCRA and this section, be governed by 10 U.S.C. 1095 and this part.


(c) *Exclusion of automobile liability insurance and no-fault automobile insurance plans prior to November 5, 1990.* This section is not applicable to automobile liability insurance and no-fault automobile insurance plans:


(1) That have been in continuous effect without amendment since prior to November 5, 1990; and


(2) For which the facility of the Uniformed Services (or other authorized representative of the United States) makes a determination, based on documentation provided by the third party payer, that the policy or plan clearly excludes payment for services covered by this section. Plans entered into, amended or renewed on or after November 5, 1990, are subject to this section, as are prior plans that do not clearly exclude payment for services covered by this section.



---

[N] [57 FR 41103, Sept. 9, 1992]




