# ยง 363.47   Will Fiscal Service pay Treasury securities pursuant to a forfeiture proceeding?

(a) *General.* We will honor a judicial or administrative forfeiture order or declaration of forfeiture submitted by a federal agency. We will rely exclusively upon the information provided by the Federal forfeiting agency and will not make any independent evaluation of the validity of the forfeiture order, the request for payment, or the authority of the individual signing the transaction request. The amount to be paid or transferred is limited to the value of the security as of the date of forfeiture.


(b) *Definition of special terms relating to forfeitures.*

*Contact point* means the individual designated by the Federal investigative agency, United States Attorney's Office, or forfeiting agency, to receive referrals from Fiscal Service.


*Forfeiting agency* means the federal law enforcement agency responsible for the forfeiture.


*Forfeiture* means the process by which property may be forfeited by a federal agency. Administrative forfeiture is forfeiture by a federal agency without judicial proceedings resulting in a declaration of forfeiture; judicial forfeiture is a forfeiture through either a civil or criminal proceeding in a United States District Court resulting in a final judgment and order of forfeiture.


(c) *Procedures for a forfeiting agency to request forfeiture of Treasury securities.* A forfeiting agency must request forfeiture. An individual authorized by the forfeiting agency must sign the transaction request. The request must be mailed to the Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26106-7015.


(d) *Fiscal Service procedures upon receipt of forfeiture request.* Upon receipt and review of the transaction request, we will make payment to the forfeiture fund specified, if the security is eligible for payment, or we will transfer the security pursuant to the transaction request. We will record the forfeiture, the forfeiture fund into which the proceeds were paid or the security transfer records, the contact point, and any related information.


(e) *Inquiries from previous owner.* All inquiries or claims from the previous owner will be referred to the contact point of the forfeiting agency. We will tell the person who inquired that we referred his or her inquiry to the contact point. We will not investigate the inquiry. We will defer to the forfeiting agency's determination of the appropriate course of action, including settlement where appropriate. Any settlement will be paid from the forfeiture fund into which the proceeds were deposited.



---

[N] [70 FR 57436, Sept. 30, 2005]




