# ยง 457.1160   Program specific review process: Time frames.

(a) *Eligibility or enrollment matter.* A State must complete the review of a matter described in ยง 457.1130(a) within a reasonable amount of time. In setting time frames, the State must consider the need for expedited review when there is an immediate need for health services. 


(b) *Health services matter.* The State must ensure that reviews are completed in accordance with the medical needs of the patient. If the medical needs of the patient do not dictate a shorter time frame, the review must be completed within the following time frames: 


(1) *Standard timeframe.* A State must ensure that external review, as described in ยง 457.1150(b), is completed within 90 calendar days of the date an enrollee requests internal (if available) or external review. If both internal and external review are available to the enrollee, both types of review must be completed within the 90 calendar day period. 


(2) *Expedited timeframe.* A State must ensure that external review, as described in ยง 457.1150(b), is completed within 72 hours of the time an enrollee requests external review, if the enrollee's physician or health plan determines that operating under the standard time frame could seriously jeopardize the enrollee's life or health or ability to attain, maintain or regain maximum function. If the enrollee has access to internal and external review, then each level of review may take no more than 72 hours. The State may extend the 72-hour time frame by up to 14 calendar days, if the enrollee requests an extension. 




