# ยง 543.3   How do tribal governments comply with this part?

(a) *Minimum standards.* These are minimum standards and a TGRA may establish and implement additional controls that do not conflict with those set out in this part.


(b) *TICS.* TGRAs must ensure that TICS are established and implemented that provide a level of control that equals or exceeds the applicable standards set forth in this part.


(1) *Evaluation of existing TICS.* Each TGRA must, in accordance with the tribal gaming ordinance, determine whether and to what extent their TICS require revision to ensure compliance with this part.


(2) *Compliance date.* All changes necessary to ensure compliance with this part must be promulgated within twelve months of the effective date of this part and implemented at the commencement of the next fiscal year. At the discretion of the TGRA, gaming operations may have an additional six months to come into compliance with the TICS.


(c) *SICS.* Each gaming operation must develop a SICS, as approved by the TGRA, to implement the TICS.


(1) *Existing gaming operations.* All gaming operations that are operating on or before the effective date of this part, must comply with this part within the time requirements established in paragraph (b) of this section. In the interim, such operations must continue to comply with existing TICS.


(2) *New gaming operations.* All gaming operations that commence operations after the effective date of this part must comply with this part before commencement of operations.


(d) *Variances.* Where referenced throughout this part, the gaming operation must set a reasonable threshold, approved by the TGRA, for when a variance must be reviewed to determine the cause, and the results of the review must be documented and maintained.


(e) *Computer applications.* For any computer applications utilized, alternate documentation and/or procedures that provide at least the level of control established by the standards of this part, as approved in writing by the TGRA, will be acceptable.


(f) *Determination of tier.* (1) The determination of tier level will be made based upon the annual gross gaming revenues indicated within the gaming operation's audited financial statements.


(2) Gaming operations moving from one tier to another will have nine months from the date of the independent certified public accountant's audit report to achieve compliance with the requirements of the new tier. The TGRA may extend the deadline by an additional six months if written notice is provided to the Commission no later than two weeks before the expiration of the nine month period.


(g) *Submission to Commission.* Tribal regulations promulgated pursuant to this part are not required to be submitted to the Commission pursuant to ยง 522.3(b) of this chapter.


(h) *Enforcement of Commission MICS.* (1) Each TGRA is required to establish and implement TICS pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section. Each gaming operation is then required, pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, to develop a SICS that implements the TICS. Failure to comply with this subsection may subject the tribal operator of the gaming operation, or the management contractor, to penalties under 25 U.S.C. 2713.


(2) Enforcement action by the Commission will not be initiated under this part without first informing the tribe and TGRA of deficiencies in the TICS or absence of SICS for its gaming operation and allowing a reasonable period of time to address such deficiencies. Such prior notice and opportunity for corrective action are not required where the threat to the integrity of the gaming operation is immediate and severe.




