# § 1240.32   General risk weights.

(a) *Exposures to the U.S. government.* (1) Notwithstanding any other requirement in this subpart, an Enterprise must assign a zero percent risk weight to:


(i) An exposure to the U.S. government, its central bank, or a U.S. government agency; and


(ii) The portion of an exposure that is directly and unconditionally guaranteed by the U.S. government, its central bank, or a U.S. government agency. This includes a deposit or other exposure, or the portion of a deposit or other exposure, that is insured or otherwise unconditionally guaranteed by the FDIC or NCUA.


(2) An Enterprise must assign a 20 percent risk weight to the portion of an exposure that is conditionally guaranteed by the U.S. government, its central bank, or a U.S. government agency. This includes an exposure, or the portion of an exposure, that is conditionally guaranteed by the FDIC or NCUA.


(b) *Certain supranational entities and multilateral development banks (MDBs).* An Enterprise must assign a zero percent risk weight to an exposure to the Bank for International Settlements, the European Central Bank, the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund, the European Stability Mechanism, the European Financial Stability Facility, or an MDB.


(c) *Exposures to GSEs.* (1) An Enterprise must assign a zero percent risk weight to any MBS guaranteed by the Enterprise (other than any retained CRT exposure).


(2) An Enterprise must assign a 5 percent risk weight to an exposure to the other Enterprise in a commingled security.




(3) An Enterprise must assign a 20 percent risk weight to an exposure to another GSE, including an MBS guaranteed by the other Enterprise, except for exposures under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.




(d) *Exposures to depository institutions and credit unions.* (1) An Enterprise must assign a 20 percent risk weight to an exposure to a depository institution or credit union that is organized under the laws of the United States or any state thereof, except as otherwise provided under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(2) An Enterprise must assign a 100 percent risk weight to an exposure to a financial institution if the exposure may be included in that financial institution's capital unless the exposure is:


(i) An equity exposure; or


(ii) Deducted from regulatory capital under § 1240.22.


(e) *Exposures to U.S. public sector entities (PSEs).* (1) An Enterprise must assign a 20 percent risk weight to a general obligation exposure to a PSE that is organized under the laws of the United States or any state or political subdivision thereof.


(2) An Enterprise must assign a 50 percent risk weight to a revenue obligation exposure to a PSE that is organized under the laws of the United States or any state or political subdivision thereof.


(f) *Corporate exposures.* (1) An Enterprise must assign a 100 percent risk weight to all its corporate exposures, except as provided in paragraphs (f)(2) and (3) of this section.


(2) An Enterprise must assign a 2 percent risk weight to an exposure to a QCCP arising from the Enterprise posting cash collateral to the QCCP in connection with a cleared transaction that meets the requirements of § 1240.37(b)(3)(i)(A) and a 4 percent risk weight to an exposure to a QCCP arising from the Enterprise posting cash collateral to the QCCP in connection with a cleared transaction that meets the requirements of § 1240.37(b)(3)(i)(B).


(3) An Enterprise must assign a 2 percent risk weight to an exposure to a QCCP arising from the Enterprise posting cash collateral to the QCCP in connection with a cleared transaction that meets the requirements of § 1240.37(c)(3)(i).


(g) *Residential mortgage exposures*—(1) *Single-family mortgage exposures.* An Enterprise must assign a risk weight to a single-family mortgage exposure in accordance with § 1240.33.


(2) *Multifamily mortgage exposures.* An Enterprise must assign a risk weight to a multifamily mortgage exposure in accordance with § 1240.34.


(h) *Past due exposures.* Except for an exposure to a sovereign entity or a mortgage exposure, if an exposure is 90 days or more past due or on nonaccrual:


(1) An Enterprise must assign a 150 percent risk weight to the portion of the exposure that is not guaranteed or that is unsecured;


(2) An Enterprise may assign a risk weight to the guaranteed portion of a past due exposure based on the risk weight that applies under § 1240.38 if the guarantee or credit derivative meets the requirements of that section; and


(3) An Enterprise may assign a risk weight to the collateralized portion of a past due exposure based on the risk weight that applies under § 1240.39 if the collateral meets the requirements of that section.


(i) *Other assets.* (1) An Enterprise must assign a zero percent risk weight to cash owned and held in the offices of an insured depository institution or in transit.


(2) An Enterprise must assign a 20 percent risk weight to cash items in the process of collection.


(3) An Enterprise must assign a 100 percent risk weight to DTAs arising from temporary differences that the Enterprise could realize through net operating loss carrybacks.


(4) An Enterprise must assign a 250 percent risk weight to the portion of each of the following items to the extent it is not deducted from common equity tier 1 capital pursuant to § 1240.22(d):


(i) MSAs; and


(ii) DTAs arising from temporary differences that the Enterprise could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks.


(5) An Enterprise must assign a 20 percent risk weight to guarantee assets.


(6) An Enterprise must assign a 100 percent risk weight to all assets not specifically assigned a different risk weight under this subpart and that are not deducted from tier 1 or tier 2 capital pursuant to § 1240.22.


(j) *Insurance assets.* (1) An Enterprise must risk-weight the individual assets held in a separate account that does not qualify as a non-guaranteed separate account as if the individual assets were held directly by the Enterprise.


(2) An Enterprise must assign a zero percent risk weight to an asset that is held in a non-guaranteed separate account.









---

[N] [85 FR 82198, Dec. 17, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 83476, Nov. 30, 2023]




