# ยง 735.15   Amount of grants.

(a) *Amount of program development grants.* (1) For the first year of a program development grant the Director or his authorized designee shall approve grants for not more than 80 percent of the total of agreed upon costs pursuant to ยง 735.14(a).


(2) For the second year of a program development grant the Director or his authorized designee shall approve grants for not more than 60 percent of the total agreed upon costs pursuant to ยง 735.14(a). 


(3) For the third year and each following year of a program development grant the Director or his authorized designee shall approve grants for not more than 50 percent of the total agreed upon costs pursuant to ยง 735.14(a). 


(b) *Amount of administration and enforcement grants.* (1) If no program development grant has been awarded, the Director or his authorized designee may approve the first administration and enforcement grant for not more than 80 percent of the agreed upon costs for administration and enforcement of the program.


(2) If a program development grant has been awarded for only 1 year, the Director or his authorized designee may approve an administration and enforcement grant for 60 percent of the agreed upon costs for administration and enforcement of the program.


(3) If a program development grant has been awarded for more than 1 year but less than 2 years, the Director or his authorized designee may approve the first administration and enforcement grant for 60 percent for that proportion remaining in the second year and for 50 percent for the proportion allocated to the third year.


(4) For the third and following years, the Director or his authorized designee may approve administration and enforcement grants for 50 percent of the agreed upon costs for administration and enforcement of the program. 



---

[N] [42 FR 62706, Dec. 13, 1977. Redesignated at 44 FR 15312, Mar. 13, 1979, and amended at 45 FR 2804, Jan. 14, 1980] 




