# § 292.44   Use of motorized and mechanical equipment.

The standards and guidelines of this section apply to the use of motorized and mechanical equipment in the HCNRA. These standards and guidelines shall not be construed to impair or preclude use of such equipment in the Forest Service's administration of the HCNRA; authorized scientific and other research activities within the HCNRA; timber harvesting, mining, or grazing activities as authorized in §§ 292.46-292.48 of this subpart; responses by the Forest Service or any other Federal, state, or local agency to public health or safety emergencies; or access to private inholdings within the HCNRA.


(a) *Other Lands.* The following standards and guidelines apply to the use of motorized and mechanical equipment in the Other Lands category of the HCNRA. 


(1) Motorized and mechanical equipment may be used on designated Forest Service roads, trails, and airstrips subject to terms and conditions deemed necessary by the authorized officer for the safe use of such facilities.


(2) The use of motorized and mechanical equipment is prohibited off of designated Forest Service roads, trails, and airstrips unless authorized by the authorized officer subject to terms and conditions deemed necessary by the authorized officer for the safe use of such equipment and to ensure that its use is compatible with the Act.


(b) *Wild and Scenic Rivers.* The following standards and guidelines apply to the use of motorized and mechanical equipment in the Wild and Scenic Rivers category in the HCNRA.


(1) The use of motorized and mechanical equipment on designated Forest Service roads, trails and airstrips is permissible on wild and scenic river segments classified “scenic” or “recreational” subject to terms and conditions necessary for safe use of such equipment and to ensure its use is compatible with the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act.


(2) The use of motorized and mechanical equipment on designated Forest Service roads, trails, and airstrips is prohibited on wild and scenic river segments classified “wild” except as provided for by the authorized officer upon a determination that such use is necessary for the administration of the river or to protect and enhance the values for which river was designated.


(c) *Wilderness Lands.* Except as provided for in Sections 4 (c) and (d) of the Wilderness Act and regulations at 36 CFR parts 261 and 293, the use of motorized and mechanical equipment is prohibited on Wilderness Lands.




