# ยง 423.892   Change of ownership.

(a) *Change of ownership.* Any of the following constitutes a change of ownership:


(1) *Partnership.* The removal, addition, or substitution of a partner, unless the partners expressly agree otherwise as permitted by applicable State law.


(2) *Asset sale.* Transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the sponsor to another party.


(3) *Corporation.* The merger of the sponsor's corporation into another corporation or the consolidation of the sponsor's organization with one or more other corporations, resulting in a new corporate body.


(b) *Change of ownership, exception.* Transfer of corporate stock or the merger of another corporation into the sponsor's corporation, with the sponsor surviving, does not ordinarily constitute change of ownership.


(c) *Advance notice requirement.* A sponsor that has a sponsor agreement in effect under this part and is considering or negotiating a change in ownership must notify CMS at least 60 days before the anticipated effective date of the change.


(d) *Assignment of agreement.* When there is a change of ownership as specified in paragraph (a) of this section, and this results in a transfer of the liability for prescription drug costs, the existing sponsor agreement is automatically assigned to the new owner.


(e) *Conditions that apply to assigned agreements.* The new owner to whom a sponsor agreement is assigned is subject to all applicable statutes and regulations and to the terms and conditions of the sponsor agreement.




