# § 1036.110   Diagnostic controls.

Onboard diagnostic (OBD) systems must generally detect malfunctions in the emission control system, store trouble codes corresponding to detected malfunctions, and alert operators appropriately. Starting in model year 2027, new engines must have OBD systems as described in this section. You may optionally comply with any or all of the requirements of this section instead of 40 CFR 86.010-18 in earlier model years.


(a) The requirements of this section apply for engines certified under this part, except in the following circumstances:


(1) Heavy-duty engines intended to be installed in heavy-duty vehicles at or below 14,000 pounds GVWR must meet the OBD requirements in 40 CFR 86.1806-27. Note that 40 CFR 86.1806-27 allows for using later versions of specified OBD requirements from the California Air Resources Board, which includes meeting the 2019 heavy-duty OBD requirements adopted for California and updated emission thresholds as described in this section.


(2) Heavy-duty spark-ignition engines intended to be installed in heavy-duty vehicles above 14,000 pounds GVWR may instead meet the OBD requirements in 40 CFR 86.1806-27 if the same engines are also installed in vehicles certified under 40 CFR part 86, subpart S, where both sets of vehicles share similar emission controls.


(b) Engines must comply with the 2019 heavy-duty OBD requirements adopted for California as described in this paragraph (b). California's 2019 heavy-duty OBD requirements are part of 13 CCR 1968.2, 1968.5, 1971.1, and 1971.5 (incorporated by reference, see § 1036.810). We may approve your request to certify an OBD system meeting alternative specifications if you submit information as needed to demonstrate that it meets the intent of this section. For example, we may approve your request for a system that meets a later version of California's OBD requirements if you demonstrate that it meets the intent of this section; the demonstration must include identification of any approved deficiencies and your plans to resolve such deficiencies. To demonstrate that your engine meets the intent of this section, the OBD system meeting alternative specifications must address all the provisions described in this paragraph (b) and in paragraph (c) of this section. The following clarifications and exceptions apply for engines certified under this part:


(1) We may approve a small manufacturer's request to delay complying with the requirements of this section for up to three model years if that manufacturer has not certified those engines or other comparable engines in California for those model years.


(2) For engines not certified in California, references to vehicles meeting certain California Air Resources Board emission standards are understood to refer to the corresponding EPA emission standards for a given family, where applicable. Use good engineering judgment to correlate the specified standards with the EPA standards that apply under this part. You must describe in your application for certification how you will perform testing to demonstrate compliance with OBD requirements to represent all your engine families over five or fewer model years.


(3) Engines must comply with OBD requirements throughout the useful life as specified in § 1036.104(e).


(4) The purpose and applicability statements in 13 CCR 1971.1(a) and (b) do not apply.


(5) Emission thresholds apply as follows:


(i) Spark-ignition engines are subject to a NO_X_ threshold of 0.35 g/hp·hr for catalyst monitoring and 0.30 g/hp·hr in all other cases. Spark-ignition engines are subject to a PM threshold of 0.015 g/hp·hr. Thresholds apply for operation on the FTP and SET duty cycles.


(ii) Compression-ignition engines are subject to a NO_X_ threshold of 0.40 g/hp·hr and a PM threshold of 0.03 g/hp·hr for operation on the FTP and SET duty cycles.


(iii) All engines are subject to HC and CO thresholds as specified in 13 CCR 1968.2 and 1971.1, except that the “applicable standards” for determining these thresholds are 0.14 g/hp·hr for HC, 14.4 g/hp·hr for CO from spark-ignition engines, and 15.5 g/hp·hr for CO from compression-ignition engines.


(iv) Compression-ignition engines may be exempt from certain monitoring in 13 CCR 1968.2 and 1971.1 based on specified test-out criteria. To calculate these test-out criteria, the “applicable standards” are 0.20 g/hp·hr for NO_X_, 0.14 g/hp·hr for HC, 0.01 g/hp·hr for PM, 14.4 g/hp·hr for CO from spark-ignition engines, and 15.5 g/hp·hr for CO from compression-ignition engines.


(6) The provisions related to verification of in-use compliance in 13 CCR 1971.1(l)(4) do not apply. The provisions related to manufacturer self-testing in 13 CCR 1971.5(c) also do not apply.


(7) The deficiency provisions described in paragraph (d) of this section apply instead of 13 CCR 1971.1(k).


(8) Include the additional data-stream signals in 13 CCR 1971.1(h)(4.2.3)(E), (F), and (G) as freeze-frame conditions as required in 13 CCR 1971.1(h)(4.3).


(9) Design compression-ignition engines to make the following additional data-stream signals available on demand with a generic scan tool according to 13 CCR 1971.1(h)(4.2), if the engine is so equipped with the relevant components and OBD monitoring is required for those components (or modeling is required for some parameter related to those components):


(i) *Engine and vehicle parameters.* Status of parking brake, neutral switch, brake switch, and clutch switch, wastegate control solenoid output, wastegate position (commanded and actual), speed and output shaft torque consistent with § 1036.115(d).


(ii) *Diesel oxidation catalyst parameters.* Include inlet and outlet pressure and temperature for the diesel oxidation catalyst.


(iii) *Particulate filter parameters.* Include filter soot load and ash load for all installed particulate filters.


(iv) *EGR parameters.* Include differential pressure for exhaust gas recirculation.


(v) *SCR parameters.* Include DEF quality-related signals, DEF coolant control valve position (commanded and actual), DEF tank temperature, DEF system pressure, DEF pump commanded percentage, DEF doser control status, DEF line heater control outputs, aftertreatment dosing quantity commanded and actual.


(vi) *Derating parameters.* Include any additional parameters used to apply inducements under § 1036.111 or any other SCR-related or DPF-related engine derates under § 1036.125.


(10) Design spark-ignition engines to make the following additional parameters available for reading with a generic scan tool, if applicable:


(i) *Air-fuel enrichment parameters.* Percent of time in enrichment, both for each trip (key-on to key-off) and as a cumulative lifetime value. Track values separately for enrichment based on throttle, engine protection, and catalyst protection. Include all time after engine warm-up when the engine is not operating at the air-fuel ratio designed for peak three-way catalyst efficiency. Peak efficiency typically involves closed-loop feedback control.


(ii) [Reserved]


(11) If you have an approved Executive order from the California Air Resources Board for a given engine family, we may rely on that Executive order to evaluate whether you meet federal OBD requirements for that same engine family or an equivalent engine family. Engine families are equivalent if they are identical in all aspects material to emission characteristics; for example, we would consider different inducement strategies and different warranties not to be material to emission characteristics relevant to these OBD testing requirements. EPA would count two equivalent engine families as one for the purposes of determining OBD demonstration testing requirements. Send us the following information:


(i) You must submit additional information as needed to demonstrate that you meet the requirements of this section that are not covered by the California Executive order.


(ii) Send us results from any testing you performed for certifying engine families (including equivalent engine families) with the California Air Resources Board, including the results of any testing performed under 13 CCR 1971.1(l) for verification of in-use compliance and 13 CCR 1971.5(c) for manufacturer self-testing within the deadlines set out in 13 CCR 1971.1 and 1971.5.


(iii) We may require that you send us additional information if we need it to evaluate whether you meet the requirements of this paragraph (b)(11). This may involve sending us copies of documents you send to the California Air Resources Board.


(12) You may ask us to approve conditions for which the diagnostic system may disregard trouble codes, as described in 13 CCR 1971.1(g)(5.3)-(5.6).


(13) References to the California ARB Executive Officer are deemed to be the EPA Administrator.


(c) Design the diagnostic system to display the following information in the cab:


(1) For inducements specified in § 1036.111 and any other AECD that derates engine output related to SCR or DPF systems, indicate the fault code for the detected problem, a description of the fault code, and the current speed restriction. For inducement faults under § 1036.111, identify whether the fault condition is for DEF level, DEF quality, or tampering; for other faults, identify whether the fault condition is related to SCR or DPF systems. If there are additional derate stages, also indicate the next speed restriction and the time remaining until starting the next restriction. If the derate involves something other than restricting vehicle speed, such as a torque derate, adjust the information to correctly identify any current and pending restrictions.


(2) Identify on demand the total number of diesel particulate filter regeneration events that have taken place since installing the current particulate filter.


(3) Identify on demand the historical and current rate of DEF consumption, such as gallons of DEF consumed per mile or gallons of DEF consumed per gallon of diesel fuel consumed. Design the system to allow the operator to reset the current rate of DEF consumption.


(d) You may ask us to accept as compliant an engine that does not fully meet specific requirements under this section. The following provisions apply regarding OBD system deficiencies:


(1) We will not approve a deficiency for gasoline-fueled or diesel-fueled engines if it involves the complete lack of a major diagnostic monitor, such as monitors related to exhaust aftertreatment devices, oxygen sensors, air-fuel ratio sensors, NO_X_ sensors, engine misfire, evaporative leaks, and diesel EGR (if applicable). We may approve such deficiencies for engines using other fuels if you demonstrate that the alternative fuel causes these monitors to be unreliable.


(2) We will approve a deficiency only if you show us that full compliance is infeasible or unreasonable considering any relevant factors, such as the technical feasibility of a given monitor, or the lead time and production cycles of vehicle designs and programmed computing upgrades.


(3) Our approval for a given deficiency applies only for a single model year, though you may continue to ask us to extend a deficiency approval in renewable one-year increments. We may approve an extension if you demonstrate an acceptable level of progress toward compliance and you show that the necessary hardware or software modifications would pose an unreasonable burden. We will approve a deficiency for more than three years only if you further demonstrate that you need the additional lead time to make substantial changes to engine hardware.


(4) We will not approve deficiencies retroactively.



---

[N] [88 FR 4487, Jan. 24, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 28210, Apr. 18, 2024; 89 FR 29739, Apr. 22, 2024]




