# § 205.1   Definitions.

Terms defined in section 1324 of the Food Security Act of 1985, Pub. L. 99-198, 99 Stat. 1535, 7 U.S.C. 1631, shall mean the same in this part as therein. In addition, except as otherwise specified, as used in this part: 


*Approved Unique Identifier* means a combination of numbers selected by the Secretary of State using a selection system or method approved by the Secretary of Agriculture.


*EFS* means *effective financing statement* as defined in subsection (c)(4); 


*Master list* means the accumulation of data in paper, electronic, or other form, described in subsection (c)(2)(C); 


*Portion* means portion of the master list distributed to registrants under subsection (c)(2)(E); 


*Registrant* means any buyer of farm products, commission merchant, or selling agent, as referred-to in the Section, registered with a system under subsection (c)(2)(D); 


*The Secretary* means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States;


*The Section* means section 1324 of the above-cited Act, and “subsection” means a subsection of that Section; 


*System* means *central filing system* as defined in subsection (c)(2); 


*System operator* means Secretary of State or other person designated by a State to operate a system; 


*UCC* or *Uniform Commercial Code* means the Uniform Commercial Code prepared under the joint sponsorship of the American Law Institute and the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, and in effect in most States of the United States at the time of enactment of Pub. L. 99-198.



---

[N] [51 FR 29451, Aug. 18, 1986, as amended at 71 FR 56342, Sept. 27, 2006; 72 FR 25948, May 8, 2007]




