# § 1.1362-7   Effective dates.

(a) *In general.* The provisions of §§ 1.1362-1 through 1.1362-6 apply to taxable years of corporations beginning after December 31, 1992. For taxable years to which these regulations do not apply, corporations and shareholders subject to the provisions of section 1362 must take reasonable return positions taking into consideration the statute; its legislative history; the provisions of §§ 18.1362-1 through 18.1362-5 (see 26 CFR part 18 as contained in the CFR edition revised as of April 1, 1992). In addition, following these regulations is a reasonable return position. See Notice 92-56, 1992-49 I.R.B. (see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(*b*) of this chapter), for additional guidance regarding reasonable return positions for years to which §§ 1.362-1 through 1.1362-6 do not apply. Section 1.1362-6(b)(2)(iv) is applicable for taxable years beginning on and after May 14, 2002.


(b) *Special effective date for passive investment income provisions.* For taxable years of an S corporation and all affected shareholders that are not closed, the S corporation and all affected shareholders may elect to apply the provisions of § 1.1362-2(c)(5). To make the election, the corporation and all affected shareholders must file a return or an amended return that is consistent with these rules for the taxable year for which the election is made and each subsequent taxable year. For purposes of this section, *affected shareholders* means all shareholders who received distributive shares of S corporation items in the taxable year for which the election is made and all shareholders of the S corporation for all subsequent taxable years. However, the Commissioner may, in appropriate circumstances, permit taxpayers to make this election even if all affected shareholders cannot file consistent returns.



---

[N] [T.D. 8449, 57 FR 55456, Nov. 25, 1992, as amended by T.D. 8994, 67 FR 34401, May 14, 2002]




