# § 123.4   Temporary import license exemptions.

(a) Port Directors of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall permit the temporary import (and subsequent export) without a license, for a period of up to 4 years, of unclassified U.S.-origin defense items (including any items manufactured abroad pursuant to U.S. Government approval) if the item temporarily imported:


(1) Is serviced (e.g., inspection, testing, calibration or repair, including overhaul, reconditioning and one-to-one replacement of any defective items, parts or components, but excluding any modifications, enhancement, upgrade or other form of alteration or improvement that changes the basic performance of the item), and is subsequently returned to the country from which it was imported. Shipment may be made by the U.S. importer or a foreign government representative of the country from which the goods were imported; or


(2) Is to be enhanced, upgraded or incorporated into another item which has already been authorized by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls for permanent export; or 


(3) Is imported for the purpose of exhibition, demonstration or marketing in the United States and is subsequently returned to the country from which it was imported; or


(4) Has been rejected for permanent import by the Department of Justice and is being returned to the country from which it was shipped; or


(5) Is approved for such import under the U.S. Foreign Military Sales (FMS) program pursuant to an executed U.S. Department of Defense Letter of Offer and Acceptance (LOA).


(b) Port Directors of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall permit the temporary import (but not the subsequent export) without a license of unclassified defense articles that are to be incorporated into another article, or modified, enhanced, upgraded, altered, improved or serviced in any other manner that changes the basic performance or productivity of the article prior to being returned to the country from which they were shipped or prior to being shipped to a third country. A DSP-5 is required for the reexport of such unclassified defense articles after incorporation into another article, modification, enhancement, upgrading, alteration or improvement.


(c) *Requirements.* To use an exemption under § 123.4 (a) or (b), the following criteria must be met: 


(1) The importer must meet the eligibility requirements set forth in § 120.16 of this subchapter;


(2) At the time of export, the ultimate consignee named on the Electronic Export Information (EEI) must be the same as the foreign consignee or end-user of record named at the time of import;


(3) A stated in § 126.1 of this subchapter, the temporary import must not be from or on behalf of a proscribed country, area, or person listed in that section unless an exception has been granted in accordance with § 126.3 of this subchapter; and


(4) The foreign exporter must not require documentation of U.S. Government approval of the temporary import. If the foreign exporter requires documentation for a temporary import that qualifies for an exemption under this subchapter, the U.S. importer will not be able to claim the exemption and is required to obtain a DSP-61 Application/License for Temporary Import of Unclassified Defense Articles.


(d) *Procedures.* To the satisfaction of the Port Directors of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the importer and exporter must comply with the following procedures:


(1) At the time of temporary import—


(i) File and annotate the applicable U.S. Customs and Border Protection document (e.g., Form CF 3461, 7512, 7501, 7523 or 3311) to read: “This shipment is being imported in accordance with and under the authority of 22 CFR 123.4(a) (identify subsection),” and 


(ii) Include, on the invoice or other appropriate documentation, a complete list and description of the defense article(s) being imported, including quantity and U.S. dollar value; and 


(2) At the time of export, in accordance with the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) procedures, the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC) registered and eligible exporter, or an agent acting on the filer's behalf, must electronically file the export information with CBP, identify 22 CFR 123.4 as the authority for the export, and provide, as requested by CBP, the entry document number or a copy of the CBP document under which the article was imported.



---

[N] [58 FR 39299, July 22, 1993, as amended at 64 FR 17533, Apr. 12, 1999; 68 FR 61101, Oct. 27, 2003; 70 FR 50960, Aug. 29, 2005; 77 FR 16597, Mar. 21, 2012; 77 FR 22670, Apr. 17, 2012; 81 FR 54735, Aug. 17, 2016; 82 FR 17, Jan. 3, 2017; 87 FR 16423, Mar. 23, 2022]




