# ยง 503.42   Fees.

(a) *Generally.* The Commission may condition the production of records or appearance for testimony upon advance payment of a reasonable estimate of the costs to the Commission.


(b) *Fees for records.* Fees for producing records will include fees for searching, reviewing, and duplicating records, costs of attorney time spent in reviewing the demand or request, and expenses generated by materials and equipment used to search for, produce, and copy the responsive information. Costs for employee time will be calculated on the basis of the hourly pay of the employee (including all pay, allowance, and benefits). Fees for duplication will be the same as those charged by the Commission in its regulations at subpart F of this part.


(c) *Witness fees.* Fees for attendance by a witness will include fees, expenses, and allowances prescribed by the court's rules. If no such fees are prescribed, witness fees will be determined based upon the rule of the Federal district court closest to the location where the witness will appear. Such fees will include cost of time spent by the witness to prepare for testimony, in travel, and for attendance at the legal proceeding.


(d) *Payment of fees.* The seeking party must pay witness fees for current Commission employees and any records certification fees by submitting to the General Counsel a check or money order for the appropriate amount made payable to the Treasury of the United States. In the case of testimony by former Commission employees, applicable fees must be paid directly to the former employee in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 1821, per diem and mileage, or other applicable statutes.


(e) *Certification (authentication) of copies of records.* The Commission may certify that records are true copies in order to facilitate their use as evidence. If certified records are sought, the request for certified copies shall be made at least 45 days before the date they will be needed. The request should be sent to the General Counsel. Fees for certification will be the same as those charged by the Commission in its regulations at subpart F of this part.


(f) *Waiver or reduction of fees.* The Commission may, upon a showing of reasonable cause, waive or reduce any fees in connection with testimony, production, or certification of records.


(g) *De minimis fees.* Fees will not be assessed if the total charge would be $10.00 or less.




