# ยง 600.111-08   Test procedures.

This section describes test procedures for the FTP, highway fuel economy test (HFET), US06, SC03, and the cold temperature FTP tests. See 40 CFR 1066.801(c) for an overview of these procedures. Perform testing according to test procedures and other requirements contained in this part 600 and in 40 CFR part 1066. This testing includes specifications and procedures for equipment, calibrations, and exhaust sampling. Manufacturers may use data collected according to previously published test procedures for model years through 2021. In addition, we may approve the use of previously published test procedures for later model years as an alternative procedure under 40 CFR 1066.10(c). Manufacturers must comply with regulatory requirements during the transition as described in 40 CFR 86.101 and 86.201.


(a) *FTP testing procedures.* Conduct FTP testing as described in 40 CFR 1066.810 through 1066.820. You may omit evaporative emission measurements for testing under this part 600 unless we specifically require it.


(b) *Highway fuel economy testing procedures.* Conduct HFET testing as described in 40 CFR 1066.840.


(c) *US06 testing procedures.* Conduct US06 testing as described in 40 CFR 1066.830 and 1066.831.


(d) *SC03 testing procedures.* Conduct SC03 testing as described in 40 CFR 1066.830 and 835.


(e) *Cold temperature FTP procedures.* Conduct cold temperature FTP testing as described in 40 CFR part 1066, subpart H.


(f) *Testing with alternative fuels.* For vehicles designed to operate on an alternative fuel in addition to gasoline or diesel fuel, perform FTP and HFET testing as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section for each type of fuel on which the vehicle is designed to operate. No US06, SC03, or cold temperature FTP testing is required on the alternative fuel.


(g) *Testing for vehicles with rechargeable energy storage systems.* Test electric vehicles and hybrid electric vehicles as described in ยง 600.116.


(h) *Special test procedures.* We may allow or require you to use procedures other than those specified in this section as described in 40 CFR 1066.10(c). For example, special test procedures may be used for advanced technology vehicles, including, but not limited to fuel cell vehicles, hybrid electric vehicles using hydraulic energy storage, and vehicles equipped with hydrogen internal combustion engines. Additionally, we may conduct fuel economy and carbon-related exhaust emission testing using the special test procedures approved for a specific vehicle.



---

[N] [79 FR 23746, Apr. 28, 2014, as amended at 88 FR 4481, Jan. 24, 2023]






