# ยง 292.23   Standards of compatible land use and development.

Private land use that conforms to the standards of this section is deemed to be compatible with the purpose for which the HCNRA was established.


(a) *Standards applicable to all private lands.* As of June 13, 1994, the use and development of private lands in all land categories within the HCNRA is deemed compatible with the purposes for which the HCNRA was established, if the use and development of such lands meets the following standards:


(1) Use and development conforms to applicable local, state, and federal environmental, natural resource, cultural resource, and land use development law.


(2) All new or replacement structures are screened and/or constructed of materials that blend with the natural environment, except where structures typify the architectural style and materials of a significant historic era such as pre-World War II. Screening is not required, however, for new or replacement structures that are associated with an existing unscreened structure or structures that were not screened at the time this rule became effective.


(3) No public or commercial solid waste disposal sites or hazardous substance disposal sites are located on private lands within the HCNRA. 


(4) All new or replacement utility lines are placed underground where ground conditions and topography permit. This standard does not prevent or impair routine maintenance of utility lines or related structures in existence prior to June 13, 1994. 


(5) No new or replacement structures are developed within the boundaries of the Hells Canyon Wilderness, provided that existing structures may be repaired and/or maintained. 


(6) Significant historic, archaeologic, or paleontologic sites are protected. 


(7) Sites used for the extraction of common mineral materials, such as gravel, for construction and maintenance purposes on all except designated mining lands, are screened where possible, and are not in excess of 2 acres in size. 


(8) New recreational facilities enhance and are compatible with the purpose of the Act. 


(b) *Farm/forest/grazing lands standards.* The following additional standards are applicable to farm/forest/grazing lands: 


(1) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, the minimum lot size for residential development is 160 acres. Only residences associated with farm/forest/grazing uses may be developed. Partitions of less than 160 acres may be made to provide for the continuation of existing commercial agriculture, but such partitions may not be developed for residential use. Lots of less than 160 acres existing on June 13, 1994, with residences permanently affixed to a foundation or basement, are considered to be in compliance. 


(2) Structures are limited to those necessary to conduct farm/forest/grazing use. 


(3) Dude ranching is permitted provided it is compatible with the purpose and direction of the Act and is part of a recognized ranching operation. 


(4) New or replacement structures for farm/forest/grazing use are not closer than 25 feet from a property line or 55 feet from the center line of a travel route. 


(c) *Mining Lands.* (1) The following standards are applicable to mining lands: 


(i) The owner of mining lands must consult with the Ranger concerning proposed mineral development activities prior to submitting a plan of operations to the relevant state or federal agencies. 


(ii) Operations comply with Federal and State mining, air quality, water quality, hazardous waste, water disposal and reclamation standards. 


(iii) The type and number of structures, including but not limited to residences associated with the mining activity, are limited to the minimum necessary for the use and development of the mining lands. 


(iv) No new structures are located closer than 25 feet from a property line or 55 feet from the center line of a travel route. 


(v) Mining lands are not partitioned. 


(2) Notwithstanding compliance with the standards of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Secretary may acquire mineral interests in the HCNRA without the consent of the owner, if the Secretary deems this necessary to meet the purposes for which the HCNRA was established.




