# ยง 220.6   Certain payers excluded.

(a) *Medicare and Medicaid.* Under 10 U.S.C. 1095(d), claims for payment from the Medicare or Medicaid programs (titles XVIII and XIX of the Social Security Act) are not authorized. 


(b) *Supplemental plans.* CHAMPUS (see 32 CFR part 199) supplemental plans and income supplemental plans are excluded from any obligation to pay under 10 U.S.C. 1095.


(c) *Third party payer plans prior to April 7, 1986.* 10 U.S.C. 1095 is not applicable to third party payer plans which have been in continuous effect without amendment or renewal since prior to April 7, 1986. Plans entered into, amended or renewed on or after April 7, 1986, are subject to 10 U.S.C. 1095.


(d) *Third party payer plans prior to November 5, 1990, in connection with outpatient care.* The provisions of 10 U.S.C. 1095 and this section concerning outpatient services are not applicable to third party payer plans:


(1) That have been in continuous effect without amendment or renewal since prior to November 5, 1990; and 


(2) For which the facility of the Uniformed Services or other authorized representative for the United States makes a determination, based on documentation provided by the third party payer, that the policy or plan clearly excludes payment for such services. Plans entered into, amended or renewed on or after November 5, 1990, are subject to this section, as are prior plans that do not clearly exclude payment for services covered by this section.



---

[N] [55 FR 21748, May 29, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 41101, Sept. 9, 1992]




