# ยง 703.4   Definitions.

(a) *Records* includes all books, papers, maps, photographs, reports, and other documentary materials, exclusive of materials in the Library's collections, regardless of physical form or characteristics, made or received and under the control of the Library in pursuance of law or in connection with the transaction of public business, and retained, or appropriate for retention, by the Library as evidence of the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities of the government or because of the informational value of data contained therein. The term refers only to such items in being and under the control of the Library. It does not include the compiling or procuring of a record, nor does the term include objects or articles, such as furniture, paintings, sculpture, three-dimensional models, structures, vehicles, and equipment. 


(b) *Identifiable* means a reasonably specific description of a particular record sought, such as the date of the record, subject matter, agency or person involved, etc. which will permit location or retrieval of the record. 


(c) *Records available to the public* means records which may be examined or copied or of which copies may be obtained, in accordance with this part, by the public or representatives of the press regardless of interest and without specific justification. 


(d) *Disclose* or *disclosure* means making available for examination or copying, or furnishing a copy. 


(e) *Person* includes an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or public or private organization other than a federal agency. 




