# § 92.2   Definitions.

The terms *1937 Act, ALJ,**Fair Housing Act, HUD,**Indian Housing Authority (IHA), Public housing,**Public Housing Agency (PHA),* and *Secretary* are defined in 24 CFR 5.100.


*Act* means the HOME Investment Partnerships Act at title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 12701 *et seq.*

*ADDI funds* means funds made available under subpart M through allocations and reallocations.


*Adjusted income.* See § 92.203. 


*Annual income.* See § 92.203. 


*CDBG program* means the Community Development Block Grant program under 24 CFR part 570.


*Certification* shall have the meaning provided in section 104(21) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 12704. 


*Commitment* means: 


(1) The participating jurisdiction has executed a legally binding written agreement (that includes the date of the signature of each person signing the agreement) that meets the minimum requirements for a written agreement in § 92.504(c). An agreement between the participating jurisdiction and a subrecipient that is controlled by the participating jurisdiction (*e.g.,* an agency whose officials or employees are official or employees of the participating jurisdiction) does not constitute a commitment. An agreement between the representative unit and a member unit of general local government of a consortium does not constitute a commitment. Funds for administrative and planning costs of the HOME program are committed based on the amount in the program disbursement and information system for administration and planning. The written agreement must be:


(i) With a State recipient or a subrecipient to use a specific amount of HOME funds to produce affordable housing, provide downpayment assistance, or provide tenant-based rental assistance;


(ii) With a community housing development organization to provide operating expenses;


(iii) With a community housing development organization to provide project-specific technical assistance and site control loans or project-specific seed money loans, in accordance with § 92.301;


(iv) To develop the capacity of community housing development organizations in the jurisdiction, in accordance with § 92.300(b); or


(v) To commit to a specific local project, as defined in paragraph (2) of this definition.


(2) *Commit to a specific local project* means:


(i) If the project consists of rehabilitation or new construction (with or without acquisition) the participating jurisdiction (or State recipient or sub recipient) and project owner have executed a written legally binding agreement under which HOME assistance will be provided to the owner for an identifiable project for which all necessary financing has been secured, a budget and schedule have been established, and underwriting has been completed and under which construction is scheduled to start within twelve months of the agreement date. If the project is owned by the participating jurisdiction or State recipient, the project has been set up in the disbursement and information system established by HUD, and construction can reasonably be expected to start within twelve months of the project set-up date.


(ii)(A) If the project consists of acquisition of standard housing and the participating jurisdiction (or State recipient or subrecipient) is acquiring the property with HOME funds, the participating jurisdiction (or State recipient or subrecipient) and the property owner have executed a legally binding contract for sale of an identifiable property and the property title will be transferred to the participating jurisdiction (or State recipient or subrecipient) within six months of the date of the contract. 


(B) If the project consists of acquisition of standard housing and the participating jurisdiction (or State recipient or subrecipient) is providing HOME funds to a family to acquire single family housing for homeownership or to a purchaser to acquire rental housing, the participating jurisdiction (or State recipient or subrecipient) and the family or purchaser have executed a written agreement under which HOME assistance will be provided for the purchase of the single family housing or rental housing and the property title will be transferred to the family or purchaser within six months of the agreement date. 


(iii) If the project consists of tenant-based rental assistance, the participating jurisdiction (or State recipient, or subrecipient) has entered into a rental assistance contract with the owner or the tenant in accordance with the provisions of § 92.209. 


*Community housing development organization* means a private nonprofit organization that: 


(1) Is organized under State or local laws; 


(2) Has no part of its net earnings inuring to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor, or individual; 


(3) Is neither controlled by, nor under the direction of, individuals or entities seeking to derive profit or gain from the organization. A community housing development organization may be sponsored or created by a for-profit entity, but: 


(i) The for-profit entity may not be an entity whose primary purpose is the development or management of housing, such as a builder, developer, or real estate management firm. 


(ii) The for-profit entity may not have the right to appoint more than one-third of the membership of the organization's governing body. Board members appointed by the for-profit entity may not appoint the remaining two-thirds of the board members;


(iii) The community housing development organization must be free to contract for goods and services from vendors of its own choosing; and


(iv) The officers and employees of the for-profit entity may not be officers or employees of the community housing development organization.


(4) Has a tax exemption ruling from the Internal Revenue Service under section 501(c)(3) or (4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 CFR 1.501(c)(3)-1 or 1.501(c)(4)-1)), is classified as a subordinate of a central organization non-profit under section 905 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or if the private nonprofit organization is an wholly owned entity that is disregarded as an entity separate from its owner for tax purposes (e.g., a single member limited liability company that is wholly owned by an organization that qualifies as tax-exempt), the owner organization has a tax exemption ruling from the Internal Revenue Service under section 501(c)(3) or (4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and meets the definition of “community housing development organization;”


(5) Is not a governmental entity (including the participating jurisdiction, other jurisdiction, Indian tribe, public housing authority, Indian housing authority, housing finance agency, or redevelopment authority) and is not controlled by a governmental entity. An organization that is created by a governmental entity may qualify as a community housing development organization; however, the governmental entity may not have the right to appoint more than one-third of the membership of the organization's governing body and no more than one- third of the board members may be public officials or employees of governmental entity. Board members appointed by a governmental entity may not appoint the remaining two-thirds of the board members. The officers or employees of a governmental entity may not be officers or employees of a community housing development organization;


(6) Has standards of financial accountability that conform to 2 CFR 200.302, ‘Financial Management’ and 2 CFR 200.303, ‘Internal Controls;’ 


(7) Has among its purposes the provision of decent housing that is affordable to low-income and moderate-income persons, as evidenced in its charter, articles of incorporation, resolutions or by-laws; 


(8) Maintains accountability to low-income community residents by: 


(i) Maintaining at least one-third of its governing board's membership for residents of low-income neighborhoods, other low-income community residents, or elected representative of low-income neighborhood organizations. For urban areas, “community” may be a neighborhood or neighborhoods, city, county or metropolitan area; for rural areas, it may be a neighborhood or neighborhoods, town, village, county, or multi-county area (but not the entire State); and 


(ii) Providing a formal process for low-income program beneficiaries to advise the organization in its decisions regarding the design, siting, development, and management of affordable housing; 


(9) Has a demonstrated capacity for carrying out housing projects assisted with HOME funds. A designated organization undertaking development activities as a developer or sponsor must satisfy this requirement by having paid employees with housing development experience who will work on projects assisted with HOME funds. For its first year of funding as a community housing development organization, an organization may satisfy this requirement through a contract with a consultant who has housing development experience to train appropriate key staff of the organization. An organization that will own housing must demonstrate capacity to act as owner of a project and meet the requirements of § 92.300(a)(2). A nonprofit organization does not meet the test of demonstrated capacity based on any person who is a volunteer or whose services are donated by another organization; and


(10) Has a history of serving the community within which housing to be assisted with HOME funds is to be located. In general, an organization must be able to show one year of serving the community before HOME funds are reserved for the organization. However, a newly created organization formed by local churches, service organizations or neighborhood organizations may meet this requirement by demonstrating that its parent organization has at least a year of serving the community. 


*Consolidated plan* means the plan submitted and approved in accordance with 24 CFR part 91.


*Displaced homemaker* means an individual who:


(1) Is an adult;


(2) Has not worked full-time full-year in the labor force for a number of years but has, during such years, worked primarily without remuneration to care for the home and family; and


(3) Is unemployed or underemployed and is experiencing difficulty in obtaining or upgrading employment.


*Family* has the same meaning given that term in 24 CFR 5.403. 


*First-time homebuyer* means an individual and his or her spouse who have not owned a home during the three-year period prior to purchase of a home with assistance under the American Dream Downpayment Initiative (ADDI) described in subpart M of this part. The term first-time homebuyer also includes an individual who is a displaced homemaker or single parent, as those terms are defined in this section. An individual shall not be excluded from consideration as a first-time homebuyer on the basis that the individual owns or owned, as a principal residence during the three-year period, a dwelling unit whose structure is not permanently affixed to a permanent foundation in accordance with local or other applicable regulations or is not in compliance with State, local, or model building codes, or other applicable codes, and cannot be brought into compliance with the codes for less than the cost of constructing a permanent structure. 


*Foster adult* has the same meaning given that term in 24 CFR 5.603.


*Foster child* has the same meaning given that term in 24 CFR 5.603.


*Full-time student* has the same meaning given that term in 24 CFR 5.603.


*HOME funds* means funds made available under this part through allocations and reallocations, plus program income. 


*Homebuyer counseling* has the same meaning as homeownership counseling in 24 CFR 5.100, and is a type of housing counseling.


*Homeownership* means ownership in fee simple title in a 1- to 4-unit dwelling or in a condominium unit, or equivalent form of ownership approved by HUD.


(1) The land may be owned in fee simple or the homeowner may have a 99-year ground lease.


(i) For housing located in the insular areas, the ground lease must be 40 years or more.


(ii) For housing located on Indian trust or restricted Indian lands or a Community Land Trust, the ground lease must be 50 years or more.


(iii) For manufactured housing, the ground lease must be for a period at least equal to the applicable period of affordability in § 92.254.


(2) Right to possession under a contract for deed, installment contract, or land contract (pursuant to which the deed is not given until the final payment is made) is not an equivalent form of ownership.


(3) The ownership interest may be subject only to the restrictions on resale required under § 92.254(a); mortgages, deeds of trust, or other liens or instruments securing debt on the property as approved by the participating jurisdiction; or any other restrictions or encumbrances that do not impair the good and marketable nature of title to the ownership interest.


(4) The participating jurisdiction must determine whether or not ownership or membership in a cooperative or mutual housing project constitutes homeownership under State law; however, if the cooperative or mutual housing project receives Low Income Housing Tax Credits, the ownership or membership does not constitute homeownership.


*Household* means one or more persons occupying a housing unit. 


*Housing* includes manufactured housing and manufactured housing lots, permanent housing for disabled homeless persons, transitional housing, single-room occupancy housing, and group homes. Housing also includes elder cottage housing opportunity (ECHO) units that are small, free- standing, barrier-free, energy-efficient, removable, and designed to be installed adjacent to existing single-family dwellings. Housing does not include emergency shelters (including shelters for disaster victims) or facilities such as nursing homes, convalescent homes, hospitals, residential treatment facilities, correctional facilities, halfway houses, housing for students, or dormitories (including farmworker dormitories).


*Housing counseling* has the meaning given the term in 24 CFR 5.100.


*Insular areas* means Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the United States Virgin Islands, and American Samoa. 


*Jurisdiction* means a State or unit of general local government. 


*Live-in aide* has the same meaning given that term in 24 CFR 5.403.


*Low-income families* means families whose annual incomes do not exceed 80 percent of the median income for the area, as determined by HUD, with adjustments for smaller and larger families, except that HUD may establish income ceilings higher or lower than 80 percent of the median for the area on the basis of HUD findings that such variations are necessary because of prevailing levels of construction costs or fair market rents, or unusually high or low family incomes. An individual does not qualify as a low-income family if the individual is a student who is not eligible to receive Section 8 assistance under 24 CFR 5.612.


*Metropolitan city* has the meaning given the term in 24 CFR 570.3. 


*Neighborhood* means a geographic location designated in comprehensive plans, ordinances, or other local documents as a neighborhood, village, or similar geographical designation that is within the boundary but does not encompass the entire area of a unit of general local government; except that if the unit of general local government has a population under 25,000, the neighborhood may, but need not, encompass the entire area of a unit of general local government. 


*Participating jurisdiction* means a jurisdiction (as defined in this section) that has been so designated by HUD in accordance with § 92.105. 


*Person with disabilities* means a household composed of one or more persons, at least one of whom is an adult, who has a disability. 


(1) A person is considered to have a disability if the person has a physical, mental, or emotional impairment that: 


(i) Is expected to be of long-continued and indefinite duration; 


(ii) Substantially impedes his or her ability to live independently; and 


(iii) Is of such a nature that such ability could be improved by more suitable housing conditions. 


(2) A person will also be considered to have a disability if he or she has a developmental disability, which is a severe, chronic disability that: 


(i) Is attributable to a mental or physical impairment or combination of mental and physical impairments; 


(ii) Is manifested before the person attains age 22; 


(iii) Is likely to continue indefinitely; 


(iv) Results in substantial functional limitations in three or more of the following areas of major life activity: self-care, receptive and expressive language, learning, mobility, self-direction, capacity for independent living, and economic self-sufficiency; and 


(v) Reflects the person's need for a combination and sequence of special, interdisciplinary, or generic care, treatment, or other services that are of lifelong or extended duration and are individually planned and coordinated. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this definition, the term “person with disabilities” includes two or more persons with disabilities living together, one or more such persons living with another person who is determined to be important to their care or well-being, and the surviving member or members of any household described in the first sentence of this definition who were living, in a unit assisted with HOME funds, with the deceased member of the household at the time of his or her death. 


*Program income* means gross income received by the participating jurisdiction, State recipient, or a subrecipient directly generated from the use of HOME funds or matching contributions. When program income is generated by housing that is only partially assisted with HOME funds or matching funds, the income shall be prorated to reflect the percentage of HOME funds used. Program income includes, but is not limited to, the following: 


(1) Proceeds from the disposition by sale or long-term lease of real property acquired, rehabilitated, or constructed with HOME funds or matching contributions; 


(2) Gross income from the use or rental of real property, owned by the participating jurisdiction, State recipient, or a subrecipient, that was acquired, rehabilitated, or constructed, with HOME funds or matching contributions, less costs incidental to generation of the income (*Program income* does not include gross income from the use, rental or sale of real property received by the project owner, developer, or sponsor, unless the funds are paid by the project owner, developer, or sponsor to the participating jurisdiction, subrecipient or State recipient);


(3) Payments of principal and interest on loans made using HOME funds or matching contributions; 


(4) Proceeds from the sale of loans made with HOME funds or matching contributions; 


(5) Proceeds from the sale of obligations secured by loans made with HOME funds or matching contributions; 


(6) Interest earned on program income pending its disposition; and 


(7) Any other interest or return on the investment permitted under § 92.205(b) of HOME funds or matching contributions. 


*Project* means a site or sites together with any building (including a manufactured housing unit) or buildings located on the site(s) that are under common ownership, management, and financing and are to be assisted with HOME funds as a single undertaking under this part. The project includes all the activities associated with the site and building. For tenant-based rental assistance, project means assistance to one or more families. 


*Project completion* means that all necessary title transfer requirements and construction work have been performed; the project complies with the requirements of this part (including the property standards under § 92.251); the final drawdown of HOME funds has been disbursed for the project; and the project completion information has been entered into the disbursement and information system established by HUD, except that with respect to rental housing project completion, for the purposes of § 92.502(d) of this part, project completion occurs upon completion of construction and before occupancy. For tenant-based rental assistance, project completion means the final drawdown has been disbursed for the project.


*Reconstruction* means the rebuilding, on the same lot, of housing standing on a site at the time of project commitment, except that housing that was destroyed may be rebuilt on the same lot if HOME funds are committed within 12 months of the date of destruction. The number of housing units on the lot may not be decreased or increased as part of a reconstruction project, but the number of rooms per unit may be increased or decreased. Reconstruction also includes replacing an existing substandard unit of manufactured housing with a new or standard unit of manufactured housing. Reconstruction is rehabilitation for purposes of this part.


*Single family housing* means a one-to four-family residence, condominium unit, cooperative unit, combination of manufactured housing and lot, or manufactured housing lot.


*Single parent* means an individual who:


(1) Is unmarried or legally separated from a spouse; and


(2) Has one or more minor children of whom the individual has custody or joint custody, or is pregnant.


*Single room occupancy (SRO) housing* means housing (consisting of single- room dwelling units) that is the primary residence of its occupant or occupants. The unit must contain either food preparation or sanitary facilities (and may contain both) if the project consists of new construction, conversion of nonresidential space, or reconstruction. For acquisition or rehabilitation of an existing residential structure or hotel, neither food preparation nor sanitary facilities are required to be in the unit. If the units do not contain sanitary facilities, the building must contain sanitary facilities that are shared by tenants. A project's designation as an SRO cannot be inconsistent with the building's zoning and building code classification.


*State* means any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any agency or instrumentality thereof that is established pursuant to legislation and designated by the chief executive officer to act on behalf of the state with regard to the provisions of this part; however, for purposes of the American Dream Downpayment Initiative (ADDI) described in subpart M of this part, the term “state” does not include the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico (except for FY2003 ADDI funds).


*State recipient.* See § 92.201(b)(2). 


*Subrecipient* means a public agency or nonprofit organization selected by the participating jurisdiction to administer all or some of the participating jurisdiction's HOME programs to produce affordable housing, provide downpayment assistance, or provide tenant-based rental assistance. A public agency or nonprofit organization that receives HOME funds solely as a developer or owner of a housing project is not a subrecipient. The participating jurisdiction's selection of a subrecipient is not subject to the procurement procedures and requirements.


*Tenant-based rental assistance* is a form of rental assistance in which the assisted tenant may move from a dwelling unit with a right to continued assistance. Tenant-based rental assistance under this part also includes security deposits for rental of dwelling units. 


*Transitional housing* means housing that: 


(1) Is designed to provide housing and appropriate supportive services to persons, including (but not limited to) deinstitutionalized individuals with disabilities, homeless individuals with disabilities, and homeless families with children; and 


(2) Has as its purpose facilitating the movement of individuals and families to independent living within a time period that is set by the participating jurisdiction or project owner before occupancy. 


*Unit of general local government* means a city, town, township, county, parish, village, or other general purpose political subdivision of a State; a consortium of such political subdivisions recognized by HUD in accordance with § 92.101; and any agency or instrumentality thereof that is established pursuant to legislation and designated by the chief executive to act on behalf of the jurisdiction with regard to provisions of this part. When a county is an urban county, the urban county is the unit of general local government for purposes of the HOME Investment Partnerships Program. 


*Urban county* has the meaning given the term in 24 CFR 570.3. 


*Very low-income families* means low- income families whose annual incomes do not exceed 50 percent of the median family income for the area, as determined by HUD with adjustments for smaller and larger families, except that HUD may establish income ceilings higher or lower than 50 percent of the median for the area on the basis of HUD findings that such variations are necessary because of prevailing levels of construction costs or fair market rents, or unusually high or low family incomes. An individual does not qualify as a very low-income family if the individual is a student who is not eligible to receive Section 8 assistance under 24 CFR 5.612.



---

[N] [61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 61755, Oct. 1, 2002; 69 FR 16765, Mar. 30, 2004; 72 FR 16685, Apr. 4, 2007; 78 FR 44664, July 24, 2013; 80 FR 75934, Dec. 7, 2015; 81 FR 86952, Dec. 2, 2016; 81 FR 90657, Dec. 14, 2016; 88 FR 30496, May 11, 2023; 88 FR 9662, Feb. 14, 2023]




