# § 182.44   Calculation of drawback.

(a) *General.* Except in the case of goods specified in § 182.45, drawback of the duties previously paid upon importation of a good into the United States may be granted by the United States, upon presentation of a USMCA drawback claim under this subpart, on the lower amount of:


(1) The total duties paid or owed on the good in the United States; or


(2) The total amount of duties paid on the exported good upon subsequent importation into Canada or Mexico.


(b) *Individual relative value and duty comparison principle.* For purposes of this section, relative value will be determined, and the comparison between the duties referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and the duties referred to in paragraph (a)(2) of this section will be made, separately with reference to each individual exported good, including where two components or materials are used to produce one exported good or one component or material is divided among multiple exported goods.


(c) *Direct identification manufacturing drawback under 19 U.S.C. 1313(a).* Upon presentation of the USMCA drawback claim under 19 U.S.C. 1313(a), in which the amount of drawback payable is based on the lesser amount of the customs duties paid on the good either to the United States or to Canada or Mexico, the amount of drawback refunded may not exceed 99 percent of the duty paid on such imported merchandise into the United States.


(d) *Substitution manufacturing drawback under 19 U.S.C. 1313(b).* Upon presentation of a USMCA drawback claim under 19 U.S.C. 1313(b), on which the amount of drawback payable is based on the lesser amount of the customs duties paid on the good either to the United States or to Canada or Mexico, the amount of drawback is the same as that which would have been allowed had the substituted merchandise used in manufacture been itself imported.


(1) *General.* For purposes of drawback under this subpart, the term “same kind and quality” has the same meaning as the 8-digit HTSUS substitution standard established in 19 U.S.C. 1313(b)(1) (*see* §§ 190.2 and 190.22(a)(1)(i) of this chapter).


(2) *Special rule for sought chemical elements.* For purposes of drawback under this subpart, for sought chemical elements, the term “same kind and quality” has the same meaning as the 8-digit HTSUS substitution standard established in 19 U.S.C. 1313(b)(4) (*see* § 190.22(a)(2) of this chapter).


(e) *Meats cured with imported salt.* Meats, whether packed or smoked, which have been cured with imported salt may be eligible for drawback in aggregate amounts of not less than $100 in duties paid on the imported salt upon exportation of the meats to Canada or Mexico (*see* 19 U.S.C. 1313(f)).


(f) *Jet aircraft engines.* A foreign-built jet aircraft engine that has been overhauled, repaired, rebuilt, or reconditioned in the United States with the use of imported merchandise, including parts, may be eligible for drawback of duties paid on the imported merchandise in aggregate amounts of not less than $100 upon exportation of the engine to Canada or Mexico (19 U.S.C. 1313(h)).


(g) *Unused goods under 19 U.S.C. 1313(j)(1) that have changed in condition.* An imported good that is unused in the United States under 19 U.S.C. 1313(j)(1) and that is shipped to Canada or Mexico not in the same condition within the meaning of § 182.45(b)(1) may be eligible for drawback under this section except when the shipment to Canada or Mexico does not constitute an exportation under 19 U.S.C. 1313(j)(4).



---

[N] [CBP Dec. 21-10, 86 FR 35587, July 6, 2021]








