# § 247.32   Termination of agency participation.

(a) *When may a State agency's participation in CSFP be terminated?* While paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), and (a)(3) of this section, as applicable, describe the circumstances and basic procedures for terminating State agency programs, specific actions and procedures relating to program termination are more fully described in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415.


(1) *Termination by FNS.* FNS may terminate a State agency's participation in CSFP, in whole or in part, if the State agency does not comply with the requirements of this part. FNS must provide written notification to the State agency of termination, including the reasons for the action, and the effective date.


(2) *Termination by State agency.* The State agency may terminate the program, in whole or in part, upon written notification to FNS, stating the reasons and effective date of the action. In accordance with § 247.4(b)(6), which relates to the termination of agreements, either party must provide, at minimum, 30 days' written notice.


(3) *Termination by mutual agreement.* The State agency's program may also be terminated, in whole or in part, if both parties agree the action would be in the best interest of the program. The two parties must agree upon the conditions of the termination, including the effective date.


(b) *When may a local agency's participation in CSFP be terminated?* While paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of this section, as applicable, describe the circumstances and basic procedures in termination of local agency programs, specific actions and procedures relating to program termination are more fully described in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415.


(1) *Termination by State agency.* The State agency may terminate a local agency's participation in CSFP, or may be required to terminate a local agency's participation, in whole or in part, if the local agency does not comply with the requirements of this part. The State agency must notify the local agency in writing of the termination, the reasons for the action, and the effective date, and must provide the local agency with an opportunity to appeal, in accordance with § 247.35. (The local agency may appeal the termination in accordance with § 247.35.)


(2) *Termination by local agency.* The local agency may terminate the program, in whole or in part, upon written notification to the State agency, stating the reasons and effective date of the action. In accordance with § 247.4(b)(6), which relates to the termination of agreements, either party must provide, at minimum, 30 days' written notice.


(3) *Termination by mutual agreement.* The local agency's program may also be terminated, in whole or in part, if both the State and local agency agree that the action would be in the best interest of the program. The two parties must agree upon the conditions of the termination, including the effective date.



---

[N] [70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 83 FR 14174, Apr. 3, 2018]




