# § 680.6   Crab economic data report (EDR).

(a) *Requirements.* (1) Any owner or leaseholder of a vessel or processing plant, or a holder of a registered crab receiver permit that harvested, processed, custom processed, or obtained custom processing for CR crab, during a calendar year, must submit a complete Economic Data Report (EDR) by following the instructions on the applicable EDR form.


(2) A completed EDR or EDR certification pages must be submitted to NMFS, in the manner specified on the NMFS-issued EDR form, for each calendar year on or before 1700 hours, A.l.t., July 31 of the following year.


(3) Annual EDR forms for catcher vessels, catcher/processors, shoreside crab processors, and stationary floating crab processors are available on the NMFS Alaska Region website at *https://alaskafisheries.noaa.gov* or by contacting NMFS at 1-800-304-4846.


(b) *EDR certification pages.* Any person required to submit an annual EDR under paragraph (a) of this section must submit the EDR certification pages as either:


(1) *Part of the entire EDR.* Persons submitting the completed EDR certification pages as part of the entire EDR must attest to the accuracy and completion of the EDR by signing and dating the certification pages; or


(2) *A separate document.* Persons submitting the completed EDR certification pages only must attest that they meet the conditions exempting them from submitting the entire EDR, by signing and dating the certification pages.


(c) *Annual catcher vessel crab EDR.* Any owner or leaseholder of a catcher vessel that landed CR crab in the previous calendar year must submit to NMFS, in the manner specified on the NMFS-issued EDR form, a completed catcher vessel EDR for annual data for the previous calendar year.


(d) *Annual catcher/processor crab EDR.* Any owner or leaseholder of a catcher/processor that harvested or processed CR crab in the previous calendar year must submit to NMFS, in the manner specified on the NMFS-issued EDR form, a completed catcher/processor EDR for annual data for the previous calendar year.


(e) *Annual stationary floating crab processor (SFCP) and shoreside crab processor EDR*—(1) Any owner or leaseholder of an SFCP or a shoreside crab processor that processed CR crab, including custom processing of CR crab performed for other crab buyers, in the previous calendar year must submit to NMFS, in the manner specified on the NMFS-issued EDR form, a completed processor EDR for annual data for the previous calendar year.


(2) Any holder of a registered crab receiver (RCR) permit that obtained custom processing for CR Program crab in the previous calendar year must submit to NMFS, in the manner specified on the NMFS-issued EDR form, a completed processor EDR for annual data for the previous calendar year.


(f) *Verification of data.* (1) The DCA shall conduct verification of information with the owner or leaseholder.


(2) The owner or leaseholder must respond to inquiries by the DCA within 20 days of the date of issuance of the inquiry.


(g) *DCA authorization.* The DCA is authorized to request voluntary submission of economic data specified in this section from persons who are not required to submit an EDR under this section.



---

[N] [78 FR 36127, June 17, 2013, as amended at 88 FR 7591, Feb. 6, 2023]




