# § 216.117   Prohibited acts.

(a) It is unlawful for the Makah Indian Tribe or any enrolled member of the Makah Indian Tribe to:


(1) Take any gray whale except as authorized by a hunt permit issued under § 216.113(b) or by any other provision of this part.


(2) Participate in a hunt while failing to carry onboard the vessel at all times a hunt permit issued by NMFS and a Tribal whaling permit issued by the Makah Indian Tribe, or an electronic copy or photocopy of these permits.


(3) Make a training approach or a training harpoon throw while failing to carry onboard the training vessel at all times an electronic copy or photocopy of the hunt permit issued by NMFS and a training logbook approved by the Makah Indian Tribe for recording training approaches and training harpoon throws.


(4) Participate in a hunt as a whaling captain, rifleman, harpooner, Tribal hunt observer, or safety officer, unless the individual's name is included in a Tribal certification report issued under § 216.118(a)(6)(i).


(5) Violate any provision of any hunt permit issued under § 216.113(b).


(6) Make an approach on a calf or an adult gray whale accompanying a calf after a member of the whaling crew has identified the presence of a calf.


(7) Fail to remain at least 100 yards (91.5 m) away from a calf or an adult accompanying a calf after a member of the whaling crew has identified the presence of a calf.


(8) Hunt or make a training harpoon throw on a calf or an adult gray whale accompanying a calf.


(9) Hunt outside the geographic area identified in § 216.113(b)(5)(iii) unless in pursuit of a gray whale that has already been struck within that area.


(10) Hunt, make a hunting or training approach, or make a training harpoon throw after reaching the limits specified in the hunt permit per § 216.113(b)(5)(i) through (viii).


(11) Hunt if the limit on PCFG whales or PCFG females that may be struck is less than one as a result of accounting per § 216.115(b)(1) through (3).


(12) Hunt after the Makah Indian Tribe has been notified in writing by the Regional Administrator under § 216.114(d)(3) that the limit of PCFG whales that may be struck has been reached or that the PCFG abundance is below the limits specified in § 216.114(d)(4).


(13) Hunt after a gray whale has been landed and before the Makah Indian Tribe has received notification from the Regional Administrator in accordance with § 216.115(b).


(14) Hunt after the Makah Tribe has been notified by the Regional Administrator under § 216.114(e) that the ENP gray whale population has fallen below OSP.


(15) Sell, offer for sale, or purchase any gray whale products, except Makah Indian handicrafts that have been marked and certificated per § 216.116(a)(2).


(16) Export any gray whale products.


(17) Barter edible gray whale products with any person not enrolled as a member of the Makah Indian Tribe.


(18) Share edible gray whale products outside the Makah Indian Tribe's reservation boundaries with any person not enrolled as a member of the Makah Indian Tribe, except at a Tribal member's residence or with persons attending a Tribal or intertribal gathering sanctioned by the Makah Tribal Council, so long as there is not more than 2 pounds of edible product per person attending the gathering per § 216.116(a)(1)(ii)(B).


(19) Share or barter nonedible gray whale products:


(i) Outside the Makah Indian Tribe's reservation boundaries with any person not enrolled as a Makah Indian Tribal member, except Makah Indian handicrafts that are permanently marked and certificated per § 216.116(a)(2).


(ii) Within the Makah Indian Tribe's reservation boundaries with any person not enrolled as a Makah Indian Tribal member except a product that has been fashioned into a Makah Indian handicraft whether or not it has been marked and certificated per § 216.116(a)(2)(iii).


(20) Make a false statement in an application for a hunt permit or in a report required under this subpart.


(21) Transfer or assign a hunt permit issued under this subpart.


(22) Fail to submit reports required by this subpart.


(23) Deny persons designated by NMFS access to landed gray whales for the purpose of collecting specimen samples.


(24) Fail to provide required permits and reports for inspection upon request by persons designated by NMFS.


(25) Allow anyone other than enrolled Makah Indian Tribal members to be part of a whaling crew or to allow anyone other than such members or Tribal hunt observers to be in a training vessel engaged in hunt training.


(26) Hunt, or engage in hunting approaches, training approaches, or training harpoon throws without additional authorization to take WNP gray whales, if the Regional Administrator has notified the Tribe that additional authorization is required for the take of WNP gray whales.


(b) It is unlawful for any person who is not an enrolled member of the Makah Indian Tribe to:


(1) Share barter, purchase, sell, export, or offer to share, barter, purchase, sell, or export edible gray whale products.


(2) Possess, consume, or transport edible gray whale products except:


(i) Within the Makah Indian Tribe's reservation boundaries, when such products have been shared by an enrolled Makah Indian Tribal member;


(ii) At the residence of a Tribal member, whether or not the residence is within the Tribe's reservation boundaries; and


(iii) At Tribal or intertribal gatherings sanctioned by the Makah Tribal Council, whether or not the gathering is within the Tribe's reservation boundaries.


(3) Purchase, sell, or offer to purchase or sell nonedible gray whale products except Makah Indian handicrafts that are marked and certificated per § 216.116(a)(2).


(4) Export any gray whale products.


(5) Outside the Makah Indian Tribe's reservation boundaries, possess, transport, share, or barter nonedible gray whale products except Makah Indian handicrafts that are marked and certificated per § 216.116(a)(2)(iii).


(6) Within the Makah Indian Tribe's reservation boundaries, possess, transport, share, or barter any nonedible gray whale product except as provided in § 216.116(a)(2)(iii) and (iv).






