# § 437.5   Definitions.

As used in this subpart—


*1945 Health Home Core Set* means the Core Set of Health Home Quality Measures related to the Medicaid health home benefit under section 1945 of the Act, established and updated annually as described in § 437.10(a).


*1945A Health Home Core Set* means the Core Set of Health Home Quality Measures related to the Medicaid health home benefit under section 1945A of the Act, established and updated annually as described in § 437.10(a).


*Adult Core Set* means the Core Set of Adult Health Care Quality Measures for Medicaid established and updated annually as described in § 437.10(a).


*Attribution rules* means the process Medicaid and CHIP and other payers use to assign beneficiaries to a specific health care program or delivery system for the purpose of calculating the measures on the Core Sets.


*Behavioral health* means a beneficiary's whole emotional and mental well-being, which includes, but is not limited to, the prevention, treatment, and recovery of mental disorders including substance use disorders.


*Behavioral health measure* means a quality measure that could be used to evaluate the quality of and improve the health care provided to beneficiaries with, or at-risk for a behavioral health disorder(s).


*Child Core Set* means the Core Set of Health Care Quality Measures for Children in Medicaid and CHIP, established and updated annually as described in § 437.10(a).


*Core Sets* means the Child Core Set, the Adult Core Set, the section 1945 Health Home Core Set, and the section 1945A Health Home Core Set, collectively.


*Health Home Core Sets* means, collectively, the two Core Sets of Health Home Quality Measures related to the two Medicaid health home benefits under sections 1945 and 1945A of the Act, established and updated annually as described in § 437.10(a).


*Standardized format* means the format provided by the reporting system that States are required to utilize to submit Core Sets data to CMS.






