# § 281.204   Tariff filing requirements.

(a) *General rule.* Each interstate pipeline listed in § 281.202 shall file tariff sheets or sections, in accordance with § 154.4 of this chapter, including an index of entitlements, which provides that if the interstate pipeline is in curtailment, natural gas will be delivered in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. If the interstate pipeline has curtailment provisions in its currently effective tariff, the tariff sheets or sections shall amend the existing curtailment provisions. If the interstate pipeline has no curtailment plan in its currently effective tariff, when it files tariff sheets or sections to amend its currently effective tariff to include a curtailment plan such curtailment plan shall comply with the requirements of this subpart. The tariff sheets or sections shall be filed no later than October 1, 1979, with a proposed effective date of November 1, 1979. The Data Verification Committee report prepared in accordance with § 281.213 shall be filed with the tariff sheets or sections. 


(b) *Index of entitlements.* (1) The index of entitlements for an interstate pipeline shall identify the natural gas entitlements in priority of service categories 1 and 2 (established in accordance with § 281.205(a)) for each direct sale customer, each local distribution company customer and each interstate pipeline purchaser on a daily, monthly, seasonal or other periodic basis used in the currently effective curtailment plan. 


(2) *Periodic update.* Each interstate pipeline shall update its index of entitlements annually to reflect changes in Priority 2 entitlements. The new index of requirements shall be filed on September 15 of each year with a proposed effective date of November 1, except that if the interstate pipeline uses a rolling base period in its currently effective curtailment plan it shall file its new index of entitlements on the date upon which other end-uses of the customers of the interstate pipeline are updated in accordance with the currently effective tariff. 


(3) *Alternative fuel determination.* The index of entitlements shall not include the volumes of natural gas for which volumes the essential agricultural user has the ability to use an alternative fuel, as determined under Subpart C of this part. Each interstate pipeline shall amend its index of entitlements pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section to remove from the priority 2 entitlements and place in an appropriate priority of service category any such volumes or natural gas included in any index of entitlements that is effective on or after October 31, 1979.


(c) *Other tariff provisions.* (1) Every tariff filed under this subpart shall contain provisions that will require the interstate pipeline: 


(i) To provide for deliveries of sufficient volumes of natural gas to respond to emergency situations (including environmental emergencies) during periods of curtailment where additional supplies are required to forestall irreparable injury to life or to property; and 


(ii) To provide for deliveries of sufficient volumes of natural gas to provide for minimum plant protection when the plant is shut down. 


(2) *Volumetric delivery requirements.* Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subpart, an interstate pipeline which is delivering natural gas in accordance with this subpart shall not be required to deliver to any customer volumes of natural gas on a daily, monthly, seasonal or other periodic basis which exceed the volumes of natural gas that the interstate pipeline may deliver to such customer without causing the interstate pipeline to violate any daily, monthly, seasonal or other periodic volumetric limitations established in the contract between the interstate pipeline and such customer. 



---

[N] [44 FR 26862, May 8, 1979, as amended at 44 FR 45923, Aug. 6, 1979; 44 FR 62490, Oct. 31, 1979; Order 55-B, 45 FR 54739, July 18, 1980; Order 145, 46 FR 27913, May 22, 1981; Order 714, 73 FR 57535, Oct. 3, 2008] 




