# § 121.1007   Hazardous materials training records.

(a) *General requirement.* Each certificate holder must maintain a record of all training required by this part received within the preceding three years for each person who performs or directly supervises a job function specified in § 121.1001(a). The record must be maintained during the time that the person performs or directly supervises any of those job functions, and for 90 days thereafter. These training records must be kept for direct employees of the certificate holder, as well as independent contractors, subcontractors, and any other person who performs or directly supervises these job functions for or on behalf of the certificate holder.


(b) *Location of records.* The certificate holder must retain the training records required by paragraph (a) of this section for all initial and recurrent training received within the preceding 3 years for all persons performing or directly supervising the job functions listed in Appendix O at a designated location. The records must be available upon request at the location where the trained person performs or directly supervises the job function specified in § 121.1001(a). Records may be maintained electronically and provided on location electronically. When the person ceases to perform or directly supervise a hazardous materials job function, the certificate holder must retain the hazardous materials training records for an additional 90 days and make them available upon request at the last location where the person worked.


(c) *Content of records.* Each record must contain the following:


(1) The individual's name;


(2) The most recent training completion date;


(3) A description, copy or reference to training materials used to meet the training requirement;


(4) The name and address of the organization providing the training; and


(5) A copy of the certification issued when the individual was trained, which shows that a test has been completed satisfactorily.


(d) *New hire or new job function.* Each certificate holder using a person under the exception in § 121.1005(b) must maintain a record for that person. The records must be available upon request at the location where the trained person performs or directly supervises the job function specified in § 121.1001(a). Records may be maintained electronically and provided on location electronically. The record must include the following:


(1) A signed statement from an authorized representative of the certificate holder authorizing the use of the person in accordance with the exception;


(2) The date of hire or change in job function;


(3) The person's name and assigned job function;


(4) The name of the supervisor of the job function; and


(5) The date the person is to complete hazardous materials training in accordance with appendix O of this part.




