# § 60.21   Definitions.

Terms used but not defined in this subpart shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A: 


(a) *Designated pollutant* means any air pollutant, the emissions of which are subject to a standard of performance for new stationary sources, but for which air quality criteria have not been issued and that is not included on a list published under section 108(a) or section 112(b)(1)(A) of the Act.


(b) *Designated facility* means any existing facility (see § 60.2(aa)) which emits a designated pollutant and which would be subject to a standard of performance for that pollutant if the existing facility were an affected facility (see § 60.2(e)). 


(c) *Plan* means a plan under section 111(d) of the Act which establishes emission standards for designated pollutants from designated facilities and provides for the implementation and enforcement of such emission standards. 


(d) *Applicable plan* means the plan, or most recent revision thereof, which has been approved under § 60.27(b) or promulgated under § 60.27(d). 


(e) *Emission guideline* means a guideline set forth in subpart C of this part, or in a final guideline document published under § 60.22(a), which reflects the degree of emission reduction achievable through the application of the best system of emission reduction which (taking into account the cost of such reduction) the Administrator has determined has been adequately demonstrated for designated facilities. 


(f) *Emission standard* means a legally enforceable regulation setting forth an allowable rate of emissions into the atmosphere, establishing an allowance system, or prescribing equipment specifications for control of air pollution emissions.


(g) *Compliance schedule* means a legally enforceable schedule specifying a date or dates by which a source or category of sources must comply with specific emission standards contained in a plan or with any increments of progress to achieve such compliance. 


(h) *Increments of progress* means steps to achieve compliance which must be taken by an owner or operator of a designated facility, including: 


(1) Submittal of a final control plan for the designated facility to the appropriate air pollution control agency; 


(2) Awarding of contracts for emission control systems or for process modifications, or issuance of orders for the purchase of component parts to accomplish emission control or process modification; 


(3) Initiation of on-site construction or installation of emission control equipment or process change; 


(4) Completion of on-site construction or installation of emission control equipment or process change; and 


(5) Final compliance. 


(i) *Region* means an air quality control region designated under section 107 of the Act and described in part 81 of this chapter. 


(j) *Local agency* means any local governmental agency. 



---

[N] [40 FR 53346, Nov. 17, 1975, as amended at 70 FR 28649, May 18, 2005; 77 FR 9447, Feb. 16, 2012]




