# § 704.43   Chlorinated naphthalenes.

(a) *Definitions*—(1) *Extent of chlorination* means the percent by weight of chlorine.


(2) *Import* means to import in bulk form or as part of a mixture.


(3) *Isomeric ratio* means the relative amounts of each isomeric chlorinated naphthalene that composes the chemical substance; and for each isomer the relative amounts of each chlorinated naphthalene designated by the position of the chlorine atom(s) on the naphthalene.


(4) *Polychlorinated biphenyl* means any chemical substance that is limited to the biphenyl molecule and that has been chlorinated to varying degrees.


(5) *Small manufacturer* means a manufacturer (including importers) who meets either paragraph (a)(5) (i) or (ii) of this section:


(i) A manufacturer of a chemical substance is small if its total annual sales, when combined with those of its parent company (if any), are less than $40 million. However, if the annual production volume of a particular chemical substance at any individual site owned or controlled by the manufacturer is greater than 45,400 kilograms (100,000 pounds), the manufacturer shall not qualify as small for purposes of reporting on the production of that chemical substance at that site, unless the manufacturer qualifies as small under paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section.


(ii) A manufacturer of a chemical substance is small if its total annual sales, when combined with those of its parent company (if any), are less than $4 million, regardless of the quantity of the particular chemical substance produced by that manufacturer.


(iii) For imported mixtures containing a chemical substance identified in paragraph (b) of this section, the 45,400 kilograms (100,000 pounds) standard in paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section applies only to the amount of the chemical substance in a mixture and not the other components of the mixture.


(6) *Waste* means any solid liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material that results from the production of a chemical substance identified in paragraph (b) of this section and which is to be disposed.


(b) *Substances for which reports must be submitted.*

(c) *Persons who must report.* (1) Persons who are manufacturing or importing a chemical substance identified in paragraph (b) of this section on October 8, 1984.


(2) Persons who propose to import a chemical substance identified in paragraph (b) of this section on or after October 8, 1984.


(3) Persons who manufacture a chemical substance identified in paragraph (b) of this section after October 8, 1984.


(4) A person is required to report only once for each chemical substance identified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(d) *Persons exempt from reporting.* (1) Small manufacturers.


(2) Persons described in § 704.5.


(e) *What information to report.* Persons described in paragraph (c) of this section must notify EPA of current or prospective manufacture or import. The notice must include, to the extent that it is known to or reasonably ascertainable by the person making the report, the following information:


(1) Company name and address.


(2) Name, address, and telephone number of the principal technical contact.


(3) For chemical substances proposed to be imported, the proposed date of import.


(4) A description of the use(s) or intended use(s) for the chemical substance.


(5) A description of the isomeric ratio and extent of chlorination of the chemical substance and the impurity level of polychlorinated biphenyls.


(6) The quantity (by weight) manufactured or imported within 12 months prior to October 8, 1984, if any, and the estimated quantity (by weight) to be manufactured or imported for the first 3 years following the date of the report or the date of the intended start of import whichever occurs later.


(7) The number of persons exposed to the chemical substance during manufacture, import, processing, distribution in commerce, use, and disposal.


(8) If a manufacturer's waste contains one or more of the chemical substances identified in paragraph (b) of this section, the manufacturer must:


(i) Provide the quantity (by weight) of the chemical substances identified in paragraph (b) of this section present in the waste.


(ii) Identify the constituents of the waste and their concentrations,


(iii) State the rate of waste generation as a percentage of production volume,


(iv) Describe where in the manufacturing process the waste is generated, and


(v) Describe the method for disposal of the waste.


(f) *When to report.* (1) Persons who are manufacturing or importing a chemical substance identified in paragraph (b) of this section on October 8, 1984 must notify EPA by November 6, 1984.


(2) Persons who propose to import a chemical substance identified in paragraph (b) of this section on or after October 8, 1984 must notify EPA by November 6, 1984, or 15 days after making the management decision described in § 704.3, whichever is later in time.


(3) Persons who manufacture a chemical substance identified in paragraph (b) of this section after October 8, 1984 must notify EPA within 30 days after the initial date of manufacture.



---

[N] [49 FR 33653, Aug. 24, 1984; 49 FR 45133, Nov. 15, 1984; 50 FR 1215, Jan. 10, 1985; 51 FR 19839, June 3, 1986; 52 FR 20083, May 29, 1987. Redesignated at 53 FR 51717, Dec. 22, 1988]




