# § 405.912   Assignment of appeal rights.

(a) *Who may be an assignee.* Only a provider, or supplier that—


(1) Is not a party to the initial determination as defined in § 405.906; and


(2) Furnished an item or service to the beneficiary may seek assignment of appeal rights from the beneficiary for that item or service.


(b) *Who may not be an assignee.* An individual or entity who is not a provider or supplier may not be an assignee. A provider or supplier that furnishes an item or service to a beneficiary may not seek assignment for that item or service when considered a party to the initial determination as defined in § 405.906.


(c) *Requirements for a valid assignment of appeal right.* The assignment of appeal rights must—


(1) Be executed using a CMS standard form;


(2) Be in writing and signed by both the beneficiary assigning his or her appeal rights and by the assignee;


(3) Indicate the item or service for which the assignment of appeal rights is authorized;


(4) Contain a waiver of the assignee's right to collect payment from the assignor for the specific item or service that are the subject of the appeal except as set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section; and


(5) Be submitted at the same time the request for redetermination or other appeal is filed.


(d) *Waiver of right to collect payment.* (1) Except as specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the assignee must waive the right to collect payment for the item or service for which the assignment of appeal rights is made. If the assignment is revoked under paragraph (g)(2) or (g)(3) of this section, the waiver of the right to collect payment nevertheless remains valid. A waiver of the right to collect payment remains in effect regardless of the outcome of the appeal decision.


(2) The assignee is not prohibited from recovering payment associated with coinsurance or deductibles or when an advance beneficiary notice is properly executed.


(e) *Duration of a valid assignment of appeal rights.* Unless revoked, the assignment of appeal rights is valid for all administrative and judicial review associated with the item or service as indicated on the standard CMS form, even in the event of the death of the assignor.


(f) *Rights of the assignee.* When a valid assignment of appeal rights is executed, the assignor transfers all appeal rights involving the particular item or service to the assignee. These include, but are not limited to—


(1) Obtaining information about the claim to the same extent as the assignor;


(2) Submitting evidence;


(3) Making statements about facts or law; and


(4) Making any request, or giving, or receiving any notice about appeal proceedings.


(g) *Revocation of assignment.* When an assignment of appeal rights is revoked, the rights to appeal revert to the assignor. An assignment of appeal rights may be revoked in any of the following ways:


(1) *In writing by the assignor.* The revocation of assignment must be delivered to the adjudicator and the assignee, and is effective on the date of receipt by the adjudicator.


(2) By abandonment if the assignee does not file an appeal of an unfavorable decision.


(3) By act or omission by the assignee that is determined by an adjudicator to be contrary to the financial interests of the assignor.


(h) *Responsibilities of the assignee.* Once the assignee files an appeal, the assignee becomes a party to the appeal. The assignee must meet all requirements for appeals that apply to any other party.



---

[N] [70 FR 11472, Mar. 8, 2005, as amended at 70 FR 37702, June 30, 2005]




