# ยง 21.4504   Promissory note.

(a) *General.* The agreement by VA to loan money pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 3512(f) and 3698 to any eligible spouse or surviving spouse shall be in the form of a promissory note which shall include:


(1) The full amount of the loan.


(2) Agreement to pay a fee not to exceed 3 percent for an insurance fund against defaults.


(3) A note or other written obligation providing for repayment of the principal amount, and interest on the loan in annual installments over a period beginning 9 months after the date on which the borrower first ceases to be at least a half-time student and ending:


(i) For loans of $600 or more, 10 years and 9 months after such date, or


(ii) For loans of less than $600, 1 year and 7 months after such date for the first $50 of the loan plus 1 additional month for each additional $5 of the loan.


(4) A provision for prepayment of all or part of the loan, without penalty, at the option of the borrower.


(b) *Interest.* The promissory note shall advise the student that the loan shall bear interest on the unpaid balance of the loan at a rate comparable to, but not in excess of, the rate of interest charged students at such time on loans insured by the Secretary of Education, Department of Education, under part B of Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965. The rate shall be determined as of the date the agreement is executed and shall be a fixed amount.


(c) *Security.* The loan shall be made without security and without endorsement.


(d) *Default.* Whenever VA determines that a default, in whole or in part, has occurred on any such loan the eligible spouse or surviving spouse shall be notified that the amount of the default shall be recovered from the eligible spouse or surviving spouse concerned in the same manner as other debt due the United States. Once a default has occurred, the eligible spouse's or surviving spouse's subsequent reentrance into training at the half-time or greater rate shall not be the basis for rescinding the default. A default may only be rescinded when VA has been led to create the default as a result of a mistake of fact or law.


(e) *Death or disability.* If the eligible spouse or surviving spouse dies or becomes permanently and totally disabled, even though he or she ceases to be permanently and totally disabled subsequent to the granting of the loan, the remaining liability of such person for an educational loan shall be discharged.


(f) *Fraud.* Material misrepresentation of fact by the eligible spouse or surviving spouse, including omissions of relevant information, shall render the loan agreement null and void. The deferred payment provisions of the agreement shall not apply in such a case and the full amount of any loan balance shall become due and payable immediately. The amount due shall be recovered from the eligible spouse or surviving spouse in the same manner as any other debt due the United States.


(g) *Signature.* An eligible spouse or surviving spouse may sign both the loan application and the promissory note required and payment of the amounts authorized will be made to such person, notwithstanding his or her minority, unless the person has a legal guardian. In such cases the legal guardian must sign and will be paid the loan amounts.



---

[N] [40 FR 31765, July 29, 1975, as amended at 48 FR 37997, Aug. 22, 1983; 52 FR 5963, Feb. 27, 1987; 52 FR 7276, Mar. 10, 1987; 61 FR 26116, May 24, 1996] 




