# § 63.655   Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator subject to the wastewater provisions in § 63.647 shall comply with the recordkeeping and reporting provisions in §§ 61.356 and 61.357 of 40 CFR part 61, subpart FF unless they are complying with the wastewater provisions specified in paragraph (o)(2)(ii) of § 63.640. There are no additional reporting and recordkeeping requirements for wastewater under this subpart unless a wastewater stream is included in an emissions average. Recordkeeping and reporting for emissions averages are specified in § 63.653 and in paragraphs (f)(5) and (g)(8) of this section. 


(b) Each owner or operator subject to the gasoline loading rack provisions in § 63.650 shall comply with the recordkeeping and reporting provisions in § 63.428 (b) and (c), (g)(1), (h)(1) through (h)(3), and (k) of subpart R. These requirements are summarized in table 4 of this subpart. There are no additional reporting and recordkeeping requirements for gasoline loading racks under this subpart unless a loading rack is included in an emissions average. Recordkeeping and reporting for emissions averages are specified in § 63.653 and in paragraphs (f)(5) and (g)(8) of this section. 


(c) Each owner or operator subject to the marine tank vessel loading operation standards in § 63.651 shall comply with the recordkeeping and reporting provisions in §§ 63.567(a) and 63.567(c) through (k) of subpart Y. These requirements are summarized in table 5 of this subpart. There are no additional reporting and recordkeeping requirements for marine tank vessel loading operations under this subpart unless marine tank vessel loading operations are included in an emissions average. Recordkeeping and reporting for emissions averages are specified in § 63.653 and in paragraphs (f)(5) and (g)(8) of this section.


(d) Each owner or operator subject to the equipment leaks standards in § 63.648 shall comply with the recordkeeping and reporting provisions in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(6) of this section. 


(1) Sections 60.486 and 60.487 of subpart VV of part 60 except as specified in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section; or §§ 63.181 and 63.182 of subpart H of this part except for §§ 63.182(b), (c)(2), and (c)(4).


(i) The signature of the owner or operator (or designate) whose decision it was that a repair could not be effected without a process shutdown is not required to be recorded. Instead, the name of the person whose decision it was that a repair could not be effected without a process shutdown shall be recorded and retained for 2 years.


(ii) [Reserved]


(2) The Notification of Compliance Status report required by § 63.182(c) of subpart H and the initial semiannual report required by § 60.487(b) of 40 CFR part 60, subpart VV shall be submitted within 150 days of the compliance date specified in § 63.640(h); the requirements of subpart H of this part are summarized in table 3 of this subpart. 


(3) An owner or operator who determines that a compressor qualifies for the hydrogen service exemption in § 63.648 shall also keep a record of the demonstration required by § 63.648. 


(4) An owner or operator must keep a list of identification numbers for valves that are designated as leakless per § 63.648(c)(10). 


(5) An owner or operator must identify, either by list or location (area or refining process unit), equipment in organic HAP service less than 300 hours per year within refining process units subject to this subpart. 


(6) An owner or operator must keep a list of reciprocating pumps and compressors determined to be exempt from seal requirements as per §§ 63.648 (f) and (i). 


(e) Each owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall submit the reports listed in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section except as provided in paragraph (h)(5) of this section, and shall keep records as described in paragraph (i) of this section. 


(1) A Notification of Compliance Status report as described in paragraph (f) of this section; 


(2) Periodic Reports as described in paragraph (g) of this section; and 


(3) Other reports as described in paragraph (h) of this section. 


(f) Each owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall submit a Notification of Compliance Status report within 150 days after the compliance dates specified in § 63.640(h) with the exception of Notification of Compliance Status reports submitted to comply with § 63.640(l)(3) and for storage vessels subject to the compliance schedule specified in § 63.640(h)(2). Notification of Compliance Status reports required by § 63.640(l)(3) and for storage vessels subject to the compliance dates specified in § 63.640(h)(2) shall be submitted according to paragraph (f)(6) of this section. This information may be submitted in an operating permit application, in an amendment to an operating permit application, in a separate submittal, or in any combination of the three. If the required information has been submitted before the date 150 days after the compliance date specified in § 63.640(h), a separate Notification of Compliance Status report is not required within 150 days after the compliance dates specified in § 63.640(h). If an owner or operator submits the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section at different times, and/or in different submittals, later submittals may refer to earlier submittals instead of duplicating and resubmitting the previously submitted information. Each owner or operator of a gasoline loading rack classified under Standard Industrial Classification Code 2911 located within a contiguous area and under common control with a petroleum refinery subject to the standards of this subpart shall submit the Notification of Compliance Status report required by subpart R of this part within 150 days after the compliance dates specified in § 63.640(h).


(1) The Notification of Compliance Status report shall include the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section.


(i) For storage vessels, this report shall include the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i)(A) through (f)(1)(i)(D) of this section. 


(A) Identification of each storage vessel subject to this subpart, and for each Group 1 storage vessel subject to this subpart, the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i)(A)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section. This information is to be revised each time a Notification of Compliance Status report is submitted for a storage vessel subject to the compliance schedule specified in § 63.640(h)(2) or to comply with § 63.640(l)(3).


(*1*) For each Group 1 storage vessel complying with either § 63.646 or § 63.660 that is not included in an emissions average, the method of compliance (*i.e.,* internal floating roof, external floating roof, or closed vent system and control device).


(*2*) For storage vessels subject to the compliance schedule specified in § 63.640(h)(2) that are not complying with § 63.646 or § 63.660 as applicable, the anticipated compliance date.


(*3*) For storage vessels subject to the compliance schedule specified in § 63.640(h)(2) that are complying with § 63.646 or § 63.660, as applicable, and the Group 1 storage vessels described in § 63.640(l), the actual compliance date.


(B) If a closed vent system and a control device other than a flare is used to comply with § 63.646 or § 63.660, the owner or operator shall submit:


(*1*) A description of the parameter or parameters to be monitored to ensure that the control device is being properly operated and maintained, an explanation of the criteria used for selection of that parameter (or parameters), and the frequency with which monitoring will be performed; and either 


(*2*) The design evaluation documentation specified in § 63.120(d)(1)(i) of subpart G or § 63.985(b)(1)(i) of subpart SS (as applicable), if the owner or operator elects to prepare a design evaluation; or


(*3*) If the owner or operator elects to submit the results of a performance test, identification of the storage vessel and control device for which the performance test will be submitted, and identification of the emission point(s) that share the control device with the storage vessel and for which the performance test will be conducted. If the performance test is submitted electronically through the EPA's Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) in accordance with § 63.655(h)(9), the process unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested, and the date that such performance test was conducted may be submitted in the Notification of Compliance Status in lieu of the performance test results. The performance test results must be submitted to CEDRI by the date the Notification of Compliance Status is submitted.


(C) If a closed vent system and control device other than a flare is used, the owner or operator shall submit: 


(*1*) The operating range for each monitoring parameter. The specified operating range shall represent the conditions for which the control device is being properly operated and maintained. 


(*2*) If a performance test is conducted instead of a design evaluation, results of the performance test demonstrating that the control device achieves greater than or equal to the required control efficiency. A performance test conducted prior to the compliance date of this subpart can be used to comply with this requirement, provided that the test was conducted using EPA methods and that the test conditions are representative of current operating practices. If the performance test is submitted electronically through the EPA's Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface in accordance with § 63.655(h)(9), the process unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested, and the date that such performance test was conducted may be submitted in the Notification of Compliance Status in lieu of the performance test results. The performance test results must be submitted to CEDRI by the date the Notification of Compliance Status is submitted.


(D) If a closed vent system and a flare is used, the owner or operator shall submit: 


(*1*) Flare design (e.g., steam-assisted, air-assisted, or nonassisted); 


(*2*) All visible emission readings, heat content determinations, flow rate measurements, and exit velocity determinations made during the compliance determination required by § 63.120(e) of subpart G or § 63.987(b) of subpart SS or § 63.670(h), as applicable; and


(*3*) All periods during the compliance determination when the pilot flame is absent. 


(ii) For miscellaneous process vents, identification of each miscellaneous process vent subject to this subpart, whether the process vent is Group 1 or Group 2, and the method of compliance for each Group 1 miscellaneous process vent that is not included in an emissions average (e.g., use of a flare or other control device meeting the requirements of § 63.643(a)). 


(iii) For miscellaneous process vents controlled by control devices required to be tested under §§ 63.645 and 63.116(c), performance test results including the information in paragraphs (f)(1)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section. Results of a performance test conducted prior to the compliance date of this subpart can be used provided that the test was conducted using the methods specified in § 63.645 and that the test conditions are representative of current operating conditions. If the performance test is submitted electronically through the EPA's Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) in accordance with § 63.655(h)(9), the process unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested, and the date that such performance test was conducted may be submitted in the Notification of Compliance Status in lieu of the performance test results. The performance test results must be submitted to CEDRI by the date the Notification of Compliance Status is submitted.


(A) The percentage of reduction of organic HAP's or TOC, or the outlet concentration of organic HAP's or TOC (parts per million by volume on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen), determined as specified in § 63.116(c) of subpart G of this part; and


(B) The value of the monitored parameters specified in table 10 of this subpart, or a site-specific parameter approved by the permitting authority, averaged over the full period of the performance test.




(iv) For miscellaneous process vents controlled by flares, initial compliance test results including the information in paragraphs (f)(1)(iv)(A) and (B) of this section.


(A) All visible emission readings, heat content determinations, flow rate measurements, and exit velocity determinations made during the compliance determination required by §§ 63.645 and 63.116(a) of subpart G or § 63.670(h), as applicable; and


(B) A statement of whether a flame was present at the pilot light over the full period of the compliance determination. 


(v) For equipment leaks complying with § 63.648(c) (i.e., complying with the requirements of subpart H of this part), the Notification of Compliance Report Status report information required by § 63.182(c) of subpart H and whether the percentage of leaking valves will be reported on a process unit basis or a sourcewide basis. 


(vi) For each heat exchange system, identification of the heat exchange systems that are subject to the requirements of this subpart. For heat exchange systems at existing sources, the owner or operator shall indicate whether monitoring will be conducted as specified in § 63.654(c)(4)(i) or § 63.654(c)(4)(ii).


(vii) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service subject to the requirements in § 63.648(j)(3)(i) and (ii), this report shall include the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(vii)(A) and (B) of this section.


(A) A description of the monitoring system to be implemented, including the relief devices and process parameters to be monitored, and a description of the alarms or other methods by which operators will be notified of a pressure release.


(B) A description of the prevention measures to be implemented for each affected pressure relief device.


(viii) For each delayed coking unit, identification of whether the unit is an existing affected source or a new affected source and whether monitoring will be conducted as specified in § 63.657(b) or (c).


(2) If initial performance tests are required by §§ 63.643 through 63.653, the Notification of Compliance Status report shall include one complete test report for each test method used for a particular source. On and after February 1, 2016, for data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert*) at the time of the test, you must submit the results in accordance with § 63.655(h)(9) by the date that you submit the Notification of Compliance Status, and you must include the process unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested, and the date that such performance test was conducted in the Notification of Compliance Status. All other performance test results must be reported in the Notification of Compliance Status.


(i) For additional tests performed using the same method, the results specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section shall be submitted, but a complete test report is not required.


(ii) A complete test report shall include a sampling site description, description of sampling and analysis procedures and any modifications to standard procedures, quality assurance procedures, record of operating conditions during the test, record of preparation of standards, record of calibrations, raw data sheets for field sampling, raw data sheets for field and laboratory analyses, documentation of calculations, and any other information required by the test method.


(iii) Performance tests are required only if specified by §§ 63.643 through 63.653 of this subpart. Initial performance tests are required for some kinds of emission points and controls. Periodic testing of the same emission point is not required.


(3) For each monitored parameter for which a range is required to be established under § 63.120(d) of subpart G or § 63.985(b) of subpart SS for storage vessels or § 63.644 for miscellaneous process vents, the Notification of Compliance Status report shall include the information in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) The specific range of the monitored parameter(s) for each emission point; 


(ii) The rationale for the specific range for each parameter for each emission point, including any data and calculations used to develop the range and a description of why the range ensures compliance with the emission standard. 


(A) If a performance test is required by this subpart for a control device, the range shall be based on the parameter values measured during the performance test supplemented by engineering assessments and manufacturer's recommendations. Performance testing is not required to be conducted over the entire range of permitted parameter values. 


(B) If a performance test is not required by this subpart for a control device, the range may be based solely on engineering assessments and manufacturers' recommendations. 


(iii) A definition of the source's operating day for purposes of determining daily average values of monitored parameters. The definition shall specify the times at which an operating day begins and ends. 


(4) Results of any continuous monitoring system performance evaluations shall be included in the Notification of Compliance Status report, unless the results are required to be submitted electronically by § 63.655(h)(9). For performance evaluation results required to be submitted through CEDRI, submit the results in accordance with § 63.655(h)(9) by the date that you submit the Notification of Compliance Status and include the process unit where the CMS is installed, the parameter measured by the CMS, and the date that the performance evaluation was conducted in the Notification of Compliance Status.


(5) For emission points included in an emissions average, the Notification of Compliance Status report shall include the values of the parameters needed for input to the emission credit and debit equations in § 63.652(g) and (h), calculated or measured according to the procedures in § 63.652(g) and (h), and the resulting credits and debits for the first quarter of the year. The first quarter begins on the compliance date specified in § 63.640. 


(6) Notification of Compliance Status reports required by § 63.640(l)(3) and for storage vessels subject to the compliance dates specified in § 63.640(h)(2) shall be submitted no later than 60 days after the end of the 6-month period during which the change or addition was made that resulted in the Group 1 emission point or the existing Group 1 storage vessel was brought into compliance, and may be combined with the periodic report. Six-month periods shall be the same 6-month periods specified in paragraph (g) of this section. The Notification of Compliance Status report shall include the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(5) of this section. This information may be submitted in an operating permit application, in an amendment to an operating permit application, in a separate submittal, as part of the periodic report, or in any combination of these four. If the required information has been submitted before the date 60 days after the end of the 6-month period in which the addition of the Group 1 emission point took place, a separate Notification of Compliance Status report is not required within 60 days after the end of the 6-month period. If an owner or operator submits the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(5) of this section at different times, and/or in different submittals, later submittals may refer to earlier submittals instead of duplicating and resubmitting the previously submitted information.


(g) The owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall submit Periodic Reports no later than 60 days after the end of each 6-month period when any of the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) of this section or paragraphs (g)(9) through (14) of this section is collected. The first 6-month period shall begin on the date the Notification of Compliance Status report is required to be submitted. A Periodic Report is not required if none of the events identified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) of this section or paragraphs (g)(9) through (14) of this section occurred during the 6-month period unless emissions averaging is utilized. Quarterly reports must be submitted for emission points included in emission averages, as provided in paragraph (g)(8) of this section. An owner or operator may submit reports required by other regulations in place of or as part of the Periodic Report required by this paragraph (g) if the reports contain the information required by paragraphs (g)(1) through (14) of this section. The Periodic Report must contain company identifier information (including the company name and address), the beginning and ending dates of the time period covered by the report, and the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (14) of this section, and it must be submitted in accordance with § 63.10(a) of this part. On or after April 4, 2024, upon initial startup, or once the form has been available on the CEDRI website for six months, whichever date is later, owners or operators must submit all subsequent Periodic Reports in accordance with § 63.10(a) of this part except for the items in paragraphs (g)(10)(iv) and (11)(iv) of this section. The items in paragraphs (g)(10)(iv) and (11)(iv) of this section must be submitted using the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri*) for this subpart and following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k), except any medium submitted through mail must be sent to the attention of the Refinery Sector lead. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated state agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports, the report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted.


(1) For storage vessels, Periodic Reports shall include the information specified for Periodic Reports in paragraphs (g)(2) through (5) of this section. Information related to gaskets, slotted membranes, and sleeve seals is not required for storage vessels that are part of an existing source complying with § 63.646.


(2) *Internal floating roofs.* (i) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.646 by using a fixed roof and an internal floating roof or by using an external floating roof converted to an internal floating roof shall submit the results of each inspection conducted in accordance with § 63.120(a) of subpart G in which a failure is detected in the control equipment.


(A) For vessels for which annual inspections are required under § 63.120(a)(2)(i) or (a)(3)(ii) of subpart G, the specifications and requirements listed in paragraphs (g)(2)(i)(A)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section apply.


(*1*) A failure is defined as any time in which the internal floating roof is not resting on the surface of the liquid inside the storage vessel and is not resting on the leg supports; or there is liquid on the floating roof; or the seal is detached from the internal floating roof; or there are holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or seal fabric; or there are visible gaps between the seal and the wall of the storage vessel.


(*2*) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2)(i)(A)(*3*) of this section, each Periodic Report shall include the date of the inspection, identification of each storage vessel in which a failure was detected, and a description of the failure. The Periodic Report shall also describe the nature of and date the repair was made or the date the storage vessel was emptied.


(*3*) If an extension is utilized in accordance with § 63.120(a)(4) of subpart G, the owner or operator shall, in the next Periodic Report, identify the vessel; include the documentation specified in § 63.120(a)(4) of subpart G; and describe the date the storage vessel was emptied and the nature of and date the repair was made.


(B) For vessels for which inspections are required under § 63.120(a)(2)(ii), (a)(3)(i), or (a)(3)(iii) of subpart G (*i.e.*, internal inspections), the specifications and requirements listed in paragraphs (g)(2)(i)(B)(*1*) and (*2*) of this section apply.


(*1*) A failure is defined as any time in which the internal floating roof has defects; or the primary seal has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric; or the secondary seal (if one has been installed) has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric; or, for a storage vessel that is part of a new source, the gaskets no longer close off the liquid surface from the atmosphere; or, for a storage vessel that is part of a new source, the slotted membrane has more than a 10 percent open area.


(*2*) Each Periodic Report shall include the date of the inspection, identification of each storage vessel in which a failure was detected, and a description of the failure. The Periodic Report shall also describe the nature of and date the repair was made.


(ii) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.660 by using a fixed roof and an internal floating roof shall submit the results of each inspection conducted in accordance with § 63.1063(c)(1), (d)(1), and (d)(2) of subpart WW in which a failure is detected in the control equipment. For vessels for which inspections are required under § 63.1063(c) and (d), the specifications and requirements listed in paragraphs (g)(2)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section apply.


(A) A failure is defined in § 63.1063(d)(1) of subpart WW.


(B) Each Periodic Report shall include a copy of the inspection record required by § 63.1065(b) of subpart WW when a failure occurs.


(C) An owner or operator who elects to use an extension in accordance with § 63.1063(e)(2) of subpart WW shall, in the next Periodic Report, submit the documentation required by § 63.1063(e)(2).


(3) *External floating roofs.* (i) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.646 by using an external floating roof shall meet the periodic reporting requirements specified in paragraphs (g)(3)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) The owner or operator shall submit, as part of the Periodic Report, documentation of the results of each seal gap measurement made in accordance with § 63.120(b) of subpart G in which the seal and seal gap requirements of § 63.120(b)(3), (4), (5), or (6) of subpart G are not met. This documentation shall include the information specified in paragraphs (g)(3)(i)(A)(*1*) through (*4*) of this section.


(*1*) The date of the seal gap measurement.


(*2*) The raw data obtained in the seal gap measurement and the calculations described in § 63.120(b)(3) and (4) of subpart G.


(*3*) A description of any seal condition specified in § 63.120(b)(5) or (6) of subpart G that is not met.


(*4*) A description of the nature of and date the repair was made, or the date the storage vessel was emptied.


(B) If an extension is utilized in accordance with § 63.120(b)(7)(ii) or (b)(8) of subpart G, the owner or operator shall, in the next Periodic Report, identify the vessel; include the documentation specified in § 63.120(b)(7)(ii) or (b)(8) of subpart G, as applicable; and describe the date the vessel was emptied and the nature of and date the repair was made.


(C) The owner or operator shall submit, as part of the Periodic Report, documentation of any failures that are identified during visual inspections required by § 63.120(b)(10) of subpart G. This documentation shall meet the specifications and requirements in paragraphs (g)(3)(i)(C)(*1*) and (*2*) of this section.


(*1*) A failure is defined as any time in which the external floating roof has defects; or the primary seal has holes or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric; or the secondary seal has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric; or, for a storage vessel that is part of a new source, the gaskets no longer close off the liquid surface from the atmosphere; or, for a storage vessel that is part of a new source, the slotted membrane has more than 10 percent open area.


(*2*) Each Periodic Report shall include the date of the inspection, identification of each storage vessel in which a failure was detected, and a description of the failure. The Periodic Report shall also describe the nature of and date the repair was made.


(ii) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.660 by using an external floating roof shall meet the periodic reporting requirements specified in paragraphs (g)(3)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.


(A) For vessels for which inspections are required under § 63.1063(c)(2), (d)(1), and (d)(3) of subpart WW, the owner or operator shall submit, as part of the Periodic Report, a copy of the inspection record required by § 63.1065(b) of subpart WW when a failure occurs. A failure is defined in § 63.1063(d)(1).


(B) An owner or operator who elects to use an extension in accordance with § 63.1063(e)(2) or (c)(2)(iv)(B) of subpart WW shall, in the next Periodic Report, submit the documentation required by those paragraphs.


(4) [Reserved]


(5) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.646 or § 63.660 by installing a closed vent system and control device shall submit, as part of the next Periodic Report, the information specified in paragraphs (g)(5)(i) through (v) of this section, as applicable.


(i) The Periodic Report shall include the information specified in paragraphs (g)(5)(i)(A) and (B) of this section for those planned routine maintenance operations that would require the control device not to meet the requirements of either § 63.119(e)(1) or (2) of subpart G, § 63.985(a) and (b) of subpart SS, or § 63.670, as applicable.


(A) A description of the planned routine maintenance that is anticipated to be performed for the control device during the next 6 months. This description shall include the type of maintenance necessary, planned frequency of maintenance, and lengths of maintenance periods.


(B) A description of the planned routine maintenance that was performed for the control device during the previous 6 months. This description shall include the type of maintenance performed and the total number of hours during those 6 months that the control device did not meet the requirements of either § 63.119(e)(1) or (2) of subpart G, § 63.985(a) and (b) of subpart SS, or § 63.670, as applicable, due to planned routine maintenance.


(ii) If a control device other than a flare is used, the Periodic Report shall describe each occurrence when the monitored parameters were outside of the parameter ranges documented in the Notification of Compliance Status report. The description shall include: Identification of the control device for which the measured parameters were outside of the established ranges, and causes for the measured parameters to be outside of the established ranges.


(iii) If a flare is used prior to January 30, 2019 and prior to electing to comply with the requirements in § 63.670, the Periodic Report shall describe each occurrence when the flare does not meet the general control device requirements specified in § 63.11(b) of subpart A and shall include: Identification of the flare that does not meet the general requirements specified in § 63.11(b) of subpart A, and reasons the flare did not meet the general requirements specified in § 63.11(b) of subpart A.


(iv) If a flare is used on or after the date for which compliance with the requirements in § 63.670 is elected, which can be no later than January 30, 2019, the Periodic Report shall include the items specified in paragraph (g)(11) of this section.


(v) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.660 by installing an alternate control device as described in § 63.1064 of subpart WW shall submit, as part of the next Periodic Report, a written application as described in § 63.1066(b)(3) of subpart WW.


(6) For miscellaneous process vents for which continuous parameter monitors are required by this subpart, periods of excess emissions shall be identified in the Periodic Reports and shall be used to determine compliance with the emission standards. 


(i) Period of excess emission means any of the following conditions: 


(A) An operating day when the daily average value of a monitored parameter, except presence of a flare pilot flame, is outside the range specified in the Notification of Compliance Status report. Monitoring data recorded during periods of monitoring system breakdown, repairs, calibration checks and zero (low-level) and high-level adjustments shall not be used in computing daily average values of monitored parameters. 


(B) An operating day when all pilot flames of a flare are absent. 


(C) An operating day when monitoring data required to be recorded in paragraphs (i)(3) (i) and (ii) of this section are available for less than 75 percent of the operating hours. 


(D) For data compression systems under paragraph (h)(5)(iii) of this section, an operating day when the monitor operated for less than 75 percent of the operating hours or a day when less than 18 monitoring values were recorded.


(ii) For miscellaneous process vents, excess emissions shall be reported for the operating parameters specified in table 10 of this subpart unless other site-specific parameter(s) have been approved by the operating permit authority. 


(iii) For periods in closed vent systems when a Group 1 miscellaneous process vent stream was detected in the bypass line or diverted from the control device and either directly to the atmosphere or to a control device that does not comply with the requirements in § 63.643(a), report the date, time, duration, estimate of the volume of gas, the concentration of organic HAP in the gas and the resulting mass emissions of organic HAP that bypassed the control device. For periods when the flow indicator is not operating, report the date, time, and duration.


(7) If a performance test for determination of compliance for a new emission point subject to this subpart or for an emission point that has changed from Group 2 to Group 1 is conducted during the period covered by a Periodic Report, the results of the performance test shall be included in the Periodic Report. 


(i) Results of the performance test shall include the identification of the source tested, the date of the test, the percentage of emissions reduction or outlet pollutant concentration reduction (whichever is needed to determine compliance) for each run and for the average of all runs, and the values of the monitored operating parameters.


(ii) The complete test report shall be maintained onsite. 


(8) The owner or operator of a source shall submit quarterly reports for all emission points included in an emissions average. 


(i) The quarterly reports shall be submitted no later than 60 calendar days after the end of each quarter. The first report shall be submitted with the Notification of Compliance Status report no later than 150 days after the compliance date specified in § 63.640. 


(ii) The quarterly reports shall include: 


(A) The information specified in this paragraph and in paragraphs (g)(2) through (g)(7) of this section for all storage vessels and miscellaneous process vents included in an emissions average; 


(B) The information required to be reported by § 63.428 (h)(1), (h)(2), and (h)(3) for each gasoline loading rack included in an emissions average, unless this information has already been submitted in a separate report; 


(C) The information required to be reported by § 63.567(e)(4) and (j)(3) of subpart Y for each marine tank vessel loading operation included in an emissions average, unless the information has already been submitted in a separate report;


(D) Any information pertaining to each wastewater stream included in an emissions average that the source is required to report under the Implementation Plan for the source; 


(E) The credits and debits calculated each month during the quarter; 


(F) A demonstration that debits calculated for the quarter are not more than 1.30 times the credits calculated for the quarter, as required under §§ 63.652(e)(4); 


(G) The values of any inputs to the credit and debit equations in § 63.652 (g) and (h) that change from month to month during the quarter or that have changed since the previous quarter; and 


(H) Any other information the source is required to report under the Implementation Plan for the source. 


(iii) Every fourth quarterly report shall include the following: 


(A) A demonstration that annual credits are greater than or equal to annual debits as required by § 63.652(e)(3); and 


(B) A certification of compliance with all the emissions averaging provisions in § 63.652 of this subpart. 


(9) For heat exchange systems, Periodic Reports must include the following information:


(i) The number of heat exchange systems at the plant site subject to the monitoring requirements in § 63.654.


(ii) The number of heat exchange systems at the plant site found to be leaking.


(iii) For each monitoring location where the total strippable hydrocarbon concentration was determined to be equal to or greater than the applicable leak definitions specified in § 63.654(c)(6), identification of the monitoring location (e.g., unique monitoring location or heat exchange system ID number), the measured total strippable hydrocarbon concentration, the date the leak was first identified, and, if applicable, the date the source of the leak was identified;


(iv) For leaks that were repaired during the reporting period (including delayed repairs), identification of the monitoring location associated with the repaired leak, the total strippable hydrocarbon concentration measured during re-monitoring to verify repair, and the re-monitoring date (*i.e.*, the effective date of repair); and


(v) For each delayed repair, identification of the monitoring location associated with the leak for which repair is delayed, the date when the delay of repair began, the date the repair is expected to be completed (if the leak is not repaired during the reporting period), the total strippable hydrocarbon concentration and date of each monitoring event conducted on the delayed repair during the reporting period, and an estimate of the potential strippable hydrocarbon emissions over the reporting period associated with the delayed repair.


(10) For pressure relief devices subject to the requirements § 63.648(j), Periodic Reports must include the information specified in paragraphs (g)(10)(i) through (iv) of this section. Owners or operators must submit the Periodic Report in accordance with § 63.10(a) of this part. On or after April 4, 2024 or once the report template for this subpart has been available on the CEDRI website for six months, whichever date is later, owners or operators must submit subsequent Periodic Reports in accordance with § 63.10(a) of this part except for the items in paragraph (iv) of this section. The items in paragraph (iv) of this section must be submitted using the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website for this subpart and following the procedures specified in § 63.9(k), except any medium submitted through mail must be sent to the attention of the Refinery Sector lead. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated state agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports, the report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted.




(i) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP gas or vapor service, pursuant to § 63.648(j)(1), report any instrument reading of 500 ppm or greater.


(ii) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP gas or vapor service subject to § 63.648(j)(2), report confirmation that any monitoring required to be done during the reporting period to show compliance was conducted.


(iii) For pilot-operated pressure relief devices in organic HAP service, report each pressure release to the atmosphere through the pilot vent that equals or exceeds 72 pounds of VOC per day, including duration of the pressure release through the pilot vent and estimate of the mass quantity of each organic HAP released.


(iv) For each pressure release to the atmosphere during the reporting period from a pressure relief device in organic HAP service subject to § 63.648(j)(3), report the following information:


(A) Pressure relief device identification name or number.


(B) The start time and date of the pressure release.


(C) The duration of the pressure release (in hours).


(D) An estimate of the mass quantity of each organic HAP released (in pounds).


(E) The results of any root cause analysis and corrective action analysis completed during the reporting period, including the corrective actions implemented during the reporting period and, if applicable, the implementation schedule for planned corrective actions to be implemented subsequent to the reporting period.


(11) For flares subject to § 63.670, Periodic Reports must include the information specified in paragraphs (g)(11)(i) through (iv) of this section. Owners or operators must submit the Periodic Report in accordance with § 63.10(a) of this part. On or after April 4, 2024 or once the report template for this subpart has been available on the CEDRI website for six months, whichever date is later, owners or operators must submit subsequent Periodic Reports in accordance with § 63.10(a) of this part except for the items in paragraph (iv) of this section. The items in paragraph (iv) of this section must be submitted using the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website and following the procedures specified in § 63.9(k), except any medium submitted through mail must be sent to the attention of the Refinery Sector lead. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated State agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports, the report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted.




(i) Records as specified in paragraph (i)(9)(i) of this section for each 15-minute block during which there was at least one minute when regulated material is routed to a flare and no pilot flame is present.


(ii) Visible emission records as specified in paragraph (i)(9)(ii)(C) of this section for each period of 2 consecutive hours during which visible emissions exceeded a total of 5 minutes.


(iii) The 15-minute block periods for which the applicable operating limits specified in § 63.670(d) through (f) are not met. Indicate the date and time for the period, the type of deviation (e.g., flare tip velocity, valve position for pressure-assisted flares, combustion zone net heating value, or net heating value dilution parameter) and the flare tip velocity, if applicable, and the net heating value operating parameter(s) determined following the methods in § 63.670(k) through (n) as applicable.




(iv) An indication whether there were any flaring events meeting the criteria in § 63.670(o)(3) that occurred during the reporting period. If there were flaring events meeting the criteria in § 63.670(o)(3), report the following information for each such flaring event:


(A) Flare identification name or number.


(B) The type of flaring event.


(C) The start and stop time and date of the flaring event.


(D) The length of time (in minutes) for which emissions were visible from the flare during the event.


(E) The periods of time that the flare tip velocity exceeds the maximum flare tip velocity determined using the methods in § 63.670(d)(2) and the maximum 15-minute block average flare tip velocity recorded during the event.


(F) Results of the root cause and corrective actions analysis completed during the reporting period, including the corrective actions implemented during the reporting period and, if applicable, the implementation schedule for planned corrective actions to be implemented subsequent to the reporting period.


(12) For delayed coking units, the Periodic Report must include the information specified in paragraphs (g)(12)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) For existing source delayed coking units, any 60-cycle average exceeding the applicable limit in § 63.657(a)(1).


(ii) For new source delayed coking units, any direct venting event exceeding the applicable limit in § 63.657(a)(2).


(iii) The total number of double quenching events performed during the reporting period.


(iv) For each double quenching draining event when the drain water temperature exceeded 210 °F, report the drum, date, time, the coke drum vessel pressure or temperature, as applicable, when pre-vent draining was initiated, and the maximum drain water temperature during the pre-vent draining period.


(13) For maintenance vents subject to the requirements in § 63.643(c), Periodic Reports must include the information specified in paragraphs (g)(13)(i) through (iv) of this section for any release exceeding the applicable limits in § 63.643(c)(1). For the purposes of this reporting requirement, owners or operators complying with § 63.643(c)(1)(iv) must report each venting event for which the lower explosive limit is 20 percent or greater; owners or operators complying with § 63.643(c)(1)(v) must report each venting event conducted under those provisions and include an explanation for each event as to why utilization of this alternative was required.


(i) Identification of the maintenance vent and the equipment served by the maintenance vent.


(ii) The date and time the maintenance vent was opened to the atmosphere.


(iii) The lower explosive limit, vessel pressure, or mass of VOC in the equipment, as applicable, at the start of atmospheric venting. If the 5 psig vessel pressure option in § 63.643(c)(1)(ii) was used and active purging was initiated while the concentration of the vapors was 10 percent or greater of its LEL, also include the concentration of the vapors at the time active purging was initiated.


(iv) An estimate of the mass of organic HAP released during the entire atmospheric venting event.


(14) Any changes in the information provided in a previous Notification of Compliance Status report.


(h) Other reports shall be submitted as specified in subpart A of this part and as follows: 


(1) [Reserved]


(2) For storage vessels, notifications of inspections as specified in paragraphs (h)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) In order to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator of the refilling of each Group 1 storage vessel that has been emptied and degassed.


(A) Except as provided in paragraphs (h)(2)(i) (B) and (C) of this section, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator in writing at least 30 calendar days prior to filling or refilling of each storage vessel with organic HAP's to afford the Administrator the opportunity to inspect the storage vessel prior to refilling. 


(B) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(2)(i)(C) of this section, if the internal inspection required by § 63.120(a)(2), (a)(3), or (b)(10) of subpart G or § 63.1063(d)(1) of subpart WW is not planned and the owner or operator could not have known about the inspection 30 calendar days in advance of refilling the vessel with organic HAP, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator at least 7 calendar days prior to refilling of the storage vessel. Notification may be made by telephone and immediately followed by written documentation demonstrating why the inspection was unplanned. This notification, including the written documentation, may also be made in writing and sent so that it is received by the Administrator at least 7 calendar days prior to the refilling.


(C) The State or local permitting authority can waive the notification requirements of paragraphs (h)(2)(i)(A) and/or (h)(2)(i)(B) of this section for all or some storage vessels at petroleum refineries subject to this subpart. The State or local permitting authority may also grant permission to refill storage vessels sooner than 30 days after submitting the notification required by paragraph (h)(2)(i)(A) of this section, or sooner than 7 days after submitting the notification required by paragraph (h)(2)(i)(B) of this section for all storage vessels, or for individual storage vessels on a case-by-case basis. 


(ii) In order to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present, the owner or operator of a storage vessel equipped with an external floating roof shall notify the Administrator of any seal gap measurements. The notification shall be made in writing at least 30 calendar days in advance of any gap measurements required by § 63.120(b)(1) or (2) or § 63.1063(d)(3). The State or local permitting authority can waive this notification requirement for all or some storage vessels subject to the rule or can allow less than 30 calendar days' notice.


(3) For owners or operators of sources required to request approval for a nominal control efficiency for use in calculating credits for an emissions average, the information specified in § 63.652(h). 


(4) The owner or operator who requests approval to monitor a different parameter than those listed in § 63.644 for miscellaneous process vents or who is required by § 63.653(a)(8) to establish a site-specific monitoring parameter for a point in an emissions average shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (h)(4)(i) through (h)(4)(iii) of this section. For new or reconstructed sources, the information shall be submitted with the application for approval of construction or reconstruction required by § 63.5(d) of subpart A and for existing sources, and the information shall be submitted no later than 18 months prior to the compliance date. The information may be submitted in an operating permit application, in an amendment to an operating permit application, or in a separate submittal. 


(i) A description of the parameter(s) to be monitored to determine whether excess emissions occur and an explanation of the criteria used to select the parameter(s). 


(ii) A description of the methods and procedures that will be used to demonstrate that the parameter can be used to determine excess emissions and the schedule for this demonstration. The owner or operator must certify that they will establish a range for the monitored parameter as part of the Notification of Compliance Status report required in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section. 


(iii) The frequency and content of monitoring, recording, and reporting if: monitoring and recording are not continuous; or if periods of excess emissions, as defined in paragraph (g)(6) of this section, will not be identified in Periodic Reports required under paragraphs (e) and (g) of this section. The rationale for the proposed monitoring, recording, and reporting system shall be included.


(5) An owner or operator may request approval to use alternatives to the continuous operating parameter monitoring and recordkeeping provisions listed in paragraph (i) of this section. 


(i) Requests shall be submitted with the Application for Approval of Construction or Reconstruction for new sources and no later than 18 months prior to the compliance date for existing sources. The information may be submitted in an operating permit application, in an amendment to an operating permit application, or in a separate submittal. Requests shall contain the information specified in paragraphs (h)(5)(iii) through (h)(5)(iv) of this section, as applicable. 


(ii) The provisions in § 63.8(f)(5)(i) of subpart A of this part shall govern the review and approval of requests. 


(iii) [Reserved]


(iv) An owner or operator may request approval to use other alternative monitoring systems according to the procedures specified in § 63.8(f) of subpart A of this part. 


(6) The owner or operator shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (h)(6)(i) through (h)(6)(iii) of this section, as applicable. For existing sources, this information shall be submitted in the initial Notification of Compliance Status report. For a new source, the information shall be submitted with the application for approval of construction or reconstruction required by § 63.5(d) of subpart A of this part. The information may be submitted in an operating permit application, in an amendment to an operating permit application, or in a separate submittal. 


(i) The determination of applicability of this subpart to petroleum refining process units that are designed and operated as flexible operation units. 


(ii) The determination of applicability of this subpart to any storage vessel for which use varies from year to year. 


(iii) The determination of applicability of this subpart to any distillation unit for which use varies from year to year. 


(7) The owner or operator of a heat exchange system at an existing source must notify the Administrator at least 30 calendar days prior to changing from one of the monitoring options specified in § 63.654(c)(4) to the other.


(8) For fenceline monitoring systems subject to § 63.658, each owner or operator shall submit the following information to the EPA's Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) on a quarterly basis. (CEDRI can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*). The first quarterly report must be submitted once the owner or operator has obtained 12 months of data. The first quarterly report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified in Table 11 of this subpart and ending on March 31, June 30, September 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date that occurs after the owner or operator has obtained 12 months of data (*i.e.,* the first quarterly report will contain between 12 and 15 months of data). Each subsequent quarterly report must cover one of the following reporting periods: Quarter 1 from January 1 through March 31; Quarter 2 from April 1 through June 30; Quarter 3 from July 1 through September 30; and Quarter 4 from October 1 through December 31. Each quarterly report must be electronically submitted no later than 45 calendar days following the end of the reporting period.


(i) Facility name and address.


(ii) Year and reporting quarter (*i.e.,* Quarter 1, Quarter 2, Quarter 3, or Quarter 4).


(iii) For the first reporting period and for any reporting period in which a passive monitor is added or moved, for each passive monitor: The latitude and longitude location coordinates; the sampler name; and identification of the type of sampler (*i.e.,* regular monitor, extra monitor, duplicate, field blank, inactive). The owner or operator shall determine the coordinates using an instrument with an accuracy of at least 3 meters. Coordinates shall be in decimal degrees with at least five decimal places.


(iv) The beginning and ending dates for each sampling period.


(v) Individual sample results for benzene reported in units of µg/m
3 for each monitor for each sampling period that ends during the reporting period. Results below the method detection limit shall be flagged as below the detection limit and reported at the method detection limit.


(vi) Data flags that indicate each monitor that was skipped for the sampling period, if the owner or operator uses an alternative sampling frequency under § 63.658(e)(3).


(vii) Data flags for each outlier determined in accordance with Section 9.2 of Method 325A of appendix A of this part. For each outlier, the owner or operator must submit the individual sample result of the outlier, as well as the evidence used to conclude that the result is an outlier.


(viii) The biweekly concentration difference (Δc) for benzene for each sampling period and the annual average Δc for benzene for each sampling period.


(9) On and after February 1, 2016, if required to submit the results of a performance test or CEMS performance evaluation, the owner or operator shall submit the results according to the procedures in paragraphs (h)(9)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Unless otherwise specified by this subpart, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test as required by this subpart, the owner or operator shall submit the results of the performance tests following the procedure specified in either paragraph (h)(9)(i)(A) or (B) of this section.


(A) For data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site (*http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/index.html*) at the time of the test, the owner or operator must submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the CEDRI. (CEDRI can be accessed through the EPA's CDX.) Performance test data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file format consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT Web site. If an owner or operator claims that some of the performance test information being submitted is confidential business information (CBI), the owner or operator must submit a complete file generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT Web site, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive or other commonly used electronic storage media to the EPA. The electronic storage media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT or alternate file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph (h)(9)(i)(A).


(B) For data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site at the time of the test, the owner or operator must submit the results of the performance test to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13.


(ii) Unless otherwise specified by this subpart, within 60 days after the date of completing each CEMS performance evaluation as required by this subpart, the owner or operator must submit the results of the performance evaluation following the procedure specified in either paragraph (h)(9)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section.


(A) For performance evaluations of continuous monitoring systems measuring relative accuracy test audit (RATA) pollutants that are supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site at the time of the evaluation, the owner or operator must submit the results of the performance evaluation to the EPA via the CEDRI. (CEDRI can be accessed through the EPA's CDX.) Performance evaluation data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate file format consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT Web site. If an owner or operator claims that some of the performance evaluation information being submitted is CBI, the owner or operator must submit a complete file generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT Web site, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive or other commonly used electronic storage media to the EPA. The electronic storage media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT or alternate file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph (h)(9)(ii)(A).


(B) For any performance evaluations of continuous monitoring systems measuring RATA pollutants that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site at the time of the evaluation, the owner or operator must submit the results of the performance evaluation to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13.


(10) *Extensions to electronic reporting deadlines.* (i) If you are required to electronically submit a report through the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) in the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX), and due to a planned or actual outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date that the submission is due, you will be or are precluded from accessing CEDRI or CDX and submitting a required report within the time prescribed, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or caused a delay in reporting. You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying the date(s) and time(s) the CDX or CEDRI were unavailable when you attempted to access it in the 5 business days prior to the submission deadline; a rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the EPA system outage; describe the measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and identify a date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported. In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved. The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(ii) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX and a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date the submission is due, the owner or operator may assert a claim of force majeure for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. For the purposes of this paragraph, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (*e.g.,* hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (*e.g.,* large scale power outage). If you intend to assert a claim of force majeure, you must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or caused a delay in reporting. You must provide to the Administrator a written description of the force majeure event and a rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event; describe the measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and identify a date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported. In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the force majeure event occurs. The decision to accept the claim of force majeure and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(i) *Recordkeeping.* Each owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall keep copies of all applicable reports and records required by this subpart for at least 5 years except as otherwise specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (12) of this section. All applicable records shall be maintained in such a manner that they can be readily accessed within 24 hours. Records may be maintained in hard copy or computer-readable form including, but not limited to, on paper, microfilm, computer, flash drive, floppy disk, magnetic tape, or microfiche.


(1) Each owner or operator subject to the storage vessel provisions in § 63.646 shall keep the records specified in § 63.123 of subpart G except as specified in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section. Each owner or operator subject to the storage vessel provisions in § 63.660 shall keep records as specified in paragraphs (i)(1)(v) and (vi) of this section.


(i) Records related to gaskets, slotted membranes, and sleeve seals are not required for storage vessels within existing sources. 


(ii) All references to § 63.122 in § 63.123 of subpart G shall be replaced with § 63.655(e).


(iii) All references to § 63.150 in § 63.123 of subpart G of this part shall be replaced with § 63.652. 


(iv) If a storage vessel is determined to be Group 2 because the weight percent total organic HAP of the stored liquid is less than or equal to 4 percent for existing sources or 2 percent for new sources, a record of any data, assumptions, and procedures used to make this determination shall be retained. 


(v) Each owner or operator of a Group 1 storage vessel subject to the provisions in § 63.660 shall keep records as specified in § 63.1065 or § 63.998, as applicable.


(vi) Each owner or operator of a Group 2 storage vessel shall keep the records specified in § 63.1065(a) of subpart WW. If a storage vessel is determined to be Group 2 because the weight percent total organic HAP of the stored liquid is less than or equal to 4 percent for existing sources or 2 percent for new sources, a record of any data, assumptions, and procedures used to make this determination shall be retained.


(2) Each owner or operator required to report the results of performance tests under paragraphs (f) and (g)(7) of this section shall retain a record of all reported results as well as a complete test report, as described in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section for each emission point tested. 


(3) Each owner or operator required to continuously monitor operating parameters under § 63.644 for miscellaneous process vents or under §§ 63.652 and 63.653 for emission points in an emissions average shall keep the records specified in paragraphs (i)(3)(i) through (i)(3)(v) of this section unless an alternative recordkeeping system has been requested and approved under paragraph (h) of this section. 


(i) The monitoring system shall measure data values at least once every hour. 


(ii) The owner or operator shall record either: 


(A) Each measured data value; or 


(B) Block average values for 1 hour or shorter periods calculated from all measured data values during each period. If values are measured more frequently than once per minute, a single value for each minute may be used to calculate the hourly (or shorter period) block average instead of all measured values; or


(C) All values that meet the set criteria for variation from previously recorded values using an automated data compression recording system.


(*1*) The automated data compression recording system shall be designed to:


(*i*) Measure the operating parameter value at least once every hour.


(*ii*) Record at least 24 values each day during periods of operation.


(*iii*) Record the date and time when monitors are turned off or on.


(*iv*) Recognize unchanging data that may indicate the monitor is not functioning properly, alert the operator, and record the incident.


(*v*) Compute daily average values of the monitored operating parameter based on recorded data.


(*2*) You must maintain a record of the description of the monitoring system and data compression recording system including the criteria used to determine which monitored values are recorded and retained, the method for calculating daily averages, and a demonstration that the system meets all criteria of paragraph (i)(3)(ii)(C)(*1*) of this section.


(iii) Daily average values of each continuously monitored parameter shall be calculated for each operating day and retained for 5 years except as specified in paragraph (i)(3)(iv) of this section. 


(A) The daily average shall be calculated as the average of all values for a monitored parameter recorded during the operating day. The average shall cover a 24-hour period if operation is continuous, or the number of hours of operation per day if operation is not continuous. 


(B) The operating day shall be the period defined in the Notification of Compliance Status report. It may be from midnight to midnight or another daily period. 


(iv) If all recorded values for a monitored parameter during an operating day are within the range established in the Notification of Compliance Status report, the owner or operator may record that all values were within the range and retain this record for 5 years rather than calculating and recording a daily average for that day. For these days, the records required in paragraph (i)(3)(ii) of this section shall also be retained for 5 years. 


(v) Monitoring data recorded during periods of monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high-level adjustments shall not be included in any average computed under this subpart. Records shall be kept of the times and durations of all such periods and any other periods during process or control device operation when monitors are not operating. 


(4) For each closed vent system that contains bypass lines that could divert a vent stream away from the control device and either directly to the atmosphere or to a control device that does not comply with the requirements in § 63.643(a), the owner or operator shall keep a record of the information specified in either paragraph (i)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) The owner or operator shall maintain records of periods when flow was detected in the bypass line, including the date and time and the duration of the flow in the bypass line. For each flow event, the owner or operator shall maintain records sufficient to determine whether or not the detected flow included flow of a Group 1 miscellaneous process vent stream requiring control. For periods when the Group 1 miscellaneous process vent stream requiring control is diverted from the control device and released either directly to the atmosphere or to a control device that does not comply with the requirements in § 63.643(a), the owner or operator shall include an estimate of the volume of gas, the concentration of organic HAP in the gas and the resulting emissions of organic HAP that bypassed the control device using process knowledge and engineering estimates.


(ii) Where a seal mechanism is used to comply with § 63.644(c)(2), hourly records of flow are not required. In such cases, the owner or operator shall record the date that the monthly visual inspection of the seals or closure mechanisms is completed. The owner or operator shall also record the occurrence of all periods when the seal or closure mechanism is broken, the bypass line valve position has changed or the key for a lock-and-key type lock has been checked out. The owner or operator shall include an estimate of the volume of gas, the concentration of organic HAP in the gas and the resulting mass emissions of organic HAP from the Group 1 miscellaneous process vent stream requiring control that bypassed the control device or records sufficient to demonstrate that there was no flow of a Group 1 miscellaneous process vent stream requiring control during the period.


(5) The owner or operator of a heat exchange system subject to this subpart shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements in paragraphs (i)(5)(i) through (v) of this section and retain these records for 5 years.


(i) Identification of all petroleum refinery process unit heat exchangers at the facility and the average annual HAP concentration of process fluid or intervening cooling fluid estimated when developing the Notification of Compliance Status report.


(ii) Identification of all heat exchange systems subject to the monitoring requirements in § 63.654 and identification of all heat exchange systems that are exempt from the monitoring requirements according to the provisions in § 63.654(b). For each heat exchange system that is subject to the monitoring requirements in § 63.654, this must include identification of all heat exchangers within each heat exchange system, and, for closed-loop recirculation systems, the cooling tower included in each heat exchange system.


(iii) Results of the following monitoring data for each required monitoring event:


(A) Date/time of event.


(B) Barometric pressure.


(C) El Paso air stripping apparatus water flow milliliter/minute (ml/min) and air flow, ml/min, and air temperature, °Celsius.


(D) FID reading (ppmv).


(E) Length of sampling period.


(F) Sample volume.


(G) Calibration information identified in Section 5.4.2 of the “Air Stripping Method (Modified El Paso Method) for Determination of Volatile Organic Compound Emissions from Water Sources” Revision Number One, dated January 2003, Sampling Procedures Manual, Appendix P: Cooling Tower Monitoring, prepared by Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, January 31, 2003 (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14).


(iv) The date when a leak was identified, the date the source of the leak was identified, and the date when the heat exchanger was repaired or taken out of service.


(v) If a repair is delayed, the reason for the delay, the schedule for completing the repair, the heat exchange exit line flow or cooling tower return line average flow rate at the monitoring location (in gallons/minute), and the estimate of potential strippable hydrocarbon emissions for each required monitoring interval during the delay of repair.


(6) All other information required to be reported under paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section shall be retained for 5 years. 


(7) Each owner or operator subject to the delayed coking unit decoking operations provisions in § 63.657 must maintain records specified in paragraphs (i)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) The average pressure or temperature, as applicable, for the 5-minute period prior to venting to the atmosphere, draining, or deheading the coke drum for each cooling cycle for each coke drum.


(ii) If complying with the 60-cycle rolling average, each 60-cycle rolling average pressure or temperature, as applicable, considering all coke drum venting events in the existing affected source.


(iii) For double-quench cooling cycles:


(A) The date, time and duration of each pre-vent draining event.


(B) The pressure or temperature of the coke drum vessel, as applicable, for the 5-minute period prior to the pre-vent draining.


(C) The drain water temperature at 1-minute intervals from the start of pre-vent draining to the complete closure of the drain valve.


(8) For fenceline monitoring systems subject to § 63.658, each owner or operator shall keep the records specified in paragraphs (i)(8)(i) through (x) of this section on an ongoing basis.


(i) Coordinates of all passive monitors, including replicate samplers and field blanks, and if applicable, the meteorological station. The owner or operator shall determine the coordinates using an instrument with an accuracy of at least 3 meters. The coordinates shall be in decimal degrees with at least five decimal places.


(ii) The start and stop times and dates for each sample, as well as the tube identifying information.


(iii) Sampling period average temperature and barometric pressure measurements.


(iv) For each outlier determined in accordance with Section 9.2 of Method 325A of appendix A of this part, the sampler location of and the concentration of the outlier and the evidence used to conclude that the result is an outlier.


(v) For samples that will be adjusted for a background, the location of and the concentration measured simultaneously by the background sampler, and the perimeter samplers to which it applies.


(vi) Individual sample results, the calculated Δc for benzene for each sampling period and the two samples used to determine it, whether background correction was used, and the annual average Δc calculated after each sampling period.


(vii) Method detection limit for each sample, including co-located samples and blanks.


(viii) Documentation of corrective action taken each time the action level was exceeded.


(ix) Other records as required by Methods 325A and 325B of appendix A of this part.


(x) If a near-field source correction is used as provided in § 63.658(i), records of hourly meteorological data, including temperature, barometric pressure, wind speed and wind direction, calculated daily unit vector wind direction and daily sigma theta, and other records specified in the site-specific monitoring plan.


(9) For each flare subject to § 63.670, each owner or operator shall keep the records specified in paragraphs (i)(9)(i) through (xii) of this section up-to-date and readily accessible, as applicable.


(i) Retain records of the output of the monitoring device used to detect the presence of a pilot flame as required in § 63.670(b) for a minimum of 2 years. Retain records of each 15-minute block during which there was at least one minute that no pilot flame is present when regulated material is routed to a flare for a minimum of 5 years.


(ii) Retain records of daily visible emissions observations or video surveillance images required in § 63.670(h) as specified in the paragraphs (i)(9)(ii)(A) through (C), as applicable, for a minimum of 3 years.


(A) If visible emissions observations are performed using Method 22 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, the record must identify whether the visible emissions observation was performed, the results of each observation, total duration of observed visible emissions, and whether it was a 5-minute or 2-hour observation. If the owner or operator performs visible emissions observations more than one time during a day, the record must also identify the date and time of day each visible emissions observation was performed.


(B) If video surveillance camera is used, the record must include all video surveillance images recorded, with time and date stamps.


(C) For each 2 hour period for which visible emissions are observed for more than 5 minutes in 2 consecutive hours, the record must include the date and time of the 2 hour period and an estimate of the cumulative number of minutes in the 2 hour period for which emissions were visible.


(iii) The 15-minute block average cumulative flows for flare vent gas and, if applicable, total steam, perimeter assist air, and premix assist air specified to be monitored under § 63.670(i), along with the date and time interval for the 15-minute block. If multiple monitoring locations are used to determine cumulative vent gas flow, total steam, perimeter assist air, and premix assist air, retain records of the 15-minute block average flows for each monitoring location for a minimum of 2 years, and retain the 15-minute block average cumulative flows that are used in subsequent calculations for a minimum of 5 years. If pressure and temperature monitoring is used, retain records of the 15-minute block average temperature, pressure and molecular weight of the flare vent gas or assist gas stream for each measurement location used to determine the 15-minute block average cumulative flows for a minimum of 2 years, and retain the 15-minute block average cumulative flows that are used in subsequent calculations for a minimum of 5 years.


(iv) The flare vent gas compositions specified to be monitored under § 63.670(j). Retain records of individual component concentrations from each compositional analyses for a minimum of 2 years. If NHVvg analyzer is used, retain records of the 15-minute block average values for a minimum of 5 years.


(v) Each 15-minute block average operating parameter calculated following the methods specified in § 63.670(k) through (n), as applicable.


(vi) On and after April 4, 2024, for pressure-assisted flares, retain records of pressure and valve positions as required in § 63.670(d)(3) for a minimum of 2 years, records of when valve position was not correct for measured pressure for 5 years, and records of a cross-light performance demonstration as specified in § 63.670(b)(2) for 5 years.


(vii) All periods during which operating values are outside of the applicable operating limits specified in § 63.670(d) through (f) when regulated material is being routed to the flare.


(viii) All periods during which the owner or operator does not perform flare monitoring according to the procedures in § 63.670(g) through (j).


(ix) Records of periods when there is flow of vent gas to the flare, but when there is no flow of regulated material to the flare, including the start and stop time and dates of periods of no regulated material flow.


(x) Records when the flow of vent gas exceeds the smokeless capacity of the flare, including start and stop time and dates of the flaring event.


(xi) Records of the root cause analysis and corrective action analysis conducted as required in § 63.670(o)(3), including an identification of the affected facility, the date and duration of the event, a statement noting whether the event resulted from the same root cause(s) identified in a previous analysis and either a description of the recommended corrective action(s) or an explanation of why corrective action is not necessary under § 63.670(o)(5)(i).


(xii) For any corrective action analysis for which implementation of corrective actions are required in § 63.670(o)(5), a description of the corrective action(s) completed within the first 45 days following the discharge and, for action(s) not already completed, a schedule for implementation, including proposed commencement and completion dates.


(10) [Reserved]


(11) For each pressure relief device subject to the pressure release management work practice standards in § 63.648(j)(3), the owner or operator shall keep the records specified in paragraphs (i)(11)(i) through (iii) of this section. For each pilot-operated pressure relief device subject to the requirements at § 63.648(j)(4)(ii), the owner or operator shall keep the records specified in paragraph (i)(11)(iv) of this section.


(i) Records of the prevention measures implemented as required in § 63.648(j)(3)(ii), if applicable.


(ii) Records of the number of releases during each calendar year and, prior to June 3, 2024, the number of those releases for which the root cause was determined to be a force majeure event. Keep these records for the current calendar year and the past five calendar years.


(iii) For each release to the atmosphere, the owner or operator shall keep the records specified in paragraphs (i)(11)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section.


(A) The start and end time and date of each pressure release to the atmosphere.


(B) Records of any data, assumptions, and calculations used to estimate of the mass quantity of each organic HAP released during the event.


(C) Records of the root cause analysis and corrective action analysis conducted as required in § 63.648(j)(3)(iii), including an identification of the affected facility, the date and duration of the event, a statement noting whether the event resulted from the same root cause(s) identified in a previous analysis and either a description of the recommended corrective action(s) or an explanation of why corrective action is not necessary under § 63.648(j)(7)(i).


(D) For any corrective action analysis for which implementation of corrective actions are required in § 63.648(j)(7), a description of the corrective action(s) completed within the first 45 days following the discharge and, for action(s) not already completed, a schedule for implementation, including proposed commencement and completion dates.


(iv) For pilot-operated pressure relief devices, general or release-specific records for estimating the quantity of VOC released from the pilot vent during a release event, and records of calculations used to determine the quantity of specific HAP released for any event or series of events in which 72 or more pounds of VOC are released in a day.


(12) For each maintenance vent opening subject to the requirements in § 63.643(c), the owner or operator shall keep the applicable records specified in paragraphs (i)(12)(i) through (vi) of this section.


(i) The owner or operator shall maintain standard site procedures used to deinventory equipment for safety purposes (*e.g.,* hot work or vessel entry procedures) to document the procedures used to meet the requirements in § 63.643(c). The current copy of the procedures shall be retained and available on-site at all times. Previous versions of the standard site procedures, is applicable, shall be retained for five years.


(ii) If complying with the requirements of § 63.643(c)(1)(i) and the concentration of the vapor at the time of the vessel opening exceeds 10 percent of its LEL, identification of the maintenance vent, the process units or equipment associated with the maintenance vent, the date of maintenance vent opening, and the concentration of the vapor at the time of the vessel opening.


(iii) If complying with the requirements of § 63.643(c)(1)(ii) and either the vessel pressure at the time of the vessel opening exceeds 5 psig or the concentration of the vapor at the time of the active purging was initiated exceeds 10 percent of its LEL, identification of the maintenance vent, the process units or equipment associated with the maintenance vent, the date of maintenance vent opening, the pressure of the vessel or equipment at the time of discharge to the atmosphere and, if applicable, the concentration of the vapors in the equipment when active purging was initiated.


(iv) If complying with the requirements of § 63.643(c)(1)(iii), records used to estimate the total quantity of VOC in the equipment and the type and size limits of equipment that contain less than 72 pounds of VOC at the time of maintenance vent opening. For each maintenance vent opening for which the deinventory procedures specified in paragraph (i)(12)(i) of this section are not followed or for which the equipment opened exceeds the type and size limits established in the records specified in this paragraph, identification of the maintenance vent, the process units or equipment associated with the maintenance vent, the date of maintenance vent opening, and records used to estimate the total quantity of VOC in the equipment at the time the maintenance vent was opened to the atmosphere.


(v) If complying with the requirements of § 63.643(c)(1)(iv), identification of the maintenance vent, the process units or equipment associated with the maintenance vent, records documenting the lack of a pure hydrogen supply, the date of maintenance vent opening, and the concentration of the vapors in the equipment at the time of discharge to the atmosphere for each applicable maintenance vent opening.


(vi) If complying with the requirements of § 63.643(c)(1)(v), identification of the maintenance vent, the process units or equipment associated with the maintenance vent, records documenting actions taken to comply with other applicable alternatives and why utilization of this alternative was required, the date of maintenance vent opening, the equipment pressure and concentration of the vapors in the equipment at the time of discharge, an indication of whether active purging was performed and the pressure of the equipment during the installation or removal of the blind if active purging was used, the duration the maintenance vent was open during the blind installation or removal process, and records used to estimate the total quantity of VOC in the equipment at the time the maintenance vent was opened to the atmosphere for each applicable maintenance vent opening.



---

[N] [60 FR 43260, Aug. 18, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 29881, June 12, 1996; 63 FR 44141, Aug. 18, 1998. Redesignated and amended at 74 FR 55686, 55687, Oct. 28, 2009; 75 FR 37731, June 30, 2010; 78 FR 37148, June 20, 2013; 80 FR 75246, Dec. 1, 2015; 81 FR 45241, July 13, 2016; 83 FR 60715, Nov. 26, 2018; 85 FR 6083, Feb. 4, 2020; 89 FR 23858, Apr. 4, 2024]




