# ยง 525.8   Processing of petitions.

(a) If a petition is found not to contain the information required by this part, the petition is informed about the areas of insufficiency and advised that the petition will not receive further consideration until the required information is submitted.


(b) The Administrator may request the petitioner to provide information in addition to that required by this part.


(c) The Administrator publishes a proposed decision in the _Federal Register._ The proposed decision indicates the proposed grant of the petition and establishment of an alternative average fuel economy standard, or the proposed denial of the petition, specifies the reasons for the proposal and invites written public comment on the proposal.


(d) Any interested person may, upon written request to the Administrator not later than 15 days after the publication of a notice under paragraph (c) of this section, meet informally with an appropriate official of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to discuss the petition or notice.


(e) After the conclusion of the period for public comment on the proposal, the Administrator publishes a final decision in the _Federal Register._ The final decision is based on the petition, written public comments, and other available information. The final decision sets forth the grant of the exemption and establishes an alternative average fuel economy standard or the denial of the petition, and the reasons for the decision.



---

[N] [42 FR 38376, July 28, 1977, as amended at 44 FR 55579, Sept. 27, 1979]




