# § 5.85   Frequencies and policy governing frequency assignment.

(a)(1) Stations operating in the Experimental Radio Service may be authorized to use any Federal or non-Federal frequency designated in the Table of Frequency Allocations set forth in part 2 of this chapter, provided that the need for the frequency requested is fully justified by the applicant. Stations authorized under Subparts E and F are subject to additional restrictions.


(2) Applications to use any frequency or frequency band exclusively allocated to the passive services (including the radio astronomy service) must include an explicit justification of why nearby bands that have non-passive allocations are not adequate for the experiment. Such applications must also state that the applicant acknowledges that long term or multiple location use of passive bands is not possible and that the applicant intends to transition any long-term use to a band with appropriate allocations.


(b) Frequency or frequency bands are assigned to stations in the Experimental Radio Service on a shared basis and are not assigned for the exclusive use of any one licensee. Frequency assignments may be restricted to specified geographical areas.


(c) *Broadcast experimental radio stations.* (1) The applicant shall select frequencies best suited to the purpose of the experimentation and on which there appears to be the least likelihood of interference to established stations.


(2) Except as indicated only frequencies allocated to broadcasting service are assigned. If an experiment cannot be feasibly conducted on frequencies allocated to a broadcasting service, an experimental station may be authorized to operate on other frequencies upon a satisfactory showing of the need therefore and a showing that the proposed operation can be conducted without causing harmful interference to established services.


(d) *Use of Public Safety Frequencies.* (1) *Conventional experimental licenses.* Applicants in the Experimental Radio Service shall avoid use of public safety frequencies identified in part 90 of this chapter except when a compelling showing is made that use of such frequencies is in the public interest. If an experimental license to use public safety radio frequencies is granted, the authorization will include a condition requiring the experimental licensee to coordinate the operation with the appropriate frequency coordinator or all of the public safety licensees using the frequencies in question in the experimenter's proposed area of operation.


(2) *Program experimental licenses.* A program licensee shall plan a program of experimentation that avoids use of public safety frequencies, and may only operate on such frequencies when it can make a compelling showing that use of such frequencies is in the public interest. A licensee planning to operate on public safety frequencies must incorporate its public interest showing into the narrative statement it prepares under § 5.309(a)(1), and must coordinate, prior to operating, with the appropriate frequency coordinator or all of the public safety licensees that operate on the frequencies in question in the program experimental licensee's proposed area of operation


(e) The Commission may, at its discretion, condition any experimental license or STA on the requirement that before commencing operation, the new licensee coordinate its proposed facility with other licensees that may receive interference as a result of the new licensee's operations.


(f) *Protection of FCC monitoring stations.* (1) Applicants may need to protect FCC monitoring stations from interference and their station authorization may be conditioned accordingly. Geographical coordinates of such stations are listed in § 0.121(b) of this chapter.


(2) In the event that calculated value of expected field strength exceeds a direct wave fundamental field strength of greater than 10 mV/m in the authorized bandwidth of service (−65.8 dBW/m
2 power flux density assuming a free space characteristic impedance of 120π ohms) at the reference coordinates, or if there is any question whether field strength levels might exceed the threshold value, the applicant should call the FCC, telephone 1-888-225-5322 (1-888-CALL FCC).


(3) Coordination is suggested particularly for those applicants who have no reliable data that indicates whether the field strength or power flux density figure indicated in paragraph (f)(2) of this section would be exceeded by their proposed radio facilities (except mobile stations). The following is a suggested guide for determining whether coordination is needed:


(i) All stations within 2.4 kilometers (1.5 statute miles);


(ii) Stations within 4.8 kilometers (3 statute miles) with 50 watts or more average ERP in the primary plane of polarization in the azimuthal direction of the Monitoring Station;


(iii) Stations within 16 kilometers (10 statute miles) with 1 kW or more average ERP in the primary plane of polarization in the azimuthal direction of the Monitoring Station;


(iv) Stations within 80 kilometers (50 statute miles) with 25 kW or more average ERP in the primary plane of polarization in the azimuthal direction of the Monitoring Station.


(4) Advance coordination for stations operating above 1000 MHz is recommended only where the proposed station is in the vicinity of a monitoring station designated as a satellite monitoring facility in § 0.121(b) of this chapter and also meets the criteria outlined in paragraphs (f)(2) and (3) of this section.



---

[N] [78 FR 25162, Apr. 29, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 52414, Aug. 31, 2015]




