# ยง 68.54   Administrative review of a final order of an Administrative Law Judge in cases arising under section 274A or 274C.

(a) *Authority of the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer.* In a case arising under section 274A or 274C of the INA, the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer has discretionary authority, pursuant to sections 274A(e)(7) and 274C(d)(4) of the INA and 5 U.S.C. 557, to review any final order of an Administrative Law Judge in accordance with the provisions of this section.


(1) A party may file with the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer a written request for administrative review within ten (10) days of the date of entry of the Administrative Law Judge's final order, stating the reasons for or basis upon which it seeks review.


(2) The Chief Administrative Hearing Officer may review an Administrative Law Judge's final order on his or her own initiative by issuing a notification of administrative review within ten (10) days of the date of entry of the Administrative Law Judge's order. This notification shall state the issues to be reviewed.


(b) *Written and oral arguments.* (1) In any case in which administrative review has been requested or ordered pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the parties may file briefs or other written statements within twenty-one (21) days of the date of entry of the Administrative Law Judge's order.


(2) At the request of a party, or on the Officer's own initiative, the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer may, at the Officer's discretion, permit or require additional filings or may conduct oral argument in person or telephonically.


(c) *Filing and service of documents relating to administrative review.* All requests for administrative review, briefs, and other filings relating to review by the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer shall be filed and served by facsimile or same-day hand delivery, or if such filing or service cannot be made, by overnight delivery, as provided in ยง 68.6(c). A notification of administrative review by the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer shall also be served by facsimile or same-day hand delivery, or if such service cannot be made, by overnight delivery service.


(d) *Review by the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer.* (1) On or before thirty (30) days subsequent to the date of entry of the Administrative Law Judge's final order, but not before the time for filing briefs has expired, the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer may enter an order that modifies or vacates the Administrative Law Judge's order, or remands the case to the Administrative Law Judge for further proceedings consistent with the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer's order. However, the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer is not obligated to enter an order unless the Administrative Law Judge's order is modified, vacated or remanded.


(2) If the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer enters an order that remands the case to the Administrative Law Judge, the Administrative Law Judge will conduct further proceedings consistent with the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer's order. Any administrative review of the Administrative Law Judge's subsequent order shall be conducted in accordance with this section.


(3) The Chief Administrative Hearing Officer may make technical corrections to the Officer's order up to and including thirty (30) days subsequent to the issuance of that order.


(e) *Final agency order.* If the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer enters a final order that modifies or vacates the Administrative Law Judge's final order, and the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer's order is not referred to the Attorney General pursuant to ยง 68.55, the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer's order becomes the final agency order thirty (30) days subsequent to the date of the modification or vacation.



---

[N] [Order No. 2203-99, 64 FR 7082, Feb. 12, 1999]




