# § 63.4   Prohibited activities and circumvention.

(a) *Prohibited activities.* (1) No owner or operator subject to the provisions of this part must operate any affected source in violation of the requirements of this part. Affected sources subject to and in compliance with either an extension of compliance or an exemption from compliance are not in violation of the requirements of this part. An extension of compliance can be granted by the Administrator under this part; by a State with an approved permit program; or by the President under section 112(i)(4) of the Act.


(2) No owner or operator subject to the provisions of this part shall fail to keep records, notify, report, or revise reports as required under this part.


(3)-(5) [Reserved]


(b) *Circumvention.* No owner or operator subject to the provisions of this part shall build, erect, install, or use any article, machine, equipment, or process to conceal an emission that would otherwise constitute noncompliance with a relevant standard. Such concealment includes, but is not limited to—


(1) The use of diluents to achieve compliance with a relevant standard based on the concentration of a pollutant in the effluent discharged to the atmosphere;


(2) The use of gaseous diluents to achieve compliance with a relevant standard for visible emissions; and


(c) *Fragmentation.* Fragmentation after November 15, 1990 which divides ownership of an operation, within the same facility among various owners where there is no real change in control, will not affect applicability. The owner and operator must not use fragmentation or phasing of reconstruction activities (i.e., intentionally dividing reconstruction into multiple parts for purposes of avoiding new source requirements) to avoid becoming subject to new source requirements.



---

[N] [59 FR 12430, Mar. 16, 1994, as amended at 67 FR 16598, Apr. 5, 2002]




