# § 430.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this part, words shall be defined as provided for in section 321 of the Act and as follows—


*3-Way incandescent lamp* means an incandescent lamp that—


(1) Employs two filaments, operated separately and in combination, to provide three light levels; and


(2) Is designated on the lamp packaging and marketing materials as being a 3-way incandescent lamp.


*700 series fluorescent lamp* means a fluorescent lamp with a color rendering index (measured according to the test procedures outlined in Appendix R to subpart B of this part) that is in the range (inclusive) of 70 to 79.


*Act* means the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6291-6316.


*Activation lock* means a control mechanism (either by a physical device directly on the water heater or a control system integrated into the water heater) that is locked by default and contains a physical, software, or digital communication that must be activated with an activation key to enable to the product to operate at its designed specifications and capabilities and without which the activation of the product will provide not greater than 50 percent of the rated first hour delivery of hot water certified by the manufacturer.


*Active mode* means the condition in which an energy-using product—


(1) Is connected to a main power source;


(2) Has been activated; and


(3) Provides one or more main functions.


*Air cleaner* means a product for improving indoor air quality, other than a central air conditioner, room air conditioner, portable air conditioner, dehumidifier, or furnace, that is an electrically-powered, self-contained, mechanically encased assembly that contains means to remove, destroy, or deactivate particulates, VOC, and/or microorganisms from the air. It excludes products that operate solely by means of ultraviolet light without a fan for air circulation.


*All-refrigerator* means a refrigerator that does not include a compartment capable of maintaining compartment temperatures below 32 °F (0 °C) as determined according to the provisions in § 429.14(d)(2) of this chapter. It may include a compartment of 0.50 cubic-foot capacity (14.2 liters) or less for the freezing and storage of ice.


*Annual fuel utilization efficiency* means the efficiency descriptor for furnaces and boilers, determined using test procedures prescribed under section 323 and based on the assumption that all— 


(1) Weatherized warm air furnaces or boilers are located out-of-doors; 


(2) Warm air furnaces which are not weatherized are located indoors and all combustion and ventilation air is admitted through grill or ducts from the outdoors and does not communicate with air in the conditioned space; 


(3) Boilers which are not weatherized are located within the heated space. 


*ANSI* means the American National Standards Institute.


*Appliance lamp* means any lamp that—


(1) Is specifically designed to operate in a household appliance and has a maximum wattage of 40 watts (including an oven lamp, refrigerator lamp, and vacuum cleaner lamp); and


(2) When sold at retail, is designated and marketed for the intended application, with


(i) The designation on the lamp packaging; and


(ii) Marketing materials that identify the lamp as being for appliance use.


*ASME* means the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.


*Automatic clothes washer* means a class of clothes washer which has a control system which is capable of scheduling a preselected combination of operations, such as regulation of water temperature, regulation of the water fill level, and performance of wash, rinse, drain, and spin functions without the need for user intervention subsequent to the initiation of machine operation. Some models may require user intervention to initiate these different segments of the cycle after the machine has begun operation, but they do not require the user to intervene to regulate the water temperature by adjusting the external water faucet valves. 


*Back-up battery charger* means a battery charger excluding UPSs:


(1) That is embedded in a separate end-use product that is designed to continuously operate using mains power (including end-use products that use external power supplies); and


(2) Whose sole purpose is to recharge a battery used to maintain continuity of power in order to provide normal or partial operation of a product in case of input power failure.


*Ballast* means a device used with an electric discharge lamp to obtain necessary circuit conditions (voltage, current, and waveform) for starting and operating.


*Ballast efficacy factor* means the relative light output divided by the power input of a fluorescent lamp ballast, as measured under test conditions specified in ANSI Standard C82.2-1984. 


*Ballast luminous efficiency* means the total fluorescent lamp arc power divided by the fluorescent lamp ballast input power multiplied by the appropriate frequency adjustment factor, as defined in appendix Q of subpart B of this part.


*Baseboard electric heater* means an electric heater which is intended to be recessed in or surface mounted on walls at floor level, which is characterized by long, low physical dimensions, and which transfers heat by natural convection and/or radiation. 


*Basic model* means all units of a given type of covered product (or class thereof) manufactured by one manufacturer; having the same primary energy source; and, which have essentially identical electrical, physical, and functional (or hydraulic) characteristics that affect energy consumption, energy efficiency, water consumption, or water efficiency; and


(1) With respect to general service fluorescent lamps, general service incandescent lamps, and incandescent reflector lamps: Lamps that have essentially identical light output and electrical characteristics—including lamp efficacy and color rendering index (CRI).


(2) With respect to faucets and showerheads: Have the identical flow control mechanism attached to or installed within the fixture fittings, or the identical water-passage design features that use the same path of water in the highest flow mode.


(3) With respect to furnace fans: Are marketed and/or designed to be installed in the same type of installation; and


(4) With respect to central air conditioners and central air conditioning heat pumps essentially identical electrical, physical, and functional (or hydraulic) characteristics means:


(i) For split systems manufactured by outdoor unit manufacturers (OUMs): all individual combinations having the same model of outdoor unit, which means comparably performing compressor(s) [a variation of no more than five percent in displacement rate (volume per time) as rated by the compressor manufacturer, and no more than five percent in capacity and power input for the same operating conditions as rated by the compressor manufacturer], outdoor coil(s) [no more than five percent variation in face area and total fin surface area; same fin material; same tube material], and outdoor fan(s) [no more than ten percent variation in air flow and no more than twenty percent variation in power input];


(ii) For split systems having indoor units manufactured by independent coil manufacturers (ICMs): all individual combinations having comparably performing indoor coil(s) [plus or minus one square foot face area, plus or minus one fin per inch fin density, and the same fin material, tube material, number of tube rows, tube pattern, and tube size]; and


(iii) For single-package systems: all individual models having comparably performing compressor(s) [no more than five percent variation in displacement rate (volume per time) rated by the compressor manufacturer, and no more than five percent variations in capacity and power input rated by the compressor manufacturer corresponding to the same compressor rating conditions], outdoor coil(s) and indoor coil(s) [no more than five percent variation in face area and total fin surface area; same fin material; same tube material], outdoor fan(s) [no more than ten percent variation in outdoor air flow], and indoor blower(s) [no more than ten percent variation in indoor air flow, with no more than twenty percent variation in fan motor power input];


(iv) Except that,


(A) for single-package systems and single-split systems, manufacturers may instead choose to make each individual model/combination its own basic model provided the testing and represented value requirements in 10 CFR 429.16 of this chapter are met; and


(B) For multi-split, multi-circuit, and multi-head mini-split combinations, a basic model may not include both individual small-duct, high velocity (SDHV) combinations and non-SDHV combinations even when they include the same model of outdoor unit. The manufacturer may choose to identify specific individual combinations as additional basic models.


*Basic-voltage external power supply* means an external power supply that is not a low-voltage external power supply.


*Batch* means a collection of production units of a basic model from which a batch sample is selected. 


*Batch sample* means the collection of units of the same basic model from which test units are selected. 


*Batch sample size* means the number of units in a batch sample. 


*Batch size* means the number of units in a batch. 


*Battery charger* means a device that charges batteries for consumer products, including battery chargers embedded in other consumer products.


*Black light lamp* means a lamp that is designed and marketed as a black light lamp and is an ultraviolet lamp with the highest radiant power peaks in the UV-A band (315 to 400 nm) of the electromagnetic spectrum.


*Blowout action* means a means of flushing a water closet whereby a jet of water directed at the bowl outlet opening pushes the bowl contents into the upleg, over the weir, and into the gravity drainage system.


*Blowout bowl* means a non-siphonic water closet bowl with an integral flushing rim, a trap at the rear of the bowl, and a visible or concealed jet that operates with a blowout action.


*BPAR incandescent reflector lamp* means a reflector lamp as shown in figure C78.21-278 of ANSI C78.21-2016 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).


*BR30* means a BR incandescent reflector lamp with a diameter of 30/8ths of an inch.


*BR40* means a BR incandescent reflector lamp with a diameter of 40/8ths of an inch.


*BR incandescent reflector lamp* means a reflector lamp that has a bulged section below the bulb's major diameter and above its approximate base line as shown in Figure 1 (RB) of ANSI C78.79-2020. A BR30 lamp has a lamp wattage of 85 or less than 66 and a BR40 lamp has a lamp wattage of 120 or less.


*Btu* means British thermal unit, which is the quantity of heat required to raise the temperature of one pound of water one degree Fahrenheit. 


*Bug lamp* means a lamp that is designed and marketed as a bug lamp, has radiant power peaks above 550 nm on the electromagnetic spectrum, and has a visible yellow coating.


*Built-in compact cooler* means any cooler with a total refrigerated volume less than 7.75 cubic feet and no more than 24 inches in depth, excluding doors, handles, and custom front panels, that is designed, intended, and marketed exclusively to be:


(1) Installed totally encased by cabinetry or panels that are attached during installation;


(2) Securely fastened to adjacent cabinetry, walls or floor;


(3) Equipped with unfinished sides that are not visible after installation; and


(4) Equipped with an integral factory-finished face or built to accept a custom front panel.


*Built-in cooler* means any cooler with a total refrigerated volume of 7.75 cubic feet or greater and no more than 24 inches in depth, excluding doors, handles, and custom front panels; that is designed, intended, and marketed exclusively to be:


(1) Installed totally encased by cabinetry or panels that are attached during installation;


(2) Securely fastened to adjacent cabinetry, walls or floor;


(3) Equipped with unfinished sides that are not visible after installation; and


(4) Equipped with an integral factory-finished face or built to accept a custom front panel.


*Built-in refrigerator/refrigerator-freezer/freezer* means any refrigerator, refrigerator-freezer or freezer with 7.75 cubic feet or greater total volume and 24 inches or less depth not including doors, handles, and custom front panels; with sides which are not finished and not designed to be visible after installation; and that is designed, intended, and marketed exclusively (1) To be installed totally encased by cabinetry or panels that are attached during installation, (2) to be securely fastened to adjacent cabinetry, walls or floor, and (3) to either be equipped with an integral factory-finished face or accept a custom front panel.


*Candelabra base incandescent lamp* means a lamp that uses a candelabra screw base as described in ANSI C81.61, Specifications for Electric Bases, common designations E11 and E12 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).


*Casement-only* means a room air conditioner designed for mounting in a casement window with an encased assembly with a width of 14.8 inches or less and a height of 11.2 inches or less.


*Casement-slider* means a room air conditioner with an encased assembly designed for mounting in a sliding or casement window with a width of 15.5 inches or less.


*Ceiling electric heater* means an electric heater which is intended to be recessed in, surface mounted on, or hung from a ceiling, and which transfers heat by radiation and/or convection (either natural or forced). 


*Ceiling fan* means a nonportable device that is suspended from a ceiling for circulating air via the rotation of fan blades. For the purpose of this definition:


(1) Circulating air means the discharge of air in an upward or downward direction. A ceiling fan that has a ratio of fan blade span (in inches) to maximum rotation rate (in revolutions per minute) greater than 0.06 provides circulating air.


(2) For all other ceiling fan related definitions, see appendix U to this subpart.


*Ceiling fan light kit* means equipment designed to provide light from a ceiling fan that can be—


(1) Integral, such that the equipment is attached to the ceiling fan prior to the time of retail sale; or


(2) Attachable, such that at the time of retail sale the equipment is not physically attached to the ceiling fan, but may be included inside the ceiling fan at the time of sale or sold separately for subsequent attachment to the fan.


*Central air conditioner or central air conditioning heat pump* means a product, other than a packaged terminal air conditioner, packaged terminal heat pump, single-phase single-package vertical air conditioner with cooling capacity less than 65,000 Btu/h, single-phase single-package vertical heat pump with cooling capacity less than 65,000 Btu/h, computer room air conditioner, or unitary dedicated outdoor air system as these equipment categories are defined at 10 CFR 431.92, which is powered by single phase electric current, air cooled, rated below 65,000 Btu per hour, not contained within the same cabinet as a furnace, the rated capacity of which is above 225,000 Btu per hour, and is a heat pump or a cooling unit only. A central air conditioner or central air conditioning heat pump may consist of: A single-package unit; an outdoor unit and one or more indoor units; an indoor unit only; or an outdoor unit with no match. In the case of an indoor unit only or an outdoor unit with no match, the unit must be tested and rated as a system (combination of both an indoor and an outdoor unit). For all central air conditioner and central air conditioning heat pump-related definitions, see appendix M or M1 of subpart B of this part.


*Central system humidifier* means a class of humidifier designed to add moisture into the air stream of a heating system. 


*Circulating water heater* means a water heater that does not have an operational scheme in which the burner, heating element, or compressor initiates and/or terminates heating based on sensing flow; has a water temperature sensor located at the inlet or the outlet of the water heater or in a separate storage tank that is the primary means of initiating and terminating heating; and must be used in combination with a recirculating pump to circulate water and either a separate storage tank or water circulation loop in order to achieve the water flow and temperature conditions recommended in the manufacturer's installation and operation instructions. A circulating water heater constitutes a storage-type water heater.






*Class A external power supply*—


(1) Means a device that—


(i) Is designed to convert line voltage AC input into lower voltage AC or DC output;


(ii) Is able to convert to only one AC or DC output voltage at a time;


(iii) Is sold with, or intended to be used with, a separate end-use product that constitutes the primary load;


(iv) Is contained in a separate physical enclosure from the end-use product;


(v) Is connected to the end-use product via a removable or hard-wired male/female electrical connection, cable, cord, or other wiring; and


(vi) Has nameplate output power that is less than or equal to 250 watts;


(2) But, does not include any device that—


(i) Requires Federal Food and Drug Administration listing and approval as a medical device in accordance with section 513 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360(c)); or


(ii) Powers the charger of a detachable battery pack or charges the battery of a product that is fully or primarily motor operated.


*Clothes washer* means a consumer product designed to clean clothes, utilizing a water solution of soap and/or detergent and mechanical agitation or other movement, and must be one of the following classes: automatic clothes washers, semi-automatic clothes washers, and other clothes washers. 


*Cold temperature fluorescent lamp* means a fluorescent lamp specifically designed to start at −20 °F when used with a ballast conforming to the requirements of ANSI C78.81 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3) and ANSI C78.901 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3), and is expressly designated as a cold temperature lamp both in markings on the lamp and in marketing materials, including catalogs, sales literature, and promotional material.


*Color Rendering Index or CRI* means the measured degree of color shift objects undergo when illuminated by a light source as compared with the color of those same objects when illuminated by a reference source of comparable color temperature. 


*Colored fluorescent lamp* means a fluorescent lamp designated and marketed as a colored lamp and not designed or marketed for general illumination applications with either of the following characteristics:


(1) A CRI less than 40, as determined according to the method set forth in CIE Publication 13.3 (incorporated by reference; *see* § 430.3); or


(2) A correlated color temperature less than 2,500K or greater than 7,000K as determined according to the method set forth in IES LM-9 (incorporated by reference; *see* § 430.3). 


*Colored incandescent lamp* means an incandescent lamp designated and marketed as a colored lamp that has—


(1) A color rendering index of less than 50, as determined according to the test method given in CIE 13.3 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3); or


(2) A correlated color temperature of less than 2,500K, or greater than 4,600K, where correlated temperature is computed according to the “Computation of Correlated Color Temperature and Distribution Temperature,” Journal of the Optical Society of America, (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).


*Colored lamp* means a colored fluorescent lamp, a colored incandescent lamp, or a lamp designed and marketed as a colored lamp with either of the following characteristics (if multiple modes of operation are possible [such as variable CCT], either of the below characteristics must be maintained throughout all modes of operation):


(1) A CRI less than 40, as determined according to the method set forth in CIE 13.3 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3); or


(2) A CCT less than 2,500 K or greater than 7,000 K.


*Combination cooler refrigeration product* means any cooler-refrigerator, cooler-refrigerator-freezer, or cooler-freezer.


*Combined-duct portable air conditioner* means a portable air conditioner for which condenser inlet and outlet air streams flow through separate ducts housed in a single duct structure.




*Commercial and industrial power supply* means a power supply that is used to convert electric current into DC or lower-voltage AC current, is not distributed in commerce for use with a consumer product, and may include any of the following characteristics:


(1) A power supply that requires 3-phase input power and that is incapable of operating on household mains electricity;


(2) A DC-DC-only power supply that is incapable of operating on household mains electricity;


(3) A power supply with a fixed, non-removable connection to an end-use device that is not a consumer product as defined under the Act;


(4) A power supply whose output connector is uniquely shaped to fit only an end-use device that is not a consumer product;


(5) A power supply that cannot be readily connected to an end-use device that is a consumer product without significant modification or customization of the power supply itself or the end-use device;


(6) A power supply packaged with an end-use device that is not a consumer product, as evidenced by either:


(i) Such device being certified as, or declared to be in conformance with, a specific standard applicable only to non-consumer products. For example, a power supply model intended for use with an end-use device that is certified to the following standards would not meet the EPCA definition of an EPS:


(A) CISPR 11 (Class A Equipment), “Industrial, scientific and medical equipment—Radio-frequency disturbance—Limits and methods of measurement”;


(B) UL 1480A, “Standard for Speakers for Commercial and Professional Use”;


(C) UL 813, “Standard for Commercial Audio Equipment”; and


(D) UL 1727, “Standard for Commercial Electric Personal Grooming Appliances”; or


(ii) Such device being excluded or exempted from inclusion within, or conformance with, a law, regulation, or broadly-accepted industry standard where such exclusion or exemption applies only to non-consumer products;


(7) A power supply distributed in commerce for use with an end-use device where:


(i) The end-use device is not a consumer product, as evidenced by either the circumstances in paragraph (6)(i) or (ii) of this definition; and


(ii) The end-use device for which the power supply is distributed in commerce is reasonably disclosed to the public, such as by identification of the end-use device on the packaging for the power supply, documentation physically present with the power supply, or on the manufacturer's or private labeler's public website; or


(8) A power supply that is not marketed for residential or consumer use, and that is clearly marked (or, alternatively, the packaging of the individual power supply, the shipping container of multiple such power supplies, or associated documentation physically present with the power supply when distributed in commerce is clearly marked) “FOR USE WITH COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT ONLY” or “NOT FOR RESIDENTIAL OR CONSUMER USE,” with the marking designed and applied so that the marking will be visible and legible during customary conditions for the item on which the marking is placed.


*Compact fluorescent lamp (CFL)* means an integrated or non-integrated single-base, low-pressure mercury, electric-discharge source in which a fluorescing coating transforms some of the ultraviolet energy generated by the mercury discharge into light; the term does not include circline or U-shaped lamps.


*Compact refrigerator/refrigerator-freezer/freezer* means any refrigerator, refrigerator-freezer or freezer with a total refrigerated volume of less than 7.75 cubic feet (220 liters). (Total refrigerated volume shall be determined using the applicable test procedure appendix prescribed in subpart B of this part.)


*Component video* means a video display interface as defined in the Consumer Electronics Association's (CEA) standard, CEA-770.3-D (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).


*Composite video* means a video display interface that uses Radio Corporation of America (RCA) connections carrying a signal defined by the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers' (SMPTE) standard, SMPTE 170M-2004 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3) for regions that support a power frequency of 59.94 Hz or International Telecommunication Union's (ITU) standard, ITU-R BT 470-6 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3) for regions that support a power frequency of 50 Hz.


*Consumer product* means any article (other than an automobile, as defined in Section 501(1) of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act):


(1) Of a type—


(i) Which in operation consumes, or is designed to consume, energy or, with respect to showerheads, faucets, water closets, and urinals, water; and


(ii) Which, to any significant extent, is distributed in commerce for personal use or consumption by individuals;


(2) Without regard to whether such article of such type is in fact distributed in commerce for personal use or consumption by an individual, except that such term includes fluorescent lamp ballasts, general service fluorescent lamps, incandescent reflector lamps, showerheads, faucets, water closets, and urinals distributed in commerce for personal or commercial use or consumption.


*Consumer refrigeration product* means a refrigerator, refrigerator-freezer, freezer, or miscellaneous refrigeration product.


*Contractor* means a person (other than the manufacturer or distributor) who sells to and/or installs for an end user a central air conditioner subject to regional standards. The term “end user” means the entity that purchases or selects for purchase the central air conditioner. Some examples of typical “end users” are homeowners, building owners, building managers, and property developers.


*Controlling parameter* means a measurable quantity or an algorithm (such as temperature or usage pattern) used for inferring heating load to a residential boiler, which would then result in incremental changes in boiler supply water temperature.


*Convection microwave oven* means a microwave oven that incorporates convection features and any other means of cooking in a single compartment.






*Conventional cooking top* means a category of cooking products which is a household cooking appliance consisting of a horizontal surface containing one or more surface units that utilize a gas flame, electric resistance heating, or electric inductive heating. This includes any conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product.


*Conventional oven* means a category of cooking products which is a household cooking appliance consisting of one or more compartments intended for the cooking or heating of food by means of either a gas flame or electric resistance heating. It does not include portable or countertop ovens which use electric resistance heating for the cooking or heating of food and are designed for an electrical supply of approximately 120 volts. This includes any conventional oven(s) component of a combined cooking product.




*Conventional room air cleaner* means an air cleaner that—


(1) Is a portable or wall mounted (fixed) unit, excluding ceiling mounted unit, that plugs into an electrical outlet;


(2) Operates with a fan for air circulation; and


(3) Contains means to remove, destroy, and/or deactivate particulates. The term portable is as defined in section 2.1.3.1 of AHAM AC-7-2022 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3) and fixed is as defined in section 2.1.3.2 of AHAM AC-7-2022.




*Cooking products* means consumer products that are used as the major household cooking appliances. They are designed to cook or heat different types of food by one or more of the following sources of heat: Gas, electricity, or microwave energy. Each product may consist of a horizontal cooking top containing one or more surface units and/or one or more heating compartments.


*Cooler* means a cabinet, used with one or more doors, that has a source of refrigeration capable of operating on single-phase, alternating current and is capable of maintaining compartment temperatures either:


(1) No lower than 39 °F (3.9 °C); or


(2) In a range that extends no lower than 37 °F (2.8 °C) but at least as high as 60 °F (15.6 °C) as determined according to the applicable provisions in § 429.61(d)(2) of this chapter.


*Cooler-all-refrigerator* means a cooler-refrigerator that does not include a compartment capable of maintaining compartment temperatures below 32 °F (0 °C) as determined according to the provisions in § 429.61(d)(2) of this chapter. It may include a compartment of 0.50 cubic-foot capacity (14.2 liters) or less for the freezing and storage of ice.


*Cooler-freezer* means a cabinet, used with one or more doors, that has a source of refrigeration that requires single-phase, alternating current electric energy input only, and consists of two or more compartments, including at least one cooler compartment as defined in appendix A of subpart B of this part, where the remaining compartment(s) are capable of maintaining compartment temperatures at 0 °F (−17.8 °C) or below as determined according to the provisions in § 429.61(d)(2) of this chapter.


*Cooler-refrigerator* means a cabinet, used with one or more doors, that has a source of refrigeration that requires single-phase, alternating current electric energy input only, and consists of two or more compartments, including at least one cooler compartment as defined in appendix A of subpart B of this part, where:


(1) At least one of the remaining compartments is not a cooler compartment as defined in appendix A of subpart B of this part and is capable of maintaining compartment temperatures above 32 °F (0 °C) and below 39 °F (3.9 °C) as determined according to § 429.61(d)(2) of this chapter;


(2) The cabinet may also include a compartment capable of maintaining compartment temperatures below 32 °F (0 °C) as determined according to § 429.61(d)(2) of this chapter; but


(3) The cabinet does not provide a separate low temperature compartment capable of maintaining compartment temperatures below 8 °F (−13.3 °C) as determined according to § 429.61(d)(2) of this chapter.


*Cooler-refrigerator-freezer* means a cabinet, used with one or more doors, that has a source of refrigeration that requires single-phase, alternating current electric energy input only, and consists of three or more compartments, including at least one cooler compartment as defined in appendix A of subpart B of this part, where:


(1) At least one of the remaining compartments is not a cooler compartment as defined in appendix A of subpart B of this part and is capable of maintaining compartment temperatures above 32 °F (0 °C) and below 39 °F (3.9 °C) as determined according to § 429.61(d)(2) of this chapter; and


(2) At least one other compartment is capable of maintaining compartment temperatures below 8 °F (−13.3 °C) and may be adjusted by the user to a temperature of 0 °F (−17.8 °C) or below as determined according to § 429.61(d)(2) of this chapter.


*Correlated color temperature (CCT)* means the absolute temperature of a blackbody whose chromaticity most nearly resembles that of the light source.


*Covered product* means a consumer product—


(1) Of a type specified in section 322 of the Act; or


(2) That is an air cleaner, battery charger, ceiling fan, ceiling fan light kit, dehumidifier, external power supply, medium base compact fluorescent lamp, miscellaneous refrigeration product, portable air conditioner, portable electric spa, or torchiere.


*Dealer* means a type of contractor, generally with a relationship with one or more specific manufacturers.


*Decorative hearth product* means a gas-fired appliance that—


(1) Simulates a solid-fueled fireplace or presents a flame pattern;


(2) Includes products designed for indoor use, outdoor use, or either indoor or outdoor use;


(3) Is not for use with a thermostat;


(4) For products designed for indoor use, is not designed to provide space heating to the space in which it is installed; and


(5) For products designed for outdoor use, is not designed to provide heat proximate to the unit.


*Dehumidifier* means a product, other than a portable air conditioner, room air conditioner, or packaged terminal air conditioner, that is a self-contained, electrically operated, and mechanically encased assembly consisting of—


(1) A refrigerated surface (evaporator) that condenses moisture from the atmosphere;


(2) A refrigerating system, including an electric motor;


(3) An air-circulating fan; and


(4) A means for collecting or disposing of the condensate.


*Design voltage* with respect to an incandescent lamp means:


(1) The voltage marked as the intended operating voltage;


(2) The mid-point of the voltage range if the lamp is marked with a voltage range; or


(3) 120 V if the lamp is not marked with a voltage or voltage range.


*Designed and marketed* means exclusively designed to fulfill the indicated application and, when distributed in commerce, designated and marketed solely for that application, with the designation prominently displayed on the packaging and all publicly available documents (*e.g.,* product literature, catalogs, and packaging labels). This definition applies to the following covered lighting products: Fluorescent lamp ballasts; fluorescent lamps; general service fluorescent lamps; general service incandescent lamps; general service lamps; incandescent lamps; incandescent reflector lamps; compact fluorescent lamps (including medium base compact fluorescent lamps); LED lamps; and specialty application mercury vapor lamp ballasts.


*Detachable battery* means a battery that is—


(1) Contained in a separate enclosure from the product; and


(2) Intended to be removed or disconnected from the product for recharging.


*Direct heating equipment* means vented home heating equipment and unvented home heating equipment.


*Direct operation external power supply* means an external power supply that can operate a consumer product that is not a battery charger without the assistance of a battery.


*Direct vent system* means a system supplied by a manufacturer which provides outdoor air or air from an unheated space (such as an attic or crawl space) directly to a furnace or vented heater for combustion and for draft relief if the unit is equipped with a draft control device. 


*Dishwasher* means a cabinet-like appliance which with the aid of water and detergent, washes, rinses, and dries (when a drying process is included) dishware, glassware, eating utensils, and most cooking utensils by chemical, mechanical and/or electrical means and discharges to the plumbing drainage system. 


*Distributor* means a person (other than a manufacturer or retailer) to whom a consumer appliance product is delivered or sold for purposes of distribution in commerce.


*DOE* means the Department of Energy. 


*Dual-duct portable air conditioner* means a portable air conditioner that draws some or all of the condenser inlet air from outside the conditioned space through a duct attached to an adjustable window bracket, may draw additional condenser inlet air from the conditioned space, and discharges the condenser outlet air outside the conditioned space by means of a separate duct attached to an adjustable window bracket.


*Dual-flush water closet* means a water closet incorporating a feature that allows the user to flush the water closet with either a reduced or a full volume of water.


*Electric boiler* means an electrically powered furnace designed to supply low pressure steam or hot water for space heating application. A low pressure steam boiler operates at or below 15 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) steam pressure; a hot water boiler operates at or below 160 psig water pressure and 250 °F. water temperature. 


*Electric central furnace* means a furnace designed to supply heat through a system of ducts with air as the heating medium, in which heat is generated by one or more electric resistance heating elements and the heated air is circulated by means of a fan or blower. 


*Electric circulating water heater* means a circulating water heater with an input of 12 kW or less (including heat pump-only units with power inputs of no more than 24 A at 250 V).






*Electric clothes dryer* means a cabinet-like appliance designed to dry fabrics in a tumble-type drum with forced air circulation. The heat source is electricity and the drum and blower(s) are driven by an electric motor(s). 


*Electric heater* means an electric appliance which is a class of unvented home heating equipment in which heat is generated from electrical energy and dissipated by convection and radiation and includes baseboard electric heaters, ceiling electric heaters, floor electric heaters, portable electric heaters, and wall electric heaters. 


*Electric instantaneous water heater* means a water heater that uses electricity as the energy source, has a nameplate input rating of 12 kW or less, and contains no more than one gallon of water per 4,000 Btu per hour of input.




*Electric pool heater* means a pool heater other than an electric spa heater that uses electricity as its primary energy source.




*Electric spa heater* means a pool heater that—


(1) Uses electricity as its primary energy source;


(2) Has an output capacity (as measured according to appendix P to subpart B of part 430) of 11 kW or less; and


(3) Is designed to be installed within a portable electric spa.




*Electric storage water heater* means a water heater that uses electricity as the energy source, has a nameplate input rating of 12 kW or less, and contains more than one gallon of water per 4,000 Btu per hour of input.


*Electromechanical hydraulic water closet* means any water closet that utilizes electrically operated devices, such as, but not limited to, air compressors, pumps, solenoids, motors, or macerators in place of or to aid gravity in evacuating waste from the toilet bowl.


*Electronic ballast* means a device that uses semiconductors as the primary means to control lamp starting and operation.


*Energy conservation standard* means any standards meeting the definitions of that term in 42 U.S.C. 6291(6) and 42 U.S.C. 6311(18) as well as any other water conservation standards and design requirements found in this part or parts 430 or 431.


*Energy use of a type of consumer product which is used by households* means the energy consumed by such product within housing units occupied by households (such as energy for space heating and cooling, water heating, the operation of appliances, or other activities of the households), and includes energy consumed on any property that is contiguous with a housing unit and that is used primarily by the household occupying the housing unit (such as energy for exterior lights or heating a pool).


*ER incandescent reflector lamp* means a reflector lamp that has an elliptical section below the major diameter of the bulb and above the approximate base line of the bulb, as shown in Figure 1 (RE) of ANSI C78.79-2020 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3) and product space drawings shown in ANSI C78.21-2016 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).


*ER30* means an ER incandescent reflector lamp with a diameter of 30/8ths of an inch.


*ER40* means an ER incandescent reflector lamp with a diameter of 40/8ths of an inch.


*Estimated annual operating cost* means the aggregate retail cost of the energy which is likely to be consumed annually, and in the case of showerheads, faucets, water closets, and urinals, the aggregate retail cost of water and wastewater treatment services likely to be incurred annually, in representative use of a consumer product, determined in accordance with Section 323 of EPCA (42 U.S.C. 6293).


*External power supply* means an external power supply circuit that is used to convert household electric current into DC current or lower-voltage AC current to operate a consumer product. However, the term does not include any “commercial and industrial power supply” as defined in this section, or a power supply circuit, driver, or device that is designed exclusively to be connected to, and power—


(1) Light-emitting diodes providing illumination;


(2) Organic light-emitting diodes providing illumination; or


(3) Ceiling fans using direct current motors.


*External power supply design family* means a set of external power supply basic models, produced by the same manufacturer, which share the same circuit layout, output power, and output cord resistance, but differ in output voltage.


*Faucet* means a lavatory faucet, kitchen faucet, metering faucet, or replacement aerator for a lavatory or kitchen faucet, excluding low-pressure water dispensers and pot fillers.




*Fitting* means a device that controls and guides the flow of water.


*Floor electric heater* means an electric heater which is intended to be recessed in a floor, and which transfers heat by radiation and/or convection (either natural or forced). 


*Fluorescent lamp* means a low pressure mercury electric-discharge source in which a fluorescing coating transforms some of the ultraviolet energy generated by the mercury discharge into light, including only the following:


(1) Any straight-shaped lamp (commonly referred to as 4-foot medium bipin lamps) with medium bipin bases of nominal overall length of 48 inches and rated wattage of 25 or more;


(2) Any U-shaped lamp (commonly referred to as 2-foot U-shaped lamps) with medium bipin bases of nominal overall length between 22 and 25 inches and rated wattage of 25 or more;


(3) Any rapid start lamp (commonly referred to as 8-foot high output lamps) with recessed double contact bases of nominal overall length of 96 inches;


(4) Any instant start lamp (commonly referred to as 8-foot slimline lamps) with single pin bases of nominal overall length of 96 inches and rated wattage of 49 or more;


(5) Any straight-shaped lamp (commonly referred to as 4-foot miniature bipin standard output lamps) with miniature bipin bases of nominal overall length between 45 and 48 inches and rated wattage of 25 or more; and


(6) Any straight-shaped lamp (commonly referred to 4-foot miniature bipin high output lamps) with miniature bipin bases of nominal overall length between 45 and 48 inches and rated wattage of 44 or more.


*Fluorescent lamp ballast* means a device which is used to start and operate fluorescent lamps by providing a starting voltage and current and limiting the current during normal operation. 


*Fluorescent lamp designed for use in reprographic equipment* means a fluorescent lamp intended for use in equipment used to reproduce, reprint, or copy graphic material.


*Flushometer tank* means a device whose function is defined in flushometer valve, but integrated within an accumulator vessel affixed and adjacent to the fixture inlet so as to cause an effective enlargement of the supply line immediately before the unit.


*Flushometer valve* means a valve attached to a pressurized water supply pipe and so designed that when actuated, it opens the line for direct flow into the fixture at a rate and quantity to properly operate the fixture, and then gradually closes to provide trap reseal in the fixture in order to avoid water hammer. The pipe to which this device is connected is in itself of sufficient size, that when open, will allow the device to deliver water at a sufficient rate of flow for flushing purposes.


*Forced air central furnace* means a gas or oil burning furnace designed to supply heat through a system of ducts with air as the heating medium. The heat generated by combustion of gas or oil is transferred to the air within a casing by conduction through heat exchange surfaces and is circulated through the duct system by means of a fan or blower. 


*Freestanding compact cooler* means any cooler, excluding built-in compact coolers, with a total refrigerated volume less than 7.75 cubic feet.


*Freestanding cooler* means any cooler, excluding built-in coolers, with a total refrigerated volume of 7.75 cubic feet or greater.


*Freezer* means a cabinet, used with one or more doors, that has a source of refrigeration that requires single-phase, alternating current electric energy input only and is capable of maintaining compartment temperatures of 0 °F (−17.8 °C) or below as determined according to the provisions in § 429.14(d)(2) of this chapter. It does not include any refrigerated cabinet that consists solely of an automatic ice maker and an ice storage bin arranged so that operation of the automatic icemaker fills the bin to its capacity. However, the term does not include:


(1) Any product that does not include a compressor and condenser unit as an integral part of the cabinet assembly; or


(2) Any miscellaneous refrigeration product that must comply with an applicable miscellaneous refrigeration product energy conservation standard.


*Furnace* means a product which utilizes only single-phase electric current, or single-phase electric current or DC current in conjunction with natural gas, propane, or home heating oil, and which—


(1) Is designed to be the principal heating source for the living space of a residence;


(2) Is not contained within the same cabinet with a central air conditioner whose rated cooling capacity is above 65,000 Btu per hour;


(3) Is an electric central furnace, electric boiler, forced-air central furnace, gravity central furnace, or low-pressure steam or hot water boiler; and


(4) Has a heat input rate of less than 300,000 Btu per hour for electric boilers and low-pressure steam or hot water boilers and less than 225,000 Btu per hour for forced-air central furnaces, gravity central furnaces, and electric central furnaces.


*Furnace fan* means an electrically-powered device used in a consumer product for the purpose of circulating air through ductwork.


*Gas* means either natural gas or propane. 


*Gas clothes dryer* means a cabinet-like appliance designed to dry fabrics in a tumble-type drum with forced air circulation. The heat source is gas and the drum and blower(s) are driven by an electric motor(s).


*Gas-fired circulating water heater* means a circulating water heater with a nominal input of 75,000 Btu/h or less.




*Gas-fired instantaneous water heater* means a water heater that uses gas as the main energy source, has a nameplate input rating less than 200,000 Btu/h, and contains no more than one gallon of water per 4,000 Btu per hour of input.


*Gas-fired pool heater* means a pool heater that uses gas as its primary energy source.


*Gas-fired storage water heater* means a water heater that uses gas as the main energy source, has a nameplate input rating of 75,000 Btu/h or less, and contains more than one gallon of water per 4,000 Btu per hour of input.


*General lighting application* means lighting that provides an interior or exterior area with overall illumination.


*General service fluorescent lamp* means any fluorescent lamp which can be used to satisfy the majority of fluorescent lighting applications, but does not include any lamp designed and marketed for the following nongeneral application:


(1) Fluorescent lamps designed to promote plant growth;


(2) Fluorescent lamps specifically designed for cold temperature applications;


(3) Colored fluorescent lamps;


(4) Impact-resistant fluorescent lamps;


(5) Reflectorized or aperture lamps;


(6) Fluorescent lamps designed for use in reprographic equipment;


(7) Lamps primarily designed to produce radiation in the ultra-violet region of the spectrum; and


(8) Lamps with a Color Rendering Index of 87 or greater.








*General service incandescent lamp* means a standard incandescent or halogen type lamp that is intended for general service applications; has a medium screw base; has a lumen range of not less than 310 lumens and not more than 2,600 lumens or, in the case of a modified spectrum lamp, not less than 232 lumens and not more than 1,950 lumens; and is capable of being operated at a voltage range at least partially within 110 and 130 volts; however, this definition does not apply to the following incandescent lamps—


(1) An appliance lamp;


(2) A black light lamp;


(3) A bug lamp;


(4) A colored lamp;


(5) A G shape lamp with a diameter of 5 inches or more as defined in ANSI C78.79-2020 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3);


(6) An infrared lamp;


(7) A left-hand thread lamp;


(8) A marine lamp;


(9) A marine signal service lamp;


(10) A mine service lamp;


(11) A plant light lamp;


(12) An R20 short lamp;


(13) A sign service lamp;


(14) A silver bowl lamp;


(15) A showcase lamp; and


(16) A traffic signal lamp.










*General service lamp* means a lamp that has an ANSI base; is able to operate at a voltage of 12 volts or 24 volts, at or between 100 to 130 volts, at or between 220 to 240 volts, or of 277 volts for integrated lamps (as set out in this definition), or is able to operate at any voltage for non-integrated lamps (as set out in this definition); has an initial lumen output of greater than or equal to 310 lumens (or 232 lumens for modified spectrum general service incandescent lamps) and less than or equal to 3,300 lumens; is not a light fixture; is not an LED downlight retrofit kit; and is used in general lighting applications. General service lamps include, but are not limited to, general service incandescent lamps, compact fluorescent lamps, general service light-emitting diode lamps, and general service organic light emitting diode lamps. General service lamps do not include:


(1) Appliance lamps;


(2) Black light lamps;


(3) Bug lamps;


(4) Colored lamps;


(5) G shape lamps with a diameter of 5 inches or more as defined in ANSI C78.79-2020 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3);


(6) General service fluorescent lamps;


(7) High intensity discharge lamps;


(8) Infrared lamps;


(9) J, JC, JCD, JCS, JCV, JCX, JD, JS, and JT shape lamps that do not have Edison screw bases;


(10) Lamps that have a wedge base or prefocus base;


(11) Left-hand thread lamps;


(12) Marine lamps;


(13) Marine signal service lamps;


(14) Mine service lamps;


(15) MR shape lamps that have a first number symbol equal to 16 (diameter equal to 2 inches) as defined in ANSI C78.79-2020 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3), operate at 12 volts, and have a lumen output greater than or equal to 800;


(16) Other fluorescent lamps;


(17) Plant light lamps;


(18) R20 short lamps;


(19) Reflector lamps (as set out in this definition) that have a first number symbol less than 16 (diameter less than 2 inches) as defined in ANSI C78.79-2020 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3) and that do not have E26/E24, E26d, E26/50x39, E26/53x39, E29/28, E29/53x39, E39, E39d, EP39, or EX39 bases;


(20) S shape or G shape lamps that have a first number symbol less than or equal to 12.5 (diameter less than or equal to 1.5625 inches) as defined in ANSI C78.79-2014 (R2020) (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3);


(21) Sign service lamps;


(22) Silver bowl lamps;


(23) Showcase lamps;


(24) Specialty MR lamps;


(25) T shape lamps that have a first number symbol less than or equal to 8 (diameter less than or equal to 1 inch) as defined in ANSI C78.79-2020 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3), nominal overall length less than 12 inches, and that are not compact fluorescent lamps (as set out in this definition);


(26) Traffic signal lamps.




*General service light-emitting diode (LED) lamp* means an integrated or non-integrated LED lamp designed for use in general lighting applications (as defined in this section) and that uses light-emitting diodes as the primary source of light.


*General service organic light-emitting diode (OLED) lamp* means an integrated or non- integrated OLED lamp designed for use in general lighting applications (as defined in this section) and that uses organic light-emitting diodes as the primary source of light.


*Gravity central furnace* means a gas fueled furnace which depends primarily on natural convection for circulation of heated air and which is designed to be used in conjunction with a system of ducts. 


*Gravity flush tank water closet* means a water closet designed to flush the bowl with water supplied by gravity only.


*Grid-enabled water heater* means an electric resistance water heater that—


(1) Has a rated storage tank volume of more than 75 gallons;


(2) Is manufactured on or after April 16, 2015;


(3) Is equipped at the point of manufacture with an activation lock and;


(4) Bears a permanent label applied by the manufacturer that—


(i) Is made of material not adversely affected by water;


(ii) Is attached by means of non-water-soluble adhesive; and


(iii) Advises purchasers and end-users of the intended and appropriate use of the product with the following notice printed in 16.5 point Arial Narrow Bold font: “IMPORTANT INFORMATION: This water heater is intended only for use as part of an electric thermal storage or demand response program. It will not provide adequate hot water unless enrolled in such a program and activated by your utility company or another program operator. Confirm the availability of a program in your local area before purchasing or installing this product.”


*Hand-held showerhead* means a showerhead that can be held or fixed in place for the purpose of spraying water onto a bather and that is connected to a flexible hose.


*High-definition multimedia interface or HDMI®* means an audio and video interface as defined by HDMI® Specification Informational Version 1.0 or greater (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).


*Home heating equipment, not including furnaces* means vented home heating equipment and unvented home heating equipment. 


*Household* means an entity consisting of either an individual, a family, or a group of unrelated individuals, who reside in a particular housing unit. For the purpose of this definition:


(1) *Group quarters* means living quarters that are occupied by an institutional group of 10 or more unrelated persons, such as a nursing home, military barracks, halfway house, college dormitory, fraternity or sorority house, convent, shelter, jail or correctional institution.


(2) *Housing unit* means a house, an apartment, a group of rooms, or a single room occupied as separate living quarters, but does not include group quarters.


(3) *Separate living quarters* means living quarters:


(i) To which the occupants have access either:


(A) Directly from outside of the building, or


(B) Through a common hall that is accessible to other living quarters and that does not go through someone else's living quarters, and


(ii) Occupied by one or more persons who live and eat separately from occupant(s) of other living quarters, if any, in the same building.


*Immersed heating element* means an electrically powered heating device which is designed to operate while totally immersed in water in such a manner that the heat generated by the device is imparted directly to the water. 


*Impact-resistant fluorescent lamp* means a lamp that:


(1) Has a coating or equivalent technology that is compliant with NSF/ANSI 51 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3) and is designed to contain the glass if the glass envelope of the lamp is broken; and


(2) Is designated and marketed for the intended application, with:


(i) The designation on the lamp packaging; and


(ii) Marketing materials that identify the lamp as being impact-resistant, shatter-resistant, shatter-proof, or shatter-protected.


*Import* means to import into the customs territory of the United States.


*Incandescent lamp* means a lamp in which light is produced by a filament heated to incandescence by an electric current, including only the following:


(1) Any lamp (commonly referred to as lower wattage non-reflector general service lamps, including any tungsten halogen lamp) that has a rated wattage between 30 and 199, has an E26 medium screw base, has a rated voltage or voltage range that lies at least partially in the range of 115 and 130 volts, and is not a reflector lamp.


(2) Any incandescent reflector lamp.


(3) Any general service incandescent lamp (commonly referred to as a high-or higher-wattage lamp) that has a rated wattage above 199 (above 205 for a high wattage reflector lamp).


*Incandescent reflector lamp* (commonly referred to as a reflector lamp) means any lamp in which light is produced by a filament heated to incandescence by an electric current, which: contains an inner reflective coating on the outer bulb to direct the light; is not colored; is not designed for rough or vibration service applications; is not an R20 short lamp; has an R, PAR, ER, BR, BPAR, or similar bulb shapes with an E26 medium screw base; has a rated voltage or voltage range that lies at least partially in the range of 115 and 130 volts; has a diameter that exceeds 2.25 inches; and has a rated wattage that is 40 watts or higher.


*Indirect operation external power supply* means an external power supply that cannot operate a consumer product that is not a battery charger without the assistance of a battery as determined by the steps in paragraphs (1)(i) through (v) of this definition:


(1) If the external power supply (EPS) can be connected to an end-use consumer product and that consumer product can be operated using battery power, the method for determining whether that EPS is incapable of operating that consumer product directly is as follows:


(i) If the end-use product has a removable battery, remove it for the remainder of the test and proceed to the step in paragraph (1)(v) of this definition. If not, proceed to the step in paragraph (1)(ii).


(ii) Charge the battery in the application via the EPS such that the application can operate as intended before taking any additional steps.


(iii) Disconnect the EPS from the application. From an off mode state, turn on the application and record the time necessary for it to become operational to the nearest five second increment (5 sec, 10 sec, etc.).


(iv) Operate the application using power only from the battery until the application stops functioning due to the battery discharging.


(v) Connect the EPS first to mains and then to the application. Immediately attempt to operate the application. If the battery was removed for testing and the end-use product operates as intended, the EPS is not an indirect operation EPS and paragraph 2 of this definition does not apply. If the battery could not be removed for testing, record the time for the application to become operational to the nearest five second increment (5 seconds, 10 seconds, etc.).


(2) If the time recorded in paragraph (1)(v) of this definition is greater than the summation of the time recorded in paragraph (1)(iii) of this definition and five seconds, the EPS cannot operate the application directly and is an indirect operation EPS.


*Infrared lamp* means a lamp that is designed and marketed as an infrared lamp; has its highest radiant power peaks in the infrared region of the electromagnetic spectrum (770 nm to 1 mm); has a rated wattage of 125 watts or greater; and which has a primary purpose of providing heat.


*Installation of a central air conditioner* means the connection of the refrigerant lines and/or electrical systems to make the central air conditioner operational.


*Integrated lamp* means a lamp that contains all components necessary for the starting and stable operation of the lamp, does not include any replaceable or interchangeable parts, and is connected directly to a branch circuit through an ANSI base and corresponding ANSI standard lamp-holder (socket).


*Integrated light-emitting diode lamp* means an integrated LED lamp as defined in ANSI/IES RP-16 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).


*Intermediate base incandescent lamp* means a lamp that uses an intermediate screw base as described in ANSI C81.61, Specifications for Electric Bases, common designation E17 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).


*Kerosene* means No. 1 fuel oil with a viscosity meeting the specifications as specified in UL-730-1974, section 36.9 and in tables 2 and 3 of ANSI Standard Z91.1-1972.


*Lamp Efficacy (LE)* means the measured lumen output of a lamp in lumens divided by the measured lamp electrical power input in watts expressed in units of lumens per watt (LPW). 


*Lamps primarily designed to produce radiation in the ultraviolet region of the spectrum* means fluorescent lamps that primarily emit light in the portion of the electromagnetic spectrum where light has a wavelength between 10 and 400 nanometers.




*LED downlight retrofit kit* means a product designed and marketed to install into an existing downlight, replacing the existing light source and related electrical components, typically employing an ANSI standard lamp base, either integrated or connected to the downlight retrofit by wire leads, and is a retrofit kit classified or certified to UL 1598C-2016 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3). LED downlight retrofit kit does not include integrated lamps or non-integrated lamps.




*Left-hand thread lamp* means a lamp with direction of threads on the lamp base oriented in the left-hand direction.


*Lifetime* with respect to an incandescent reflector lamp or general service incandescent lamp means the length of operating time between first use and failure of 50 percent of the sample units (as specified in 10 CFR 429.55 and 429.66), determined in accordance with the test procedures described in appendix R to subpart B of this part.


*Lifetime of a compact fluorescent lamp* means the length of operating time between first use and failure of 50 percent of the sample units (as specified in § 429.35(a)(1) of this chapter), determined in accordance with the test procedures described in section 3.3 of appendix W to subpart B of this part.


*Lifetime of an integrated light-emitting diode lamp* means the length of operating time between first use and failure of 50 percent of the sample units (as required by § 429.56(a)(1) of this chapter), when measured in accordance with the test procedures described in section 4 of appendix BB to subpart B of this part.


*Light-emitting diode* or *LED* means a p-n junction solid state device of which the radiated output, either in the infrared region, the visible region, or the ultraviolet region, is a function of the physical construction, material used, and exciting current of the device.


*Light fixture* means a complete lighting unit consisting of light source(s) and ballast(s) or driver(s) (when applicable) together with the parts designed to distribute the light, to position and protect the light source, and to connect the light source(s) to the power supply.


*Low consumption* has the meaning given such a term in ASME A112.19.2-2008. (*see* § 430.3)




*Low pressure steam or hot water boiler* means an electric, gas or oil burning furnace designed to supply low pressure steam or hot water for space heating application. A low pressure steam boiler operates at or below 15 pounds psig steam pressure; a hot water boiler operates at or below 160 psig water pressure and 250 °F. water temperature. 


*Low-pressure water dispenser* means a terminal fitting that dispenses drinking water at a pressure of 105 kPA (15 psi) or less.




*Low-temperature water heater* means an electric instantaneous water heater that is not a circulating water heater and cannot deliver water at a temperature greater than or equal to the set point temperature specified in section 2.5 of appendix E to subpart B of this part when supplied with water at the supply water temperature specified in section 2.3 of appendix E to subpart B of this part and the flow rate specified in section 5.2.2.1 of appendix E to subpart B of this part.




*Low-voltage external power supply* means an external power supply with a nameplate output voltage less than 6 volts and nameplate output current greater than or equal to 550 milliamps.


*LP-gas* means liquified petroleum gas, and includes propane, butane, and propane/butane mixtures. 


*Major cooking component* means either a conventional cooking top, a conventional oven or a microwave oven. 


*Manufacture* means to manufacture, produce, assemble, or import.


*Manufacturer* means any person who manufactures a consumer product.


*Marine lamp* means a lamp that is designed and marketed for use on boats and can operate at or between 12 volts and 13.5 volts.


*Marine signal service lamp* means a lamp that is designed and marketed for marine signal service applications.


*Medium base compact fluorescent lamp* means an integrally ballasted fluorescent lamp with a medium screw base, a rated input voltage range of 115 to 130 volts and which is designed as a direct replacement for a general service incandescent lamp; however, the term does not include—


(1) Any lamp that is—


(i) Specifically designed to be used for special purpose applications; and


(ii) Unlikely to be used in general purpose applications, such as the applications described in the definition of “General Service Incandescent Lamp” in this section; or


(2) Any lamp not described in the definition of “General Service Incandescent Lamp” in this section that is excluded by the Secretary, by rule, because the lamp is—


(i) Designed for special applications; and


(ii) Unlikely to be used in general purpose applications.


*Medium screw base* means an Edison screw base identified with the prefix E-26 in the “American National Standard for Electric Lamp Bases”, ANSI__IEC C81.61-2003, published by the American National Standards Institute.


*Microwave oven* means a category of cooking products which is a household cooking appliance consisting of a compartment designed to cook or heat food by means of microwave energy, including microwave ovens with or without thermal elements designed for surface browning of food and convection microwave ovens. This includes any microwave oven(s) component of a combined cooking product.


*Mine service lamp* means a lamp that is designed and marketed for mine service applications.


*Miscellaneous gas products* mean decorative hearth products and outdoor heaters.


*Miscellaneous refrigeration product* means a consumer refrigeration product other than a refrigerator, refrigerator-freezer, or freezer, which includes coolers and combination cooler refrigeration products.


*Mobile home furnace* means a direct vent furnace that is designed for use only in mobile homes.


*Modified spectrum* means, with respect to an incandescent lamp, an incandescent lamp that—


(1) Is not a colored incandescent lamp; and


(2) When operated at the rated voltage and wattage of the incandescent lamp—


(A) Has a color point with (x,y) chromaticity coordinates on the C.I.E. 1931 chromaticity diagram, figure 2, page 3 of IESNA LM-16 (incorporated by reference; *see* § 430.3) that lies below the black-body locus; and


(B) Has a color point with (x,y) chromaticity coordinates on the C.I.E. 1931 chromaticity diagram, figure 2, page 3 of IESNA LM-16 (incorporated by reference; *see* § 430.3) that lies at least 4 MacAdam steps, as referenced in IESNA LM-16, distant from the color point of a clear lamp with the same filament and bulb shape, operated at the same rated voltage and wattage.


*Natural gas* means natural gas as defined by the Federal Power Commission.


*Non-integrated lamp* means a lamp that is not an integrated lamp. 


*Off mode* means the condition in which an energy using product—


(1) Is connected to a main power source; and


(2) Is not providing any stand-by or active mode function.


*Oil* means heating oil grade No. 2 as defined in American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) D396-71. 


*Oil-fired circulating water heater* means a circulating water heater with a nominal input of 105,000 Btu/h or less.




*Oil-fired instantaneous water heater* means a water heater that uses oil as the main energy source, has a nameplate input rating of 210,000 Btu/h or less, and contains no more than one gallon of water per 4,000 Btu per hour of input.


*Oil-fired pool heater* means a pool heater that uses oil as its primary energy source.


*Oil-fired storage water heater* means a water heater that uses oil as the main energy source, has a nameplate input rating of 105,000 Btu/h or less, and contains more than one gallon of water per 4,000 Btu per hour of input.


*Organic light-emitting diode* or O*LED* means a thin-film light-emitting device that typically consists of a series of organic layers between 2 electrical contacts (electrodes).


*Other clothes washer* means a class of clothes washer which is not an automatic or semi-automatic clothes washer. 


*Other cooking products* means any category of cooking products other than conventional cooking tops, conventional ovens, and microwave ovens.


*Other fluorescent lamp* means low pressure mercury electric-discharge sources in which a fluorescing coating transforms some of the ultraviolet energy generated by the mercury discharge into light and include circline lamps and include double-ended lamps with the following characteristics: Lengths from one to eight feet; designed for cold temperature applications; designed for use in reprographic equipment; designed to produce radiation in the ultraviolet region of the spectrum; impact-resistant; reflectorized or aperture; or a CRI of 87 or greater.


*Outdoor heater* means a gas-fired appliance designed for use in outdoor spaces only, and which is designed to provide heat proximate to the unit.


*Packaged terminal air conditioner* means a wall sleeve and a separate unencased combination of heating and cooling assemblies specified by the builder and intended for mounting through the wall. It includes a prime source of refrigeration, separable outdoor louvers, forced ventilation, and heating availability energy.


*Packaged terminal heat pump* means a packaged terminal air conditioner that utilizes reverse cycle refrigeration as its prime heat source and should have supplementary heating availability by builder's choice of energy. 


*PAR incandescent reflector lamp* means a reflector lamp formed by the sealing together during the lamp-making process of a pressed glass parabolic section and a pressed lens section as shown in Figure 1 (PAR) of ANSI C78.79-2020, (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3). The pressed lens section may be either plain or configured.


*Person* includes any individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, trust, joint venture or joint stock company, the government, and any agency of the United States or any State or political subdivision thereof.


*Pin base lamp* means a lamp that uses a base type designated as a single pin base or multiple pin base system.


*Pin-based* means (1) the base of a fluorescent lamp, that is not integrally ballasted and that has a plug-in lamp base, including multi-tube, multibend, spiral, and circline types, or (2) a socket that holds such a lamp.


*Plant light lamp* means a lamp that is designed to promote plant growth by emitting its highest radiant power peaks in the regions of the electromagnetic spectrum that promote photosynthesis: Blue (440 nm to 490 nm) and/or red (620 to 740 nm), and is designed and marketed for plant growing applications.


*Pool heater* means an appliance designed for heating nonpotable water contained at atmospheric pressure, including heating water in swimming pools, spas, hot tubs and similar applications. 


*Portable air conditioner* means a portable encased assembly, other than a “packaged terminal air conditioner,” “room air conditioner,” or “dehumidifier,” that delivers cooled, conditioned air to an enclosed space, and is powered by single-phase electric current. It includes a source of refrigeration and may include additional means for air circulation and heating.


*Portable dehumidifier* means a dehumidifier that, in accordance with any manufacturer instructions available to a consumer, operates within the dehumidified space without the attachment of additional ducting, although means may be provided for optional duct attachment.




*Portable electric heater* means an electric heater which is intended to stand unsupported, and can be moved from place to place within a structure. It is connected to electric supply by means of a cord and plug, and transfers heat by radiation and/or convention (either natural or forced). 


*Portable electric spa* means a factory-built electric spa or hot tub, supplied with equipment for heating and circulating water at the time of sale or sold separately for subsequent attachment.




*Portable indoor conventional cooking top* means a conventional cooking top designed—


(1) For indoor use; and


(2) To be moved from place to place.




*Pot filler* means a terminal fitting that can accommodate only a single supply water inlet, with an articulated arm or the equivalent that allows the product to reach to fill vessels when in use and allows the product to be retracted when not in use.




*Primary electric heater* means an electric heater that is the principal source of heat for a structure and includes baseboard electric heaters, ceiling electric heaters, floor electric heaters, and wall electric heaters. 


*Private labeler* means an owner of a brand or trademark on the label of a consumer product which bears a private label. A consumer product bears a private label if:


(1) Such product (or its container) is labeled with the brand or trademark of a person other than a manufacturer of such product;


(2) The person with whose brand or trademark such product (or container) is labeled has authorized or caused such product to be so labeled; and


(3) The brand or trademark of a manufacturer of such product does not appear on such label.


*Propane* means a hydrocarbon whose chemical composition is predominantly C_3_H_8_, whether recovered from natural gas or crude oil. 


*R incandescent reflector lamp* means a reflector lamp that includes a parabolic or elliptical section below the major diameter as shown in Figure 1 (R) of ANSI C78.79-2020 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).


*R20 incandescent reflector lamp* means an R incandescent reflector lamp that has a face diameter of approximately 2.5 inches, as shown in Figure C78.21-254 of ANSI C78.21-2016 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).


*R20 short lamp* means a lamp that is an R20 incandescent reflector lamp that has a rated wattage of 100 watts; has a maximum overall length of 3 and 5/8, or 3.625, inches; and is designed, labeled, and marketed specifically for pool and spa applications.


*Rated voltage* with respect to incandescent lamps means:


(1) The design voltage if the design voltage is 115 V, 130 V or between 115V and 130 V:


(2) 115 V if the design voltage is less than 115 V and greater than or equal to 100 V and the lamp can operate at 115 V; and


(3) 130 V if the design voltage is greater than 130 V and less than or equal to 150 V and the lamp can operate at 130 V.


*Rated wattage* means:


(1) With respect to fluorescent lamps and general service fluorescent lamps:


(i) If the lamp is listed in ANSI C78.81 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3) or ANSI C78.901 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3), the rated wattage of a lamp determined by the lamp designation of Clause 11.1 of ANSI C78.81 or ANSI C78.901;


(ii) If the lamp is a residential straight-shaped lamp, and not listed in ANSI C78.81 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3), the wattage of a lamp when operated on a reference ballast for which the lamp is designed; or


(iii) If the lamp is neither listed in one of the ANSI standards referenced in paragraph (1)(i) of this definition, nor a residential straight-shaped lamp, a represented value of electrical power for a basic model, determined according to 10 CFR 429.27, and derived from the measured initial input power of a lamp tested according to appendix R to subpart B of this part.


(2) With respect to general service incandescent lamps, a represented value of electrical power for a basic model, determined according to 10 CFR 429.66, and derived from the measured initial input power of a lamp tested according to appendix R to subpart B of this part.


(3) With respect to incandescent reflector lamps, a represented value of electrical power for a basic model, determined according to 10 CFR 429.55, and derived from the measured initial input power of a lamp tested according to appendix R to subpart B of this part.






*Reflector lamp* means a lamp that has an R, PAR, BPAR, BR, ER, MR, or similar bulb shape as defined in ANSI C78.79-2020 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3) and is used to provide directional light.


*Reflectorized or aperture lamp* means a fluorescent lamp that contains an inner reflective coating on the bulb to direct light.


*Refrigerant-desiccant dehumidifier* means a whole-home dehumidifier that removes moisture from the process air by means of a desiccant material in addition to a refrigeration system.


*Refrigerator* means a cabinet, used with one or more doors, that has a source of refrigeration that requires single-phase, alternating current electric energy input only and is capable of maintaining compartment temperatures above 32 °F (0 °C) and below 39 °F (3.9 °C) as determined according to § 429.14(d)(2) of this chapter. A refrigerator may include a compartment capable of maintaining compartment temperatures below 32 °F (0 °C), but does not provide a separate low temperature compartment capable of maintaining compartment temperatures below

8 °F (−13.3 °C) as determined according to § 429.14(d)(2). However, the term does not include:


(1) Any product that does not include a compressor and condenser unit as an integral part of the cabinet assembly;


(2) A cooler; or


(3) Any miscellaneous refrigeration product that must comply with an applicable miscellaneous refrigeration product energy conservation standard.


*Refrigerator-freezer* means a cabinet, used with one or more doors, that has a source of refrigeration that requires single-phase, alternating current electric energy input only and consists of two or more compartments where at least one of the compartments is capable of maintaining compartment temperatures above 32 °F (0 °C) and below 39 °F (3.9 °C) as determined according to § 429.14(d)(2) of this chapter, and at least one other compartment is capable of maintaining compartment temperatures of 8 °F (−13.3 °C) and may be adjusted by the user to a temperature of 0 °F (−17.8 °C) or below as determined according to § 429.14(d)(2). However, the term does not include:


(1) Any product that does not include a compressor and condenser unit as an integral part of the cabinet assembly; or


(2) Any miscellaneous refrigeration product that must comply with an applicable miscellaneous refrigeration product energy conservation standard.


*Replacement ballast* means a ballast that—


(1) Is designed for use to replace an existing fluorescent lamp ballast in a previously installed luminaire;


(2) Is marked “FOR REPLACEMENT USE ONLY”;


(3) Is shipped by the manufacturer in packages containing not more than 10 fluorescent lamp ballasts; and


(4) Has output leads that when fully extended are a total length that is less than the length of the lamp with which the ballast is intended to be operated.


*Residential straight-shaped lamp* means a low pressure mercury electric-discharge source in which a fluorescing coating transforms some of the ultraviolet energy generated by the mercury discharge into light, including a straight-shaped fluorescent lamp with medium bi-pin bases of nominal overall length of 48 inches and is either designed exclusively for residential applications; or designed primarily and marketed exclusively for residential applications.


(1) A lamp is designed exclusively for residential applications if it will not function for more than 100 hours with a commercial high-power-factor ballast.


(2) A lamp is designed primarily and marketed exclusively for residential applications if it:


(i) Is permanently and clearly marked as being for residential use only;


(ii) Has a life of 6,000 hours or less when used with a commercial high-power-factor ballast;


(iii) Is not labeled or represented as a replacement for a fluorescent lamp that is a covered product; and


(iv) Is marketed and distributed in a manner designed to minimize use of the lamp with commercial high-power-factor ballasts.


(3) A manufacturer may market and distribute a lamp in a manner designed to minimize use of the lamp with commercial high-power-factor ballasts by:


(i) Packaging and labeling the lamp in a manner that clearly indicates the lamp is for residential use only and includes appropriate instructions concerning proper and improper use; if the lamp is included in a catalog or price list that also includes commercial/industrial lamps, listing the lamp in a separate residential section accompanied by notes about proper use on the same page; and providing as part of any express warranty accompanying the lamp that improper use voids such warranty; or


(ii) Using other comparably effective measures to minimize use with commercial high-power-factor ballasts.


*Room air conditioner* means a window-mounted or through-the-wall-mounted encased assembly, other than a “packaged terminal air conditioner,” that delivers cooled, conditioned air to an enclosed space, and is powered by single-phase electric current. It includes a source of refrigeration and may include additional means for ventilating and heating. 


*Rough or vibration service incandescent reflector lamp* means a reflector lamp: in which a C-11 (5 support), C-17 (8 support), or C-22 (16 support) filament is mounted (the number of support excludes lead wires); in which the filament configuration is as shown in Chapter 6 of the 1993 *Illuminating Engineering Society of North America Lighting Handbook,* 8th Edition (see 10 CFR 430.22); and that is designated and marketed specifically for rough or vibration service applications.


*Rough service lamp* means a lamp that—


(1) Has a minimum of 5 supports with filament configurations that are C-7A, C-11, C-17, and C-22 as listed in Figure 6-12 of the IESNA Lighting Handbook (incorporated by reference; *see* § 430.3), or similar configurations where lead wires are not counted as supports; and


(2) Is designated and marketed specifically for ‘rough service’ applications, with


(i) The designation appearing on the lamp packaging; and


(ii) Marketing materials that identify the lamp as being for rough service.


*S-video* means a video display interface that transmits analog video over two channels: luma and chroma as defined by IEC 60933-5 Ed. 1.0 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).


*Safety shower showerhead* means a showerhead designed to meet the requirements of ISEA Z358.1 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3).


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Department of Energy. 


*Security or life safety alarm or surveillance system* means:


(1) Equipment designed and marketed to perform any of the following functions (on a continuous basis):


(i) Monitor, detect, record, or provide notification of intrusion or access to real property or physical assets or notification of threats to life safety.


(ii) Deter or control access to real property or physical assets, or prevent the unauthorized removal of physical assets.


(iii) Monitor, detect, record, or provide notification of fire, gas, smoke, flooding, or other physical threats to real property, physical assets, or life safety.


(2) This term does not include any product with a principal function other than life safety, security, or surveillance that:


(i) Is designed and marketed with a built-in alarm or theft-deterrent feature; or


(ii) Does not operate necessarily and continuously in active mode.


*Semi-automatic clothes washer* means a class of clothes washer that is the same as an automatic clothes washer except that user intervention is required to regulate the water temperature by adjusting the external water faucet valves. 


*Shatter-resistant lamp, shatter-proof lamp,* or *shatter-protected lamp* means a lamp that—


(1) Has a coating or equivalent technology that is compliant with NSF/ANSI 51 (incorporated by reference; *see* § 430.3) and is designed to contain the glass if the glass envelope of the lamp is broken; and


(2) Is designated and marketed for the intended application, with


(i) The designation on the lamp packaging; and


(ii) Marketing materials that identify the lamp as being shatter-resistant, shatter-proof, or shatter-protected.


*Showcase lamp* means a lamp that has a T shape as specified in ANSI C78.79-2020 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3), is designed and marketed as a showcase lamp, and has a maximum rated wattage of 75 watts.




*Showerhead* means a component or set of components distributed in commerce for attachment to a single supply fitting, for spraying water onto a bather, typically from an overhead position, excluding safety shower showerheads.


*Sign service lamp* means a vacuum type or gas-filled lamp that has sufficiently low bulb temperature to permit exposed outdoor use on high-speed flashing circuits, is designed and marketed as a sign service lamp, and has a maximum rated wattage of 15 watts. 


*Silver bowl lamp* means a lamp that has an opaque reflective coating applied directly to part of the bulb surface that reflects light toward the lamp base and that is designed and marketed as a silver bowl lamp.


*Single-duct portable air conditioner* means a portable air conditioner that draws all of the condenser inlet air from the conditioned space without the means of a duct, and discharges the condenser outlet air outside the conditioned space through a single duct attached to an adjustable window bracket.


*Siphonic action* means the movement of water through a flushing fixture by creating a siphon to remove waste material.


*Siphonic bowl* means a water closet bowl that has an integral flushing rim, a trap at the front or rear, and a floor or wall outlet, and operates with a siphonic action (with or without a jet).


*Small-duct high-velocity (SDHV) electric furnace* means an electric furnace that:


(1) Is designed for, and produces, at least 1.2 inches of external static pressure when operated at the certified air volume rate of 220-350 CFM per rated ton of cooling in the highest default cooling airflow-control setting; and


(2) When applied in the field, uses high velocity room outlets generally greater than 1,000 fpm that have less than 6.0 square inches of free area.


*Small-duct high-velocity (SDHV) modular blower* means a modular blower that:


(1) Is designed for, and produces, at least 1.2 inches of external static pressure when operated at the certified air volume rate of 220-350 CFM per rated ton of cooling in the highest default cooling airflow-controls setting; and


(2) When applied in the field, uses high velocity room outlets generally greater than 1,000 fpm that have less than 6.0 square inches of free area.


*Space constrained product* means a central air conditioner or heat pump:


(1) That has rated cooling capacities no greater than 30,000 BTU/hr;


(2) That has an outdoor or indoor unit having at least two overall exterior dimensions or an overall displacement that:


(i) Is substantially smaller than those of other units that are:


(A) Currently usually installed in site-built single family homes; and


(B) Of a similar cooling, and, if a heat pump, heating capacity; and


(ii) If increased, would certainly result in a considerable increase in the usual cost of installation or would certainly result in a significant loss in the utility of the product to the consumer; and


(3) Of a product type that was available for purchase in the United States as of December 1, 2000.


*Specialty application mercury vapor lamp ballast* means a mercury vapor lamp ballast that—


(1) Is designed and marketed for operation of mercury vapor lamps used in quality inspection, industrial processing, or scientific use, including fluorescent microscopy and ultraviolet curing; and


(2) In the case of a specialty application mercury vapor lamp ballast, the label of which—


(i) Provides that the specialty application mercury vapor lamp ballast is ‘For specialty applications only, not for general illumination’; and


(ii) Specifies the specific applications for which the ballast is designed.


*Specialty MR lamp* means a lamp that has an MR shape as defined in ANSI C78.79-2020 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3), a diameter of less than or equal to 2.25 inches, a lifetime of less than or equal to 300 hours, and that is designed and marketed for a specialty application.




*Standby mode* means the condition in which an energy-using product—


(1) Is connected to a main power source; and


(2) Offers one or more of the following user-oriented or protective functions:


(i) To facilitate the activation or deactivation of other functions (including active mode) by remote switch (including remote control), internal sensor, or timer; or


(ii) Continuous functions, including information or status displays (including clocks) or sensor-based functions.


*State* means a State, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or any territory or possession of the United States.


*State regulation* means a law or regulation of a State or political subdivision thereof.


*Supplementary electric heater* means an electric heater that provides heat to a space in addition to that which is supplied by a primary electric heater and includes portable electric heaters. 


*Surface unit* means either a heating unit mounted in a cooking top, or a heating source and its associated heated area of the cooking top, on which vessels are placed for the cooking or heating of food. 






*Tabletop water heater* means a water heater in a rectangular box enclosure designed to slide into a kitchen countertop space with typical dimensions of 36 inches high, 25 inches deep, and 24 inches wide, and with a certified first-hour rating that results in either the very small draw pattern or the low draw pattern, as specified in Table I in section 5.4.1 of appendix E to subpart B of this part.




*Television set or TV* means a product designed to produce dynamic video, contains an internal TV tuner encased within the product housing, and that is capable of receiving dynamic visual content from wired or wireless sources including but not limited to:


(1) Broadcast and similar services for terrestrial, cable, satellite, and/or broadband transmission of analog and/or digital signals; and/or


(2) Display-specific data connections, such as HDMI, Component video, S-video, Composite video; and/or


(3) Media storage devices such as a USB flash drive, memory card, or a DVD; and/or


(4) Network connections, usually using Internet Protocol, typically carried over Ethernet or Wi-Fi.


*Through-the-wall central air conditioner* means a central air conditioner that is designed to be installed totally or partially within a fixed-size opening in an exterior wall, and:


(1) Is not weatherized;


(2) Is clearly and permanently marked for installation only through an exterior wall;


(3) Has a rated cooling capacity no greater than 30,000 Btu/hr;


(4) Exchanges all of its outdoor air across a single surface of the equipment cabinet; and


(5) Has a combined outdoor air exchange area of less than 800 square inches (split systems) or less than 1,210 square inches (single packaged systems) as measured on the surface described in paragraph (4) of this definition.


*Through-the-wall central air conditioning heat pump* means a heat pump that is designed to be installed totally or partially within a fixed-size opening in an exterior wall, and:


(1) Is not weatherized;


(2) Is clearly and permanently marked for installation only through an exterior wall;


(3) Has a rated cooling capacity no greater than 30,000 Btu/hr;


(4) Exchanges all of its outdoor air across a single surface of the equipment cabinet; and


(5) Has a combined outdoor air exchange area of less than 800 square inches (split systems) or less than 1,210 square inches (single packaged systems) as measured on the surface described in paragraph (4) of this definition.


*Torchiere* means a portable electric lamp with a reflector bowl that directs light upward to give indirect illumination.


*Traffic signal lamp* means a lamp that is designed and marketed for traffic signal applications and has a lifetime of 8,000 hours or greater.


*Trough-type urinal* means a urinal designed for simultaneous use by two or more people.


*Unvented gas heater* means a class of unvented home heating equipment which is a self-contained, free-standing, nonrecessed gas-burning appliance that furnishes heated air by gravity or fan circulation.


*Unvented home heating equipment or unvented heater* means a class of home heating equipment, not including furnaces, designed to furnish heated air to a space proximate to such heater, directly from the heater, without inlet duct connections and without exhaust venting, and includes: Electric heater, unvented gas heater, and unvented oil heater.


*Unvented oil heater* means a class of unvented home heating equipment which is a self-contained, free-standing, nonrecessed oil-burning appliance that furnishes heated air by gravity or fan circulation.


*Urinal* means a plumbing fixture which receives only liquid body waste and, on demand, conveys the waste through a trap seal into a gravity drainage system, except such term does not include fixtures designed for installations in prisons.


*Vented floor furnace* means a self-contained vented heater suspended from the floor of the space being heated, taking air for combustion from outside this space. The vented floor furnace supplies heated air circulated by gravity or by a fan directly into the space to be heated through openings in the casing. 


*Vented home heating equipment or vented heater* means a class of home heating equipment, not including furnaces, designed to furnish heated air to a space proximate to such heater, directly from the heater, without inlet duct connections (except that boots not to exceed 10 inches beyond the casing may be permitted), and with exhaust venting, and includes: Vented wall furnace, vented floor furnace, and vented room heater.


*Vented room heater* means a self-contained, free standing, nonrecessed, vented heater for furnishing heated air to the space in which it is installed. The vented room heater supplies heated air circulated by gravity or by a fan directly into the space to be heated through openings in the casing. 


*Vented wall furnace* means a self-contained vented heater complete with grilles or the equivalent, designed for incorporation in, or permanent attachment to, a wall of a residence and furnishing heated air circulated by gravity or by a fan directly into the space to be heated through openings in the casing.


*Vibration service lamp* means a lamp that—


(1) Has filament configurations that are C-5, C-7A, or C-9, as listed in Figure 6-12 of the IESNA Lighting Handbook (incorporated by reference; *see* § 430.3) or similar configurations;


(2) Has a maximum wattage of 60 watts;


(3) Is sold at retail in packages of 2 lamps or less; and


(4) Is designated and marketed specifically for vibration service or vibration-resistant applications, with—


(i) The designation appearing on the lamp packaging; and


(ii) Marketing materials that identify the lamp as being vibration service only.


*Voltage range* means a band of operating voltages as marked on an incandescent lamp, indicating that the lamp is designed to operate at any voltage within the band.


*Wall electric heater* means an electric heater (excluding baseboard electric heaters) which is intended to be recessed in or surface mounted on walls, which transfers heat by radiation and/or convection (either natural or forced) and which includes forced convectors, natural convectors, radiant heaters, high wall or valance heaters. 


*Water closet* means a plumbing fixture that has a water-containing receptor which receives liquid and solid body waste, and upon actuation, conveys the waste through an exposed integral trap seal into a gravity drainage system, except such term does not include fixtures designed for installation in prisons.


*Water heater* means a product which utilizes oil, gas, or electricity to heat potable water for use outside the heater upon demand, including—


(1) Storage type units which heat and store water at a thermostatically controlled temperature, including gas storage water heaters with an input of 75,000 Btu per hour or less, oil storage water heaters with an input of 105,000 Btu per hour or less, and electric storage water heaters with an input of 12 kilowatts or less;


(2) Instantaneous type units which heat water but contain no more than one gallon of water per 4,000 Btu per hour of input, including gas instantaneous water heaters with an input of 200,000 Btu per hour or less, oil instantaneous water heaters with an input of 210,000 Btu per hour or less, and electric instantaneous water heaters with an input of 12 kilowatts or less; and


(3) Heat pump type units, with a maximum current rating of 24 amperes at a voltage no greater than 250 volts, which are products designed to transfer thermal energy from one temperature level to a higher temperature level for the purpose of heating water, including all ancillary equipment such as fans, storage tanks, pumps, or controls necessary for the device to perform its function.


*Water use* means the quantity of water flowing through a showerhead, faucet, water closet, or urinal at point of use, determined in accordance with test procedures under appendices S and T of subpart B of this part.


*Weatherized warm air furnace or boiler* means a furnace or boiler designed for installation outdoors, approved for resistance to wind, rain, and snow, and supplied with its own venting system.


*Whole-home dehumidifier* means a dehumidifier that, in accordance with any manufacturer instructions available to a consumer, operates with ducting to deliver return process air to its inlet and to supply dehumidified process air from its outlet to one or more locations in the dehumidified space.





---

[N] [42 FR 27898, June 1, 1977]


