# § 1724.52   Permitted deviations from RUS construction standards.

The provisions of this section apply to all borrower electric system facilities regardless of the source of financing.


(a) *Structures for raptor protection.* (1) RUS standard distribution line structures may not have the extra measure of protection needed in areas frequented by eagles and other large raptors to protect such birds from electric shock due to physical contact with energized wires. Where raptor protection in the design of overhead line structures is required by RUS; a Federal, State or local authority with permit or license authority over the proposed construction; or where the borrower voluntarily elects to comply with the recommendations of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service or State wildlife agency, borrowers are permitted to deviate from RUS construction standards, provided:


(i) Structures are designed and constructed in accordance with “Suggested Practices for Raptor Protection on Powerlines: The State of the Art in 1996” (Suggested Practices for Raptor Protection); and,


(ii) Structures are in accordance with the NESC and applicable State and local regulations.


(2) Any deviation from the RUS construction standards for the purpose of raptor protection, which is not in accordance with the Suggested Practices for Raptor Protection, must be approved by RUS prior to construction. “Suggested Practices for Raptor Protection on Powerlines: The State of the Art in 1996,” published by the Edison Electric Institute/Raptor Research Foundation, is hereby incorporated by reference. This incorporation by reference is approved by the Director of the Office of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of this publication may be obtained from the Raptor Research Foundation, Inc., c/o Jim Fitzpatrick, Treasurer, Carpenter Nature Center, 12805 St. Croix Trail South, Hastings, Minnesota 55033. It is also available for inspection during normal business hours at RUS, Electric Staff Division, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC, Room 1246-S, and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(b) *Transformer neutral connections.* Where it is necessary to separate the primary and secondary neutrals to provide the required electric service to a consumer, the RUS standard transformer secondary neutral connections may be modified in accordance with Rule 97D2 of the NESC.


(c) *Lowering of neutral conductor on overhead distribution lines.* (1) It is permissible to lower the neutral attachment on standard construction pole-top assemblies an additional distance not exceeding two feet (0.6 m) for the purpose of economically meeting the clearance requirements of the NESC.


(2) It is permissible to lower the transformer and associated neutral attachment up to two feet (0.6 m) to provide adequate clearance between the cutouts and single-phase, conventional distribution transformers.


(3) It is permissible to lower the neutral attachment on standard construction pole-top assemblies an additional distance of up to six feet (2 m) for the purpose of performing construction and future line maintenance on these assemblies from bucket trucks designed for such work.



---

[N] [63 FR 35314, June 29, 1998, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]




