# § 435.200   Scope 1 Fossil fuel-generated energy consumption requirement.

(a) *New EISA-Subject buildings.* (1) New Federal buildings that are low-rise residential buildings, for which design for construction began on or after May 1, 2025, must be designed to meet the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section if:


(i) For all leased buildings, the construction cost of the new building exceeds GSA's Annual Prospectus Thresholds that are found at *www.gsa.gov/real-estate/design-construction/gsa-annual-prospectus-thresholds.*

(ii) For all Federally owned non-public buildings, the cost of the building is at least $2,500,000 (in 2007 dollars, adjusted for inflation). For the purposes of calculating this threshold, agencies must set the Bureau of Labor and Statistics CPI Inflation calculator to $2,500,000 in October of 2006 (to represent the value of the original cost threshold) and then set for October of the FY during which the design for construction of the project began or is set to begin.


(b) *Major renovations of EISA-Subject buildings.* (1) Major renovations to Federal buildings that are low-rise residential buildings, for which design for construction began on or after May 1, 2025, must be designed to meet the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section if the cost of the major renovation is at least $2,500,000 (in 2007 dollars, adjusted for inflation). For the purposes of calculating this threshold, projects should set the Bureau of Labor and Statistics CPI Inflation calculator to $2,500,000 in October of 2006 (to represent the value of the original cost threshold) and then set for October of the FY during which the design for construction of the project began or is set to begin.


(2) This subpart applies only to the portions of the proposed building or proposed building systems that are being renovated and to the extent that the scope of the renovation permits compliance with the applicable requirements in this subpart. Unaltered portions of the proposed building or proposed building systems are not required to comply with this subpart.


(3) For leased buildings, this subpart applies to major renovations only if the proposed building was originally built for the use of any Federal agency, including for the purpose of being leased by a Federal agency.


(c) *Federal buildings that are of the type included in Appendix A of this subpart*—(1) *New Construction and Major Renovations of all Scope 1 Fossil Fuel-Using Systems in an EISA-Subject Building.*

(i) Design for construction began during FY 2024 through FY 2029. For new construction or major renovations of all fossil fuel-using systems in an EISA-subject building, for which design for construction or renovation, as applicable, began during FY 2024 through 2029, the Scope 1 fossil fuel-generated energy consumption of the proposed building, based on the building design and calculated according to § 435.201(a), must not exceed the value identified in Tables A-1a to A-2a (if targets based on Scope 1 emissions are used) or Tables A-1b to A-2b (if targets based on kBtu of fossil fuel usage are used) of Appendix A of this subpart for the associated building type, climate zone, and fiscal year in which design for construction began.


(A) Federal agencies may apply a shift adjustment multiplier to the values in Tables A-1a to A-2a or Tables A-1b to A-2b based on the following baseline hours of operation assumed in Tables A-1a to A-2a or Tables A-1b to A-2b.


(B) To calculate the shift adjustment multiplier, agencies shall estimate the number of shifts for their new building and multiply by the appropriate factor shown below in Table 1 for their building type. The Scope 1 fossil fuel-generated energy consumption target for the building would be the value in either Tables A-1a to A-2a or Tables A-1b to A-2b multiplied by the multiplier calculated in the previous sentence.


(ii) Design for construction began during or after FY 2030. For new construction and major renovations of all Scope 1 fossil fuel-using systems in an EISA-subject building, the Scope 1 fossil fuel-generated energy consumption of the proposed building, based on building design and calculated according to § 435.201(a), must be zero.


(2) Major Renovations of a Scope 1 Fossil Fuel-Using Building System or Component within an EISA-Subject Building shall follow the renovation requirements in section 4.2.1.3 of the applicable building baseline energy efficiency standards listed in § 435.4 substituting the term “design for construction” with “design for renovation” for the relevant date, and shall replace all equipment that is included in the renovation with all electric or non-fossil fuel-using ENERGY STAR or FEMP designated products as defined in § 436.42. For component level renovations, Agencies shall replace all equipment that is part of the renovation with all electric or non-fossil fuel-using ENERGY STAR or FEMP designated products as defined in § 436.42.


(d) *EISA-Subject buildings that are of the type not included in Appendix A of this subpart*—(1) *Process load buildings.* For building types that are not included in any of the building types listed in Tables A-1a to A-2a or A-1b to A-2b of appendix A of this subpart, or for building types in these tables that contain significant process loads, Federal agencies must select the applicable building type, climate zone, and fiscal year in which design for construction began from Tables A-1a to A-2a or A-1b to A-2b of appendix A of this subpart that most closely corresponds to the proposed building without the process load. The estimated Scope 1 fossil fuel-generated energy consumption of the process load must be added to the maximum allowable Scope 1 fossil fuel-generated energy consumption of the applicable building type for the appropriate fiscal year and climate zone to calculate the maximum allowable Scope 1 fossil fuel-generated energy consumption for the building. The same estimated Scope 1 fossil fuel-generated energy consumption of the process load that is added to the maximum allowable Scope 1 fossil fuel-generated energy consumption of the applicable building must also be used in determining the Scope 1 fossil fuel-generated energy consumption of the proposed building.


(2) *Mixed-use buildings.* For buildings that combine two or more building types with process loads or, alternatively, that combine one or more building types with process loads with one or more building types in Tables A-1a toA-2a or A-1b to A-2b of appendix A of this subpart, the maximum allowable Scope 1 fossil fuel-generated energy consumption of the proposed building is equal to the averaged process load building values determined under paragraph (d)(1) of this section and the applicable building type values in Tables A-1a toA-2a or A-1b to A-2b of appendix A of this subpart, weighted by floor area. Equation 1 shall be used for mixed use buildings.


Equation 1 may be rewritten as:






