# ยง 396.3   Inspection, repair, and maintenance.

(a) *General.* Every motor carrier and intermodal equipment provider must systematically inspect, repair, and maintain, or cause to be systematically inspected, repaired, and maintained, all motor vehicles and intermodal equipment subject to its control.


(1) Parts and accessories shall be in safe and proper operating condition at all times. These include those specified in part 393 of this subchapter and any additional parts and accessories which may affect safety of operation, including but not limited to, frame and frame assemblies, suspension systems, axles and attaching parts, wheels and rims, and steering systems.


(2) Pushout windows, emergency doors, and emergency door marking lights in buses shall be inspected at least every 90 days.


(b) *Required records.* Motor carriers, except for a private motor carrier of passengers (nonbusiness), must maintain, or cause to be maintained, records for each motor vehicle they control for 30 consecutive days. Intermodal equipment providers must maintain or cause to be maintained, records for each unit of intermodal equipment they tender or intend to tender to a motor carrier. These records must include:


(1) An identification of the vehicle including company number, if so marked, make, serial number, year, and tire size. In addition, if the motor vehicle is not owned by the motor carrier, the record shall identify the name of the person furnishing the vehicle;


(2) A means to indicate the nature and due date of the various inspection and maintenance operations to be performed;


(3) A record of inspection, repairs, and maintenance indicating their date and nature; and


(4) A record of tests conducted on pushout windows, emergency doors, and emergency door marking lights on buses.


(c) *Record retention.* The records required by this section shall be retained where the vehicle is either housed or maintained for a period of 1 year and for 6 months after the motor vehicle leaves the motor carrier's control.



---

[N] [44 FR 38526, July 2, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 55868, Dec. 16, 1983; 53 FR 18058, May 19, 1988; 59 FR 8753, Feb. 23, 1994; 59 FR 60324, Nov. 23, 1994; 73 FR 75824, Dec. 17, 2008]




