# § 17.601   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to §§ 17.600 through 17.636:


*Acceptable level of academic standing* means the level at which a participant may continue to attend school under the standards and practices of the school at which a participant is enrolled in a course of study for which an HPSP or VIOMPSP scholarship was awarded.


*Acceptance agreement* means a signed legal document between VA and a participant of the HPSP or VIOMPSP that specifies the obligations of VA and the participant upon acceptance to the HPSP or VIOMPSP. An acceptance agreement must incorporate by reference, and cannot be inconsistent with, §§ 17.600 through 17.612 (for HPSP agreements) or §§ 17.626 through 17.636 (for VIOMPSP agreements), and must include:


(1) A mobility agreement.


(2) Agreement to accept payment of the scholarship.


(3) Agreement to perform obligated service.


(4) Agreement to maintain enrollment and attendance in the course of study for which the scholarship was awarded, and to maintain an acceptable level of academic standing.


*Affiliation agreement* means a legal document that enables the clinical education of trainees at a VA or non-VA medical facility. An affiliation agreement is required for all education or training that involves direct patient contact, or contact with patient information, by trainees from a non-VA institution.


*Citizen of the United States* means any person born, or lawfully naturalized, in the United States, subject to its jurisdiction and protection, and owing allegiance thereto.


*Credential* means the licensure, registration, certification, required education, relevant training and experience, and current competence necessary to meet VA's qualification standards for employment in certain health care occupations.


*Degree* represents the successful completion of the course of study for which a scholarship was awarded.


(1) *HPSP.* For the purposes of the HPSP, VA recognizes the following degrees: a doctor of medicine; doctor of osteopathy; doctor of dentistry; doctor of optometry; doctor of podiatry; or an associate, baccalaureate, master's, or doctorate degree in another health care discipline needed by VA.


(2) *VIOMPSP.* For the purposes of the VIOMPSP, VA recognizes a bachelor's, master's, education specialist or doctorate that meets the core curriculum and supervised practice requirements in visual impairment and blindness.


*Full-time student* means an individual who meets the requirements for full time attendance as defined by the school in which they are enrolled.


*HPSP* means the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program authorized by 38 U.S.C. 7601 through 7619.


*Mobility agreement* means a signed legal document between VA and a participant of the HPSP or VIOMPSP, in which the participant agrees to accept assignment at a VA facility selected by VA where he or she will fulfill the obligated service requirement. A mobility agreement must be included in the participant's acceptance agreement. Relocation to another geographic location may be required.


*Obligated service* means the period of time during which the HPSP or VIOMPSP participant must be employed by VA in a full-time clinical occupation for which the degree prepared the participant as a requirement of the acceptance agreement.


*Part-time student*—(1) *HPSP.* For the purposes of the HPSP, part-time student means an individual who is a VA employee, and who has been accepted for enrollment or enrolled for study leading to a degree on a less than full-time basis but no less than half-time basis.


(2) *VIOMPSP.* For the purposes of the VIOMPSP, part-time student means an individual who has been accepted for enrollment or enrolled for study leading to a degree on a less than full-time basis but no less than half-time basis.


*Participant or scholarship program participant* means an individual whose application to the HPSP or VIOMPSP has been approved, whose acceptance agreement has been consummated by VA, and who has yet to complete the period of obligated service or otherwise satisfy the obligation or financial liabilities of such agreement.


*Required fees* means those fees which are charged by the school to all students pursuing a similar curriculum in the same school.


*Scholarship Program* means the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program (HPSP) authorized by 38 U.S.C. 7601 through 7619.


*School* means an academic institution that is accredited by a body or bodies recognized for accreditation by the U.S. Department of Education or by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA), and that meets the following requirements:


(1) For the purposes of the HPSP, offers a course of study leading to a degree in a health care service discipline needed by VA.


(2) For the purposes of the VIOMPSP, offers a course of study leading to a degree in visual impairment or orientation and mobility.


*School year* means for purposes of the HPSP and its stipend payment, and the VIOMPSP, all or part of the 12-month period that starts on the date the participant begins school as a full-time student.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Veterans Affairs or designee.


*State* means one of the several States, Territories and possessions of the United States, the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.


*Under Secretary for Health* means the Under Secretary for Health of the Department of Veterans Affairs or designee.


*VA* means the Department of Veterans Affairs.


*VA employee* means an individual permanently employed by VA. A VA employee does not include an individual who is employed temporarily or on a contractual basis.


*VA health care facility* means a VA medical center, independent outpatient clinic, domiciliary, nursing home (community living center), residential treatment program, and any of a variety of community based clinics (including community based outpatient clinics, rural health resource centers, primary care telehealth clinics, and Vet Centers), consolidated mail outpatient pharmacies, and research centers.


*VIOMPSP* means the Visual Impairment and Orientation and Mobility Professional Scholarship Program authorized by 38 U.S.C. 7501 through 7505.



---

[N] [78 FR 51069, Aug. 20, 2013]




