# § 266.107   Standards to control hydrogen chloride (HCl) and chlorine gas (Cl

(a) *General.* The owner or operator must comply with the hydrogen chloride (HCl) and chlorine (Cl_2_) controls provided by paragraph (b), (c), or (e) of this section.


(b) *Screening limits*—(1) *Tier I feed rate screening limits.* Feed rate screening limits are specified for total chlorine in appendix II of this part as a function of terrain-adjusted effective stack height and terrain and land use in the vicinity of the facility. The feed rate of total chlorine and chloride, both organic and inorganic, in all feed streams, including hazardous waste, fuels, and industrial furnace feed stocks shall not exceed the levels specified.


(2) *Tier II emission rate screening limits.* Emission rate screening limits for HCl and Cl_2_ are specified in appendix III of this part as a function of terrain-adjusted effective stack height and terrain and land use in the vicinity of the facility. The stack emission rates of HCl and Cl_2_ shall not exceed the levels specified.


(3) *Definitions and limitations.* The definitions and limitations provided by § 266.106(b) for the following terms also apply to the screening limits provided by this paragraph: terrain-adjusted effective stack height, good engineering practice stack height, terrain type, land use, and criteria for facilities not eligible to use the screening limits.


(4) *Multiple stacks.* Owners and operators of facilities with more than one on-site stack from a boiler, industrial furnace, incinerator, or other thermal treatment unit subject to controls on HCl or Cl_2_ emissions under a RCRA operating permit or interim status controls must comply with the Tier I and Tier II screening limits for those stacks assuming all hazardous waste is fed into the device with the worst-case stack based on dispersion characteristics.


(i) The worst-case stack is determined by procedures provided in § 266.106(b)(6).


(ii) Under Tier I, the total feed rate of chlorine and chloride to all subject devices shall not exceed the screening limit for the worst-case stack.


(iii) Under Tier II, the total emissions of HCl and Cl_2_ from all subject stacks shall not exceed the screening limit for the worst-case stack.


(c) *Tier III site-specific risk assessments*—(1) *General.* Conformance with the Tier III controls must be demonstrated by emissions testing to determine the emission rate for HCl and Cl_2_, air dispersion modeling to predict the maximum annual average off-site ground level concentration for each compound, and a demonstration that acceptable ambient levels are not exceeded.


(2) *Acceptable ambient levels.* Appendix IV of this part lists the reference air concentrations (RACs) for HCl (7 micrograms per cubic meter) and Cl_2_ (0.4 micrograms per cubic meter).


(3) *Multiple stacks.* Owners and operators of facilities with more than one on-site stack from a boiler, industrial furnace, incinerator, or other thermal treatment unit subject to controls on HCl or Cl_2_ emissions under a RCRA operating permit or interim status controls must conduct emissions testing and dispersion modeling to demonstrate that the aggregate emissions from all such on-site stacks do not result in an exceedance of the acceptable ambient levels for HCl and Cl_2_.


(d) *Averaging periods.* The HCl and Cl_2_ controls are implemented by limiting the feed rate of total chlorine and chloride in all feedstreams, including hazardous waste, fuels, and industrial furnace feed stocks. Under Tier I, the feed rate of total chloride and chlorine is limited to the Tier I Screening Limits. Under Tier II and Tier III, the feed rate of total chloride and chlorine is limited to the feed rates during the trial burn (for new facilities or an interim status facility applying for a permit) or the compliance test (for interim status facilities). The feed rate limits are based on either:


(1) An hourly rolling average as defined in § 266.102(e)(6); or


(2) An instantaneous basis not to be exceeded at any time.


(e) *Adjusted Tier I feed rate screening limits.* The owner or operator may adjust the feed rate screening limit provided by appendix II of this part to account for site-specific dispersion modeling. Under this approach, the adjusted feed rate screening limit is determined by back-calculating from the acceptable ambient level for Cl_2_ provided by appendix IV of this part using dispersion modeling to determine the maximum allowable emission rate. This emission rate becomes the adjusted Tier I feed rate screening limit.


(f) *Emissions testing.* Emissions testing for HCl and Cl_2_ shall be conducted using the procedures described in Methods 0050 or 0051, EPA Publication SW-846, as incorporated by reference in § 260.11 of this chapter. 


(g) *Dispersion modeling.* Dispersion modeling shall be conducted according to the provisions of § 266.106(h).


(h) *Enforcement.* For the purposes of permit enforcement, compliance with the operating requirements specified in the permit (under § 266.102) will be regarded as compliance with this section. However, evidence that compliance with those permit conditions is insufficient to ensure compliance with the requirements of this section may be “information” justifying modification or revocation and re-issuance of a permit under § 270.41 of this chapter.



---

[N] [56 FR 7208, Feb. 21, 1991; 56 FR 32690, July 17, 1991; 57 FR 38566, Aug. 25, 1992; 62 FR 32463, June 13, 1997]




