# ยง 402.31   Determination of allocations.

(a) *Allocation formula.* Allocations will be computed according to a formula using the following factors and weights:


(1) 50 percent based on the State's eligible legalized alien population, with 49 percent based upon the number of eligible legalized aliens in a State relative to the number of such aliens in all States, and 1 percent to States which have higher-than-average ratios of eligible legalized aliens to total population relative to the average for all States, based on the proportional number of such aliens; and 


(2) 50 percent based on the ratio of SLIAG-related costs in a State to the total of all such costs in all States.


(b) *Calculation of allocations.* (1) Each time the Department calculates State allocations, it will use the best data then available to the Secretary on the distribution of eligible legalized aliens by State.


(2) For all years except fiscal years 1993 and 1994, the Department will determine each State's SLIAG-related costs to be included in the computation of its allocation for a fiscal year by adding to the sum of SLIAG-related costs reported for all previous fiscal years by that State, pursuant to ยง 402.51(e) (1) and (2), the total amount of estimated SLIAG-related costs included in the State's approved application for that fiscal year, pursuant to ยง 402.41(c) (1) and (2). For fiscal years 1993 and 1994, the Department will add to the amount of estimated SLIAG-related costs included in the State's approved applications for fiscal years 1993 and 1994, respectively, the sum of SLIAG-related costs for all previous years ending with FY 1991 (for FY 1993 applications) or FY 1992 (for FY 1994 applications), and the first and second quarters of FY 1992 (for FY 1993 applications) or FY 1993 (for FY 1994 applications), pursuant to ยง 402.52(e)(4). In the event that a State has not submitted an approved report for a fiscal year, the Department will include no costs for that fiscal year in its calculation.



---

[N] [53 FR 7858, Mar. 10, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 21248, May 7, 1991; 57 FR 19386, May 6, 1992; 58 FR 31913, June 7, 1993; 59 FR 65727, Dec. 21, 1994]




