# § 1.167(e)-1   Change in method.

(a) *In general.* (1) Any change in the method of computing the depreciation allowances with respect to a particular account (other than a change in method permitted or required by reason of the operation of former section 167(j)(2) and § 1.167(j)-3(c)) is a change in method of accounting, and such a change will be permitted only with the consent of the Commissioner, except that certain changes to the straight line method of depreciation will be permitted without consent as provided in former section 167(e)(1), (2), and (3). Except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, a change in method of computing depreciation will be permitted only with respect to all the assets contained in a particular account as defined in § 1.167(a)-7. Any change in the percentage of the current straight line rate under the declining balance method, for example, from 200 percent of the straight line rate to any other percent of the straight line rate, or any change in the interest factor used in connection with a compound interest or sinking fund method, will constitute a change in method of depreciation. Any request for a change in method of depreciation shall be made in accordance with section 446(e) and the regulations under section 446(e). For rules covering the use of depreciation methods by acquiring corporations in the case of certain corporate acquisitions, see section 381(c)(6) and the regulations under section 381(c)(6).


(2) Paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section apply to property for which depreciation is determined under section 167 (other than under section 168, section 1400I, section 1400L(c), under section 168 prior to its amendment by the Tax Reform Act of 1986 (100 Stat. 2121), or under an additional first year depreciation deduction provision (for example, section 168(k), 1400L(b), or 1400N(d))) of the Internal Revenue Code.


(b) *Declining balance to straight line.* In the case of an account to which the method described in section 167(b)(2) is applicable, a taxpayer may change without the consent of the Commissioner from the declining balance method of depreciation to the straight line method at any time during the useful life of the property under the following conditions. Such a change may not be made if a provision prohibiting such a change is contained in an agreement under section 167(d). When the change is made, the unrecovered cost or other basis (less a reasonable estimate for salvage) shall be recovered through annual allowances over the estimated remaining useful life determined in accordance with the circumstances existing at the time. With respect to any account, this change will be permitted only if applied to all the assets in the account as defined in § 1.167(a)-7. If the method of depreciation described in section 167(b)(2) (the declining balance method of depreciation using a rate not exceeding 200 percent of the straight line rate) is an acceptable method of depreciation with respect to a particular account, the taxpayer may elect under this paragraph to change to the straight line method of depreciation even if with respect to that particular account the declining balance method is permitted under a provision other than section 167(b)(2). Thus, for example, in the case of section 1250 property to which section 167(j)(1) is applicable, section 167(b) does not apply, but the declining balance method of depreciation using 150 percent of the straight line rate is an acceptable method of depreciation under section 167(j)(1)(B). Accordingly, the taxpayer may elect under this paragraph to change to the straight line method of depreciation with respect to such property. Similarly, if the taxpayer acquired used property before July 25, 1969, and adopted the 150 percent declining balance method of depreciation permitted with respect to such property under § 1.167(b)-0(b), the taxpayer may elect under this paragraph to change to the straight line method of depreciation with respect to such property. The taxpayer shall furnish a statement with respect to the property which is the subject of the change showing the date of acquisition, cost or other basis, amounts recovered through depreciation and other allowances, the estimated salvage value, the character of the property, the remaining useful life of the property, and such other information as may be required. The statement shall be attached to the taxpayer's return for the taxable year in which the change is made. A change to the straight line method must be adhered to for the entire taxable year of the change and for all subsequent taxable years unless, with the consent of the Commissioner, a change to another method is permitted.


(c) *Change with respect to section 1245 property.* (1) In respect of his first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1962, a taxpayer may elect, without the consent of the Commissioner, to change the method of depreciation of section 1245 property (as defined in section 1245(a)(3)) from any declining balance method or sum of the years-digits method to the straight line method. With respect to any account (as defined in § 1.167(a)-7), this change may be made notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in an agreement under section 167(d), but such change shall constitute (as of the first day of such taxable year) a termination of such agreement as to all property in such account. With respect to any account, this change will be permitted only if applied to all the section 1245 property in the account. The election shall be made by a statement on, or attached to, the return for such taxable year filed on or before the last day prescribed by law, including any extensions thereof, for filing such return.


(2) When an election under this paragraph is made in respect of section 1245 property in an account, the unrecovered cost or other basis (less a reasonable estimate for salvage) of all the section 1245 property in the account shall be recovered through annual allowances over the estimated remaining useful life determined in accordance with the circumstances existing at that time. If there is other property in such account, the other property shall be placed in a separate account and depreciated by using the same method as was used before the change permitted by this paragraph, but the estimated useful life of such property shall be redetermined in accordance with § 1.167(b)-2, or 1.167(b)-3, whichever is applicable. The taxpayer shall maintain records which permit specific identification of the section 1245 property in the account with respect to which the election is made, and any other property in such account. The records shall also show for all the property in the account the date of acquisition, cost or other basis, amounts recovered through depreciation and other allowances, the estimated salvage value, the character of the property, and the remaining useful life of the property. A change to the straight line method under this paragraph must be adhered to for the entire taxable year of the change and for all subsequent taxable years unless, with the consent of the Commissioner, a change to another method is permitted.


(d) *Change with respect to section 1250 property.* (1) In respect of his first taxable year beginning after July 24, 1969, a taxpayer may elect, without the consent of the Commissioner, to change the method of depreciation of section 1250 property (as defined in section 1250(c)) from any declining balance method or sum of the years-digits method to the straight line method. With respect to any account (as defined in § 1.167(a)-7) this change may be made notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in an agreement under section 167(d), but such change will constitute (as of the first day of such taxable year) a termination of such agreement as to all property in such account. With respect to any account, this change will be permitted only if applied to all the section 1250 property in the account. The election shall be made by a statement on, or attached to, the return for such taxable year filed on or before the last day prescribed by law, including extensions thereof, for filing such return.


(2) When an election under this paragraph is made in respect of section 1250 property in an account, the unrecovered cost or other basis (less a reasonable estimate for salvage) of all the section 1250 property in the account shall be recovered through annual allowances over the estimated remaining useful life determined in accordance with the circumstances existing at that time. If there is other property in such account, the other property shall be placed in a separate account and depreciated by using the same method as was used before the change permitted by this paragraph, but the estimated useful life of such property shall be redetermined in accordance with § 1.167(b)-2 or § 1.167(b)-3, whichever is applicable. The taxpayer shall maintain records which permit specific identification of the section 1250 property in the account with respect to which the election is made and any other property in such account. The records shall also show for all the property in the account the date of the acquisition, cost or other basis, amounts recovered through depreciation and other allowances, the estimated salvage value, the character of the property, and the estimated remaining useful life of the property. A change to the straight line method under this paragraph must be adhered to for the entire taxable year of the change and for all subsequent taxable years unless, with the consent of the Commissioner, a change to another method is permitted.


(e) *Effective date.* This section applies on or after December 30, 2003. For the applicability of regulations before December 30, 2003, see § 1.167(e)-1 in effect prior to December 30, 2003 (§ 1.167(e)-1 as contained in 26 CFR part 1 edition revised as of April 1, 2003).



---

[N] [T.D. 6500, 25 FR 11402, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6832, 30 FR 8573, July 7, 1965; T.D. 7166, 37 FR 5245, Mar. 11, 1972; T.D. 9105, 69 FR 7, Jan. 2, 2004; T.D. 9307, 71 FR 78068, Dec. 28, 2006]




