# § 60.106a   Monitoring of emissions and operations for sulfur recovery plants.

(a) The owner or operator of a sulfur recovery plant that is subject to the emissions limits in § 60.102a(f)(1) or § 60.102a(f)(2) shall:


(1) For sulfur recovery plants subject to the SO_2_ emission limit in § 60.102a(f)(1)(i) or § 60.102a(f)(2)(i), the owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration (dry basis, zero percent excess air) of any SO_2_ emissions into the atmosphere. The monitor shall include an oxygen monitor for correcting the data for excess air.


(i) The span value for the SO_2_ monitor is two times the applicable SO_2_ emission limit at the highest O_2_ concentration in the air/oxygen stream used in the Claus burner, if applicable.


(ii) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each SO_2_ CEMS according to Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to part 60.


(iii) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each SO_2_ monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use Method 6 or 6C of appendix A-4 to part 60. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 6.


(iv) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each O_2_ monitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to this part.


(v) The span value for the O_2_ monitor must be selected between 10 and 25 percent, inclusive.


(vi) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations for the O_2_ monitor according to the requirements of § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to this part. The owner or operator shall use Methods 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to this part.


(vii) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable quality assurance procedures of appendix F to this part for each monitor, including annual accuracy determinations for each O_2_ monitor, and daily calibration drift determinations.


(2) For sulfur recovery plants that are subject to the reduced sulfur compounds emission limit in § 60.102a(f)(1)(ii) or (f)(2)(ii), the owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration of reduced sulfur compounds and O_2_ emissions into the atmosphere. The reduced sulfur compounds emissions shall be calculated as SO_2_ (dry basis, zero percent excess air).


(i) The span value for the reduced sulfur compounds monitor is two times the applicable reduced sulfur compounds emission limit as SO_2_ at the highest O_2_ concentration in the air/oxygen stream used in the Claus burner, if applicable.


(ii) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each reduced sulfur compounds CEMS according to Performance Specification 5 of appendix B to this part.


(iii) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each reduced sulfur compounds monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 5 of appendix B to this part. The owner or operator shall use Methods 15 or 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60.


(iv) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each O_2_ monitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60.


(v) The span value for the O_2_ monitor must be selected between 10 and 25 percent, inclusive.


(vi) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations for the O_2_ monitor according to the requirements of § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use Methods 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60.


(vii) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable quality assurance procedures of appendix F to part 60 for each monitor, including annual accuracy determinations for each O_2_ monitor, and daily calibration drift determinations.


(3) In place of the reduced sulfur compounds monitor required in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the owner or operator may install, calibrate, operate, and maintain an instrument using an air or O_2_ dilution and oxidation system to convert any reduced sulfur to SO_2_ for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration (dry basis, 0 percent excess air) of the total resultant SO_2_. The monitor must include an O_2_ monitor for correcting the data for excess O_2_.


(i) The span value for this monitor is two times the applicable reduced sulfur compounds emission limit as SO_2_ at the highest O_2_ concentration in the air/oxygen stream used in the Claus burner, if applicable.


(ii) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each SO_2_ monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 5 of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use Methods 15 or 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60.


(iii) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each O_2_ monitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60.


(iv) The span value for the O_2_ monitor must be selected between 10 and 25 percent, inclusive.


(v) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations for the O_2_ monitor according to the requirements of § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use Methods 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60.


(vi) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable quality assurance procedures of appendix F to part 60 for each monitor, including quarterly accuracy determinations for each SO_2_ monitor, annual accuracy determinations for each O_2_ monitor, and daily calibration drift determinations.


(4) For sulfur recovery plants that are subject to the H_2_S emission limit in § 60.102a(f)(1)(iii) or (f)(2)(iii), the owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration of H_2_S, and O_2_ emissions into the atmosphere. The H_2_S emissions shall be calculated as SO_2_ (dry basis, zero percent excess air).


(i) The span value for this monitor is two times the applicable H_2_S emission limit.


(ii) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each H_2_S CEMS according to Performance Specification 7 of appendix B to this part.


(iii) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations for each H_2_S monitor according to the requirements of § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 7 of appendix B to this part. The owner or operator shall use Methods 11 or 15 of appendix A-5 to this part or Method 16 of appendix A-6 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to this part.


(iv) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each O_2_ monitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to this part.


(v) The span value for the O_2_ monitor must be selected between 10 and 25 percent, inclusive.


(vi) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations for the O_2_ monitor according to the requirements of § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to this part. The owner or operator shall use Methods 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to this part.


(vii) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable quality assurance procedures of appendix F to this part for each monitor, including annual accuracy determinations for each O_2_ monitor, and daily calibration drift determinations.


(5) For sulfur recovery plants that use oxygen or oxygen enriched air in the Claus burner and that elects to monitor O_2_ concentration of the air/oxygen mixture supplied to the Claus burner, the owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the O_2_ concentration of the air/oxygen mixture supplied to the Claus burner in order to determine the allowable emissions limit.


(i) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each O_2_ monitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to this part.


(ii) The span value for the O_2_ monitor shall be 100 percent.


(iii) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations for the O_2_ monitor according to the requirements of § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to this part. The owner or operator shall use Methods 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to this part.


(iv) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable quality assurance procedures of appendix F to this part for each monitor, including annual accuracy determinations for each O_2_ monitor, and daily calibration drift determinations.


(v) The owner or operator shall use the hourly average O_2_ concentration from this monitor for use in Equation 1 or 2 of § 60.102a(f), as applicable, for each hour and determine the allowable emission limit as the arithmetic average of 12 contiguous 1-hour averages (*i.e.*, the rolling 12-hour average).


(6) As an alternative to the O_2_ monitor required in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, the owner or operator may install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a CPMS to measure and record the volumetric gas flow rate of ambient air and oxygen-enriched gas supplied to the Claus burner and calculate the hourly average O_2_ concentration of the air/oxygen mixture used in the Claus burner as specified in paragraphs (a)(6)(i) through (iv) of this section in order to determine the allowable emissions limit as specified in paragraphs (a)(6)(v) of this section.


(i) The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, operate and maintain each flow monitor according to the manufacturer's procedures and specifications and the following requirements.


(A) Locate the monitor in a position that provides a representative measurement of the total gas flow rate.


(B) Use a flow sensor meeting an accuracy requirement of ±5 percent over the normal range of flow measured or 10 cubic feet per minute, whichever is greater.


(C) Use a flow monitor that is maintainable online, is able to continuously correct for temperature, pressure and, for ambient air flow monitor, moisture content, and is able to record dry flow in standard conditions (as defined in § 60.2) over one-minute averages.


(D) At least quarterly, perform a visual inspection of all components of the monitor for physical and operational integrity and all electrical connections for oxidation and galvanic corrosion if the flow monitor is not equipped with a redundant flow sensor.


(E) Recalibrate the flow monitor in accordance with the manufacturer's procedures and specifications biennially (every two years) or at the frequency specified by the manufacturer.


(ii) The owner or operator shall use 20.9 percent as the oxygen content of the ambient air.


(iii) The owner or operator shall use product specifications (*e.g.,* as reported in material safety data sheets) for percent oxygen for purchased oxygen. For oxygen produced onsite, the percent oxygen shall be determined by periodic measurements or process knowledge.


(iv) The owner or operator shall calculate the hourly average O_2_ concentration of the air/oxygen mixture used in the Claus burner using Equation 10 of this section:


(v) The owner or operator shall use the hourly average O_2_ concentration determined using Equation 8 of § 60.104a(d)(8) for use in Equation 1 or 2 of § 60.102a(f), as applicable, for each hour and determine the allowable emission limit as the arithmetic average of 12 contiguous 1-hour averages (*i.e.,* the rolling 12-hour average).


(7) Owners or operators of a sulfur recovery plant that elects to comply with the SO_2_ emission limit in § 60.102a(f)(1)(i) or (f)(2)(i) or the reduced sulfur compounds emission limit in § 60.102a(f)(1)(ii) or (f)(2)(ii) as a flow rate weighted average for a group of release points from the sulfur recovery plant rather than for each process train or release point individually shall install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a CPMS to measure and record the volumetric gas flow rate of each release point within the group of release points from the sulfur recovery plant as specified in paragraphs (a)(7)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, operate and maintain each flow monitor according to the manufacturer's procedures and specifications and the following requirements.


(A) Locate the monitor in a position that provides a representative measurement of the total gas flow rate.


(B) Use a flow sensor meeting an accuracy requirement of ±5 percent over the normal range of flow measured or 10 cubic feet per minute, whichever is greater.


(C) Use a flow monitor that is maintainable online, is able to continuously correct for temperature, pressure, and moisture content, and is able to record dry flow in standard conditions (as defined in § 60.2) over one-minute averages.


(D) At least quarterly, perform a visual inspection of all components of the monitor for physical and operational integrity and all electrical connections for oxidation and galvanic corrosion if the flow monitor is not equipped with a redundant flow sensor.


(E) Recalibrate the flow monitor in accordance with the manufacturer's procedures and specifications biennially (every two years) or at the frequency specified by the manufacturer.


(ii) The owner or operator shall correct the flow to 0 percent excess air using Equation 11 of this section:


(iii) The owner or operator shall calculate the flow weighted average SO_2_ or reduced sulfur compounds concentration for each hour using Equation 12 of this section:


(iv) For sulfur recovery plants that use oxygen or oxygen enriched air in the Claus burner, the owner or operator shall use Equation 10 of this section and the hourly emission limits determined in paragraph (a)(5)(v) or (a)(6)(v) of this section in-place of the pollutant concentration to determine the flow weighted average hourly emission limit for each hour. The allowable emission limit shall be calculated as the arithmetic average of 12 contiguous 1-hour averages (*i.e.,* the rolling 12-hour average).


(b) *Excess emissions.* For the purpose of reports required by § 60.7(c), periods of excess emissions for sulfur recovery plants subject to the emissions limitations in § 60.102a(f) are defined as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) All 12-hour periods during which the average concentration of SO_2_ as measured by the SO_2_ continuous monitoring system required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section exceeds the applicable emission limit (dry basis, zero percent excess air); or


(2) All 12-hour periods during which the average concentration of reduced sulfur compounds (as SO_2_) as measured by the reduced sulfur compounds continuous monitoring system required under paragraph (a)(2) or (3) of this section exceeds the applicable emission limit; or


(3) All 12-hour periods during which the average concentration of H_2_S as measured by the H_2_S continuous monitoring system required under paragraph (a)(4) of this section exceeds the applicable emission limit (dry basis, 0 percent excess air).



---

[N] [73 FR 35867, June 24, 2008, as amended at 80 FR 75232, Dec. 1, 2015; 83 FR 60713, Nov. 26, 2018]




