# ยง 607.1   Purpose and scope.

(a) This part provides procedures for the collection by administrative offset of a federal employee's salary without his or her consent to satisfy certain debts owed to the Federal government. This part applies to all Federal employees who owe debts to the National Science Foundation (NSF) and to current employees of NSF who owe debts to other Federal agencies. This part does not apply when the employee consents to recovery from his or her current pay account.


(b) This part does not apply to debts or claims arising under:


(1) The Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, 26 U.S.C. 1 *et seq.;*

(2) The Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 301 *et seq.;*

(3) The tariff laws of the United States; or


(4) Any case where a collection of a debt by salary offset is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute. 


(c) This part does not apply to any adjustment to pay arising out of an employee's selection of coverage or a change in coverage under a Federal benefits program requiring periodic deductions from pay if the amount to be recovered was accumulated over four pay periods or less. 


(d) This part does not preclude the compromise, suspension, or termination of collection action where appropriate under the standards implementing the Federal Claims Collection Act, 31 U.S.C. 3711 *et seq.,* and 4 CFR parts 101 through 105. 


(e) This part does not preclude an employee from requesting waiver of an overpayment under 5 U.S.C. 5584, 10 U.S.C. 2774, or 32 U.S.C. 716, or in any way questioning the amount or validity of the debt by submitting a subsequent claim to the General Accounting Office. This part does not preclude an employee from requesting a waiver pursuant to other statutory provisions applicable to the particular debt being collected. 


(f) Matters not addressed in this part should be reviewed in accordance with the Federal Claims Collection Standards at 4 CFR 101.1 *et seq.*

