# § 242.304   NMS Stock ATSs.

(a) *Conditions to the exemption.* Unless not required to comply with Regulation ATS pursuant to § 242.301(a), an NMS Stock ATS must comply with §§ 242.300 through 242.304 (except § 242.301(b)(2)(i) through (vii)) to be exempt pursuant to § 240.3a1-1(a)(2).


(1) *Initial Form ATS-N.* (i) *Filing and effectiveness requirement.* No exemption is available to an NMS Stock ATS pursuant to § 240.3a1-1(a)(2) unless the NMS Stock ATS files with the Commission an initial Form ATS-N, in accordance with the conditions of this section, and the initial Form ATS-N is effective pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(iii) or (a)(1)(iv)(A) of this section.


(ii) *Commission review period.* (A) The Commission may, by order, as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, declare an initial Form ATS-N filed by an NMS Stock ATS ineffective no later than 120 calendar days from the date of filing with the Commission, or, if applicable, the end of the extended review period. The Commission may extend the initial Form ATS-N review period for:


(*1*) An additional 90 calendar days, if the Form ATS-N is unusually lengthy or raises novel or complex issues that require additional time for review, in which case the Commission will notify the NMS Stock ATS in writing within the initial 120-calendar day review period and will briefly describe the reason for the determination for which additional time for review is required; or


(*2*) Any extended review period to which a duly authorized representative of the NMS Stock ATS agrees in writing.


(B) During review by the Commission of the initial Form ATS-N, the NMS Stock ATS shall amend its initial Form ATS-N pursuant to the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(B) and (C) of this section. To make material changes to its initial Form ATS-N during the Commission review period, the NMS Stock ATS shall withdraw its filed initial Form ATS-N and may refile an initial Form ATS-N pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(iii) *Effectiveness; Ineffectiveness determination.* (A) An initial Form ATS-N, as amended, filed by an NMS Stock ATS will become effective, unless declared ineffective, upon the earlier of:


(*1*) The completion of review by the Commission and publication pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section; or


(*2*) The expiration of the review period, or, if applicable, the end of the extended review period, pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.


(B) The Commission will, by order, declare an initial Form ATS-N ineffective if it finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and is consistent with the protection of investors. If the Commission declares an initial Form ATS-N ineffective, the NMS Stock ATS shall be prohibited from operating as an NMS Stock ATS pursuant to § 240.3a1-1(a)(2). An initial Form ATS-N declared ineffective does not prevent the NMS Stock ATS from subsequently filing a new Form ATS-N.


(iv) *Transition for Legacy NMS Stock ATSs.* (A) *Initial Form ATS-N filing requirements.* A Legacy NMS Stock ATS shall file with the Commission an initial Form ATS-N, in accordance with the conditions of this section, no earlier than January 7, 2019, and no later than February 8, 2019. An initial Form ATS-N filed by a Legacy NMS Stock ATS shall supersede and replace for purposes of the exemption the previously filed Form ATS of the Legacy NMS Stock ATS. The Legacy NMS Stock ATS may operate, on a provisional basis, pursuant to the filed initial Form ATS-N, and any amendments thereto, during the review of the initial Form ATS-N by the Commission. An initial Form ATS-N filed by a Legacy NMS Stock ATS, as amended, will become effective, unless declared ineffective, upon the earlier of:


(*1*) The completion of review by the Commission and publication pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section; or


(*2*) The expiration of the review period, or, if applicable, the end of the extended review period, pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(iv)(B) of this section.


(B) *Commission review period; Ineffectiveness determination.* The Commission may, by order, as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, declare an initial Form ATS-N filed by a Legacy NMS Stock ATS ineffective no later than 120 calendar days from the date of filing with the Commission, or, if applicable, the end of the extended review period. The Commission may extend the initial Form ATS-N review period for a Legacy NMS Stock ATS for:


(*1*) An additional 120 calendar days if the initial Form ATS-N is unusually lengthy or raises novel or complex issues that require additional time for review, in which case the Commission will notify the Legacy NMS Stock ATS in writing within the initial 120-calendar day review period and will briefly describe the reason for the determination for which additional time for review is required; or


(*2*) Any extended review period to which a duly-authorized representative of the Legacy NMS Stock ATS agrees in writing.


(C) *Amendments to initial Form ATS-N.* During review by the Commission of the initial Form ATS-N filed by a Legacy NMS Stock ATS, the Legacy NMS Stock ATS shall amend its initial Form ATS-N pursuant to the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(A) through (D) of this section.


(2) *Form ATS-N amendment.* (i) *Filing requirements.* An NMS Stock ATS shall amend a Form ATS-N, in accordance with the conditions of this section:


(A) At least 30 calendar days, except as provided by paragraph (a)(2)(i)(D) of this section, prior to the date of implementation of a material change to the operations of the NMS Stock ATS or to the activities of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates that are subject to disclosure on Form ATS-N (“Material Amendment”);


(B) No later than 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter to correct information that has become inaccurate or incomplete for any reason and was not required to be reported to the Commission as a Form ATS-N amendment pursuant to paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(A), (C), or (D) of this section (“Updating Amendment”);


(C) Promptly, to correct information in any previous disclosure on Form ATS-N, after discovery that any information previously filed on Form ATS-N was materially inaccurate or incomplete when filed (“Correcting Amendment”); or


(D) No later than seven calendar days after information required to be disclosed in Part III, Items 24 and 25 on Form ATS-N has become inaccurate or incomplete (“Order Display and Fair Access Amendment”).


(ii) *Commission review period; Ineffectiveness determination.* The Commission will, by order, declare ineffective any Form ATS-N amendment filed pursuant to paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(A) through (D) of this section, no later than 30 calendar days from filing with the Commission, if the Commission finds that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and is consistent with the protection of investors. A Form ATS-N amendment declared ineffective shall prohibit the NMS Stock ATS from operating pursuant to the ineffective Form ATS-N amendment. A Form ATS-N amendment declared ineffective does not prevent the NMS Stock ATS from subsequently filing a new Form ATS-N amendment. During review by the Commission of a Material Amendment, the NMS Stock ATS shall amend the Material Amendment pursuant to the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(B) through (C) of this section. To make material changes to a filed Material Amendment during the Commission review period, an NMS Stock ATS shall withdraw its filed Material Amendment and must file the new Material Amendment pursuant to (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section.


(3) *Notice of cessation.* An NMS Stock ATS shall notice its cessation of operations on Form ATS-N at least 10 business days prior to the date the NMS Stock ATS will cease to operate as an NMS Stock ATS. The notice of cessation shall cause the Form ATS-N to become ineffective on the date designated by the NMS Stock ATS.


(4) *Suspension, limitation, and revocation of the exemption from the definition of exchange.* (i) The Commission will, by order, if it finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and is consistent with the protection of investors, suspend for a period not exceeding twelve months, limit, or revoke the exemption for an NMS Stock ATS pursuant to § 240.3a1-1(a)(2) of this chapter.


(ii) If the exemption for an NMS Stock ATS is suspended or revoked pursuant to paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section, the NMS Stock ATS shall be prohibited from operating pursuant to the exemption pursuant to § 240.3a1-1(a)(2) of this chapter. If the exemption for an NMS Stock ATS is limited pursuant to paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section, the NMS Stock ATS shall be prohibited from operating in a manner otherwise inconsistent with the terms and conditions of the Commission order.


(b) *Public disclosures.* (1) Every Form ATS-N filed pursuant to this section shall constitute a “report” within the meaning of sections 11A, 17(a), 18(a), and 32(a) (15 U.S.C. 78k-1, 78q(a), 78r(a), and 78ff(a)), and any other applicable provisions of the Act.


(2) The Commission will make public via posting on the Commission's website, each:


(i) Effective initial Form ATS-N, as amended;


(ii) Order of ineffective initial Form ATS-N;


(iii) Form ATS-N amendment to an effective Form ATS-N:


(A) *Material Amendments:* The cover page of the Material Amendment will be made public by the Commission upon filing and, unless the Commission declares the Material Amendment ineffective, the entirety of the Material Amendment, as amended, will be made public by the Commission following the expiration of the review period pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.


(B) *Updating, Correcting, and Order Display and Fair Access Amendments:* The entirety of Updating, Correcting, and Order Display and Fair Access Amendments will be made public by the Commission upon filing. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Updating or Correcting Amendment filed to a Material Amendment will be made public by the Commission following the expiration of the review period for such Material Amendment pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.


(iv) Order of ineffective Form ATS-N amendment;


(v) Notice of cessation; and


(vi) Order suspending, limiting, or revoking the exemption for an NMS Stock ATS from the definition of an “exchange” pursuant to § 240.3a1-1(a)(2) of this chapter.


(3) Each NMS Stock ATS shall make public via posting on its website a direct URL hyperlink to the Commission's website that contains the documents enumerated in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(c) *Form ATS-N disclosure requirements.* (1) An NMS Stock ATS must file a Form ATS-N in accordance with the instructions therein.


(2) Any report required to be filed with the Commission under this section shall be filed on Form ATS-N, and include all information as prescribed in Form ATS-N and the instructions thereto. Such document shall be executed at, or prior to, the time Form ATS-N is filed and shall be retained by the NMS Stock ATS in accordance with §§ 242.303 and § 232.302 of this chapter, and the instructions in Form ATS-N.



---

[N] [83 FR 38911, Aug. 7, 2018]




