# ยง 228.13   Financial Assurance.

(a) Any operator required to file a plan of operations shall, when required by the authorized officer, furnish financial assurance for completion of the obligations set forth in these regulations and the approved plan of operations in the amount determined by the authorized officer to be required to provide reasonable financial assurance of such obligations prior to approval of such plan of operations, or by providing blanket assurance for multiple defined operations conducted by the operator such as within a particular State or nation-wide. The operator may elect to provide such financial assurance in the form of any of the following instruments that are acceptable to the authorized officer, singly or in combination:


(1) cash in an amount equal to the required dollar amount of the reclamation cost estimate and the estimated cost of stabilizing, rehabilitating, and reclaiming the area of operations deposited into a Federal depository, as directed by the Forest Service, and maintained therein;


(2) negotiable securities of the United States having market value at the time of deposit of not less than the required dollar amount of the bond;


(3) a surety bond provided by a third party that is certified by the Department of the Treasury and listed in Treasury Circular 570 as financial assurance for the obligations for specific operations, or providing blanket assurance for multiple defined operations conducted by the operator such as within a particular State or nation-wide, and/or;


(4) an irrevocable letter of credit provided by an institution acceptable to the authorized officer.


(b) In determining the amount of the required financial assurance, the authorized officer shall give consideration to the reclamation cost estimate which shall be submitted by the operator prior to the approval of the final plan of operations, and the estimated cost of stabilizing, rehabilitating, and reclaiming the area of operations.


(c) In the event that an approved plan of operations is modified in accordance with ยง 228.4 (d) and (e), the authorized officer will review the financial assurance for adequacy and, if necessary, will adjust the financial assurance amount to conform to the operations plan as modified.


(d) When reclamation has been completed in accordance with ยง 228.8(g), the authorized officer will notify the operator that obligations covered by the financial assurance have been met: *Provided, however,* that when the Forest Service has accepted any portion of the reclamation as completed, the authorized officer shall notify the operator of such acceptance and proportionally reduce the required financial assurance amount thereafter to be required for the remaining obligations of the operator.


(e) When an operator is required to continue to operate or maintain certain aspects of the operation after the mine has closed, the authorized officer may require the operator to establish a trust fund to ensure that adequate funds are available for long-term post-closure reclamation activities required by the regulations or the approved plan of operations following mine closure. The authorized officer shall determine which activities may be secured through a trust fund, and which activities may be secured through another form of financial assurance. Establishing a trust fund does not relieve the operator of the responsibility to provide long-term management, maintenance, and reclamation of the site. A trust fund for long-term post closure obligations shall be comprised of financial instruments limited to negotiable securities of the United States Government; State and Municipal securities or bonds; money market funds; certificates of deposits; investment-grade securities; and stock equity shares listed on a national exchange.



---

[N] [39 FR 31317, Aug. 28, 1974; 39 FR 32029, Sept. 4, 1974, as amended at 88 FR 74049, Oct. 30, 2023] 




