# § 1007.19   FFP rate and eligible FFP costs.

(a) *Rate of FFP.* (1) Subject to the limitation of this section, the Secretary of Health and Human Services must reimburse each State by an amount equal to 90 percent of the allowable costs incurred by a certified Unit during the first 12 quarters of operation that are attributable to carrying out its functions and responsibilities under this part. Each quarter of operation must be counted in determining when the Unit has accumulated 12 quarters of operation and is, therefore, no longer eligible for a 90-percent matching rate. Quarters of operation do not have to be consecutive to accumulate.


(2) Beginning with the 13th quarter of operation, the Secretary must reimburse 75 percent of allowable costs incurred by a certified Unit.


(b) *Retroactive certification.* OIG may grant certification retroactive to the date on which the Unit first met all the requirements of section 1903(q) of the Act and of this part. For any quarter with respect to which the Unit is certified, the Secretary will provide reimbursement for the entire quarter.


(c) *Total amount of FFP.* FFP for any quarter must not exceed the higher of $125,000 or one-quarter of 1 percent of the sums expended by the Federal, State, and local governments during the previous quarter in carrying out the State Medicaid program.


(d) *Costs eligible for FFP.* (1) FFP is allowable under this part for the expenditures attributable to the establishment and operation of the Unit, including the cost of training personnel employed by the Unit and efforts to increase referrals to the Unit through program outreach. Reimbursement is allowable only for costs attributable to the specific responsibilities and functions set forth in this part and if the Unit has been certified and recertified by OIG.


(2) Establishment costs are limited to clearly identifiable costs of personnel that meet the requirements of § 1007.13 of this part.


(e) *Costs not eligible for FFP.* FFP is not allowable under this part for expenditures attributable to:


(1) The investigation of cases involving program abuse or other failures to comply with applicable laws and regulations, if these cases do not involve substantial allegations or other indications of fraud, as described in § 1007.11(a) of this part;


(2) Routine verification with beneficiaries of whether services billed by providers were actually received, or, except as provided in § 1007.20, efforts to identify situations in which a question of fraud may exist by the screening of claims and analysis of patterns and practice that involve data mining as defined in § 1007.1.


(3) The routine notification of providers that fraudulent claims may be punished under Federal or State law;


(4) The performance of any audit or investigation, any professional legal function, or any criminal, civil or administrative prosecution of suspected providers by a person who does not meet the professional employee requirements in § 1007.13(d);


(5) The investigation or prosecution of fraud cases involving a beneficiary's eligibility for benefits, unless the suspected fraud cases also involve conspiracy with a provider;


(6) Any payment, direct or indirect, from the Unit to the Medicaid agency, other than payments for the salaries of employees on detail to the Unit; or


(7) Temporary duties performed by professional employees that are not required functions and responsibilities of the Unit, as described at § 1007.13(d)(3).




