# § 400.71   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart and Subpart I—


*Appropriate agency providing employment services* means an agency providing services specified under § 400.154(a) of this part which are specifically designed to assist refugees in becoming employed, which must include an established program of job referral to, and job placement with, private employers, and which must be determined acceptable by the State.


*Employability plan* means an individualized written plan for a refugee registered for employment services that sets forth a program of services intended to result in the earliest possible employment of the refugee.


*Employability services* means services, as specified in § 400.154 of this part, designed to enable an individual to obtain employment and to improve the employability or work skills of the individual.


*Employable* means not exempt from registration for employment services under § 400.76 of this part.


*Employment services* means the services specified in § 400.154(a) of this part.


*Family self-sufficiency plan* means a plan that addresses the employment-related service needs of the employable members in a family for the purpose of enabling the family to become self-supporting through the employment of one or more family members. 


*Registrant* means an individual who has registered for employment services under § 400.75 of this part.



---

[N] [54 FR 5477, Feb. 3, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 33602, June 28, 1995; 65 FR 15448, Mar. 22, 2000]




