# ยง 770.21   Quality control manual, facilities, and personnel.

(a) *Quality control manual.* (1) Each panel producer must have a written quality control manual. The manual must contain, at a minimum, the following:


(i) A description of the organizational structure of the quality control department, including the names of the quality control manager and quality control employees;


(ii) A description of the sampling procedures to be followed;


(iii) A description of the method of handling samples, including a specific maximum time period for analyzing quality control samples;


(iv) A description of the frequency of quality control testing;


(v) A description of the procedures used to identify changes in formaldehyde emissions resulting from production changes (e.g., increase in the percentage of resin, increase in formaldehyde/urea molar ratio in the resin, or decrease in press time);


(vi) A description of provisions for additional testing;


(vii) A description of recordkeeping procedures;


(viii) A description of labeling procedures;


(ix) The average percentage of resin and press time for each product type;


(x) A description of product types, and if applicable, a description of product variables covered under each product type;


(xi) Procedures for reduced quality control testing, if applicable; and


(xii) Procedures for handling non-complying lots, including a description of how the panel producer will ensure compliance with the notification requirements of ยง 770.22(d)(1).


(2) The quality control manual must be approved by an EPA TSCA Title VI TPC.


(b) *Quality control facilities.* Each panel producer must designate a quality control facility for conducting quality control formaldehyde testing.


(1) The quality control facility must be an EPA TSCA Title VI TPC, a contract laboratory, or a laboratory owned and operated by the panel producer.


(2) Each quality control facility must have quality control employees with adequate experience and/or training to conduct accurate chemical quantitative analytical tests. The quality control manager must identify each person conducting formaldehyde quality control testing to the EPA TSCA Title VI TPC.


(c) *Quality control manager.* Each panel producer must designate a person as quality control manager with adequate experience and/or training to be responsible for formaldehyde emissions quality control. The quality control manager must:


(1) Have the authority to take actions necessary to ensure that applicable formaldehyde emission standards are being met on an ongoing basis;


(2) Be identified to the EPA TSCA Title VI TPC that will be overseeing the quality control testing. The panel producer must notify the EPA TSCA Title VI TPC in writing within ten calendar days of any change in the identity of the quality control manager and provide the EPA TSCA Title VI TPC with the new quality control manager's qualifications;


(3) Review and approve all reports of quality control testing conducted on the production of the panel producer;


(4) Ensure that the samples are collected, packaged, and shipped according to the procedures specified in the quality control manual; and


(5) Inform the EPA TSCA Title VI TPC in writing of any significant changes in production that could affect formaldehyde emissions within 72 hours of making those changes.




