# ยง 725.190   Notice of commencement of manufacture or import.

(a) *Applicability.* Any person who commences the manufacture or import of a new microorganism for nonexempt, commercial purposes for which that person previously submitted a section 5(a) notice under this part must submit a notice of commencement (NOC) of manufacture or import.


(b) *When to report.* (1) If manufacture or import for nonexempt, commercial purposes begins on or after May 27, 1997, the submitter must submit the NOC to EPA no later than 30 calendar days after the first day of such manufacture or import.


(2) If manufacture or import for nonexempt, commercial purposes began or will begin before May 27, 1997, the submitter must submit the NOC by May 27, 1997.


(3) Submission of an NOC prior to the commencement of manufacture or import is a violation of section 15 of the Act.




(c) *Information to be reported.* The NOC must contain the following information: Specific microorganism identity, MCAN number, and the date when manufacture or import commences. If the person claims any information on the form as confidential, the claim must be asserted and substantiated in accordance with the requirements described in part 703 of this subchapter and ยง 725.80, as indicated in EPA Form 7710-56. If the submitter wants the microorganism identity to be listed on the confidential portion of the TSCA Inventory, the microorganism identity must be claimed as confidential and also follow the certification, substantiation, and generic name requirements described in part 703 of this subchapter and paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section.








(d) *How to submit.* All notices of commencement must be generated, completed, and submitted to EPA (via CDX) using e-PMN software. See 40 CFR 720.40(a)(2)(ii) for information on how to obtain e-PMN software.




(e) *Requirements for assertion.* Any person who asserts a confidentiality claim for microorganism identity must:


(1) Comply with the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section regarding submission of a generic name.


(2) Agree that EPA may disclose to a person with a *bona fide* intent to manufacture or import the microorganism the fact that the particular microorganism is included on the confidential TSCA Inventory for purposes of notification under section 5(a)(1)(A) of the Act.


(3) Have available and agree to furnish to EPA upon request the taxonomic designations and supplemental information required by ยง 725.12.


(4) Make claims of confidentiality in accordance with the procedures described in 40 CFR part 703.


(f) *Generic name.* If a submitter asserts a claim of confidentiality for microorganism identity in a notice of commencement, they must provide a generic name.


(1) Generic names must:


(i) Be structurally descriptive (e.g., not a trade name); and


(ii) Be consistent with guidance on the determination of structurally descriptive generic names, developed in accordance with section 14(c)(4)(A) of the Act (e.g.,* Guidance for Creating Generic Names for Confidential Chemical Substance Identity Reporting under TSCA*). Generic names for microorganisms may only mask the portion of microorganism identity that the submitter believes is proprietary (considering that the identity of a microorganism to be listed on the TSCA Inventory must include taxonomic designations (genus, species, and strain), key phenotypic traits, key genotypic traits and modifications, genetic material that has been introduced or modified, any vector constructs used, cellular location of introduced or modified genes, number and type of genes introduced or modified, and method of construction or modification). Taxonomic designation (in most cases down to strain) must be included in the generic name except where the submitter claims the taxonomic designation confidential, in which case the person making such claim must provide an explanation of why such masking is necessary to protect proprietary information. Additionally, the generic microorganism identity must include a statement regarding the function and stability of the genetic construct. This includes an indication of whether the introduced or modified genes are present on the chromosome or extrachromosomal.


(2) Generic names will be reviewed by EPA at the time of submission.


(i) If EPA concludes that a proposed generic name meets the criteria in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, EPA will include that generic name in the public TSCA Inventory listing for that substance.


(ii) If the proposed generic name does not meet the criteria in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, EPA will notify the submitter concerning the deficiency via CDX, as described in ยง 703.5(h) of this subchapter. EPA will provide ten business days to correct the deficiency and provide an alternative generic name that would be acceptable to EPA. If the alternative generic name proposed by EPA is acceptable to the submitter (or if the submitter does not respond within the ten-day period), EPA will place that alternative generic name on the public TSCA Inventory. If the alternative generic name proposed by EPA is not acceptable to the submitter, the submitter must submit a revised generic name that meets the criteria in paragraph (f)(1) of this section and an explanation of how EPA's proposed generic name reveals confidential information. If EPA concludes that the revised generic name also does not meet the criteria in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, EPA will hold the notice of commencement for a period of up to 10 business days. Reporting requirements will not be considered to have been met and the microorganism will not be added to the TSCA Inventory during this period. If the submission remains deficient after this 10-day period, EPA will proceed with CBI review of the microorganism identity claim and will likely deny the claim.









---

[N] [62 FR 17932, Apr. 11, 1997, as amended at 75 FR 789, Jan. 6, 2010; 78 FR 72828, Dec. 4, 2013; 88 FR 37174, June 7, 2023]










