# ยง 2200.21   Intervention; appearance by non-parties.

(a) *When allowed.* A petition for leave to intervene may be filed at any time prior to 14 days before commencement of the hearing. A petition filed less than 14 days prior to the commencement of the hearing will be denied unless good cause is shown for not timely filing the petition. A petition shall be served on all parties in accordance with ยง 2200.7.


(b) *Requirements of petition.* (1) The petition shall set forth the interest of the petitioner in the proceeding and show that the participation of the petitioner will assist in the determination of the issues in question and that the intervention will not unduly delay the proceeding.


(2) If the petitioner is an employee who is not employed by the cited employer but who performed work at the cited worksite, the petition, in addition to the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, shall set forth material facts sufficient to demonstrate that the petitioner was exposed to or has access to the hazard arising out of the allegedly violative circumstances, conditions, practices, or operations.


(c) *Ruling on petition.* (1) For petitions filed by an employee, as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the Commission or the Judge shall grant the petition for intervention.


(2) For all other petitions, the Commission or the Judge may grant a petition for intervention that meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(3) An order granting a petition shall specify the extent and terms of an intervenor's participation in the proceedings.




