# § 411.170   General provisions.

(a) *Basis.* (1) This subpart is based on certain provisions of section 1862(b) of the Act, which impose specific requirements and limitations with respect to—


(i) Individuals who are entitled to Medicare on the basis of age; and 


(ii) GHPs of at least one employer of 20 or more employees that cover those individuals. 


(2) Under these provisions, the following rules apply: 


(i) An employer is considered to employ 20 or more employees if the employer has 20 or more employees for each working day in each of 20 or more calendar weeks in the current calendar year or the preceding calendar year. 


(ii) The plan may not take into account the Medicare entitlement of—


(A) An individual age 65 or older who is covered or seeks to be covered under the plan by virtue of current employment status; or 


(B) The spouse, including divorced or common-law spouse age 65 or older of an individual (of any age) who is covered or seeks to be covered by virtue of current employment status. (Section 411.108 gives examples of actions that constitute “taking into account.”) 


(iii) Regardless of whether entitled to Medicare, employees and spouses age 65 or older, including divorced or common-law spouses of employees of any age, are entitled to the same plan benefits under the same conditions as employees and spouses under age 65. 


(b) [Reserved] 


(c) *Determination of “aged”.* (1) An individual attains a particular age on the day preceding the anniversary of his or her birth.


(2) The period during which an individual is considered to be “aged” begins on the first day of the month in which that individual attains age 65.


(3) For services furnished before May 1986, the period during which an individual is considered “aged” ends as follows:


(i) For services furnished before July 18, 1984, it ends on the last day of the month in which the individual attains age 70.


(ii) For services furnished between July 18, 1984 and April 30, 1986, it ends on the last day of the month *before* the month the individual attains age 70.


(4) For services furnished on or after May 1, 1986, the period has no upper age limit.



---

[N] [54 FR 41734, Oct. 11, 1989. Redesignated and amended at 60 FR 45362, 45370, Aug. 31, 1995]




