# ยง 922.2   Mission, goals, and special policies.

(a) In accordance with the standards set forth in the Act, the mission of the Office of National Marine Sanctuaries (Office) is to identify, designate, protect, restore, and manage areas of the marine environment of special national, and in some cases international, significance due to their conservation, recreational, ecological, historical, scientific, educational, cultural, archeological, or aesthetic resources and qualities.


(b) The goal of the Office is to carry out the mission of the Act in a manner consistent with the purposes and policies of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1431(b)); the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary and Protection Act (Pub. L. 101-605) which designated Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary; the Hawaiian Islands National Marine Sanctuary and Protection Act (Pub. L. 102-587), which designated Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary; the Oceans Act of 1992 (Pub. L. 102-587), which designated Stellwagen Bank National Marine Sanctuary; and the National Marine Sanctuaries Preservation Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-283), which added Stetson Bank to Flower Garden Banks National Marine Sanctuary.


(c) Management efforts will be coordinated to the extent practicable with other countries managing marine protected areas;


(d) Program regulations, policies, standards, guidelines, and procedures developed pursuant to the Act concerning the identification, evaluation, registration, and treatment of historical resources shall be consistent, to the extent practicable, with the declared national policy for the protection and preservation of these resources as stated in the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, 54 U.S.C. 300101 *et seq.,* the Archeological and Historical Preservation Act of 1974, 54 U.S.C. 312501 *et seq.,* and the Archeological Resources Protection Act of 1979 (ARPA), 16 U.S.C. 470aa *et seq.* The same degree of regulatory protection and preservation planning policy extended to historical resources on land shall be extended, to the extent practicable, to historical resources in the marine environment within the boundaries of designated national marine sanctuaries. The management of historical resources under the authority of the Act shall be consistent, to the extent practicable, with the Federal archeological program by consulting the Uniform Regulations, ARPA (43 CFR part 7) and other relevant Federal regulations. The Secretary of the Interior's Standards and Guidelines for Archeology may also be consulted for guidance.






