# ยง 303.45   Special provisions.

(a) *Emergency or disaster events.* (1) In the case of an emergency or disaster at a main office or a branch which requires that an office be immediately relocated to a temporary location, applicants shall notify the appropriate FDIC office within 3 days of such temporary relocation. 


(2) Within 10 days of the temporary relocation resulting from an emergency or disaster, the bank shall submit a written application to the appropriate FDIC office, that identifies the nature of the emergency or disaster, specifies the location of the temporary branch, and provides an estimate of the duration the bank plans to operate the temporary branch. 


(3) As part of the review process, the FDIC will determine on a case by case basis whether additional information is necessary and may waive public notice requirements. 


(b) *Redesignation of main office and existing branch.* In cases where an applicant desires to redesignate its main office as a branch and redesignate an existing branch as the main office, a single application shall be submitted. The FDIC may waive the public notice requirements in instances where an application presents no significant or novel policy, supervisory, CRA, compliance or legal concerns. A waiver will be granted only to a redesignation within the applicant's home state. 


(c) *Expiration of approval.* Approval of an application expires if within 18 months after the approval date a branch has not commenced business or a relocation has not been completed. 




