# § 60.59b   Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(a) The owner or operator of an affected facility with a capacity to combust greater than 250 tons per day shall submit, on or before the date the application for a construction permit is submitted under 40 CFR part 51, subpart I, or part 52, as applicable, the items specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section. 


(1) The preliminary and final draft materials separation plans required by § 60.57b(a)(1) and (a)(5). 


(2) A copy of the notification of the public meeting required by § 60.57b(a)(1)(ii). 


(3) A transcript of the public meeting required by § 60.57b(a)(2). 


(4) A copy of the document summarizing responses to public comments required by § 60.57b(a)(3). 


(b) The owner or operator of an affected facility with a capacity to combust greater than 250 tons per day shall submit a notification of construction, which includes the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section. 


(1) Intent to construct. 


(2) Planned initial startup date. 


(3) The types of fuels that the owner or operator plans to combust in the affected facility. 


(4) The municipal waste combustor unit capacity, and supporting capacity calculations prepared in accordance with § 60.58b(j). 


(5) Documents associated with the siting requirements under § 60.57b (a) and (b), as specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (b)(5)(v) of this section. 


(i) The siting analysis required by § 60.57b (b)(1) and (b)(2). 


(ii) The final materials separation plan for the affected facility required by § 60.57b(a)(10). 


(iii) A copy of the notification of the public meeting required by § 60.57b(b)(3)(ii). 


(iv) A transcript of the public meeting required by § 60.57b(b)(4). 


(v) A copy of the document summarizing responses to public comments required by § 60.57b (a)(9) and (b)(5). 


(c) The owner or operator of an air curtain incinerator subject to the opacity limit under § 60.56b shall provide a notification of construction that includes the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section. 


(d) The owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the standards under §§ 60.52b, 60.53b, 60.54b, 60.55b, and 60.57b shall maintain records of the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(15) of this section, as applicable, for each affected facility for a period of at least 5 years. 


(1) The calendar date of each record. 


(2) The emission concentrations and parameters measured using continuous monitoring systems as specified under paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (d)(2)(ii) of this section. 


(i) The measurements specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i)(A) through (d)(2)(i)(F) of this section shall be recorded and be available for submittal to the Administrator or review on site by an EPA or State inspector.


(A) All 6-minute average opacity levels as specified under § 60.58b(c). 


(B) All 1-hour average sulfur dioxide emission concentrations as specified under § 60.58b(e). 


(C) All 1-hour average nitrogen oxides emission concentrations as specified under § 60.58b(h). 


(D) All 1-hour average carbon monoxide emission concentrations, municipal waste combustor unit load measurements, and particulate matter control device inlet temperatures as specified under § 60.58b(i). 


(E) For owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride emissions instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods, all 1-hour average particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride emission concentrations as specified under § 60.58b(n).


(ii) The average concentrations and percent reductions, as applicable, specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(A) through (d)(2)(ii)(F) of this section shall be computed and recorded, and shall be available for submittal to the Administrator or review on-site by an EPA or State inspector. 


(A) All 24-hour daily geometric average sulfur dioxide emission concentrations and all 24-hour daily geometric average percent reductions in sulfur dioxide emissions as specified under § 60.58b(e). 


(B) All 24-hour daily arithmetic average nitrogen oxides emission concentrations as specified under § 60.58b(h). 


(C) All 4-hour block or 24-hour daily arithmetic average carbon monoxide emission concentrations, as applicable, as specified under § 60.58b(i). 


(D) All 4-hour block arithmetic average municipal waste combustor unit load levels and particulate matter control device inlet temperatures as specified under § 60.58b(i). 


(E) For owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride emissions instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods, all 24-hour daily arithmetic average particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride emission concentrations as specified under § 60.58b(n).


(F) For owners and operators who elect to use a continuous automated sampling system to monitor mercury or dioxin/furan instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods, all integrated 24-hour mercury concentrations or all integrated 2-week dioxin/furan concentrations as specified under § 60.586(p).


(3) Identification of the calendar dates when any of the average emission concentrations, percent reductions, or operating parameters recorded under paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(A) through (d)(2)(ii)(F) of this section, or the opacity levels recorded under paragraph (d)(2)(i)(A) of this section are above the applicable limits, with reasons for such exceedances and a description of corrective actions taken. 


(4) For affected facilities that apply activated carbon for mercury or dioxin/furan control, the records specified in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) through (d)(4)(v) of this section. 


(i) The average carbon mass feed rate (in kilograms per hour or pounds per hour) estimated as required under § 60.58b(m)(1)(i) of this section during the initial mercury performance test and all subsequent annual performance tests, with supporting calculations. 


(ii) The average carbon mass feed rate (in kilograms per hour or pounds per hour) estimated as required under § 60.58b(m)(1)(ii) of this section during the initial dioxin/furan performance test and all subsequent annual performance tests, with supporting calculations. 


(iii) The average carbon mass feed rate (in kilograms per hour or pounds per hour) estimated for each hour of operation as required under § 60.58b(m)(3)(ii) of this section, with supporting calculations. 


(iv) The total carbon usage for each calendar quarter estimated as specified by paragraph 60.58b(m)(3) of this section, with supporting calculations. 


(v) Carbon injection system operating parameter data for the parameter(s) that are the primary indicator(s) of carbon feed rate (e.g., screw feeder speed). 


(5) [Reserved] 


(6) Identification of the calendar dates and times (hours) for which valid hourly data specified in paragraphs (d)(6)(i) through (d)(6)(vi) of this section have not been obtained, or continuous automated sampling systems were not operated as specified in paragraph (d)(6)(vii) of this section, including reasons for not obtaining the data and a description of corrective actions taken. 


(i) Sulfur dioxide emissions data; 


(ii) Nitrogen oxides emissions data; 


(iii) Carbon monoxide emissions data; 


(iv) Municipal waste combustor unit load data;


(v) Particulate matter control device temperature data; and


(vi) For owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride emissions instead of performance testing by EPA manual test methods, particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride emissions data.


(vii) For owners and operators who elect to use continuous automated sampling systems for dioxins/furans or mercury as allowed under “60.58b(p) and (q), dates and times when the sampling systems were not operating or were not collecting a valid sample.


(7) Identification of each occurrence that sulfur dioxide emissions data, nitrogen oxides emissions data, particulate matter emissions data, cadmium emissions data, lead emissions data, mercury emissions data, hydrogen chloride emissions data, or dioxin/furan emissions data (for owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride, or who elect to use continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury emissions, instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods) or operational data (*i.e.*, carbon monoxide emissions, unit load, and particulate matter control device temperature) have been excluded from the calculation of average emission concentrations or parameters, and the reasons for excluding the data.


(8) The results of daily drift tests and quarterly accuracy determinations for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, and carbon monoxide continuous emission monitoring systems, as required under appendix F of this part, procedure 1. 


(9) The test reports documenting the results of the initial performance test and all annual performance tests listed in paragraphs (d)(9)(i) and (d)(9)(ii) of this section shall be recorded along with supporting calculations. 


(i) The results of the initial performance test and all annual performance tests conducted to determine compliance with the particulate matter, opacity, cadmium, lead, mercury, dioxins/furans, hydrogen chloride, and fugitive ash emission limits. 


(ii) For the initial dioxin/furan performance test and all subsequent dioxin/furan performance tests recorded under paragraph (d)(9)(i) of this section, the maximum demonstrated municipal waste combustor unit load and maximum demonstrated particulate matter control device temperature (for each particulate matter control device). 


(10) An owner or operator who elects to continuously monitor emissions instead of performance testing by EPA manual methods must maintain records specified in paragraphs (10)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) For owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods), as required under appendix F of this part, procedure 2, the results of daily drift tests and quarterly accuracy determinations for particulate matter.


(ii) For owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride instead of conducting EPA manual test methods, the results of all quality evaluations, such as daily drift tests and periodic accuracy determinations, specified in the approved site-specific performance evaluation test plan required by § 60.58b(o)(5).


(iii) For owners and operators who elect to use continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury, the results of all quality evaluations specified in the approved site-specific performance evaluation test plan required by § 60.58b(q)(5). 


(11) For each affected facility subject to the siting provisions under § 60.57b, the siting analysis, the final materials separation plan, a record of the location and date of the public meetings, and the documentation of the responses to public comments received at the public meetings. 


(12) The records specified in paragraphs (d)(12)(i) through (d)(12)(iv) of this section. 


(i) Records showing the names of the municipal waste combustor chief facility operator, shift supervisors, and control room operators who have been provisionally certified by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers or an equivalent State-approved certification program as required by § 60.54b(a) including the dates of initial and renewal certifications and documentation of current certification. 


(ii) Records showing the names of the municipal waste combustor chief facility operator, shift supervisors, and control room operators who have been fully certified by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers or an equivalent State-approved certification program as required by § 60.54b(b) including the dates of initial and renewal certifications and documentation of current certification. 


(iii) Records showing the names of the municipal waste combustor chief facility operator, shift supervisors, and control room operators who have completed the EPA municipal waste combustor operator training course or a State-approved equivalent course as required by § 60.54b(d) including documentation of training completion. 


(iv) Records of when a certified operator is temporarily off site. Include two main items:


(A) If the certified chief facility operator and certified shift supervisor are off site for more than 12 hours, but for 2 weeks or less, and no other certified operator is on site, record the dates that the certified chief facility operator and certified shift supervisor were off site.


(B) When all certified chief facility operators and certified shift supervisors are off site for more than 2 weeks and no other certified operator is on site, keep records of four items:


(*1*) Time of day that all certified persons are off site.


(*2*) The conditions that cause those people to be off site.


(*3*) The corrective actions taken by the owner or operator of the affected facility to ensure a certified chief facility operator or certified shift supervisor is on site as soon as practicable.


(*4*) Copies of the written reports submitted every 4 weeks that summarize the actions taken by the owner or operator of the affected facility to ensure that a certified chief facility operator or certified shift supervisor will be on site as soon as practicable. 


(13) Records showing the names of persons who have completed a review of the operating manual as required by § 60.54b(f) including the date of the initial review and subsequent annual reviews. 


(14) For affected facilities that apply activated carbon, identification of the calendar dates when the average carbon mass feed rates recorded under paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section were less than either of the hourly carbon feed rates estimated during performance tests for mercury emissions and recorded under paragraphs (d)(4)(i) and (d)(4)(ii) of this section, respectively, with reasons for such feed rates and a description of corrective actions taken. For affected facilities that apply activated carbon, identification of the calendar dates when the average carbon mass feed rates recorded under paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section were less than either of the hourly carbon feed rates estimated during performance tests for dioxin/furan emissions and recorded under paragraphs (d)(4)(i) and (d)(4)(ii) of this section, respectively, with reasons for such feed rates and a description of corrective actions taken. 


(15) For affected facilities that apply activated carbon for mercury or dioxin/furan control, identification of the calendar dates when the carbon injection system operating parameter(s) that are the primary indicator(s) of carbon mass feed rate (e.g., screw feeder speed) recorded under paragraph (d)(4)(v) of this section are below the level(s) estimated during the performance tests as specified in § 60.58b(m)(1)(i) and § 60.58b(m)(1)(ii) of this section, with reasons for such occurrences and a description of corrective actions taken. 


(e) The owner or operator of an air curtain incinerator subject to the opacity limit under § 60.56b shall maintain records of results of the initial opacity performance test and subsequent performance tests required by § 60.58b(l) for a period of at least 5 years. 


(f) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(6) of this section in the initial performance test report. 


(1) The initial performance test data as recorded under paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(A) through (d)(2)(ii)(D) of this section for the initial performance test for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, municipal waste combustor unit load level, and particulate matter control device inlet temperature. 


(2) The test report documenting the initial performance test recorded under paragraph (d)(9) of this section for particulate matter, opacity, cadmium, lead, mercury, dioxins/furans, hydrogen chloride, and fugitive ash emissions. 


(3) The performance evaluation of the continuous emission monitoring system using the applicable performance specifications in appendix B of this part. 


(4) The maximum demonstrated municipal waste combustor unit load and maximum demonstrated particulate matter control device inlet temperature(s) established during the initial dioxin/furan performance test as recorded under paragraph (d)(9) of this section. 


(5) For affected facilities that apply activated carbon injection for mercury control, the owner or operator shall submit the average carbon mass feed rate recorded under paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section. 


(6) For those affected facilities that apply activated carbon injection for dioxin/furan control, the owner or operator shall submit the average carbon mass feed rate recorded under paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section. 


(g) Following the first year of municipal waste combustor operation, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall submit an annual report that includes the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(5) of this section, as applicable, no later than February 1 of each year following the calendar year in which the data were collected (once the unit is subject to permitting requirements under title V of the Act, the owner or operator of an affected facility must submit these reports semiannually).


(1) A summary of data collected for all pollutants and parameters regulated under this subpart, which includes the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (g)(1)(v) of this section. 


(i) A list of the particulate matter, opacity, cadmium, lead, mercury, dioxins/furans, hydrogen chloride, and fugitive ash emission levels achieved during the performance tests recorded under paragraph (d)(9) of this section. 


(ii) A list of the highest emission level recorded for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, hydrogen chloride, and dioxin/furan (for owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, hydrogen chloride, and dioxin/furan emissions instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods), municipal waste combustor unit load level, and particulate matter control device inlet temperature based on the data recorded under paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(A) through (d)(2)(ii)(E) of this section.


(iii) List the highest opacity level measured, based on the data recorded under paragraph (d)(2)(i)(A) of this section. 


(iv) Periods when valid data were not obtained as described in paragraphs (g)(1)(iv)(A) through (g)(1)(iv)(C) of this section.


(A) The total number of hours per calendar quarter and hours per calendar year that valid data for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, municipal waste combustor unit load, or particulate matter control device temperature data were not obtained based on the data recorded under paragraph (d)(6) of this section.


(B) For owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, and hydrogen chloride emissions instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods, the total number of hours per calendar quarter and hours per calendar year that valid data for particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, and hydrogen chloride were not obtained based on the data recorded under paragraph (d)(6) of this section. For each continuously monitored pollutant or parameter, the hours of valid emissions data per calendar quarter and per calendar year expressed as a percent of the hours per calendar quarter or year that the affected facility was operating and combusting municipal solid waste.


(C) For owners and operators who elect to use continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury, the total number of hours per calendar quarter and hours per calendar year that the sampling systems were not operating or were not collecting a valid sample based on the data recorded under paragraph (d)(6)(vii) of this section. Also, the number of hours during which the continuous automated sampling system was operating and collecting a valid sample as a percent of hours per calendar quarter or year that the affected facility was operating and combusting municipal solid waste.


(v) Periods when valid data were excluded from the calculation of average emission concentrations or parameters as described in paragraphs (g)(1)(v)(A) through (g)(1)(v)(C) of this section.


(A) The total number of hours that data for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, municipal waste combustor unit load, and particulate matter control device temperature were excluded from the calculation of average emission concentrations or parameters based on the data recorded under paragraph (d)(7) of this section.


(B) For owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride emissions instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods, the total number of hours that data for particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride were excluded from the calculation of average emission concentrations or parameters based on the data recorded under paragraph (d)(7) of this section.


(C) For owners and operators who elect to use continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury, the total number of hours that data for mercury and dioxin/furan were excluded from the calculation of average emission concentrations or parameters based on the data recorded under paragraph (d)(7) of this section.


(2) The summary of data reported under paragraph (g)(1) of this section shall also provide the types of data specified in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (g)(1)(vi) of this section for the calendar year preceding the year being reported, in order to provide the Administrator with a summary of the performance of the affected facility over a 2-year period. 


(3) The summary of data including the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section shall highlight any emission or parameter levels that did not achieve the emission or parameter limits specified under this subpart. 


(4) A notification of intent to begin the reduced dioxin/furan performance testing schedule specified in § 60.58b(g)(5)(iii) of this section during the following calendar year and notification of intent to apply the average carbon mass feed rate and associated carbon injection system operating parameter levels as established in § 60.58b(m) to similarly designed and equipped units on site.


(5) Documentation of periods when all certified chief facility operators and certified shift supervisors are off site for more than 12 hours.


(h) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall submit a semiannual report that includes the information specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(5) of this section for any recorded pollutant or parameter that does not comply with the pollutant or parameter limit specified under this subpart, according to the schedule specified under paragraph (h)(6) of this section. 


(1) The semiannual report shall include information recorded under paragraph (d)(3) of this section for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, hydrogen chloride, dioxin/furan (for owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride, or who elect to use continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury emissions, instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods) municipal waste combustor unit load level, particulate matter control device inlet temperature, and opacity.


(2) For each date recorded as required by paragraph (d)(3) of this section and reported as required by paragraph (h)(1) of this section, the semiannual report shall include the sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, municipal waste combustor unit load level, particulate matter control device inlet temperature, or opacity data, as applicable, recorded under paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(A) through (d)(2)(ii)(D) and (d)(2)(i)(A) of this section, as applicable. 


(3) If the test reports recorded under paragraph (d)(9) of this section document any particulate matter, opacity, cadmium, lead, mercury, dioxins/furans, hydrogen chloride, and fugitive ash emission levels that were above the applicable pollutant limits, the semiannual report shall include a copy of the test report documenting the emission levels and the corrective actions taken. 


(4) The semiannual report shall include the information recorded under paragraph (d)(15) of this section for the carbon injection system operating parameter(s) that are the primary indicator(s) of carbon mass feed rate. 


(5) For each operating date reported as required by paragraph (h)(4) of this section, the semiannual report shall include the carbon feed rate data recorded under paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section. 


(6) Semiannual reports required by paragraph (h) of this section shall be submitted according to the schedule specified in paragraphs (h)(6)(i) and (h)(6)(ii) of this section. 


(i) If the data reported in accordance with paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(5) of this section were collected during the first calendar half, then the report shall be submitted by August 1 following the first calendar half. 


(ii) If the data reported in accordance with paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(5) of this section were collected during the second calendar half, then the report shall be submitted by February 1 following the second calendar half. 


(i) The owner or operator of an air curtain incinerator subject to the opacity limit under § 60.56b shall submit the results of the initial opacity performance test and all subsequent annual performance tests recorded under paragraph (e) of this section. Annual performance tests shall be submitted by February 1 of the year following the year of the performance test. 


(j) All reports specified under paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), and (i) of this section shall be submitted as a paper copy, postmarked on or before the submittal dates specified under these paragraphs, and maintained onsite as a paper copy for a period of 5 years. 


(k) All records specified under paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section shall be maintained onsite in either paper copy or computer-readable format, unless an alternative format is approved by the Administrator. 


(l) If the owner or operator of an affected facility would prefer a different annual or semiannual date for submitting the periodic reports required by paragraphs (g), (h) and (i) of this section, then the dates may be changed by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the Administrator according to the procedures specified in § 60.19(c) of subpart A of this part. 


(m) Owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride, or who elect to use continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury emissions, instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods must notify the Administrator one month prior to starting or stopping use of the particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, hydrogen chloride, and dioxin/furan continuous emission monitoring systems or continuous automated sampling systems.


(n) *Additional recordkeeping and reporting requirements for affected facilities with continuous cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride monitoring systems.* In addition to complying with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (m) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected source who elects to install a continuous emission monitoring system for cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride as specified in § 60.58b(n), shall maintain the records in paragraphs (n)(1) through (n)(10) of this section and report the information in paragraphs (n)(11) through (n)(12) of this section, relevant to the continuous emission monitoring system:


(1) All required continuous emission monitoring measurements (including monitoring data recorded during unavoidable continuous emission monitoring system breakdowns and out-of-control periods);


(2) The date and time identifying each period during which the continuous emission monitoring system was inoperative except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks;


(3) The date and time identifying each period during which the continuous emission monitoring system was out of control, as defined in § 60.58b(o)(4);


(4) The specific identification (*i.e.*, the date and time of commencement and completion) of each period of excess emissions and parameter monitoring exceedances, as defined in the standard, that occurs during startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions of the affected source;


(5) The specific identification (*i.e.*, the date and time of commencement and completion) of each time period of excess emissions and parameter monitoring exceedances, as defined in the standard, that occurs during periods other than startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions of the affected source;


(6) The nature and cause of any malfunction (if known);


(7) The corrective action taken to correct any malfunction or preventive measures adopted to prevent further malfunctions;


(8) The nature of the repairs or adjustments to the continuous emission monitoring system that was inoperative or out of control;


(9) All procedures that are part of a quality control program developed and implemented for the continuous emission monitoring system under § 60.58b(o);


(10) When more than one continuous emission monitoring system is used to measure the emissions from one affected source (*e.g.*, multiple breechings, multiple outlets), the owner or operator shall report the results as required for each continuous emission monitoring system.


(11) Submit to EPA for approval, the site-specific monitoring plan required by § 60.58b(n)(13) and § 60.58b(o), including the site-specific performance evaluation test plan for the continuous emission monitoring system required by § 60.58(b)(o)(5). The owner or operator shall maintain copies of the site-specific monitoring plan on record for the life of the affected source to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the site-specific monitoring plan is revised and approved, the owner or operator shall keep previous (*i.e.*, superseded) versions of the plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan.


(12) Submit information concerning all out-of-control periods for each continuous emission monitoring system, including start and end dates and hours and descriptions of corrective actions taken, in the annual or semiannual reports required in paragraphs (g) or (h) of this section.


(o) *Additional recordkeeping and reporting requirements for affected facilities with continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury monitoring.* In addition to complying with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (m) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected source who elects to install a continuous automated sampling system for dioxin/furan or mercury, as specified in § 60.58b(p), shall maintain the records in paragraphs (o)(1) through (o)(10) of this section and report the information in (o)(11) and (o)(12) of this section, relevant to the continuous automated sampling system:


(1) All required 24-hour integrated mercury concentration or 2-week integrated dioxin/furan concentration data (including any data obtained during unavoidable system breakdowns and out-of-control periods);


(2) The date and time identifying each period during which the continuous automated sampling system was inoperative;


(3) The date and time identifying each period during which the continuous automated sampling system was out of control, as defined in § 60.58b(q)(4);


(4) The specific identification (*i.e.*, the date and time of commencement and completion) of each period of excess emissions and parameter monitoring exceedances, as defined in the standard, that occurs during startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions of the affected source;


(5) The specific identification (*i.e.*, the date and time of commencement and completion) of each time period of excess emissions and parameter monitoring exceedances, as defined in the standard, that occurs during periods other than startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions of the affected source;


(6) The nature and cause of any malfunction (if known);


(7) The corrective action taken to correct any malfunction or preventive measures adopted to prevent further malfunctions;


(8) The nature of the repairs or adjustments to the continuous automated sampling system that was inoperative or out of control;


(9) All procedures that are part of a quality control program developed and implemented for the continuous automated sampling system under § 60.58b(q);


(10) When more than one continuous automated sampling system is used to measure the emissions from one affected source (*e.g.*, multiple breechings, multiple outlets), the owner or operator shall report the results as required for each system.


(11) Submit to EPA for approval, the site-specific monitoring plan required by § 60.58b(p)(11) and § 60.58b(q) including the site-specific performance evaluation test plan for the continuous emission monitoring system required by § 60.58(b)(q)(5). The owner or operator shall maintain copies of the site-specific monitoring plan on record for the life of the affected source to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the site-specific monitoring plan is revised and approved, the owner or operator shall keep previous (*i.e.*, superseded) versions of the plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan.


(12) Submit information concerning all out-of-control periods for each continuous automated sampling system, including start and end dates and hours and descriptions of corrective actions taken in the annual or semiannual reports required in paragraphs (g) or (h) of this section.



---

[N] [60 FR 65419, Dec. 19, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 45121, 45127, Aug. 25, 1997; 71 FR 27345, May 10, 2006]




