# § 63.422   Standards: Loading racks.

(a) You must meet either the requirements in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable in paragraph (d) of this section.


(1) Each owner or operator of loading racks at a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the requirements in § 60.502 of this chapter except for paragraphs (b), (c), and (j) of that section. For purposes of this section, the term “affected facility” used in § 60.502 means the loading racks that load gasoline cargo tanks at the bulk gasoline terminals subject to the provisions of this subpart.


(2) Each owner or operator of loading racks at a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the requirements in § 60.502a of this chapter except for paragraphs (b) and (j) of that section and shall comply with the provisions in paragraphs (b) through (c) of this section. For purposes of this section, the term “gasoline loading rack affected facility” used in § 60.502a means “the loading racks that load gasoline cargo tanks at the bulk gasoline terminals subject to the provisions of this subpart.” For purposes of this subpart, the term “vapor-tight gasoline cargo tanks” used in § 60.502a(e) of this chapter shall have the meaning given in § 63.421. As an alternative to the pressure monitoring requirements in § 60.504a(d) of this chapter, you may comply with the requirements specified in § 63.427(f).


(b) You must meet either the emission limits in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable in paragraph (d) of this section.


(1) Emissions to the atmosphere from the vapor collection and processing systems due to the loading of gasoline cargo tanks shall not exceed 10 milligrams of total organic compounds per liter of gasoline loaded.


(2) You must comply with the provisions in § 60.502a(c) of this chapter for all loading racks that load gasoline cargo tanks at the bulk gasoline terminals subject to the provisions of this subpart, not just those that are modified or reconstructed.


(c) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions of this subpart shall discontinue loading any cargo tank that fails vapor tightness according to the test requirements in § 63.425(f), (g), and (h) until vapor tightness documentation for that gasoline cargo tank is obtained which documents that:


(1) The tank truck or railcar gasoline cargo tank has been repaired, retested, and subsequently passed either the annual certification test described in § 63.425(e) or the railcar bubble test described in § 63.425(i); or


(2) For each gasoline cargo tank failing the test in § 63.425(f) at the facility, the cargo tank meets the test requirements in either § 63.425(g) or (h); or


(3) For each gasoline cargo tank failing the test in § 63.425(g) at the facility, the cargo tank meets the test requirements in § 63.425(h).


(d) Each owner or operator shall meet the requirements in this section as expeditiously as practicable, but no later than the dates provided in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) For facilities that commenced construction on or before February 8, 1994, each owner or operator shall meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1), (b)(1), and (c) of this section no later than December 15, 1997. Beginning no later than May 8, 2027, paragraphs (a)(1) and (b)(1) of this section no longer apply and each owner or operator shall meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2), (b)(2), and (c) of this section.


(2) For facilities that commenced construction after February 8, 1994, and on or before June 10, 2022, each owner or operator shall meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1), (b)(1), and (c) of this section upon startup. Beginning no later than May 8, 2027, paragraphs (a)(1) and (b)(1) of this section no longer apply and each owner or operator shall meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2), (b)(2), and (c) of this section.


(3) For facilities that commenced construction after June 10, 2022, each owner or operator shall meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2), (b)(2), and (c) of this section upon startup or July 8, 2024, whichever is later.


(e) As an alternative to § 60.502(h) and (i) or § 60.502a(h) and (i) of this chapter as specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the owner or operator may comply with paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) The owner or operator shall design and operate the vapor processing system, vapor collection system, and liquid loading equipment to prevent gauge pressure in the railcar gasoline cargo tank from exceeding the applicable test limits in § 63.425(e) and (i) during product loading. This level is not to be exceeded when measured by the procedures specified in § 60.503(d) of this chapter during any performance test or performance evaluation conducted under § 63.425(b) or (c).


(2) No pressure-vacuum vent in the bulk' gasoline terminal's vapor processing system or vapor collection system may begin to open at a system pressure less than the applicable test limits in § 63.425(e) or (i).





---

[N] [89 FR 39359, May 8, 2024]








