# § 262.10   Purpose, scope, and applicability.

(a) The regulations in this part establish standards for generators of hazardous waste as defined by 40 CFR 260.10.


(1) A person who generates a hazardous waste as defined by 40 CFR part 261 is subject to all the applicable independent requirements in the subparts and sections listed below:


(i) *Independent requirements of a very small quantity generator.* (A) Section 262.11(a) through (d) Hazardous waste determination and recordkeeping; and


(B) Section 262.13 Generator category determination.


(ii) *Independent requirements of a small quantity generator.* (A) Section 262.11 Hazardous waste determination and recordkeeping;


(B) Section 262.13 Generator category determination;


(C) Section 262.18 EPA identification numbers and re-notification for small quantity generators and large quantity generators;


(D) Part 262 subpart B—Manifest requirements applicable to small and large quantity generators;


(E) Part 262 subpart C—Pre-transport requirements applicable to small and large quantity generators;


(F) Section 262.40 Recordkeeping;


(G) Section 262.44 Recordkeeping for small quantity generators; and


(H) Part 262 subpart H—Transboundary movements of hazardous waste for recovery or disposal.


(iii) *Independent requirements of a large quantity generator.* (A) Section 262.11 Hazardous waste determination and recordkeeping;


(B) Section 262.13 Generator category determination;


(C) Section 262.18 EPA identification numbers and re-notification for small quantity generators and large quantity generators;


(D) Part 262 subpart B—Manifest requirements applicable to small and large quantity generators;


(E) Part 262 subpart C—Pre-transport requirements applicable to small and large quantity generators;


(F) Part 262 subpart D—Recordkeeping and reporting applicable to small and large quantity generators, except § 262.44; and


(G) Part 262 subpart H—Transboundary movements of hazardous waste for recovery or disposal.


(2) A generator that accumulates hazardous waste on site is a person that stores hazardous waste; such generator is subject to the applicable requirements of parts 124, 264 through 267, and 270 of this chapter and section 3010 of RCRA for treatment, storage, and disposal facilities, unless it is one of the following:




(i) A very small quantity generator that meets the conditions for exemption in § 262.14;


(ii) A small quantity generator that meets the conditions for exemption in §§ 262.15 and 262.16; or


(iii) A large quantity generator that meets the conditions for exemption in §§ 262.15 and 262.17.


(3) A generator shall not transport, offer its hazardous waste for transport, or otherwise cause its hazardous waste to be sent to a facility that is not a designated facility, as defined in § 260.10 of this chapter, or not otherwise authorized to receive the generator's hazardous waste.


(b) *Determining generator category.* A generator must use § 262.13 to determine which provisions of this part are applicable to the generator based on the quantity of hazardous waste generated per calendar month.


(c) [Reserved]


(d) Any person who exports or imports hazardous wastes must comply with § 262.18 and subpart H of this part.


(e) Any person who imports hazardous waste into the United States must comply with the standards applicable to generators established in this part. 


(f) A farmer who generates waste pesticides which are hazardous waste and who complies with all of the requirements of § 262.70 is not required to comply with other standards in this part or 40 CFR parts 270, 264, 265, 267, or 268 with respect to such pesticides.


(g)(1) A generator's violation of an independent requirement is subject to penalty and injunctive relief under section 3008 of RCRA.


(2) A generator's noncompliance with a condition for exemption in this part is not subject to penalty or injunctive relief under section 3008 of RCRA as a violation of a 40 CFR part 262 condition for exemption. Noncompliance by any generator with an applicable condition for exemption from storage permit and operations requirements means that the facility is a storage facility operating without an exemption from the permit, interim status, and operations requirements in 40 CFR parts 124, 264 through 267, and 270 of this chapter, and the notification requirements of section 3010 of RCRA. Without an exemption, any violations of such storage requirements are subject to penalty and injunctive relief under section 3008 of RCRA.


(h) An owner or operator who initiates a shipment of hazardous waste from a treatment, storage, or disposal facility must comply with the generator standards established in this part.


(i) Persons responding to an explosives or munitions emergency in accordance with 40 CFR 264.1(g)(8)(i)(D) or (iv) or 265.1(c)(11)(i)(D) or (iv), and 270.1(c)(3)(i)(D) or (iii) are not required to comply with the standards of this part.


(j) [Reserved]


(k) Generators in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts may comply with the State regulations regarding Class A recyclable materials in 310 C.M.R. 30.200, when authorized by the EPA under 40 CFR part 271, with respect to those recyclable materials and matters covered by the authorization, instead of complying with the hazardous waste accumulation conditions for exemption in §§ 262.15 through 262.17, the reporting requirements of § 262.41, the storage facility operator requirements of 40 CFR parts 264, 265, and 267, and the permitting requirements of 40 CFR part 270. Such generators must also comply with any other applicable requirements, including any applicable authorized State regulations governing hazardous wastes not being recycled and any applicable Federal requirements which are being directly implemented by the EPA within Massachusetts pursuant to the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of 1984.




(l) The laboratories owned by an eligible academic entity that chooses to be subject to the requirements of subpart K of this part are not subject to (for purposes of this paragraph, the terms “laboratory” and “eligible academic entity” shall have the meaning as defined in § 262.200):


(1) The independent requirements of § 262.11 or the regulations in § 262.15 for large quantity generators and small quantity generators, except as provided in subpart K, and


(2) The conditions of § 262.14, for very small quantity generators, except as provided in subpart K.


(m) All reverse distributors (as defined in § 266.500) are subject to 40 CFR part 266 subpart P for the management of hazardous waste pharmaceuticals in lieu of this part.


(n) Each healthcare facility (as defined in § 266.500) must determine whether it is subject to 40 CFR part 266 subpart P for the management of hazardous waste pharmaceuticals, based on the total hazardous waste it generates per calendar month (including both hazardous waste pharmaceuticals and non-pharmaceutical hazardous waste). A healthcare facility that generates more than 100 kg (220 pounds) of hazardous waste per calendar month, or more than 1 kg (2.2 pounds) of acute hazardous waste per calendar month, or more than 100 kg (220 pounds) per calendar month of any residue or contaminated soil, water, or other debris, resulting from the clean-up of a spill, into or on any land or water, of any acute hazardous wastes listed in § 261.31 or § 261.33(e), is subject to 40 CFR part 266 subpart P for the management of hazardous waste pharmaceuticals in lieu of this part. A healthcare facility that is a very small quantity generator when counting all of its hazardous waste, including both its hazardous waste pharmaceuticals and its non-pharmaceutical hazardous waste, remains subject to § 262.14 and is not subject to part 266 subpart P, except for §§ 266.505 and 266.507 and the optional provisions of § 266.504.



---

[N] [45 FR 33142, May 19, 1980, as amended at 45 FR 86970, Dec. 31, 1980; 47 FR 1251, Jan. 11, 1982; 48 FR 14294, Apr. 1, 1983; 53 FR 27164, July 19, 1988; 56 FR 3877, Jan. 31, 1991; 60 FR 25541, May 11, 1995; 61 FR 16309, Apr. 12, 1996; 62 FR 6651, Feb. 12, 1997; 64 FR 52392, Sept. 28, 1999; 69 FR 11813, Mar. 12, 2004; 73 FR 72954, Dec. 1, 2008; 75 FR 13003, Mar. 18, 2010; 75 FR 1253, Jan. 8, 2010; 81 FR 85715, 85807, Nov. 28, 2016; 84 FR 5939, Feb. 22, 2019; 88 FR 54108, Aug. 9, 2023]






