# § 253.30   Crab IFQ loans.

(a) *Specific definitions.* For the purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:


(1) Crab means those crab species managed under the Fishery Management Plan for Bering Sea/Aleutian Island (BSAI) King and Tanner Crab.


(2) Crab FMP means the Fishery Management Plan for BSAI King and Tanner Crab.


(3) Crab quota share means a BSAI King and Tanner Crab permit, the base amount of which is used as a basis for the annual calculation of a person's Crab IFQ, also abbreviated as “Crab QS.”


(b) *Crab captains or crewmen.* The Program may finance up to 80 percent of the cost of purchasing Crab QS by a citizen:


(1) Who is or was:


(i) A captain of a crab fishing vessel, or


(ii) A crew member of a crab fishing vessel;


(2) Who has been issued the appropriate documentation of eligibility by RAM;


(3) Whose aggregate holdings of QS will not exceed any limit on Crab QS holdings that may be in effect in the Crab FMP implementing regulations or applicable statutes in effect at the time of loan closing; and will not hold either individually or collectively, based on the initial QS pool, as published in 50 CFR part 680, Table 8; and


(4) Who, at the time of initial application, meets all other applicable eligibility requirements to fish for crab or hold Crab QS contained in the Crab FMP implementing regulations or applicable statutes in effect at the time of loan closing.


(c) *Refinancing.* (1) The Program may refinance any existing debts associated with Crab QS that an applicant currently holds, provided that:


(i) The Crab QS being refinanced would have been eligible for Program financing at the time the applicant purchased it;


(ii) The applicant meets the Program's applicable lending requirements; and


(iii) The applicant would meet the requirements found in the Crab FMP implementing regulations at the time any such refinancing loan would close.


(2) The Program may refinance an amount up to 80 percent of Crab QS's current market value; however, the Program will not disburse any amount that exceeds the outstanding principal balance, plus accrued interest (if any), of the existing Crab QS debt being refinanced.


(3) In the event that the current market value of Crab QS and current principal balance do not meet the 80 percent requirement in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, applicants seeking refinancing may be required to provide additional down payment.


(d) *Maturity.* Loan maturity may not exceed 25 years, but may be shorter depending on credit and other considerations.


(e) *Repayment.* Repayment schedules will be set by the loan documents.


(f) *Security.* Although the quota share will be the primary collateral for a Crab QS loan, the Program may require additional security pledges to maintain the priority of the Program's security interest. The Program, at its option, may also require all parties with significant ownership interests to personally guarantee loan repayment for any applicant that is a corporation, partnership, or other entity. Subject to the Program's credit risk determination, some projects may require additional security, collateral, or credit enhancement.


(g) *Crew member transfer eligibility certification.* The Program will accept RAM transfer eligibility certification as proof that applicants are eligible to hold Crab QS. The application of any person determined by RAM to be unable to receive such certification will be declined. Applicants who fail to obtain appropriate transfer eligibility certification within 45 working days of the date of application may lose their processing priority.


(h) *Crab Quota Share Ownership Limitation.* A program obligor must comply with all applicable maximum amounts, as may be established by NMFS regulations, policy or North Pacific Fishery Management Council action.


(i) *Program credit standards.* Crab QS loans are subject to all Program general credit standards and requirements. Collateral, guarantee and other requirements may be adjusted to individual credit risks.




