# § 640.92   Tests on final product.

Tests shall be performed on the final product to determine that it meets the following standards:


(a) *Protein concentration.* The final product shall be a 5.0 ±0.30 percent solution of protein.


(b) *Protein composition.* The total protein in the final product shall consist of at least 83 percent albumin, and no more than 17 percent globulins. No more than 1 percent of the total protein shall be gamma globulin. The protein composition shall be determined by a method that has been approved for each manufacturer by the Director, Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, Food and Drug Administration.


(c) *pH.* The pH shall be 7.0 ±0.3 when measured in a solution of the final product diluted to a concentration of 1 percent protein with 0.15 molar sodium chloride.


(d) *Sodium concentration.* The sodium concentration of the final product shall be 130 to 160 milliequivalents per liter.


(e) *Potassium concentration.* The potassium concentration of the final product shall not exceed 2 milliequivalents per liter.


(f) *Heat stability.* A final container sample of Plasma Protein Fraction (Human) shall remain unchanged, as determined by visual inspection, after heating at 57 °C for 50 hours, when compared to its control consisting of a sample, from the same lot, which has not undergone this heating.



---

[N] [42 FR 27583, May 31, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 23834, June 8, 1984; 55 FR 11013, Mar. 26, 1990; 64 FR 26286, May 14, 1999; 65 FR 13679, Mar. 14, 2000]




