# § 457.1210   Enrollment process.

(a) *Default enrollment process.* (1) If a state uses a default enrollment process to assign beneficiaries to a MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM, or PCCM entity, the process must:


(i) Assign beneficiaries to a qualified MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM or PCCM entity. To be qualified, the MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM or PCCM entity must:


(A) Not be subject to the intermediate sanction described in § 438.702(a)(4) of this chapter.


(B) Have capacity to enroll beneficiaries.


(ii) Maximize continuation of existing provider-beneficiary relationships. An “existing provider-beneficiary relationship” is one in which the provider was the main source of CHIP services for the beneficiary during the previous year. This may be established through State records of previous managed care enrollment or fee-for-service experience, encounter data, or through contact with the beneficiary.


(iii) If the approach in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section is not possible, the State must distribute the beneficiaries equitably among the MCOs, PIHPs, PAHPs, PCCMs and PCCM entities. The State may not arbitrarily exclude any MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM or PCCM entity from being considered.


(2) The State may consider additional reasonable criteria to conduct the default enrollment process, including the previous plan assignment of the beneficiary, quality assurance and improvement performance, procurement evaluation elements, accessibility of provider offices for people with disabilities (when appropriate), and other reasonable criteria that support the objectives of the managed care program.


(3) The State must send a confirmation of the enrollee's managed care enrollment to the enrollee within 5 calendar days of the date such enrollment is processed by the State. The confirmation must clearly explain the enrollee's right to disenroll within 90 days from the effective date of the enrollment.


(b) *Priority for enrollment.* The state must have an enrollment system under which beneficiaries already enrolled in an MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM, or PCCM entity are given priority to continue that enrollment if the MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM, or PCCM entity does not have the capacity to accept all those seeking enrollment under the program.


(c) *Informational notices.* A State must provide an informational notice to each potential enrollee who may enroll in an MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM, or PCCM entity. Such notice must:


(1) Include the MCOs, PIHPs, PAHPs, PCCMs, or PCCM entities available to the potential enrollee;


(2) Explain how to select an MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM, or PCCM entity;


(3) Explain the implications of making or not making an active choice of an MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM or PCCM entity;


(4) Explain the length of the enrollment period as well as the disenrollment policies in § 457.1212; and


(5) Comply with the information requirements in § 457.1207 and accessibility standards established under § 457.340.



---

[N] [81 FR 27897, May 6, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 40, Jan. 3, 2017]




