# ยง 52.2429   Control strategy: Particulate matter.

(a) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of January 12, 2009, the Virginia portion of the Metropolitan Washington, DC-MD-VA nonattainment area for the 1997 PM_2.5_ NAAQS has attained the 1997 PM_2.5_ NAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 52.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration and associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as the area continues to attain the 1997 PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(b) *Maintenance Plan and Transportation Conformity Budgets.* EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Virginia portion of the Washington, DC-MD-VA nonattainment area for the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS submitted by the Commonwealth of Virginia for the entire Area on June 6, 2013 and supplemented on July 17, 2013. The maintenance plan includes motor vehicle emission budgets (MVEBs) to be applied to all future transportation conformity determinations and analyses for the entire Washington, DC-MD-VA PM_2.5_ Area for the 1997 PM_2.5_ NAAQS. The MVEBs are based on a tiered approach: Tier 1 MVEBs are effective as EPA has determined them adequate for transportation conformity purposes; Tier 2 mobile budgets will become effective upon the completion of the interagency consultation process and fully documented within the first conformity analysis that uses the Tier 2 MVEBs.



---

[N] [74 FR 1148, Jan. 12, 2009, as amended at 79 FR 60085, Nov. 5, 2014 ]




