# § 622.270   Permits.

(a) *Commercial vessel permits.* (1) For a person aboard a vessel to be eligible for exemption from the bag and possession limits for dolphin or wahoo in or from the Atlantic EEZ or to sell such dolphin or wahoo, a commercial vessel permit for Atlantic dolphin and wahoo must be issued to the vessel and must be on board, except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The provisions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section notwithstanding, a fishing vessel, except a vessel operating as a charter vessel or headboat, that does not have a commercial vessel permit for Atlantic dolphin and wahoo but has a Federal commercial vessel permit in any other fishery, is exempt from the bag and possession limits for dolphin and wahoo and may sell dolphin and wahoo, subject to the trip and geographical limits specified in § 622.278(a)(3). (A charter vessel/headboat permit is not a commercial vessel permit.)

 


(b) *Charter vessel/headboat permits.* (1) For a person aboard a vessel that is operating as a charter vessel or headboat to fish for or possess Atlantic dolphin or wahoo, in or from the Atlantic EEZ, a valid charter vessel/headboat permit for Atlantic dolphin and wahoo must have been issued to the vessel and must be on board. 


(2) A charter vessel or headboat may have both a charter vessel/headboat permit and a commercial vessel permit. However, when a vessel is operating as a charter vessel or headboat, a person aboard must adhere to the bag limits. See the definitions of “Charter vessel” and “Headboat” in § 622.2 for an explanation of when vessels are considered to be operating as a charter vessel or headboat, respectively.


(c) [Reserved]




(d) *Dealer permits and conditions*—(1) *Permits.* For a dealer to first receive Atlantic dolphin or wahoo harvested in or from the EEZ, a Gulf and South Atlantic dealer permit must be issued to the dealer.


(2) *State license and facility requirements.* To obtain a dealer permit, the applicant must have a valid state wholesaler's license in the state(s) where the dealer operates, if required by such state(s), and must have a physical facility at a fixed location in such state(s).


(e) *Permit procedures.* See § 622.4 for information regarding general permit procedures including, but not limited to application, fees, duration, transfer, renewal, display, sanctions and denials, and replacement.



---

[N] [78 FR 22952, Apr. 17, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 19496, Apr. 9, 2014; 87 FR 19018, Apr. 1, 2022]




