# ยง 165.1339   Safety Zone; Coast Guard Exercise Area, Hood Canal, Washington.

(a) *Location.* The following area is a safety zone: All waters encompassed within 500 yards of any vessel that is involved in a Coast Guard training exercise while such vessel is transiting Hood Canal, WA between Foul Weather Bluff and the entrance to Dabob Bay. Vessels involved will be various sizes and can be identified as those flying the Coast Guard Ensign.


(b) *Regulations.* In accordance with the general regulations in 33 CFR Part 165, Subpart C, no person may enter or remain in the safety zone created in this rule unless authorized by the Captain of the Port or a Designated Representative. See 33 CFR Part 165, Subpart C, for additional information and requirements. Vessel operators wishing to enter the zone during the enforcement period must request permission for entry by contacting the on-scene patrol commander on VHF channel 13 or 16, or the Sector Puget Sound Joint Harbor Operations Center at (206) 217-6001.


(c) *Definition.* Training exercises are defined as full scale exercises that are significant in nature and involve multiple units and vessels. This safety zone will not be utilized by operations and training which is conducted daily or is routine in nature.


(d) *Enforcement period.* The safety zone described in paragraph (a) of this section would be enforced by the Captain of the Port only upon notice. Notice of enforcement by the Captain of the Port will be provided 45 days prior to execution of the exercise by all appropriate means, in accordance with 33 CFR 165.7(a). Such means will include publication in the _Federal Register,_ and may also include Broadcast Notice to Mariners, Local Notice to Mariners, or both.



---

[N] [USCG-2012-0900, 78 FR 8029, Feb. 7, 2013]






