# § 1103.7   Fees.

(a) *Remittances—(1) In general.* Fees shall be submitted in connection with any formal appeal, motion, or application prescribed in this chapter in the amount prescribed by law or regulation. Payment of any fee under this section does not constitute filing of the appeal, motion, or application with the Board of Immigration Appeals or with the immigration court.


(2) *Board of Immigration Appeals.* The fee for filing an appeal or a motion with the Board of Immigration Appeals shall be paid pursuant to the provisions of 8 CFR 1003.8 when a fee is required.


(3) *All other fees payable in connection with immigration proceedings.* Except as provided in 8 CFR 1003.8, the Executive Office for Immigration Review does not accept the payment of any fee relating to Executive Office for Immigration Review proceedings. Instead, such fees, when required, shall be paid to, and accepted by, an office of the Department of Homeland Security authorized to accept fees, as provided in 8 CFR 103.7(a)(1). The Department of Homeland Security shall return to the payer, at the time of payment, a receipt for any fee paid, and shall also return to the payer any documents, submitted with the fee, relating to any immigration proceeding. The fee receipt and the application or motion shall then be submitted to the Executive Office for Immigration Review. If the payer has paid any required fee but has not received the fee receipt from the Department of Homeland Security by the deadline set by the immigration judge, the payer must instead provide to the immigration court a copy of proof of the payment to the Department of Homeland Security with the filing. The payer must then submit a copy of the fee receipt by a new deadline set by the immigration judge. If the immigration judge does not set a deadline, the alien must submit the fee receipt no later than 45 days after the date of filing of the application. Remittances to the Department of Homeland Security for applications, motions, or forms filed in connection with immigration proceedings shall be payable subject to the provisions of 8 CFR 103.7(a)(2).


(b) *Amounts of fees*—(1) *Appeals.* For filing an appeal to the Board of Immigration Appeals, when a fee is required pursuant to 8 CFR 1003.8, as follows:


Form EOIR-26. For filing an appeal from a decision of an immigration judge—$975.


Form EOIR-29. For filing an appeal from a decision of an officer of the Department of Homeland Security—$705.


Form EOIR-45. For filing an appeal from a decision of an adjudicating official in a practitioner disciplinary case—$675.


(2) *Motions.* For filing a motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider, when a fee is required pursuant to 8 CFR 1003.8 or 1003.24, as follows:


Motion to reopen or motion to reconsider before the immigration court—$145.


Motion to reopen or motion to reconsider before the Board of Immigration Appeals—$895.


(3) *Multiple parties.* When an appeal or motion is filed on behalf of two or more aliens and the aliens are covered by one decision, only one fee is required.


(4) *Applications for Relief*—(i) *Forms published by the Executive Office for Immigration Review.* Fees for applications for relief shall be paid in accordance with 8 CFR 1003.8(b) and 1003.24(c) as follows:


Form EOIR-40. Application for Suspension of Deportation—$305.


Form EOIR-42A. Application for Cancellation of Removal for Certain Permanent Residents—$305.


Form EOIR-42B. Application for Cancellation of Removal and Adjustment of Status for Certain Nonpermanent Residents—$360.


(ii) *Forms published by the Department of Homeland Security.* The fees for applications published by the Department of Homeland Security and used in immigration proceedings are governed by 8 CFR 103.7 and 8 CFR part 106. Consistent with 8 CFR 106.2, no fee shall apply to a Form I-589 filed with an immigration judge for the sole purpose of seeking withholding of removal under section 241(b)(3) of the Act or protection under the Convention Against Torture regulations.


(c) *Fee waivers.* For provisions relating to the authority of the Board or the immigration judges to waive any of the fees prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section, see 8 CFR 1003.8 and 1003.24. No waiver may be granted with respect to the fee prescribed for a Department of Homeland Security form or action that is identified as non-waivable in regulations of the Department of Homeland Security.


(d) *Requests for records under the Freedom of Information Act.* Fees for production or disclosure of records under 5 U.S.C. 552 may be waived or reduced in accordance with 28 CFR 16.10.



---

[N] [69 FR 44907, July 28, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 81750, Dec. 16, 2020; 85 FR 82793, Dec. 18, 2020; 86 FR 70723, Dec. 13, 2021]




