# § 655.211   Herding and range livestock wage rate.

(a) *Compliance with rates of pay.* (1) To comply with its obligation under § 655.210(g), an employer must offer, advertise in its recruitment, and pay each worker employed under §§ 655.200 through 655.235 a wage that is at least the highest of the monthly AEWR established under this section, the agreed-upon collective bargaining wage, the applicable minimum wage imposed by Federal or State law or judicial action, or any other wage rate the employer intends to pay. The employer must list all potentially applicable wage rates in the job order and must offer and advertise all of these wage rates in its recruitment.


(2) If the monthly AEWR established under this section is adjusted during a work contract, and is higher than the agreed-upon collective bargaining wage, the applicable minimum wage imposed by Federal or State law or judicial action in effect at the time the work is performed, and any other wage rate the employer offered to pay, the employer must pay at least that adjusted monthly AEWR upon the effective date of the updated monthly AEWR published by the Department in the _Federal Register_.


(b) *Publication of the monthly AEWR.* The OFLC Administrator will publish, at least once in each calendar year, on a date to be determined by the OFLC Administrator, an update to the monthly AEWR as a document in the _Federal Register_.


(c) *Monthly AEWR rate.* (1) The monthly AEWR shall be $7.25 multiplied by 48 hours, and then multiplied by 4.333 weeks per month; and


(2) Beginning for calendar year 2017, the monthly AEWR shall be adjusted annually based on the Employment Cost Index (ECI) for wages and salaries published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) for the preceding October-October period.


(d) *Transition rates.* (1) For the period from November 16, 2015, through calendar year 2016, the Department shall set the monthly AEWR at 80 percent of the result of the formula in paragraph (c) of this section.


(2) For calendar year 2017, the Department shall set the monthly AEWR at 90 percent of the result of the formula in paragraph (c) of this section.


(3) For calendar year 2018 and beyond, the Department shall set the monthly AEWR at 100 percent of the result of the formula in paragraph (c) of this section.



---

[N] [87 FR 61791, Oct. 12, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 34065, Apr. 29, 2024




