# § 721.10705   Aromatic amine with cyclo amino carbonyls (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as aromatic amine with cyclo amino carbonyls (PMN P-12-572) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (NIOSH-certified particulate respirator with an APF of at least 10), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set 0.1 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following NIOSH-certified respirators with an APF of at least 10 meet the requirements of § 721.63(a)(4):


(A) NIOSH-certified power air-purifying respirator with a hood or helmet and with appropriate gas/vapor (acid gas, organic vapor, or substance specific) cartridges in combination with high efficiency particulate absorption (HEPA) filters.


(B) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped with a loose fitting face piece, hood, or helmet.


(C) NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) supplied-air respirator with a full face piece.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(g).


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 11).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [79 FR 8289, Feb. 12, 2014]




