# ยง 850.27   Hygiene facilities and practices.

(a) *General.* The responsible employer must assure that in areas where workers are exposed to beryllium at or above the action level, without regard to the use of respirators:


(1) Food or beverage and tobacco products are not used;


(2) Cosmetics are not applied, except in change rooms or areas and shower facilities required under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section; and


(3) Beryllium workers are prevented from exiting areas that contain beryllium with contamination on their bodies or their personal clothing.


(b) *Change rooms or areas.* The responsible employer must provide clean change rooms or areas for beryllium workers who work in regulated areas.


(1) Separate facilities free of beryllium must be provided for beryllium workers to change into, and store, personal clothing, and clean protective clothing and equipment to prevent cross-contamination;


(2) The change rooms or areas that are used to remove beryllium-contaminated clothing and protective equipment must be maintained under negative pressure or located so as to minimize dispersion of beryllium into clean areas; and


(c) *Showers and handwashing facilities.* (1) The responsible employer must provide handwashing and shower facilities for beryllium workers who work in regulated areas.


(2) The responsible employer must assure that beryllium workers who work in regulated areas shower at the end of the work shift.


(d) *Lunchroom facilities.* (1) The responsible employer must provide lunchroom facilities that are readily accessible to beryllium workers, and ensure that tables for eating are free of beryllium, and that no worker in a lunchroom facility is exposed at any time to beryllium at or above the action level.


(2) The responsible employer must assure that beryllium workers do not enter lunchroom facilities with protective work clothing or equipment unless the surface beryllium has been removed from clothing and equipment by HEPA vacuuming or other method that removes beryllium without dispersing it.


(e) The change rooms or areas, shower and handwashing facilities, and lunchroom facilities must comply with 29 CFR 1910.141, Sanitation.




