# ยง 902.62   Failure to submit data.

(a) *Failure to submit data by due date.* (1) If a PHA without a finding of good cause by HUD does not submit its year-end financial information, required by this part, or submits its unaudited year-end financial information more than 15 days past the due date, appropriate sanctions may be imposed, including a reduction of one point in the total PHAS score for each 15-day period past the due date.


(2) If the unaudited year-end financial information is not received within 3 months past the due date, or extended due date, the PHA will receive a presumptive rating of failure for its unaudited information and shall receive zero points for its unaudited financial information and the final financial condition indicator score. The subsequent timely submission of audited information does not negate the score of zero received for the unaudited year-end financial information submission.


(3) The PHA's audited financial statement must be received no later than 9 months after the PHA's fiscal year-end, in accordance with the Single Audit Act and 2 CFR part 200, subpart F. If the audited financial statement is not received by that date, the PHA will receive a presumptive rating of failure for the financial condition indicator.


(b) *Verification of information submitted.* (1) A PHA's year-end financial information and any supporting documentation are subject to review by an independent auditor, as authorized by section 6(j)(6) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1437(d)(j)(6)). Appropriate sanctions for intentional false certification will be imposed, including civil penalties, suspension or debarment of the signatories, the loss of high performer designation, a lower score under the financial condition indicator, and a lower overall PHAS score.


(2) A PHA that cannot provide justifying documentation to HUD for the assessment under any indicator(s) or subindicator(s) shall receive a score of zero for the relevant indicator(s) or subindicator(s) and its overall PHAS score shall be lowered accordingly.


(c) *Failure to submit.* If a PHA does not submit its unaudited or audited information, it will receive a zero for management operations.



---

[N] [76 FR 10149, Feb. 23, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 75941, Dec. 7, 2015]




