# § 40.5   Communications.

(a) Unless otherwise specified or covered under the regional licensing program as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any communication or report concerning the regulations in this part and any application filed under these regulations may be submitted to the Commission as follows:


(1) By mail addressed: ATTN: Document Control Desk, Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, or Director, Office of Nuclear Security, or Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response, as appropriate, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001.


(2) By hand delivery to the NRC's offices at 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland.


(3) Where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, via Electronic Information Exchange, or CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at *http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html;* by e-mail to *MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov*; or by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information.


(b) The Commission has delegated to the four Regional Administrators licensing authority for selected parts of its decentralized licensing program for nuclear materials as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Any communication, report, or application covered under this licensing program must be submitted to the appropriate Regional Administrator. The administrators' jurisdictions and mailing addresses are listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(1) The delegated licensing program includes authority to issue, renew, amend, cancel, modify, suspend, or revoke licenses for nuclear materials issued pursuant to 10 CFR parts 30 through 36, 39, 40, and 70 to all persons for academic, medical, and industrial uses, with the following exceptions:


(i) Activities in the fuel cycle and special nuclear material in quantities sufficient to constitute a critical mass in any room or area. This exception does not apply to license modifications relating to termination of special nuclear material licenses that authorize possession of larger quantities when the case is referred for action from NRC's Headquarters to the Regional Administrators.


(ii) Health and safety design review of sealed sources and devices and approval, for licensing purposes, of sealed sources and devices.


(iii) Processing of source material for extracting of metallic compounds (including Zirconium, Hafnium, Tantalum, Titanium, Niobium, etc.).


(iv) Distribution of products containing radioactive material under §§ 32.11 through 32.30 and 40.52 of this chapter to persons exempt from licensing requirements.


(v) New uses or techniques for use of byproduct, source, or special nuclear material.


(vi) Uranium enrichment facilities.


(2) *Submissions*—(i) *Region I.* The regional licensing program involves all Federal facilities in the region and non-Federal licensees in the following Region I non-Agreement States and the District of Columbia: Connecticut, Delaware, and Vermont. All mailed or hand-delivered inquiries, communications, and applications for a new license or an amendment or renewal of an existing license specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must use the following address: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Region I, 475 Allendale Road, Suite 102, King of Prussia, PA 19406-1415; where email is appropriate it should be addressed to *RidsRgn1MailCenter.Resource@nrc.gov.*

(ii) *Region II.* The regional licensing program involves all Federal facilities in the region and non-Federal licensees in the following Region II non-Agreement States and territories: West Virginia, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands. All mailed or hand-delivered inquiries, communications, and applications for a new license or an amendment or renewal of an existing license specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must use the following address: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Region I, 475 Allendale Road, Suite 102, King of Prussia, PA 19406-1415; where email is appropriate it should be addressed to *RidsRgn1MailCenter.Resource@nrc.gov.*

(iii) *Region III.* (A) The regional licensing program for mining and milling involves all Federal facilities in the region, and non-Federal licensees in the Region III non-Agreement States of Indiana, Michigan, Missouri and Region III Agreement States of Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Iowa. All mailed or hand-delivered inquiries, communications, and applications for a new license or an amendment, renewal, or termination request of an existing license specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must use the following address: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Region III, Material Licensing Section, 2443 Warrenville Road, Suite 210, Lisle, IL 60532-4352; where e-mail is appropriate it should be addressed to *RidsRgn3MailCenter.Resource@nrc.gov.*

(B) Otherwise, the regional licensing program involves all Federal facilities in the region and non-Federal licensees in the following Region III non-Agreement States: Indiana, Michigan, and Missouri. All mailed or hand-delivered inquiries, communications, and applications for a new license or an amendment, or renewal of an existing license specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must use the following address: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Region III, Material Licensing Section, 2443 Warrenville Road, Suite 210, Lisle, IL 60532-4352; where e-mail is appropriate it should be addressed to *RidsRgn3MailCenter.Resource@nrc.gov.* Outside of this jurisdiction, concerning the licensing program involving mining and milling, the Agreement States of Illinois and Ohio should be contacted.


(iv) *Region IV.* (A) The regional licensing program for mining and milling involves all Federal facilities in the region, and non-Federal licensees in the Region IV non-Agreement States and territory of Alaska, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, South Dakota, Wyoming and Guam and Region IV Agreement States of Oregon, California, Nevada, New Mexico, Louisiana, Mississippi, Arkansas, Oklahoma, Kansas, Nebraska, and North Dakota. All mailed or hand-delivered inquiries, communications, and applications for a new license or an amendment or renewal of an existing license specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must use the following address: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Region IV, Division of Nuclear Materials Safety, 1600 E. Lamar Blvd., Arlington, TX 76011-4511; where email is appropriate, it should be addressed to *RidsRgn4MailCenter@nrc.gov.*

(B) Otherwise, the regional licensing program involves all Federal facilities in the region and non-Federal licensees in the following Region IV non-Agreement States and territory: Alaska, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, South Dakota, Wyoming, and Guam. All mailed or hand-delivered inquiries, communications, and applications for a new license or an amendment or renewal of an existing license specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must use the following address: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Region IV, Division of Nuclear Materials Safety, 1600 E. Lamar Blvd., Arlington, TX 76011-4511; where email is appropriate, it should be addressed to *RidsRgn4MailCenter@nrc.gov.*


---

[N] [48 FR 16031, Apr. 14, 1983] 


