# § 1228.1   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:


*Adjacent or contiguous property* means property that borders the burdened community, *provided that* such adjacent or contiguous property may be separated from the burdened community by public right of way.


*Burdened community* means a community comprising all of the parcels or interests in real property encumbered by a single private transfer fee covenant or a series of separate private transfer fee covenants that require payment of private transfer fees to the same entity to be used for the same purposes.


*Covered association* means a nonprofit mandatory membership organization comprising owners of homes, condominiums, cooperatives, manufactured homes, or any interest in real property, created pursuant to a declaration, covenant or other applicable law; or an organization described in section 501(c)(3) or section 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code. A covered association may include master and sub-associations, each of which is also a covered association.


*Direct benefit* means that the proceeds of a private transfer fee are used exclusively to support maintenance and improvements to encumbered properties, and acquisition, improvement, administration, and maintenance of property owned by the covered association of which the owners of the burdened property are members and used primarily for their benefit. *Direct benefit* also includes cultural, educational, charitable, recreational, environmental, conservation or other similar activities that—


(1) Are conducted in or protect the burdened community or adjacent or contiguous property, or


(2) Are conducted on other property that is used primarily by residents of the burdened community.




*Excepted transfer fee covenant* means a private transfer fee covenant that:


(1) Requires payment of a private transfer fee to a covered association and limits the use of such transfer fees exclusively to purposes which provide a direct benefit to the real property encumbered by the private transfer fee covenants; or


(2) Requires payment of a private transfer fee under a program meeting the Duty to Serve shared equity loan program criteria for resale restriction programs in § 1282.34(d)(4)(i)(A) and (d)(4)(ii) of this chapter, except that no household income limit shall apply.




*Private transfer fee* means a transfer fee, including a charge or payment, imposed by a covenant, restriction, or other similar document and required to be paid in connection with or as a result of a transfer of title to real estate, and payable on a continuing basis each time a property is transferred (except for transfers specifically excepted) for a period of time or indefinitely. A *private transfer fee* does not include fees, charges, payments, or other obligations—


(1) Imposed by or payable to the Federal government or a State or local government; or


(2) That defray actual costs of the transfer of the property, including transfer of membership in the relevant covered association.


*Private transfer fee covenant* means a covenant that:


(1) Purports to run with the land or to bind current owners of, and successors in title to, such real property; and


(2) Obligates a transferee or transferor of all or part of the property to pay a private transfer fee upon transfer of an interest in all or part of the property, or in consideration for permitting such transfer.


*Transfer* means, with respect to real property, the sale, gift, grant, conveyance, assignment, inheritance, or other transfer of an interest in the real property.



---

[N] [77 FR 15574, Mar. 16, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 2323, Jan. 11, 2013; 89 FR 17716, Mar. 12, 2024]




