# ยง 192.13   What general requirements apply to pipelines regulated under this part?

(a) No person may operate a segment of pipeline listed in the first column of paragraph (a)(3) of this section that is readied for service after the date in the second column, unless:


(1) The pipeline has been designed, installed, constructed, initially inspected, and initially tested in accordance with this part; or


(2) The pipeline qualifies for use under this part according to the requirements in ยง 192.14.


(3) The compliance deadlines are as follows:


(b) No person may operate a segment of pipeline listed in the first column of this paragraph (b) that is replaced, relocated, or otherwise changed after the date in the second column of this paragraph (b), unless the replacement, relocation or change has been made according to the requirements in this part.


(c) Each operator shall maintain, modify as appropriate, and follow the plans, procedures, and programs that it is required to establish under this part. 


(d) Each operator of an onshore gas transmission pipeline must evaluate and mitigate, as necessary, significant changes that pose a risk to safety or the environment through a management of change process. Each operator of an onshore gas transmission pipeline must develop and follow a management of change process, as outlined in ASME B31.8S, section 11 (incorporated by reference, *see* ยง 192.7), that addresses technical, design, physical, environmental, procedural, operational, maintenance, and organizational changes to the pipeline or processes, whether permanent or temporary. A management of change process must include the following: reason for change, authority for approving changes, analysis of implications, acquisition of required work permits, documentation, communication of change to affected parties, time limitations, and qualification of staff. For pipeline segments other than those covered in subpart O of this part, this management of change process must be implemented by February 26, 2024. The requirements of this paragraph (d) do not apply to gas gathering pipelines. Operators may request an extension of up to 1 year by submitting a notification to PHMSA at least 90 days before February 26, 2024, in accordance with ยง 192.18. The notification must include a reasonable and technically justified basis, an up-to-date plan for completing all actions required by this section, the reason for the requested extension, current safety or mitigation status of the pipeline segment, the proposed completion date, and any needed temporary safety measures to mitigate the impact on safety.





---

[N] [35 FR 13257, Aug. 19, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 192-27, 41 FR 34605, Aug. 16, 1976; Amdt. 192-30, 42 FR 60148, Nov. 25, 1977; Amdt. 192-102, 71 FR 13303, Mar. 15, 2006; Amdt. 192-129, 86 FR 63298, Nov. 15, 2021; Amdt. 192-132, 87 FR 52268, Aug. 24, 2022; Amdts. 192-135, 192-107, 89 FR 33280, Apr. 29, 2024] 




