# ยง 166.32   Reporting and recordkeeping requirements for specific, quarantine, and public health exemptions.

(a) *Unexpected adverse effects information.* Any unexpected adverse effects resulting from the use of a pesticide under a specific, quarantine, or public health exemption must be immediately reported to the Agency.


(b) *Interim and final reports.* A final report summarizing the results of pesticide use under any specific, quarantine, or public health exemption must be submitted to the Agency within 6 months from the expiration of the exemption unless otherwise specified by the Agency. For quarantine exemptions granted for longer than 1 year, interim reports must be submitted annually. When an application for renewal of the exemption is submitted before the expiration of the exemption or before submission of the final report, an interim report must be submitted with the application. The information in interim and final reports shall include all of the following: 


(1) Total acreage, amount of commodity or other unit treated and the total quantity of the pesticide used;


(2) A discussion of the effectiveness of the pesticide in dealing with the emergency condition;


(3) A description of any unexpected adverse effects which resulted from use of the pesticide under the exemption;


(4) The results of any monitoring required and/or carried out under the exemption;


(5) A discussion of any enforcement actions taken in connection with the exemption;


(6) Method(s) of disposition of a food crop, if required to be destroyed under an exemption; and


(7) Any other information requested by the Administrator.


(c) *Records.* Records for all treatments involving the first food use of a pesticide will be maintained by the agency to which the emergency exemption was granted for a minimum of 2 years following the date of expiration of the exemption. On request by the Agency these records shall be made available to the Administrator. Records will include all of the following:


(1) Locations where the pesticide was applied;


(2) Dates of application (range); and


(3) Total quantity of the pesticide used.



---

[N] [51 FR 1902, Jan. 15, 1986, as amended at 58 FR 34203, June 23, 1993; 71 FR 4512, Jan. 27, 2006]




