# § 279.50   Applicability.

(a) The requirements of this subpart apply to owners and operators of facilities that process used oil. Processing means chemical or physical operations designed to produce from used oil, or to make used oil more amenable for production of, fuel oils, lubricants, or other used oil-derived products. Processing includes, but is not limited to: blending used oil with virgin petroleum products, blending used oils to meet the fuel specification, filtration, simple distillation, chemical or physical separation and re-refining. The requirements of this subpart do not apply to:


(1) Transporters that conduct incidental processing operations that occur during the normal course of transportation as provided in § 279.41; or


(2) Burners that conduct incidental processing operations that occur during the normal course of used oil management prior to burning as provided in § 279.61(b).


(b) *Other applicable provisions.* Used oil processors/re-refiners who conduct the following activities are also subject to the requirements of other applicable provisions of this part as indicated in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section.


(1) Processors/re-refiners who generate used oil must also comply with subpart C of this part;


(2) Processors/re-refiners who transport used oil must also comply with subpart E of this part;


(3) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (b)(3)(ii) of this section, processors/re-refiners who burn off-specification used oil for energy recovery must also comply with subpart G of this part. Processor/re-refiners burning used oil for energy recovery under the following conditions are not subject to subpart G of this part:


(i) The used oil is burned in an on-site space heater that meets the requirements of § 279.23; or 


(ii) The used oil is burned for purposes of processing used oil, which is considered burning incidentally to used oil processing;


(4) Processors/re-refiners who direct shipments of off-specification used oil from their facility to a used oil burner or first claim that used oil that is to be burned for energy recovery meets the used oil fuel specifications set forth in § 279.11 must also comply with subpart H of this part; and 


(5) Processors/re-refiners who dispose of used oil, including the use of used oil as a dust suppressant, also must comply with subpart I of this part.




