# § 161.175   Frozen raw breaded shrimp.

(a) Frozen raw breaded shrimp is the food prepared by coating one of the optional forms of shrimp specified in paragraph (c) of this section with safe and suitable batter and breading ingredients as provided in paragraph (d) of this section. The food is frozen.


(b) The food tests not less than 50 percent of shrimp material as determined by the method prescribed in paragraph (g) of this section, except that if the shrimp are composite units the method prescribed in paragraph (h) of this section is used.


(c) The term *shrimp* means the tail portion of properly prepared shrimp of commercial species. Except for composite units, each shrimp unit is individually coated. The optional forms of shrimp are:


(1) Fantail or butterfly: Prepared by splitting the shrimp; the shrimp are peeled, except that tail fins remain attached and the shell segment immediately adjacent to the tail fins may be left attached.


(2) Butterfly, tail off: Prepared by splitting the shrimp; tail fins and all shell segments are removed.


(3) Round: Round shrimp, not split; the shrimp are peeled, except that tail fins remain attached and the shell segment immediately adjacent to the tail fins may be left attached.


(4) Round, tail off: Round shrimp, not split; tail fins and all shell segments are removed.


(5) Pieces: Each unit consists of a piece or a part of a shrimp; tail fins and all shell segments are removed.


(6) Composite units: Each unit consists of two or more whole shrimp or pieces of shrimp, or both, formed and pressed into composite units prior to coating; tail fins and all shell segments are removed; large composite units, prior to coating, may be cut into smaller units.


(d) The batter and breading ingredients referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are the fluid constituents and the solid constituents of the coating around the shrimp. These ingredients consist of suitable substances which are not food additives as defined in section 201(s) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; or if they are food additives as so defined, they are used in conformity with regulations established pursuant to section 409 of the act. Batter and breading ingredients that perform a useful function are regarded as suitable, except that artificial flavorings, artificial sweeteners, artificial colors, and chemical preservatives, other than those provided for in this paragraph, are not suitable ingredients of frozen raw breaded shrimp. Chemical preservatives that are suitable are:


(1) Ascorbic acid, which may be used in a quantity sufficient to retard development of dark spots on the shrimp; and


(2) The antioxidant preservatives listed in subpart D of part 182 of this chapter that may be used to retard development of rancidity of the fat content of the food, in amounts within the limits prescribed by that section.


(e) The label shall name the food, as prepared from each of the optional forms of shrimp specified in paragraph (c) (1) to (6), inclusive, of this section, and following the numbered sequence of such subparagraph, as follows:


(1) “Breaded fantail shrimp.” The word “butterfly” may be used in lieu of “fantail” in the name.


(2) “Breaded butterfly shrimp, tail off.”


(3) “Breaded round shrimp.”


(4) “Breaded round shrimp, tail off.”


(5) “Breaded shrimp pieces.”


(6) Composite units:


(i) If the composite units are in a shape similar to that of breaded fish sticks the name is “Breaded shrimp sticks”; if they are in the shape of meat cutlets, the name is “Breaded shrimp cutlets”.


(ii) If prepared in a shape other than that of sticks or cutlets, the name is “Breaded shrimp ______”, the blank to be filled in with the word or phrase that accurately describes the shape, but which is not misleading.


(f) The names of the optional ingredients used, as provided for in paragraph (d) of this section, shall be listed on the principal display panel or panels of the label with such prominence and conspicuousness as to render them likely to be read and understood by the ordinary individual under customary conditions of purchase. If a spice that also imparts color is used, it shall be designated as “spice and coloring”, unless the spice is designated by its specific name. If ascorbic acid is used to retard development of dark spots on the shrimp, it shall be designated as “Ascorbic acid added as a preservative” or “Ascorbic acid added to retard discoloration of shrimp”. If any other antioxidant preservative, as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, is used, such preservative shall be designated by its common name followed by the statement “Added as a preservative”.


(g) The method for determining percentage of shrimp material for those forms specified in paragraphs (c) (1) through (5) of this section is as follows:


(1) *Equipment needed.* (i) Two-gallon container, approximately 9 inches in diameter.


(ii) Two-vaned wooden paddle, each vane measuring approximately 1
3/4 inches by 3
3/4 inches.


(iii) Stirring device capable of rotating the wooden paddle at 120 r.p.m.


(iv) Balance accurate to 0.01 ounce (or 0.1 gram).


(v) U.S. Standard Sieve No. 20, 30.5 centimeter (12 inch) diameter. The sieves shall comply with the specifications for such cloth set forth in “Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists” (AOAC), 13th Ed. (1980), Table 1, “Nominal Dimensions of Standard Test Sieves (U.S.A. Standard Series),” under the heading “Definitions of Terms and Explanatory Notes,” which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(vi) U.S. Standard sieve, 
1/2-inch sieve opening, 12-inch diameter.


(vii) Forceps, blunt points.


(viii) Shallow baking pans.


(ix) Rubber-tipped glass stirring rod.


(2) *Procedure.* (i) Weigh the sample to be debreaded. Fill the container three-fourths full of water at 70°-80 °F. Suspend the paddle in the container, leaving a clearance of at least 5 inches below the paddle vanes, and adjust speed to 120 r.p.m. Add shrimp and stir for 10 minutes. Stack the sieves, the 
1/2-inch mesh over the No. 20, and pour the contents of the container onto them. Set the sieves under a faucet, preferably with spray attached, and rinse shrimp with no rubbing of flesh, being careful to keep all rinsings over the sieves and not having the stream of water hit the shrimp on the sieve directly. Lay the shrimp out singly on the sieve as rinsed. Inspect each shrimp and use the rubber-tipped rod and the spray to remove the breading material that may remain on any of them, being careful to avoid undue pressure or rubbing, and return each shrimp to the sieve. Remove the top sieve and drain on a slope for 2 minutes, then remove the shrimp to weighing pan. Rinse contents of the No. 20 sieve onto a flat pan and collect any particles other than breading (i.e., flesh and tail fins) and add to shrimp on balance pan and weigh.


(ii) Calculate percent shrimp material:


(h) The method for determining percentage of shrimp material for composite units, specified in paragraph (c)(6) of this section, is as follows:


(1) *Equipment needed.* (i) Water bath (for example a 3-liter to 4-liter beaker).


(ii) Balance accurate to 0.1 gram.


(iii) Clip tongs of wire, plastic, or glass.


(iv) Stop-watch or regular watch readable to a second.


(v) Paper towels.


(vi) Spatula, 4-inch blade with rounded tip.


(vii) Nut picker.


(viii) Thermometer (immersion type) accurate to ±2 °F.


(ix) Copper sulfate crystals (CuSo_4_·5H_2_O).


(2) *Procedure.* (i) Weigh all composite units in the sample while they are still hard frozen.


(ii) Place each composite unit individually in a water bath that is maintained at 63 °F-86 °F, and allow to remain until the breading becomes soft and can easily be removed from the still frozen shrimp material (between 10 seconds to 80 seconds for composite units held in storage at 0 °F). If the composite units were prepared using batters that are difficult to remove after one dipping, redip them for up to 5 seconds after the initial debreading and remove residual batter materials.


(iii) Remove the unit from the bath; blot lightly with double thickness of paper toweling; and scrape off or pick out coating from the shrimp material with the spatula or nut picker.


(iv) Weigh all the “debreaded” shrimp material.


(v) Calculate the percentage of shrimp material in the sample, using the following formula:


(i) *Label declaration.* Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter.



---

[N] [42 FR 14464, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 47 FR 11833, Mar. 19, 1982; 49 FR 10102, Mar. 19, 1984; 54 FR 24896, June 12, 1989; 58 FR 2884, Jan. 6, 1993; 63 FR 14035, Mar. 24, 1998]




