# § 141.87   Monitoring requirements for water quality parameters.

All large water systems and all medium water systems with corrosion control treatment (unless deemed optimized under § 141.81(b)(3)), and all small and medium water systems that exceed the lead action level or copper action level must sample and monitor water quality parameters in addition to lead and copper in accordance with the requirements of this section. Any system may be required to monitor water quality parameters as determined by the State, including as provided in this section.


(a) *General requirements*—(1) *Distribution system samples for water quality parameters.* (i) Distribution system samples collected at water taps must be representative of water quality throughout the distribution system, considering the number of persons served, the different sources of water, the different treatment methods employed by the system, and seasonal variability. Sites selected for sampling in the distribution system under this section can be the same as or different from tap sampling sites targeted for lead and copper sampling under § 141.86(a). Systems may consider selecting sites also used for total coliform sampling under § 141.21(a)(1). Sites selected for sampling in the distribution system under this section must be included in the site sample plan specified under § 141.90(a)(1). The site sample plan must be updated prior to changes to the sampling locations.


(ii) Samples collected in the distribution system must be analyzed for the following parameters, when applicable, as specified:


(A) pH;


(B) Alkalinity;


(C) Orthophosphate (as PO_4_), when an inhibitor containing an orthophosphate compound is used;


(D) Silica, when an inhibitor containing a silicate compound is used; and


(E) Any parameters specified by the State under § 141.82(a)(1) or (f)(6).


(2) *Entry point samples for water quality parameters.* (i) Samples collected at the entry point(s) to the distribution system must be from locations representative of each source water after treatment. If a system draws water from more than one source water and the source waters are combined before distribution, the system must sample at an entry point to the distribution system during periods of normal operating conditions when water is representative of all sources typically being used.


(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section for ground water systems, the following parameters must be measured at each entry point to the distribution system, when applicable, as specified:


(A) pH;


(B) When alkalinity is adjusted as part of corrosion control, a reading of the dosage rate of the chemical used to adjust alkalinity, and the alkalinity concentration;


(C) When a corrosion inhibitor is used as part of corrosion control, a reading of the dosage rate of the inhibitor used, and the concentration of orthophosphate (as PO_4_) or silica (whichever is applicable); and


(D) Any parameters specified by the State under § 141.82(a)(1) or (f)(6).


(b) *Standard monitoring for water quality parameters*—(1) *Number of samples*—(i) *Distribution system samples.* Systems must collect two distribution system samples for applicable water quality parameters during each monitoring period specified under paragraphs (b)(2) through (4) of this section from each of the minimum number of sites listed in table 1 to this paragraph (b)(1)(i). Systems that collect distribution system samples for water quality parameters from additional sites as a result of the Distribution System and Site Assessment requirements in § 141.82(j) must add those sites to the minimum number of sites listed in table 1 to this paragraph (b)(1)(i) up to a maximum of not more than twice the minimum number of sites.


(ii) *Samples at entry points.* (A) Systems without installed or re-optimized OCCT and without State-designated optimal water quality parameters required to collect entry point samples must collect a minimum of two entry point samples for each applicable water quality parameter at each entry point to the distribution system at least once during each monitoring period specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(B) Systems with installed OCCT or re-optimized OCCT and/or State-designated optimal water quality parameters required to collect entry point samples, including as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, must collect one entry point sample for each applicable water quality parameter at each entry point to the distribution system at least once every two weeks during each monitoring period the system is required to conduct sampling as specified in paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) and (c) of this section.


(2) *Initial sampling for water systems.* A large water system without corrosion control treatment must begin monitoring for water quality parameters as specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section during the first two six-month monitoring periods beginning no later than January 1 of the calendar year after the system either becomes a large water system or exceeds the practical quantitation limit for lead. Any medium water system without corrosion control treatment that exceeds the lead action level or the copper action level must begin monitoring for applicable distribution system and entry point water quality parameters as specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) for two consecutive six-month monitoring periods beginning the month immediately following the end of the tap monitoring period in which the action level exceedance occurred. Any small water system that exceeds the lead or copper action level must begin monitoring for applicable distribution system and entry point water quality parameters as specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) for two consecutive six-month monitoring periods beginning the month immediately following the end of the tap monitoring period in which the action level exceedance occurred. Systems must continue monitoring as described by paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section.


(i) At sites in the distribution system, collect two samples for:


(A) pH; and


(B) Alkalinity.


(ii) At each entry point to the distribution system, collect all the applicable parameters listed in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.


(3) *Monitoring after installation of OCCT or re-optimized OCCT.* (i) A system that modifies or installs OCCT pursuant to § 141.81(d)(5) or (e)(5) and is required to conduct follow-up monitoring for lead or copper pursuant to § 141.81(d)(6) or (e)(6) must monitor for applicable distribution system and entry point water quality parameters as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section every six months until the State designates new water quality parameter values for OCCT pursuant to § 141.82(f). Water systems must collect these samples at a regular frequency throughout the six-month monitoring period to reflect seasonal variability.


(ii) Any ground water system can limit entry point sampling described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section to those entry points that are representative of water quality and treatment conditions throughout the system. If water from untreated ground water sources mixes with water from treated ground water sources, the system must monitor for water quality parameters both at representative entry points receiving treatment and representative entry points receiving no treatment. Prior to the start of any monitoring under this paragraph (b)(3)(ii), the water system must provide to the State, written information and documentation identifying the selected entry points, including information on seasonal variability, sufficient to demonstrate that the sites are representative of water quality and treatment conditions throughout the system.


(iii) States may require small water systems with corrosion control treatment for which the State has not designated optimal water quality parameters that do not exceed the lead action level or copper action level to conduct water quality parameter monitoring as described in this paragraph (b) or the State can develop its own water quality parameter monitoring structure for these systems.


(4) *Monitoring by systems with State-designated optimal water quality parameter values for OCCT.* Monitoring must occur at a regular frequency throughout the monitoring period to reflect seasonal variability and be consistent with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.


(i) Medium water systems with corrosion control treatment and all large water systems must sample for the applicable water quality parameters designated by the State and determine compliance with the requirements of § 141.82(g) every six months with the first six-month monitoring period to begin on either January 1 or July 1, whichever comes first, after the State specifies the optimal values under § 141.82(f).


(ii) A small water system with corrosion control treatment that exceeds the lead action level or copper action level must begin monitoring during the standard six-month tap monitoring period immediately following the tap monitoring period in which the action level exceedance(s) occurs and continue monitoring until the water system no longer exceeds the lead action level and/or copper action level and meets the State-designated optimal water quality parameters in two consecutive six-month tap monitoring periods under § 141.86(c). For any small water system that is subject to a reduced monitoring frequency pursuant to § 141.86(d) at the time of the action level exceedance, the start of the six-month monitoring period under this paragraph (b)(4)(ii) must coincide with the start of the tap monitoring period under § 141.86(c).


(iii) Compliance with State-designated optimal water quality parameter values must be determined as specified under § 141.82(g).


(iv) States have the discretion to require systems described in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section to continue to monitor optimal water quality parameters.


(c) *Reduced monitoring.* (1) A medium or large water system that maintains the range of values for the water quality parameters reflecting OCCT specified by the State under § 141.82(f) and does not exceed the lead action level or copper action level in either of the two consecutive six-month monitoring periods under paragraph (b)(4) of this section must collect two distribution system samples for applicable water quality parameters specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section from each of the minimum number of sites listed in table 2 to this paragraph (c)(1) during each six-month monitoring period. These water systems must collect these samples at a regular frequency throughout the six-month monitoring period to reflect seasonal variability. A system meeting the requirements of this paragraph (c)(1) must continue to monitor at the entry point(s) to the distribution system as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Systems with sites added as a result of the Distribution System and Site Assessment requirements in § 141.82(j) must continue to sample at the added sites up to a maximum of not more than twice the minimum number of sites specified in table 1 to paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.


(2)(i) A water system that maintains the range of values for the water quality parameters reflecting OCCT specified by the State under § 141.82(f) and does not exceed the lead action level or copper action level during three consecutive years of monitoring may reduce the frequency with which it collects distribution system samples for applicable water quality parameters specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section from each of the minimum number of sites listed in table 2 to paragraph (c)(1) of this section from every six months to annually. This sampling must begin during the calendar year immediately following the end of the monitoring period in which the third consecutive year of six-month monitoring occurs.


(ii) A water system may reduce the frequency with which it collects distribution system samples for applicable water quality parameters specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section to every year if it demonstrates during two consecutive monitoring periods that its tap water lead level at the 90th percentile is less than or equal to the practical quantitation limit for lead of 0.005 mg/L, that its tap water copper level at the 90th percentile is less than or equal to 0.65 mg/L as calculated in accordance with § 141.80(c)(3), and that it also has maintained the range of values for the water quality parameters reflecting OCCT specified by the State under § 141.82(f).


(3) A water system that conducts sampling at taps for water quality parameters annually must collect these samples at a regular frequency throughout the year to reflect seasonal variability.


(4) A water system monitoring at a reduced frequency that fails to operate at or within the range of values for the optimal water quality parameters designated by the State in § 141.82(f) for more than nine cumulative days, as specified in § 141.82(g), in any six-month period under paragraph (b)(4) of this section must resume distribution system sampling in accordance with the number and frequency requirements in paragraph (b)(4). Such a system may resume annual monitoring for water quality parameters in the distribution system at the reduced number of sites specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section after it has completed two subsequent consecutive six-month rounds of monitoring that meet the criteria of paragraph (c)(1) of this section and/or may resume annual monitoring for water quality parameters in the distribution system at the reduced number of sites after it demonstrates through subsequent rounds of monitoring that it meets the criteria of either paragraph (c)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(5) Any water system monitoring at a reduced frequency that exceeds the lead action level or copper action level must resume standard water quality parameter monitoring beginning with the six-month period immediately following the tap monitoring period in which the action level exceedance(s) occurs. When the water system no longer exceeds the lead action level and/or copper action level and meets the State-designated optimal water quality parameters in two consecutive six-month tap monitoring periods, the system may then reduce monitoring in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.


(d) *Additional monitoring by systems.* The results of any monitoring conducted in addition to the minimum requirements of this section must be considered by the water system and the State in determining concentrations of water quality parameters under this section or § 141.82.





---

[N] [89 FR 86652, Oct. 30, 2024]




