# § 21.310   Rate of pursuit of a rehabilitation program.

(a) *Programs offered at educational institutions.* This section provides policy for determining the full-time and part-time rate of pursuit of a rehabilitation program by a veteran whose ability to pursue a program has not been reduced by the effects of disability.


(1) *Measuring full and part-time training.* VA will measure the full-time and part-time rate of pursuit of training offered at educational institutions according to the criteria found in §§ 21.4270 through 21.4275, except as provided in paragraphs (a) (2) and (3) of this section.


(2) *Independent study course.* (i) For certain seriously disabled veterans described in subdivision (i)(A) of this subparagraph VA may measure the veteran's enrollment:


(A) In an independent study course as half-time or greater training, or 


(B) Both in independent study subjects and subjects requiring class attendance on the basis of the combined training load when the number of credit hours of independent study equals or exceeds the number of other credit hours.


(ii) To qualify for measurement described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section:


(A) The seriously disabled veteran must have a disability or circumstances which preclude regular attendance at an institution of higher learning, and


(B) Independent study must be a sound method for providing the training necessary for restoring the veteran's employability. 


(iii) In all other cases VA will measure independent study according to the provisions of § 21.4280.


(3) *Special school.* If training is pursued in a special school, such as those for persons with visual or hearing disabilities, the rate of pursuit will be measured under §§ 21.2470 through 21.4275 unless it is the established policy of the school to measure the rate of pursuit for full-time or particular level or part-time training based upon fewer semester, credit, or clock hours of attendance than prescribed in these regulations. 


(4) *Farm cooperative.* If training in a farm cooperative program is provided by an educational institution, the rate of pursuit shall be determined the same as under § 21.4270 for that type of training. 


(5) *Course offered under contract.* When a school or other entity furnishes all or part of a vocational rehabilitation program under contact with another school, VA will measure the course or courses as appropriate for the school or other entity actually providing the training.


(b) *Education or training not furnished by an educational institution.* The following types of training which are not furnished by an educational institution (§ 21.35(k)(3) may only be pursued full-time:


(1) *On-job training.* Full-time training in an on-job program is the lesser of the number of hours in the prevailing workweek for:


(i) Journeyman employees in the same job categories at the establishment where training is being provided; 


(ii) Other persons in on-job training for the same or similar occupations at the facility where the veteran is training or at other facilities in the locality. 


(2) *Farm cooperative training.* If training in a farm cooperative program is provided by an individual instructor, the full-time rate of pursuit must meet the requirements of § 21.126.


(3) *Independent instructor.* The full-time rate of pursuit for a veteran in an independent instructor program must meet the requirements of § 21.146. 


(4) *Training in the home.* The full-time rate for a training program provided in the veteran's home must meet the requirements of § 21.146.


(5) *Vocational course in a rehabilitation facility or sheltered workshop.* A vocational course of training offered by a rehabilitation facility or sheltered workshop (§ 21.35(k) (5) and (6)), will be measured under provisions of § 21.4270(b) for trade or technical nonaccredited courses, unless it is the established policy of the facility to measure the rate of pursuit for full-time or a particular level of part-time training based upon fewer clock hours of attendance than provided in that regulation.


(c) *Combination and cooperative programs.* The rate of pursuit of a program which combines institutional training and on job training will be measured as follows:


(1) The institutional part will be assessed under §§ 21.4270 through 21.4275, and


(2) The on-the-job part will be assessed under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(d) *Rehabilitative services.* Measurement of the rate of pursuit for veterans in programs consisting primarily of services designed to evaluate and improve physical and psychological functioning will be assessed under this paragraph.


(1) The services assessed under this paragraph include:


(i) Evaluation and improvement of the rehabilitation potential of a veteran for whom attainment of a vocational goal is reasonably feasible;


(ii) Extended evaluation to determine whether attainment of a vocational goal is reasonably feasible; or


(iii) A program of independent living services to enable a veteran to function more independently in his or her family and community when attainment of a vocational goal is not reasonably feasible.


(2) Measurement of the rate of pursuit for services and programs named in paragraph (d)(1) of this section will be:


(i) As provided in paragraph (a) of this section for services furnished by educational institutions; or 


(ii) According to the noneducational facility's customary criteria for full-time and part-time pursuit. If the facility does not have established criteria for full-time and part-time pursuit, or services are being provided by more than one facility, the rate of pursuit will be assessed in the following manner:


