# ยง 60.631   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act, in subpart A or subpart VV of part 60; and the following terms shall have the specific meanings given them.


*Alaskan North Slope* means the approximately 69,000 square-mile area extending from the Brooks Range to the Arctic Ocean. 


*Equipment* means each pump, pressure relief device, open-ended valve or line, valve, compressor, and flange or other connector that is in VOC service or in wet gas service, and any device or system required by this subpart.


*Field gas* means feedstock gas entering the natural gas processing plant.


*In light liquid service* means that the piece of equipment contains a liquid that meets the conditions specified in ยง 60.485(e) or ยง 60.633(h)(2).


*In wet gas service* means that a piece of equipment contains or contacts the field gas before the extraction step in the process.


*Natural gas liquids* means the hydrocarbons, such as ethane, propane, butane, and pentane, that are extracted from field gas.


*Natural gas processing plant* (gas plant) means any processing site engaged in the extraction of natural gas liquids from field gas, fractionation of mixed natural gas liquids to natural gas products, or both.


*Nonfractionating plant* means any gas plant that does not fractionate mixed natural gas liquids into natural gas products.


*Onshore* means all facilities except those that are located in the territorial seas or on the outer continental shelf.


*Process unit* means equipment assembled for the extraction of natural gas liquids from field gas, the fractionation of the liquids into natural gas products, or other operations associated with the processing of natural gas products. A process unit can operate independently if supplied with sufficient feed or raw materials and sufficient storage facilities for the products.


*Reciprocating compressor* means a piece of equipment that increases the pressure of a process gas by positive displacement, employing linear movement of the driveshaft.




