# ยง 158.243   Experimental use permit data requirements for terrestrial and aquatic nontarget organisms.

All terrestrial and aquatic nontarget organism data, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, must be submitted to support a request for an experimental use permit.


(a) *Use patterns.* (1) The terrestrial use pattern includes products classified under the general use patterns of terrestrial food crop, terrestrial feed crop, and terrestrial nonfood crop. The aquatic use pattern includes products classified under the general use patterns of aquatic food crop and aquatic nonfood. The greenhouse use pattern includes products classified under the general use patterns of greenhouse food crop and greenhouse nonfood crop. The indoor use pattern includes products classified under the general use patterns of indoor food and indoor nonfood use.


(2) Data are also required for the general use patterns of forestry and residential outdoor use.


(b) *Key.* CR = Conditionally required; NR = Not required; R = Required; TEP = Typical end-use product; TGAI = Technical grade of the active ingredient; commas between the test substances (e.g. TGAI, TEP) indicate that data may be required on the TGAI or TEP depending on the conditions set forth in the test note.


(c) *Table.* The following table shows the experimental use data requirements for terrestrial and aquatic nontarget organisms. The test notes are shown in paragraph (d) of this section.


(d) *Test notes.* The following test notes apply to the data requirements in the table to paragraph (c) of this section.



---

[N] [72 FR 60957, Oct. 26, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 75596, Dec. 12, 2008]




