# § 48.4041-21   Compressed natural gas (CNG).

(a) *Delivery of CNG into the fuel supply tank of a motor vehicle or motorboat*—(1) *Imposition of tax.* Tax is imposed on the delivery of compressed natural gas (CNG) into the fuel supply tank of the propulsion engine of a motor vehicle or motorboat unless tax was previously imposed on the CNG under paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) *Liability for tax.* If the delivery of the CNG is in connection with a sale, the seller of the CNG is liable for the tax imposed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. If the delivery of the CNG is not in connection with a sale, the operator of the motor vehicle or motorboat, as the case may be, is liable for the tax imposed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(b) *Bulk sales of CNG*—(1) *In general.* Tax is imposed on the sale of CNG that is not in connection with the delivery of the CNG into the fuel supply tank of the propulsion engine of a motor vehicle or motorboat if, by the time of the sale—


(i) The buyer has given the seller a written statement stating that the entire quantity of the CNG covered by the statement is for use by the buyer for a taxable use as a fuel in a motor vehicle or motorboat; and


(ii) The seller has given the buyer a written acknowledgement of receipt of the statement described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.


(2) *Liability for tax.* The seller of the CNG is liable for the tax imposed under this paragraph (b).


(c) *Exemptions*—(1) *In general.* The taxes imposed under this section do not apply to a delivery or sale of CNG for a use described in section 4041(a)(3)(B), (b)(1), (f), (g), or (h). However, if the person otherwise liable for tax under this section is the seller of the CNG, the exemption under this section applies only if, by the time of sale, the seller receives an unexpired certificate (as described in this paragraph (c)) from the buyer and has no reason to believe any information in the certificate is false.


(2) *Certificate; in general.* The certificate to be provided by a buyer of CNG is to consist of a statement that is signed under penalties of perjury by a person with authority to bind the buyer, should be in substantially the same form as the model certificate provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, and should contain all information necessary to complete the model certificate. A new certificate must be given if any information in the current certificate changes. The certificate may be included as part of any business records normally used to document a sale. The certificate expires on the earliest of the following dates:


(i) The date one year after the effective date of the certificate (which may be no earlier than the date it is signed).


(ii) The date a new certificate is provided to the seller.


(iii) The date the seller is notified by the Internal Revenue Service or the buyer that the buyer's right to provide a certificate has been withdrawn.


(3) *Withdrawal of the right to provide a certificate.* The Internal Revenue Service may withdraw the right of a buyer of CNG to provide a certificate under this paragraph (c) if the buyer uses CNG to which a certificate applies in a taxable use. The Internal Revenue Service may notify any seller to whom the buyer has provided a certificate that the buyer's right to provide a certificate has been withdrawn.


(4) *Model certificate.*

(d) *Rate of tax.* The rate of the tax imposed under this section is the rate prescribed by section 4041(a)(3).


(e) *Effective date.* This section is effective October 1, 1995.



---

[N] [T.D. 8609, 60 FR 40082, Aug. 7, 1995; 60 FR 50245, Sept. 28, 1995; T.D. 8659, 61 FR 10453, Mar. 14, 1996; T.D. 8879, 65 FR 17155, Mar. 31, 2000; T.D. 9051, 69 FR 15941, Apr. 2, 2003]




