# § 1.731-1   Extent of recognition of gain or loss on distribution.

(a) *Recognition of gain or loss to partner*—(1) *Recognition of gain.* (i) Where money is distributed by a partnership to a partner, no gain shall be recognized to the partner except to the extent that the amount of money distributed exceeds the adjusted basis of the partner's interest in the partnership immediately before the distribution. This rule is applicable both to current distributions (*i.e.*, distributions other than in liquidation of an entire interest) and to distributions in liquidation of a partner's entire interest in a partnership. Thus, if a partner with a basis for his interest of $10,000 receives a distribution of cash of $8,000 and property with a fair market value of $3,000, no gain is recognized to him. If $11,000 cash were distributed, gain would be recognized to the extent of $1,000. No gain shall be recognized to a distributee partner with respect to a distribution of property (other than money) until he sells or otherwise disposes of such property, except to the extent otherwise provided by section 736 (relating to payments to a retiring partner or a deceased partner's successor in interest) and section 751 (relating to unrealized receivables and inventory items). See section 731(c) and paragraph (c) of this section. 


(ii) For the purposes of sections 731 and 705, advances or drawings of money or property against a partner's distributive share of income shall be treated as current distributions made on the last day of the partnership taxable year with respect to such partner. 


(2) *Recognition of loss.* Loss is recognized to a partner only upon liquidation of his entire interest in the partnership, and only if the property distributed to him consists solely of money, unrealized receivables (as defined in section 751(c)), and inventory items (as defined in section 751(d)(2)). The term *liquidation of a partner's interest,* as defined in section 761(d), is the termination of the partner's entire interest in the partnership by means of a distribution or a series of distributions. Loss is recognized to the distributee partner in such cases to the extent of the excess of the adjusted basis of such partner's interest in the partnership at the time of the distribution over the sum of: 


(i) Any money distributed to him, and 


(ii) The basis to the distributee, as determined under section 732, of any unrealized receivables and inventory items that are distributed to him. 


(3) *Character of gain or loss.* Gain or loss recognized under section 731(a) on a distribution is considered gain or loss from the sale or exchange of the partnership interest of the distributee partner, that is, capital gain or loss. 


(b) *Gain or loss recognized by partnership.* A distribution of property (including money) by a partnership to a partner does not result in recognized gain or loss to the partnership under section 731. However, recognized gain or loss may result to the partnership from certain distributions which, under section 751(b), must be treated as a sale or exchange of property between the distributee partner and the partnership. 


(c) *Exceptions.* (1) Section 731 does not apply to the extent otherwise provided by: 


(i) Section 736 (relating to payments to a retiring partner or to a deceased partner's successor in interest) and 


(ii) Section 751 (relating to unrealized receivables and inventory items). 


(2) The receipt by a partner from the partnership of money or property under an obligation to repay the amount of such money or to return such property does not constitute a distribution subject to section 731 but is a loan governed by section 707(a). To the extent that such an obligation is canceled, the obligor partner will be considered to have received a distribution of money or property at the time of cancellation. 


(3) If there is a contribution of property to a partnership and within a short period: 


(i) Before or after such contribution other property is distributed to the contributing partner and the contributed property is retained by the partnership, or 


(ii) After such contribution the contributed property is distributed to another partner, 


