# § 407.4   Procedures applicable to other meetings.

(a) *Amendments.* (1) For every meeting which is to be open to public observation or which is to be closed pursuant to any paragraph of § 407.2(a) other than paragraphs (a)(4), (8), (9)(i) or (10), or any combination thereof, public announcement will be made at least one week before the meeting of the time, place, and the agenda setting forth the subject matter of such meeting, and whether the meeting, or any portion thereof, is to be open or closed to the public. 


(2) Inquiries from the public regarding any such meeting shall be directed to the Office of the Secretary. 


(3) The one-week period for the announcement required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section may be reduced if the Board of Directors determines by a recorded vote that Eximbank business requires such meeting to be called at an earlier date. Public announcement of the time, place, and subject matter of such meeting, and whether open or closed to the public, will be made at the earliest practicable time. 


(4) The time or place of a meeting may be changed following the announcement required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section only if public announcement is made of such change at the earliest practicable time. 


(5) The subject matter of a meeting or the determination of the Board of Directors to open or close a meeting, or any portion thereof, to the public, may be changed following the announcement required by paragraph (a) of this section only if: 


(i) A majority of the entire voting membership of the Board of Directors determines by a recorded vote that Eximbank business so requires and that no earlier announcement of the change was possible; and 


(ii) The Board of Directors announces such change and the vote of each Director upon such change at the earliest practicable time. 


(6) Individual items may be added to or deleted from any agenda at any time. 


(7) The announcements required pursuant to this section shall be made in the form of a notice posted in the Office of the Secretary. In addition, immediately following each announcement required by this section, notice of: 


(i) The time, place and subject matter of a meeting which is to be open to public observation or which is to be closed pursuant to any section of § 407.2(a) other than paragraphs (a)(4), (8), (9)(i) or (10), or any combination thereof, 


(ii) the decision to open or close such meeting, or any portion thereof, or 


(iii) any change in any announcement previously made shall be submitted for publication in the _Federal Register._

(8) The information required by this subsection shall be disclosed except to the extent that it is exempt from disclosure under any section of § 407.2(a). 


(b) *Voting.* (1) Action to close a meeting, or any portion thereof, pursuant to any section of § 407.2(a), other than paragraphs (a)(4), (8), (9)(i), or (10), or any combination thereof, shall be taken only when a majority of the entire voting membership of the Board of Directors votes to take such action. 


(2) A separate vote of the Board of Directors shall be taken with respect to each meeting, or any portion thereof, which is proposed to be closed to the public pursuant to any section of § 407.2(a) other than paragraphs (a)(4), (8), (9)(i) or (10), or any combination thereof, or with respect to any information which is proposed to be withheld under any section of § 407.2(a), other than paragraphs (a)(4), (8), (9)(i) or (10), or any combination thereof. 


(3) A single vote of the Board of Directors may be taken with respect to a series of meetings, or any portion thereof, which are proposed to be closed to the public pursuant to any paragraph of § 407.2(a), other than paragraphs (a)(4), (8), (9)(i) or (10), or combination thereof, or with respect to any information concerning such series of meetings, so long as each meeting in such series involves the same particular matters and is scheduled to be held no more than 30 days after the initial meeting in such series. 


(4) Whenever any person whose interests may be directly affected by any portion of a meeting which is to be open to public observation submits a request in writing to the Office of the Secretary that the Board of Directors close such portion to the public under paragraph (a)(5), (6) or (7) of § 407.2, the Board of Directors, shall vote by recorded vote on whether to close such portion. 


(5) No proxy vote will be permitted for any vote required under this section. 


(6) A record of each vote indicating the vote of each Director pursuant to paragraphs (b)(1), (2), (3) or (4) of this section will be posted in the Office of the Secretary within one day after it has been taken, *Provided,* That if a meeting or portion thereof is to be closed, such record shall be accompanied by: 


(i) A full written explanation of the reasons for closing such meeting or portion thereof and 


(ii) a list of all persons expected to attend such meeting or portion thereof and their affiliation. 



---

[N] [42 FR 12417, Mar. 4, 1977, as amended at 72 FR 66043, Nov. 27, 2007]




