# ยง 179.14   Coupler vertical restraint system.

(a) *Performance standard.* Each tank car shall be equipped with couplers capable of sustaining, without disengagement or material failure, vertical loads of at least 200,000 pounds (90,718.5 kg) applied in upward and downward directions in combination with buff loads of 2,000 pounds (907.2 kg), when coupled to cars which may or may not be equipped with couplers having this vertical restraint capability.


(b) *Test verification.* Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall be achieved by verification testing of the coupler vertical restraint system in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Coupler vertical restraint tests.* A coupler vertical restraint system shall be tested under the following conditions:


(1) The test coupler shall be tested with a mating coupler (or simulated coupler) having only frictional vertical force resistance at the mating interface; or a mating coupler (or simulated coupler) having the capabilities described in paragraph (a) of this section;


(2) The testing apparatus shall simulate the vertical coupler performance at the mating interface and may not interfere with coupler failure or otherwise inhibit failure due to force applications and reactions; and


(3) The test shall be conducted as follows:


(i) A minimum of 200,000 pounds (90,718.5 kg) vertical downward load shall be applied continuously for at least 5 minutes to the test coupler head simultaneously with the application of a nominal 2,000 pounds (907.2 kg) buff load;


(ii) The procedures prescribed in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, shall be repeated with a minimum vertical upward load of 200,000 pounds (90,718.5 kg); and


(iii) A minimum of three consecutive successful tests shall be performed for each load combination prescribed in paragraphs (c)(3) (i) and (ii) of this section. A test is successful when a vertical disengagement or material failure does not occur during the application of any of the loads prescribed in this paragraph.


(d) *Authorized couplers.* As an alternative to the test verifications in paragraph (c) of this section, the following couplers are authorized:


(1) E double shelf couplers designated by the Association of American Railroads' Catalog Nos., SE60CHT, SE60CC, SE60CHTE, SE60CE, SE60DC, SE60DE, SE67CC, SE67CE, SE67BHT, SE67BC, SE67BHTE, SE67BE, SE68BHT, SE68BC, SE68BHTE, SE68BE, SE69AHTE, and SE69AE.


(2) F double shelf couplers designated by the Association of American Railroads' Catalog Nos., SF70CHT, SF70CC, SF70CHTE, SF70CE, SF73AC, SF73AE, SF73AHT, SF73AHTE, SF79CHT, SF79CC, SF79CHTE, and SF79CE.



---

[N] [Amdt. 179-42, 54 FR 38797, Sept. 20, 1989]




