# ยง 700.10   General provisions.

(a) *Purpose and scope.* The subpart contains the regulations of the Office of Independent Counsel implementing the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a. The regulations apply to all records that are contained in systems of records maintained by the Office of Independent Counsel and that are retrieved by an individual's name or personal identifier. These regulations set forth the procedures by which an individual may seek access under the Privacy Act to records pertaining to him, may request correction of such records, or may seek an accounting of disclosures of such records by the office. 


(b) *Transfer of law-enforcement records.* The head of the Office, or his designee, is authorized to make written requests under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(7) for transfer of records maintained by other agencies that are necessary to carry out an authorized law-enforcement activity of the Office.


(c) *Definitions.* As used in this subpart, the following terms shall have the following meanings: 


(1) *Agency* has the meaning given in 5 U.S.C. 551(1) and 5 U.S.C. 552a(a)(1). 


(2) *Record* has the same meaning given in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4). 


(3) *Request for access* means a request made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1). 


(4) *Request for correction* means a request made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(2). 


(5) *Request for an accounting* means a request made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3). 


(6) *Requester* means an individual who makes either a request for access, a request for correction, or a request for an accounting. 


(7) *System of records* means a group of any group of any records under the control of the Office from which information is retrieved by the name of an individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to that individual. 




