# § 393.122   Specific securement requirements for paper rolls.

(a) *Applicability.* The rules in this section apply to shipments of paper rolls which, individually or together, weigh 2268 kg (5000 lb) or more. Shipments of paper rolls that weigh less than 2268 kg (5000 lb), and paper rolls that are unitized on a pallet, may either be secured in accordance with the rules in this section or the requirements of §§ 393.100 through 393.114. 


(b) *Securement of paper rolls transported with eyes vertical in a sided vehicle.* (1) Paper rolls must be placed tightly against the walls of the vehicle, other paper rolls, or other cargo, to prevent movement during transit. 


(2) If there are not enough paper rolls in the shipment to reach the walls of the vehicle, lateral movement must be prevented by filling the void, blocking, bracing, tiedowns or friction mats. The paper rolls may also be banded together. 


(3) When any void behind a group of paper rolls, including that at the rear of the vehicle, exceeds the diameter of the paper rolls, rearward movement must be prevented by friction mats, blocking, bracing, tiedowns, or banding to other rolls. 


(4)(i) If a paper roll is not prevented from tipping or falling sideways or rearwards by vehicle structure or other cargo, and its width is more than 2 times its diameter, it must be prevented from tipping or falling by banding it to other rolls, bracing, or tiedowns.


(ii) If the forwardmost roll(s) in a group of paper rolls has a width greater than 1.75 times its diameter and it is not prevented from tipping or falling forwards by vehicle structure or other cargo, then it must be prevented from tipping or falling forwards by banding it to other rolls, bracing, or tiedowns.


(iii) If the forwardmost roll(s) in a group of paper rolls has a width equal to or less than 1.75 times its diameter, and it is restrained against forward movement by friction mat(s) alone, then banding, bracing, or tiedowns are not required to prevent tipping or falling forwards.


(iv) If a paper roll or the forwardmost roll in a group of paper rolls has a width greater than 1.25 times its diameter, and it is not prevented from tipping or falling forwards by vehicle structure or other cargo, and it is not restrained against forward movement by friction mat(s) alone, then it must be prevented from tipping or falling by banding it to other rolls, bracing or tiedowns.


(5) If paper rolls are banded together, the rolls must be placed tightly against each other to form a stable group. The bands must be applied tightly, and must be secured so that they cannot fall off the rolls or to the deck. 


(6) A friction mat used to provide the principal securement for a paper roll must protrude from beneath the roll in the direction in which it is providing that securement. 


(c) *Securement of split loads of paper rolls transported with eyes vertical in a sided vehicle.* (1) If a paper roll in a split load is not prevented from forward movement by vehicle structure or other cargo, it must be prevented from forward movement by filling the open space, or by blocking, bracing, tiedowns, friction mats, or some combination of these. 


(2) A friction mat used to provide the principal securement for a paper roll must protrude from beneath the roll in the direction in which it is providing that securement. 


(d) *Securement of stacked loads of paper rolls transported with eyes vertical in a sided vehicle.* (1) Paper rolls must not be loaded on a layer of paper rolls beneath unless the lower layer extends to the front of the vehicle. 


(2) Paper rolls in the second and subsequent layers must be prevented from forward, rearward or lateral movement by means as allowed for the bottom layer, or by use of a blocking roll from a lower layer. 


(3) The blocking roll must be at least 38 mm (1.5 in) taller than other rolls, or must be raised at least 38 mm (1.5 in) using dunnage. 


(4) A roll in the rearmost row of any layer raised using dunnage may not be secured by friction mats alone.


(e) *Securement of paper rolls transported with eyes crosswise in a sided vehicle.* (1) The paper rolls must be prevented from rolling or shifting longitudinally by contact with vehicle structure or other cargo, by chocks, wedges or blocking and bracing of adequate size, or by tiedowns. 


(2) Chocks, wedges or blocking must be held securely in place by some means in addition to friction, so they cannot become unintentionally unfastened or loose while the vehicle is in transit. 


(3) The rearmost roll must not be secured using the rear doors of the vehicle or intermodal container, or by blocking held in place by those doors. 


(4) If there is more than a total of 203 mm (8 in) of space between the ends of a paper roll, or a row of rolls, and the walls of the vehicle, void fillers, blocking, bracing, friction mats, or tiedowns must be used to prevent the roll from shifting towards either wall. 


(f) *Securement of stacked loads of paper rolls transported with eyes crosswise in a sided vehicle.* (1) Rolls must not be loaded in a second layer unless the bottom layer extends to the front of the vehicle. 


(2) Rolls must not be loaded in a third or higher layer unless all wells in the layer beneath are filled. 


(3) The foremost roll in each upper layer, or any roll with an empty well in front of it, must be secured against forward movement by: 


(i) Banding it to other rolls, or 


(ii) Blocking against an adequately secured eye-vertical blocking roll resting on the floor of the vehicle which is at least 1.5 times taller than the diameter of the roll being blocked, or 


(iii) Placing it in a well formed by two rolls on the lower row whose diameter is equal to or greater than that of the roll on the upper row. 


(4) The rearmost roll in each upper layer must be secured by banding it to other rolls if it is located in either of the last two wells formed by the rearmost rolls in the layer below. 


(5) Rolls must be secured against lateral movement by the same means allowed for the bottom layer when there is more than a total of 203 mm (8 in) of space between the ends of a paper roll, or a row of rolls, and the walls of the vehicle. 


(g) *Securement of paper rolls transported with the eyes lengthwise in a sided vehicle.* (1) Each roll must be prevented from forward movement by contact with vehicle structure, other cargo, blocking or tiedowns. 


(2) Each roll must be prevented from rearward movement by contact with other cargo, blocking, friction mats or tiedowns. 


(3) The paper rolls must be prevented from rolling or shifting laterally by contact with the wall of the vehicle or other cargo, or by chocks, wedges or blocking of adequate size. 


(4) Chocks, wedges or blocking must be held securely in place by some means in addition to friction, so they cannot become unintentionally unfastened or loose while the vehicle is in transit. 


(h) *Securement of stacked loads of paper rolls transported with the eyes lengthwise in a sided vehicle.* (1) Rolls must not be loaded in a higher layer if another roll will fit in the layer beneath. 


(2) An upper layer must be formed by placing paper rolls in the wells formed by the rolls beneath. 


(3) A roll in an upper layer must be secured against forward and rearward movement by any of the means allowed for the bottom layer, by use of a blocking roll, or by banding to other rolls. 


(i) *Securement of paper rolls transported on a flatbed vehicle or in a curtain-sided vehicle*—(1) *Paper rolls with eyes vertical or with eyes lengthwise.* (i) The paper rolls must be loaded and secured as described for a sided vehicle, and the entire load must be secured by tiedowns in accordance with the requirements of §§ 393.100 through 393.114. 


(ii) Stacked loads of paper rolls with eyes vertical are prohibited. 


(2) *Paper rolls with eyes crosswise.* (i) The paper rolls must be prevented from rolling or shifting longitudinally by contact with vehicle structure or other cargo, by chocks, wedges or blocking and bracing of adequate size, or by tiedowns. 


(ii) Chocks, wedges or blocking must be held securely in place by some means in addition to friction so that they cannot become unintentionally unfastened or loose while the vehicle is in transit. 


(iii) Tiedowns must be used in accordance with the requirements of §§ 393.100 through 393.114 to prevent lateral movement. 



---

[N] [67 FR 61225, Sept. 27, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 35834, June 22, 2006]




