# § 11.1105   General requirements for officer endorsements.

(a) To serve on a passenger vessel on international voyages, Masters, deck officers, Chief Engineers, and engineer officers, must—


(1) Meet the appropriate requirements of the STCW Regulation V/2 and of section A-V/2 of the STCW Code (incorporated by reference, see § 11.102 of this part) as follows:


(i) Masters, officers, and other personnel designated on the muster list to assist passengers in emergency situation onboard passenger ships must have completed training in crowd management specified in section A-V/2 of the STCW Code.


(ii) Personnel providing direct service to passengers in passenger spaces onboard passenger ships must have completed the safety training specified in section A-V/2 of the STCW Code.


(iii) Masters, Chief Engineer Officers, Chief Mates, Second Engineer Officers, and any person designated on muster lists of having responsibility for the safety of passengers in emergency situations onboard passenger ships must have completed approved training in crisis management and human behavior as specified in section A-V/2 of the STCW Code.


(iv) Masters, Chief Engineer Officers, Chief Mates, Second Engineer Officers, and every person assigned immediate responsibility for embarking and disembarking passengers, loading, discharging or securing cargo, or closing hull openings onboard Ro-Ro passenger ships must have completed approved training in passenger safety, cargo safety, and hull integrity as specified in section A-V/2 of the STCW Code; and


(2) Hold documentary evidence as proof of meeting these requirements through approved or accepted training.


(b) Seafarers who are required to be trained in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section must provide, at intervals not exceeding 5 years, evidence of maintaining the standard of competence.


(c) The Coast Guard will accept onboard training and experience, through evidence of 1 year of sea service within the last 5 years, as meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.


(d) Personnel serving onboard small passenger vessels engaged in domestic, near-coastal voyages, as defined in § 10.107 of this subchapter, are not subject to any obligation for the purpose of this STCW requirement.



---

[N] [USCG-2004-17914, 78 FR 77909, Dec. 24, 2013, as amended by USCG-2018-0874, 84 FR 30882, June 28, 2019; USCG-2021-0097, 89 FR 93099, Nov. 25, 2024]




