# ยง 1411.10   Fees.

Persons requesting records from the Board, the General Counsel or the Panel shall be subject to a charge of fees for the direct cost of document search and duplication in accordance with the following schedules, procedures and conditions:


(a) The following fees shall be charged for disclosure of any record pursuant to this part:


(1) *Copying of records.* Ten cents per copy of each page.


(2) *Clerical searches.* $1.25 for each one-quarter hour spent by clerical personnel searching for and producing a requested record, including time spent copying any record.


(3) *Nonclerical searches.* $2.50 for each one-quarter hour spent by professional or managerial personnel searching for and producing a requested record, including time spent copying any record.


(4) *Forwarding material to destination.* Postage, insurance and special fees will be charged on an actual cost basis.


(b) All charges may be waived or reduced whenever it is in the public interest to do so.


(c) Requests for copies of transcripts of hearings should be made to the official hearing reporter. However, a person may request a copy of a transcript of a hearing from the Board, the Panel or the General Counsel, as appropriate. In such instance, the Board, the Panel or the General Counsel, as appropriate, may, by agreement with the person making the request, make arrangements with commercial firms for required services to be charged directly to the requester.


(d) No charge shall be made for the time spent in resolving legal or policy issues or in examining records for the purpose of deleting nondisclosable portions thereof.


(e) Payment of fees shall be made by check or money order payable to the U.S. Treasury.




