# § 2.106   Notice of issuance.

(a) The Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, or Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, as appropriate, will inform the State and local officials specified in § 2.104(c) and publish a document in the _Federal Register_ announcing the issuance of:


(1) A license or an amendment of a license for which a notice of proposed action has been previously published;


(2) An amendment of a license for a facility of the type described in § 50.21(b) or § 50.22 of this chapter, or a testing facility, whether or not a notice of proposed action has been previously published; and


(3) The finding under § 52.103(g) of this chapter.


(b) The notice of issuance will set forth:


(1) In the case of a license or amendment:


(i) The nature of the license or amendment;


(ii) The manner in which copies of the safety analysis, if any, may be obtained and examined; and


(iii) A finding that the application for the license or amendment complies with the requirements of the Act and this chapter.


(2) In the case of a finding under § 52.103(g) of this chapter:


(i) The manner in which copies of the safety analysis, if any, may be obtained and examined; and


(ii) A finding that the prescribed inspections, tests, and analyses have been performed, the prescribed acceptance criteria have been met, and that the license complies with the requirements of the Act and this chapter.


(c) The Director of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards will also cause to be published in the _Federal Register_ notice of, and will inform the State, local, and Tribal officials specified in § 2.104(c) of any action with respect to an application for construction authorization for a high-level radioactive waste repository at a geologic repository operations area, a license to receive and possess high-level radioactive waste at a geologic repository operations area pursuant to parts 60 or 63 of this chapter, or an amendment to such license for which a notice of proposed action has been previously published.


(d) The Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards will also cause to be published in the _Federal Register_ notice of, and will inform the State and local officials or Tribal governing body specified in § 2.104(c) of any licensing action with respect to a license to receive radioactive waste from other persons for disposal under part 61 of this chapter or the amendment of such a license for which a notice of proposed action has been previously published.



---

[N] [37 FR 15131, July 28, 1972, as amended at 38 FR 9586, Apr. 18, 1973; 46 FR 13978, Feb. 25, 1981; 47 FR 57478, Dec. 27, 1982; 66 FR 55787, Nov. 2, 2001; 69 FR 2235, Jan. 14, 2004; 72 FR 49473, Aug. 28, 2007; 73 FR 5716, Jan. 31, 2008; 77 FR 46590, Aug. 3, 2012; 84 FR 65643, Nov. 29, 2019]




