# § 345.84   The FPI scholarship fund.

FPI shall award post-secondary school scholarships to selected, qualified inmate workers. These scholarships provide an inmate with the opportunity to begin or continue with business and industry courses or vocational training as approved and deemed appropriate by the Supervisor of Education. 


(a) *Eligibility requirements.* The SOI and the Supervisor of Education at each institution shall develop application procedures to include, at a minimum, the following criteria: 


(1) The inmate shall be a full-time FPI worker. 


(2) The inmate has a favorable recommendation for participation from his or her work supervisor. 


(3) The inmate meets all relevant institution requirements for participation (e.g. disciplinary record, custody level). 


(4) The inmate is accepted by the institution of higher learning offering the course or program which is requested. 


(5) The inmate must maintain a verifiable average of “C” or better to continue program eligibility. 


(6) Before beginning the course of study, the inmate must sign an agreement to provide the SOI with an unaltered, original copy of his or her grades. 


(b) *Scholarship selection procedures.* FPI scholarship awards shall be made by a three member Selection Committee comprised of the SOI, the Supervisor of Education, and one other person designated by the SOI. 


(c) *Scholarship program operation.* (1) Ordinarily, one scholarship may be awarded per school period for every fifty workers assigned. At least one scholarship may be awarded at each institution location, regardless of the number of inmates assigned. 


(2) Individual scholarships ordinarily should not exceed the cost of tuition and books for one course. Where several courses may be taken for the same cost as one, the inmate worker may be allowed to take more than one course. 


(3) Scholarship monies are to be paid only to the institution providing instruction, or to the Education Department for transfer of funds to the college, university, or technical institution providing instruction. 


(4) An inmate may not receive more than one scholarship per school period. 


(5) An inmate must maintain at least a “C” average to be continued as eligible for further assistance. An inmate earning less than “C” must wait one school period of eligibility before reapplying for further assistance. Where a course grade is based on a “pass/fail” system, the course must be “passed” to be eligible for further assistance. 


(6) An inmate awarded a correspondence course must successfully complete the course during a school year (e.g., 2 semesters, 3 quarters). 


(7) An inmate receiving scholarship aid must have approval from the SOI and the Supervisor of Education before withdrawing from classes for good reason. An inmate withdrawing or “dropping” courses without permission shall wait one school year before applying for further scholarship assistance. An inmate may withdraw from courses without penalty for medical or non-disciplinary administrative reasons such as transfer, writ, release, etc., without first securing permission, although withdrawals for medical reasons must be certified in writing by the Hospital Administrator. 




