# § 575.513   What are the agency's and the employee's obligations when an employee fails to fulfill the terms of a service agreement?

(a) This section does not apply when an employee is involuntarily separated or involuntarily reassigned to a position outside the particular territory, possession, or commonwealth involved, as provided in § 575.511 or when an agency unilaterally terminates a service agreement under § 575.512.


(b) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, an employee is indebted to the Federal Government and must repay the paying agency for an appropriate portion of an extended assignment incentive received by the employee if—


(1) The employee fails to complete the period of employment required in his or her service agreement; or


(2) The employee violates any other condition specified in the service agreement that would trigger termination of the agreement.


(c)(1) If an employee does not fulfill the terms of a service agreement under the circumstances prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section and has received incentive payments whose value as a percentage of the planned total sum of incentive payments for the entire service period exceeds the percentage reflecting the portion of the service period completed by the employee, he or she must repay the excess payment and any additional repayment penalty imposed by the agency under paragraph (e) of this section, except when an authorized agency official waives the requirement to repay the excess amount under paragraph (g) of this section.


(2) For example, consider an employee who signed a 364-day (26 pay period) service agreement and received the full amount of the extended assignment incentive as an initial lump-sum payment. If the employee voluntarily leaves after 20 pay periods (280 days), the employee will have received 100 percent of the total extended assignment incentive while completing only 76.9 percent (280/364) of the service period. The excess is 23.1 percent. Therefore, the employee must repay 23.1 percent (84/364) of the incentive. The employee is entitled to keep 76.9 percent of the incentive, unless the agency imposes an additional repayment penalty for failure to fulfill the service agreement under paragraph (e) of this section.


(d)(1) If an employee does not fulfill the terms of the service agreement under the circumstances prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section and has received incentive payments whose value as a percentage of the planned total sum of incentive payments for the entire service period is less than or equal to the percentage reflecting the portion of the service period completed by the employee, the employee has no repayment obligation unless the agency imposes an additional repayment penalty under paragraph (e) of this section. The agency may pay an additional incentive payment for some or all of the service completed by the employee if such additional payment is required by the service agreement. The total amount of incentive payments received by the employee may not exceed the prorated share of the planned incentive attributable to completed service.


(2) For example, consider an employee who signed a 364-day (26 pay period) service agreement to receive a total extended assignment payment of $24,501 in two equal installment payments—*i.e.,* $12,250.50 at the end of 13 pay periods of completed service and $12,250.50 at the end of the required service period. If the employee voluntarily leaves after 20 pay periods (280 days), the employee will have received only 50 percent of the total extended assignment incentive while completing 76.9 percent (280/364) of the service agreement. The agency may pay the employee an additional amount of up to 26.9 percent of the incentive payment that is attributable to completed service, as allowed under the terms of the service agreement, assuming the agency does not impose an additional repayment penalty for failure to fulfill the service period under paragraph (e) of this section.


(e) An agency may impose an additional repayment penalty on an employee who does not fulfill the terms of a service agreement. This repayment penalty is in addition to any repayment required by paragraph (c) of this section. The specific terms and conditions governing the repayment penalty must be included in the service agreement. For example, an agency may adopt a schedule or formula that provides for varying penalty amounts based on the portion of the service period completed by the employee.


(f) If an employee fails to reimburse the paying agency for the full amount owed under this section, the amount outstanding must be recovered from the employee under the agency's regulations for collection by offset from an indebted Government employee under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, or through the appropriate provisions for debt collection if the individual is no longer a Federal employee. 


(g) If an employee received extended assignment incentive payments in excess of the amount that would be attributable to the completed portion of the service period under paragraph (c) of this section, an authorized agency official may waive the requirement to repay the excess amount when, in the judgment of the official, collection of the excess amount would be against equity and good conscience and not in the best interest of the United States.



---

[N] [68 FR 53669, Sept. 12, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 33536, June 16, 2004; 72 FR 67841, Dec. 3, 2007]




