# § 403.912   Penalties for failure to report.

(a) *Failure to report.* (1) Any applicable manufacturer or applicable group purchasing organization that fails to timely, accurately or completely report the information required in accordance with the rules established under this subpart is subject to a civil monetary penalty of not less than $1,000, but not more than $10,000, as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 for each payment or other transfer of value or ownership or investment interest not reported timely, accurately, or completely.


(2) The total amount of civil monetary penalties imposed on each applicable manufacturer or applicable group purchasing organization (regardless of whether the applicable manufacturer was a part of a consolidated report) with respect to failures to report in an annual submission of information will not exceed $150,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102.


(b) *Knowing failure to report.* (1) Any applicable manufacturer or applicable group purchasing organization that knowingly fails to timely, accurately or completely report the information required in accordance with the rules established under this subpart is subject to a civil monetary penalty of not less than $10,000, but not more than $100,000, as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 for each payment or other transfer of value or ownership or investment interest not reported timely, accurately, or completely.


(2) The total amount of civil monetary penalties imposed on each applicable manufacturer or group purchasing organization (regardless of whether the applicable manufacturer was a part of a consolidated report) with respect to knowing failures to report in an annual submission of information will not exceed $1,000,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102.


(c) *Total annual civil monetary penalties.* The amount of civil monetary penalties imposed on each applicable manufacturer or applicable group purchasing organization under paragraphs (a)(1) and (b)(1) of this section are—


(1) Aggregated separately;


(2) Subject to separate aggregate totals under paragraphs (a)(2) and (b)(2) of this section, with a maximum combined annual total of $1,150,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102.


(d) *Determinations regarding the amount of civil monetary penalties.* In determining the amount of the civil monetary penalty, factors to be considered include, but are not limited to, the following:


(1) The length of time the applicable manufacturer or applicable group purchasing organization failed to report, including the length of time the applicable manufacturer or applicable group purchasing organization knew of the payment or other transfer of value, or ownership or investment interest.


(2) Amount of the payment the applicable manufacturer or applicable group purchasing organization failed to report.


(3) Level of culpability.


(4) Nature and amount of information reported in error.


(5) Degree of diligence exercised in correcting information reported in error.


(e) *Record retention and audits.* (1) *Maintenance of records.* (i) Applicable manufacturers and applicable group purchasing organizations must maintain all books, contracts, records, documents, and other evidence sufficient to enable the audit, evaluation, and inspection of the applicable manufacturer's or applicable group purchasing organization's compliance with the requirement to timely, accurately or completely submit information in accordance with the rules established under this subpart.


(ii) The items described in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section must be maintained for a period of at least 5 years from the date the payment or other transfer of value, or ownership or investment interest is published publicly on the Web site.


(2) *Audit.* HHS, CMS, OIG or their designees may audit, inspect, investigate and evaluate any books, contracts, records, documents, and other evidence of applicable manufacturers and applicable group purchasing organizations that pertain to their compliance with the requirement to timely, accurately or completely submit information in accordance with the rules established under this subpart.


(3) The requirements in this subpart are in addition to, and do not limit, any other applicable requirements that may obligate applicable manufacturers or applicable group purchasing organizations to retain and allow access to records.


(f) *Use of funds.* Funds collected by the Secretary as a result of the imposition of a civil monetary penalty under this section must be used to carry out the operation of this subpart.


(g) *Notice, hearings, appeals, and collection.* Civil monetary penalties imposed under this section are subject to the provisions set forth in subparts A and B of part 402 of this chapter, including those pertaining to notice, opportunity for a hearing, appeals procedures, and collection of penalties.



---

[N] [78 FR 9521, Feb. 8, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 61561, Sept. 6, 2016; 82 FR 42749, Sept. 12, 2017]




