# ยง 147.41   Definitions.

Except where the context otherwise requires, for the purposes of this subpart the following terms shall be construed, respectively, to mean: 


*Department.* The U.S. Department of Agriculture. 


*Egg type chickens.* Chickens bred for the primary purpose of producing eggs for human consumption. 


*Exhibition Poultry.* Domesticated fowl which are bred for the combined purposes of meat or egg production and competitive showing. 


*Game birds.* Domesticated fowl, such as pheasants, partridge, quail, grouse, and guineas, but not doves and pigeons. 


*Meat type chickens.* Chickens bred for the primary purpose of producing meat. 


*NPIP Technical Committee.* A committee made up of technical experts on poultry health, biosecurity, surveillance, and diagnostics. The committee consists of representatives from the poultry and egg industries, universities, and State and Federal governments and is appointed by the Senior Coordinator and approved by the General Conference Committee. The NPIP Technical Committee is divided into three subcommittees (Mycoplasma, Salmonella, and Avian Influenza). NPIP Technical Committee Members may serve on one, two, or all three subcommittees. The committee will evaluate proposed changes to the Provisions and Program Standards of the Plan which include, but are not limited to, tests and sanitation procedures, and provide recommendations to the Delegates of the National Plan Conference as to whether they are scientifically or technically sound.


*Plan Conference.* A meeting convened for the purpose of recommending changes in the provisions of the Plan. 


*Plan or NPIP.* The National Poultry Improvement Plan. 


*Service.* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Veterinary Services, of the Department. 


*State.* Any State, the District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico. 


*Waterfowl.* Domesticated fowl that normally swim, such as ducks and geese. 



---

[N] [36 FR 23121, Dec. 3, 1971, as amended at 38 FR 3038, Feb. 1, 1973. Redesignated at 44 FR 61586, Oct. 26, 1979; 59 FR 12805, Mar. 18, 1994, as amended at 79 FR 38766, July 9, 2014; 83 FR 28355, June 19, 2018] 




