# § 1.6049-3   Statements to recipients of interest payments and holders of obligations to which there is attributed original issue discount in calendar years before 1983.

(a) *Requirement.* Every person filing (1) a Form 1099 or 1087 under section 6049(a)(1) and § 1.6049-1 with respect to payments of interest or (2) a Form 1099-OID or 1087-OID with respect to original issue discount includible in gross income, shall furnish to the person whose identifying number is (or should be) shown on the form a written statement showing the information required by paragraph (b) of this section. With respect to interest, no statement is required to be furnished under section 6049(c) and this section to any person if the aggregate of the payments to (or received on behalf of) such person shown on the form would be less than $10. With respect to original issue discount, no statement is required to be furnished under section 6049(c) and this section to any person if the aggregate amount of original issue discount on the statement to such person with respect to the obligation would be less than $10. References in this section to Form 1099 shall be construed to include Form 1099-BCD, except that in applying paragraph (b)(2) of this section no information relating to the person to whom the certificate of deposit was originally issued shall be disclosed to another person to whom the payment of interest is made.


(b) *Form of statement*—(1) *In general.* The written statement required to be furnished to a person under paragraph (a) of this section shall show:


(i) With respect to payments of interest (as defined in § 1.6049-2) aggregating $10 or more to any person during a calendar year before 1983:


(*a*) The aggregate amount of payments shown on the Form 1099 or 1087 as having been made to (or received on behalf of) such person and a legend stating that such amount is being reported to the Internal Revenue Service, and


(*b*) The name and address of the person filing the form, and


(ii) With respect to original issue discount (as defined in § 1.6049-2) which would aggregate $10 or more on the statement to the holder during a calendar year after 1970 and prior to calendar year 1983:


(*a*) The aggregate amount or original issue discount includible by (or on behalf of) such person with respect to the obligation, as shown on Form 1099-OID or Form 1087-OID for such calendar year (determined by applying the rules of paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of § 1.6049-1 for purposes of completing either form),


(*b*) All other items shown on such Form 1099-OID or Form 1087-OID for such calendar year (so determined), and


(*c*) A legend stating that such amount and such items are being reported to the Internal Revenue Service.


(2) *Special rule.* The requirements of this section for the furnishing of a statement to any person, including the legend requirement of this paragraph, may be met by the furnishing to such person of a copy of the Form 1099, 1099-OID, 1087, or 1087-OID filed pursuant to § 1.6049-1, or a reasonable facsimile thereof, in respect of such person. However, in the case of Form 1087-OID or 1099-OID, a copy of the instructions must also be sent to such person. A statement shall be considered to be furnished to a person within the meaning of this section if it is mailed to such person at his last known address.


(c) *Time for furnishing statements*—(1) *In general*—(i) *Payment of interest.* Each statement required by this section to be furnished to any person for a calendar year for the payment of interest shall be furnished to such person after November 30 of the year and on or before January 31 of the following year, but no statement may be furnished before the final interest payment for the calendar year has been paid. However, the statement may be furnished at any time after April 30 if it is furnished with the final interest payment for the calendar year.


(ii) *Original issue discount.* (*a*) Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision (ii), each statement required by this section to be furnished to any person for a calendar year for original issue discount shall be furnished to such person after December 31 of the year and on or before January 31 of the following year.


(*b*) The time for furnishing each statement required by this section to be furnished to any person for the calendar year 1971 for original issue discount in respect of obligations to which paragraph (e) of § 1.1232-3A applies (relating to deposits in banks and other similar financial institutions) is extended to March 15, 1972.


(*c*) The time for furnishing each statement required by this section to be furnished by a nominee to any person for the calendar year 1971 for original issue discount is extended to February 28, 1972.


(2) *Extensions of time.* For good cause shown upon written application of the person required to furnish statements under this section, the district director may grant an extension of time not exceeding 30 days in which to furnish such statements. The application shall be addressed to the district director with whom the income tax returns of the applicant are filed and shall contain a full recital of the reasons for requesting the extension to aid the district director in determining the period of the extension, if any, which will be granted. Such a request in the form of a letter to the district director signed by the applicant will suffice as an application. The application shall be filed on or before the date prescribed in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph for furnishing the statements required by this section.


(3) *Last day for furnishing statement.* For provisions relating to the time for performance of an act when the last day prescribed for performance falls on Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, see § 301.7503-1 of this chapter (Regulations on Procedure and Administration).


(d) *Penalty.* For provisions relating to the penalty provided for failure to furnish a statement under this section see § 301.6678-1 of this chapter (Regulations on Procedure and Administration).



---

[N] [T.D. 6628, 27 FR 12801, Dec. 28, 1962, as amended by T.D. 7154, 36 FR 25011, Dec. 28, 1971; 37 FR 527, Jan. 13, 1972; T.D. 7584, 44 FR 1104, Jan. 4, 1979; T.D. 7624, 44 FR 31012, May 30, 1979; T.D. 7881, 48 FR 12968, Mar. 28, 1983]




