# ยง 114.12   Incorporation of political committees; payment of fringe benefits.

(a) An organization may incorporate and not be subject to the provisions of this part if the organization incorporates for liability purposes only, and if the organization is a political committee as defined in 11 CFR 100.5. Notwithstanding the corporate status of the political committee, the treasurer of an incorporated political committee remains personally responsible for carrying out their respective duties under the Act.


(b) [Reserved]


(c)(1) A corporation or labor organization may not pay the employer's share of the cost of fringe benefits, such as health and life insurance and retirement, for employees or members on leave-without-pay to participate in political campaigns of Federal candidates. The separate segregated fund of a corporation or a labor organization may pay the employer's share of fringe benefits, and such payment would be a contribution in-kind to the candidate. An employee or member may, out of unreimbursed personal funds, assure the continuity of his or her fringe benefits during absence from work for political campaigning, and such payment would not be a contribution in-kind.


(2) Service credit for periods of leave-without-pay is not considered compensation for purposes of this section if the employer normally gives identical treatment to employees placed on leave-without-pay for nonpolitical purposes.



---

[N] [41 FR 35955, Aug. 25, 1976, as amended at 45 FR 21210, Apr. 1, 1980; 60 FR 31382, June 15, 1995; 60 FR 64279, Dec. 14, 1995; 79 FR 16663, Mar. 26, 2014]




