# ยง 256.50   Requirements.

Section 4003(1) requires the State solid waste management plan to idenifty means for coordinating regional planning and implementation under the State plan. Section 1006 requires the Administrator to integrate all provisions of this Act (including approval of State plans) with other Acts that grant regulatory authority to the Administrator in order to prevent duplication of administrative and enforcement efforts. In order to meet these requirements:


(a) The State solid waste management plan shall be developed in coordination with Federal, State, and substate programs for air quality, water quality, water supply, waste water treatment, pesticides, ocean protection, toxic substances control, noise control, and radiation control.


(b) The State plan shall provide for coordination with programs under section 208 of the Clean Water Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1288). In identifying agencies for solid waste management planning and implementation, the State shall review the solid waste management activities being conducted by water quality planning and management agencies designated under section 208 of the Clean Water Act. Where feasible, identification of such agencies should be considered during the identification of responsibilities under subpart B of this part. Where solid waste management and water quality agencies are separate entities, necessary coordination procedures shall be established.


(c) The State plan shall provide for coordination with the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) established under section 402 of the Clean Water Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1342). The issuance of State facility permits and actions taken to close or upgrade open dumps shall be timed, where practicable, to coordinate closely with the issuance of a new or revised NPDES permit for such facility.


(d) The State plan shall provide for coordination with activities for municipal sewage sludge disposal and utilization conducted under the authority of section 405 of the Clean Water Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1345), and with the program for construction grants for publicly owned treatment works under section 201 of the Clean Water Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1281).


(e) The State plan shall provide for coordination with State pretreatment activities under section 307 of the Clean Water Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1317).


(f) The State plan shall provide for coordination with agencies conducting assessments of the impact of surface impoundments on underground sources of drinking water under the authority of section 1442(a)(8)(C) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-1).


(g) The State plan shall provide for coordination with State underground injection control programs (40 CFR Parts 122, 123, 124, and 146) carried out under the authority of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f *et seq.*) and with the designation of sole source aquifers under section 1424 of that Act.


(h) The State plan shall provide for coordination with State implementation plans developed under the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 *et seq.*; incineration and open burning limitations; and, State implementation plan requirements impacting resource recovery systems).


(i) The State plan shall provide for coordination with the Army Corps of Engineers permit program (or authorized State program) under section 404 of the Clean Water Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1344) for dredge and fill activities in waters of the United States.


(j) The State plan shall provide for coordination with the Office of Endangered Species, Department of the Interior, to ensure that solid waste management activities, especially the siting of disposal facilities, do not jeopardize the continued existence of an endangered or threated species nor result in the destruction or adverse modification of a critical habitat. 


(k) The State plan shall provide for coordination, where practicable, with programs under:


(1) The Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2601 *et seq.*; disposal of chemical substances and mixtures).


(2) The Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 1362 *et seq.;* disposal and storage of pesticides and pesticide containers).


(3) The Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act (33 U.S.C. 1420 *et seq.*; disposal in ocean waters).


(l) The State plan shall provide for coordination, where practicable, with programs of other Federal agencies, including:


(1) Department of the Interior.


(i) Fish and Wildlife Service (wetlands),


(ii) Bureau of Mines and Office of Surface Mining (mining waste disposal and use of sludge in reclamation),


(iii) U.S. Geological Survey (wetlands, floodplains, ground water);


(2) Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (coastal zone management plans);


(3) Water Resources Council (floodplains, surface and ground waters);


(4) Department of Agriculture, including Soil Conservation Service (land spreading solid waste on food chain croplands);


(5) Federal Aviation Administration (locating disposal facilities on or near airport property);


(6) Department of Housing and Urban Development (701 comprehensive planning program, flood plains mapping);


(7) Department of Defense (development and implementation of State and substate plans with regard to resource recovery and solid waste disposal programs at various installations);


(8) Department of Energy (State energy conservation plans under the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6321)); and 


(9) Other programs.


(m) The State plan shall provide for coordination, where practicable, with solid waste management plans in neighboring States and with plans for Indian reservations in the State. 




