# § 4287.135   Substitution of lender.

After the issuance of a Loan Note Guarantee, the lender is prohibited from selling or transferring the entire loan without the prior written approval of the Agency. Because the Loan Note Guarantee is associated with a specific promissory note and cannot be transferred to a new promissory note, the lender must transfer the original promissory note to the new lender, who must agree to its current loan terms, including the interest rate, secondary market holder (if any), collateral, loan agreement terms, and guarantors. The new lender must also obtain the original Loan Note Guarantee, original personal and corporate guarantee(s), and the loan payment history from the transferor lender. If the new lender wishes to modify the loan terms after acquisition, the new lender must submit a request to the Agency.


(a) The Agency may approve the substitution of a new lender if:


(1) The proposed substitute lender:


(i) Is an eligible lender in accordance with § 4279.29 of this chapter and is approved as such;


(ii) Is able to service the loan in accordance with the original loan documents; and


(iii) Agrees in writing to acquire title to the unguaranteed portion of the loan held by the original lender and assumes all original loan requirements, including liabilities and servicing responsibilities.


(2) The substitution of the lender is requested in writing by the borrower, the proposed substitute lender, and the original lender of record, if still in existence.


(b) The Agency will not pay any loss or share in any costs (*e.g.,* appraisal fees and environmental assessments) with a new lender unless a relationship is established through a substitution of lender in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. This includes situations where a lender is merged with or acquired by another lender and situations where the lender has failed and been taken over by a regulatory agency such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the loan is subsequently sold to another lender.


(c) Where the lender has failed and been taken over by the FDIC and the loan is liquidated by the FDIC rather than being sold to another lender, the Agency will pay losses and share in costs as if the FDIC were an approved substitute lender.


(d) In cases where there is a substitution of the lender, the Agency and the new lender must execute a new Form RD 4279-4, “Lender's Agreement,” unless a valid Lender's Agreement already exists with the new lender.




