# § 32.56   Oregon.

The following refuge units are open for hunting and/or fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional refuge-specific regulations.


(a) *Bandon Marsh National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of migratory game birds on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, and snipe 7 days per week on that portion of the refuge west of U.S. Highway 101 and outside the Bandon city limits.


(ii) On the Ni-les'tun Unit of the refuge, we allow hunting of goose, duck, and coot only on Wednesdays, Saturdays, and Sundays.


(iii) You must remove all blinds, decoys, shotshell hulls, and other personal equipment and refuse from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(iv) Hunters accessing the Ni-les'tun Unit via boat must secure or anchor boats and use established boat launch areas. Hunters may park boats within the marsh while they hunt, but we require boats landing on the bank of the Coquille River within the Ni-les'tun Unit to park within a designated location.


(v) Hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 2 hours before legal sunrise and must exit the refuge no later than 1 hour after legal sunset.


(vi) Hunters may use dogs as an aid to retrieving waterfowl during the hunting season.


(vii) You may enter posted retrieval zones while retrieving downed birds and when traveling to and from the hunting areas. We prohibit discharging firearms while in a retrieval zone.


(2)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge.


(b) *Baskett Slough National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck and goose on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow only hunters age 17 and younger to participate in the youth waterfowl hunt. Youths must be accompanied by an adult age 21 or older.


(ii) We require youth hunters to obtain a refuge waterfowl hunting permit (Waterfowl Lottery Application, FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application—National Wildlife Refuge System). All youth hunting waterfowl must do so from designated blinds.


(iii) You must remove blinds, decoys, and other personal property at the end of each day's hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iv) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.


(v) We require youth waterfowl hunters to check in and out at the Hunter Check Station (refuge office), which is open from 1
1/2 hours before legal hunting hours to 8 a.m. and from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. We prohibit hunting after 12 p.m. (noon) for this hunt.




(vi) We require goose hunters to space themselves no less than 200 yards (183 meters) apart from each other during the early September goose hunt.


(2)-(4) [Reserved]


(c) *Bear Valley National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Hunting opens concurrent with the State season and closes October 31.


(ii) We prohibit hunting or public entry of any kind from November 1 to the State-regulated opening day of deer season in the hunting unit.


(iii) We allow walk-in access only from designated entry points.


(4) [Reserved]


(d) *Cold Springs National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, dove, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit discharge of any firearm within 
1/4 mile (396 meters (m)) of any maintained building or Federal facility, such as, but not limited to, a structure designed for storage, human occupancy, or shelter for animals.


(ii) We allow hunting only on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays, Sundays, and all federally recognized holidays within the State season, with the exception of dove. We only allow hunting for all dove species within the State mourning dove season.


(iii) On the Memorial Marsh Unit:


(A) We allow waterfowl hunting only from numbered field blind sites. We allow a maximum of four persons per blind site.


(B) Waterfowl hunters must remain within 100 feet (30 m) of the numbered field blind post unless retrieving birds or setting decoys.


(iv) Hunters must remove all decoys and other equipment (see § 27.93 of this chapter) at the end of each day's hunt.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of upland game birds on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow hunting from 12 p.m. (noon) to the end of legal hunting hours.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of elk on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The condition set forth at paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section applies.


(ii) We only allow hunting with a valid, State-issued emergency hunt permit or kill permit.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing on designated areas of the refuge.


(e) *Deer Flat National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of mourning dove, goose, duck, coot, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We allow only portable blinds and temporary blinds constructed of natural materials.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of pheasant, quail, and partridge on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We prohibit hunting from February 1 through May 31.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of deer on designated areas of the refuge.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We prohibit shoreline fishing on the islands of the Snake River Sector from February 1 through May 31.


(f) *Hart Mountain National Antelope Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow only portable blinds and temporary blinds constructed of synthetic or nonliving natural materials.


(ii) We prohibit digging of pit blinds for waterfowl hunting.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of chukar and California quail on designated areas of the refuge.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of deer, antelope, and bighorn sheep on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow only portable blinds and temporary blinds constructed of synthetic or nonliving natural materials.


(ii) We allow ground blinds, but we prohibit construction of them earlier than 1 week prior to the opening day of the legal season for which you have a valid permit.


(iii) You must remove blinds within 24 hours of harvesting an animal or at the end of the permittee's legal season (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iv) We limit hunters to one blind each, and you must tag blinds with the owner's State license or permit number.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing on designated areas of the refuge.


(g) *Julia Butler Hansen Refuge for the Columbian White-Tailed Deer*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, and common snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You must remove all personal property, including decoys and boats, by 1 hour after legal sunset (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(ii) We open the refuge for day-use access from 1
1/2 hours before legal sunrise until 1
1/2 hours after legal sunset.


(iii) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.


(2)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge.


(h) *Klamath Marsh National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, and common snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We prohibit the use of air-thrust and inboard water-thrust boats when waterfowl hunting.


(2)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We prohibit the use of boats when sport fishing.


(i) *Lewis and Clark National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, and snipe on the designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You must remove all personal property, including decoys and boats, by 1 hour after legal sunset (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(ii) We open the refuge for hunting access from 1
1/2 hours before legal sunrise until 1
1/2 hours after legal sunset.


(iii) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.


(2)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge.


(j) *Lower Klamath National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, and common snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) In the controlled waterfowl hunting area, we require a valid Refuge Recreation Pass (electronic form) for all hunters age 16 and older. All hunters age 15 and younger must remain in the immediate presence of an adult (age 18 or older) at all times while in the field.


(ii) We require advance reservations for the first 2 days of the hunting season. You may obtain a reservation through the waterfowl lottery (Migratory Bird Hunt Application, FWS form 3-2439, Hunt Application—National Wildlife Refuge System) each year.


(iii) Entry hours for hunters begin at 4:30 a.m. unless otherwise posted.


(iv) We prohibit the setting of decoys in retrieving zones.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of pheasant on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: In the controlled pheasant hunting area, we require a valid permit for all hunters age 16 and older. All hunters age 15 and younger must remain in the immediate presence of an adult (age 18 or older) at all times while in the field.


(3)-(4) [Reserved]


(k) *Malheur National Wildlife Refuge*—

(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of dove, goose, duck, merganser, coot, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow nonmotorized boats or boats equipped with only electric motors on the North and South Malheur Lake Hunt Units.


(ii) We allow only portable and temporary hunting blinds.


(iii) You must remove boats, decoys, blinds, materials, and all personal property at the end of each day's hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(iv) You may take Eurasian collared-dove only during the State mourning dove season.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of pheasant, quail, partridge, chukar, rabbit, hare, and coyote on designated areas of the refuge.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of deer and pronghorn on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow only short-range weapons (archery, shotgun, and muzzleloader) on the Buena Vista Unit.


(ii) Mule deer hunting in the Buena Vista Unit will close the Friday before the opening day of the Oregon Statewide rooster pheasant season.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit ice fishing on, and all public access to, any ice formations.


(ii) We allow fishing year-round on Krumbo Reservoir and in the Blitzen River, East Canal, and Mud Creek upstream from and including Bridge Creek.


(iii) We allow fishing on the north bank of the Blitzen River from Sodhouse Lane downstream to the bridge on the Boat Landing Road between August 1 and September 15.


(iv) We prohibit boats on public fishing areas, except that we allow nonmotorized boats and boats equipped with only electric motors on Krumbo Reservoir.


(l) *McKay Creek National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, snipe, and dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit discharge of any firearm within 
1/4 mile (396 meters) of any maintained building or Federal facility, such as, but not limited to, a structure designed for storage, human occupancy, or shelter for animals.


(ii) Hunters must remove all decoys and other equipment from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of upland game birds and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: The condition set forth at paragraph (l)(1)(i) of this section applies.




(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of deer and elk on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (l)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(ii) We only allow elk hunting only with a valid, State-issued emergency hunt permit or kill permit.


(iii) We allow deer hunting only with a special, State-issued permit.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge.


(m) *McNary National Wildlife Refuge.* Refer to § 32.66(h) for regulations.


(n) *Nestucca Bay National Wildlife Refuge*— 

(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Hunters must remove all blinds, decoys, shotshell hulls, and other personal equipment and refuse from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(ii) Hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 2 hours before legal sunrise and must exit the refuge no later than 1 hour after legal sunset.


(iii) Hunters may use dogs as an aid to retrieving waterfowl during the hunting season.


(2)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing and shellfishing on designated areas of the refuge.


(o) *Sheldon National Wildlife Refuge.* (1) [Reserved]


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of quail, grouse, and partridge on designated areas of the refuge.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of deer and antelope on designated areas of the refuge.


(4) [Reserved]


(p) *Siletz Bay National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow waterfowl hunting 7 days per week on refuge lands west of U.S. Highway 101.


(ii) On the Millport Slough South Unit, we allow waterfowl hunting only on Wednesdays, Saturdays, and Sundays.


(iii) Hunters must remove all blinds, decoys, shotshell hulls, and other personal equipment and refuse from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(iv) Hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 2 hours before legal sunrise and must exit the refuge no later than 1 hour after legal sunset.


(v) Hunters may use dogs as an aid to retrieving waterfowl during the hunting season.


(vi) You may enter posted retrieval zones while retrieving downed birds and when traveling to and from the hunting areas. We prohibit discharging firearms while in a retrieval zone.


(2)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing and clamming on designated areas of the refuge only from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(q) *Tualatin River National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow waterfowl hunting on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Youth age 17 and younger may participate as active hunters. An adult age 21 or older must accompany and supervise youth hunters. We do not allow supervising adults to hunt.


(ii) We allow a maximum of two youth hunters and two nonhunters per hunting blind, for a maximum occupancy of four persons per blind.


(iii) Disabled youth hunters must possess an Oregon Disabilities Hunting and Fishing Permit issued by the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife (ODFW) to qualify for preference in using the designated accessible hunting blind.


(iv) We open the hunting season on the last weekend of October, as conditions allow, through the end of the regular State hunting season. We close the refuge for the third-period northwest permit zone goose hunt.


(v) Official hunting start times for game birds are governed by State regulations. Hunting ends at 1 p.m. for the entire season.


(vi) We open the hunt area for access 1
1/2 hours before legal shooting hours.


(vii) You must remove decoys, other personal property, and trash from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(viii) We allow the use of dogs for retrieving waterfowl.


(ix) All hunters must hunt from designated blinds.


(x) All hunters must have visible means of retrieving waterfowl such as float tube, waders, or a dog capable of retrieving.


(xi) Hunters must check-in and check-out with a refuge representative and submit a Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542) when checking out.


(2)-(4) [Reserved]


(r) *Umatilla National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, dove, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit discharge of any firearm within 
1/4 mile (396 meters) of any maintained building or Federal facility, such as, but not limited to, a structure designed for storage, human occupancy, or shelter for animals.


(ii) Hunters must remove all decoys and other equipment at the end of each day's hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iii) On the McCormack Unit, we allow hunting subject to the following conditions:


(A) The McCormack Unit is a fee-hunt area only open to hunting on Wednesdays, Saturdays, Sundays, Thanksgiving Day, and New Year's Day during State waterfowl seasons.


(B) We require hunters to stop at the check station to obtain a special refuge permit (signed refuge brochure).


(C) We allow hunting only from assigned areas.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of upland game birds on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (r)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(ii) On the McCormack Fee Hunt Unit, we allow hunting subject to the following conditions:


(A) We allow hunting only on Wednesdays, Saturdays, Sundays, Thanksgiving Day, and New Year's Day from 12 p.m. (noon) to the end of State legal hunting hours.


(B) We require all hunters to possess and carry a special refuge permit (signed refuge brochure).


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The condition set forth at paragraph (r)(1)(i) of this section applies.


(ii) We allow hunting only with a special, State-issued permit.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing on designated areas of the refuge.


(s) *Upper Klamath National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, and common snipe on designated areas of the refuge.


(2)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing in designated areas of the refuge.


(t) *Wapato Lake National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow hunting on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays during the State waterfowl season.


(ii) The hunt area is open for access 2 hours before and after legal shooting hours.


(iii) All hunters must hunt from designated blinds except to retrieve downed birds. We prohibit hunting from levees.


(iv) We allow a maximum occupancy of four persons per blind.


(v) Disabled hunters must possess an Oregon Disabilities Hunting and Fishing Permit issued by the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife to qualify for preference in using the ADA Accessibility Guidelines blind or Federal Access pass.


(vi) You must remove decoys, other personal property, and trash (including empty shotgun hulls) from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(vii) We allow the use of dogs for retrieving waterfowl.


(viii) Hunters must submit a Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542) at the end of each day's hunt.


(2)-(4) [Reserved]


(u) *William L. Finley National Wildlife Refuge.* -(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow only portable and temporary hunting blinds.


(ii) You must remove all blinds, decoys, shotshell hulls, and other personal equipment and garbage from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(iii) Hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 2 hours before legal shooting hours and must exit the refuge no later than 1 hour after legal shooting hours.


(iv) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.


(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow deer and elk hunting on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You may harvest only antlerless elk.


(ii) We require a refuge permit (FWS Form 3-2439) for hunting elk.


(iii) We prohibit hunting from any refuge structure, observation blind, or boardwalk.


(iv) We allow short-range weapons only. We allow archery hunting only on the William L. Finley and Snag Boat Bend Zone 2 hunt units.


(v) Hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 1 hour before legal shooting hours and must exit the refuge no later than 1 hour after legal shooting hours.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow fishing from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(ii) We allow anglers to use only pole and line, or rod and reel. Anglers must attend their line.



---

[N] [84 FR 47675, Sept. 10, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 54137, Aug. 31, 2020; 86 FR 48875, Aug. 31, 2021; 87 FR 57131, Sept. 16, 2022; 88 FR 74065, Oct. 30, 2023]










