# § 4043.32   Transfer of benefit liabilities.

(a) *Reportable event.* A reportable event occurs for a plan when—


(1) The plan makes a transfer of benefit liabilities to a person, or to a plan or plans maintained by a person or persons, that are not members of the transferor plan's controlled group; and


(2) The amount of benefit liabilities transferred, in conjunction with other benefit liabilities transferred during the 12-month period ending on the date of the transfer, is 3 percent or more of the plan's total benefit liabilities. Both the benefit liabilities transferred and the plan's total benefit liabilities are to be valued as of any one date in the plan year in which the transfer occurs, using actuarial assumptions that comply with section 414(*l*) of the Code.


(b) *Determination rules*—(1) *Date of transfer.* The date of transfer is to be determined on the basis of the facts and circumstances of the particular situation. For transfers subject to the requirements of section 414(*l*) of the Code, the date determined in accordance with 26 CFR 1.414(*l*)-1(b)(11) will be considered the date of transfer.


(2) *Distributions of lump sums and annuities.* For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the payment of a lump sum, or purchase of an irrevocable commitment to provide an annuity, in satisfaction of benefit liabilities is not a transfer of benefit liabilities.


(c) *Waivers*—(1) *Small plan.* Notice under this section is waived if the plan had 100 or fewer participants for whom flat-rate premiums were payable for the plan year preceding the event year.


(2) *Low-default-risk.* Notice under this section is waived if each contributing sponsor of the plan and the highest level U.S. parent of each contributing sponsor are low-default-risk on the date of the event.


(3) *Well-funded plan.* Notice under this section is waived if the plan is in the well-funded plan safe harbor for the event year.


(4) *Public company.* Notice under this section is waived if any contributing sponsor of the plan before the transaction, or the parent company within a parent-subsidiary controlled group of any such contributing sponsor, is a public company and timely files a SEC Form 8-K disclosing the event under an item of the Form 8-K other than under Item 2.02 (Results of Operations and Financial Condition) or in financial statements under Item 9.01 (Financial Statements and Exhibits).



---

[N] [80 FR 55002, Sept. 11, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 6064, Feb. 4, 2020]




