# § 721.11056   Neodymium aluminium alkyl polymer complexes (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as *n*eodymium aluminium alkyl polymer complexes (PMN P-17-198) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (ii), and (iii), (a)(3), when determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible, (b) (concentration set 1.0%), and (c).


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e) (concentration set 1.0%), (f), (g)(1)(ix), (the substance may react violently with water, (this substance may cause skin irritation and corrosion), (this substance may cause respiratory complications, irritation, and corrosion), (g)(2)(i), (ii), (iii), (when using this substance use in closed system to prevent any inhalation exposure), (when using this substance use skin and eye protection), and (g)(5). Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(c) (it is a significant new use to process the substance in manner that results in inhalation exposure) and (f). It is a significant new use to manufacture the substance for a period longer than 8 months.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.



---

[N] [84 FR 43301, Aug. 20, 2019]




