# § 195.205   Repair, alteration and reconstruction of aboveground breakout tanks that have been in service.

(a) Aboveground breakout tanks that have been repaired, altered, or reconstructed and returned to service must be capable of withstanding the internal pressure produced by the hazardous liquid to be stored therein and any anticipated external loads.


(b) After October 2, 2000, compliance with paragraph (a) of this section requires the following:


(1) For tanks designed for approximate atmospheric pressure, constructed of carbon and low alloy steel, welded or riveted, and non-refrigerated; and for tanks built to API Std 650 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 195.3) or its predecessor Standard 12C; repair, alteration; and reconstruction must be in accordance with API Std 653 (except section 6.4.3) (incorporated by reference, *see* § 195.3).


(2) For tanks built to API Spec 12F (incorporated by reference, *see* § 195.3) or API Std 620 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 195.3), repair, alteration, and reconstruction must be in accordance with the design, welding, examination, and material requirements of those respective standards.


(3) For high-pressure tanks built to API Std 2510 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 195.3), repairs, alterations, and reconstruction must be in accordance with API Std 510 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 195.3).



---

[N] [Amdt. 195-66, 64 FR 15935, Apr. 2, 1999, as amended by Amdt. 195-99, 80 FR 186, Jan. 5, 2015; 80 FR 46848, Aug. 6, 2015]




