# § 1.6081-8   Extension of time to file certain information returns.

(a) *Certain information returns eligible for an automatic extension of time to file*—(1) *Automatic extension of time to file.* A person required to file an information return (the filer) on the forms or form series listed in Table 1 will be allowed one automatic 30-day extension of time to file the information return beyond the due date for filing, if the filer or the person transmitting the information return for the filer (the transmitter) files an application in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(2) *Non-automatic extension of time to file.* One additional 30-day extension of time to file an information return on a form listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section may be allowed if the filer or transmitter submits a request for the additional extension of time to file before the expiration of the automatic 30-day extension of time to file. No extension of time to file will be granted under this paragraph (a)(2) unless the filer or transmitter has first obtained an automatic extension of time to file under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. To request the additional 30-day extension of time to file, the filer or transmitter must satisfy the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section. No additional extension of time to file will be allowed for an information return on a form listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section under § 1.6081-1 beyond the extensions of time to file provided by paragraph (a)(1) of this section and this paragraph (a)(2).


(b) *The Form W-2 series (except Form W-2G) or forms reporting nonemployee compensation.* Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, the filer or transmitter of an information return on the Form W-2 series (except Form W-2G) or a form reporting nonemployee compensation may only request one non-automatic 30-day extension of time to file the information return beyond the due date for filing it. To make such a request, the filer or transmitter must submit an application for an extension of time to file in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section. No additional extension of time to file will be allowed for an information return on a form listed in this paragraph (b) under § 1.6081-1 beyond the 30-day extension of time to file provided by this paragraph (b).


(c) *Requirements*—(1) *Automatic extension of time to file.* To satisfy this paragraph (c)(1), an application must—


(i) Be submitted on Form 8809, “Request for Extension of Time to File Information Returns,” or in any other manner as may be prescribed by the Commissioner; and


(ii) Be filed with the Internal Revenue Service office designated in the application's instructions on or before the due date for filing the information return.


(2) *Non-automatic extension of time to file.* To satisfy this paragraph (c)(2), a filer or transmitter must—


(i) Submit a complete application on Form 8809, or in any other manner prescribed by the Commissioner, indicating that at least one of the criteria set forth in the forms, instructions, or other guidance for granting an extension applies;


(ii) File the application with the Internal Revenue Service in accordance with forms, instructions, or other appropriate guidance on or before the due date for filing the information return (for purposes of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, determined with regard to the extension of time to file under paragraph (a)(1) of this section); and


(iii) Sign the application under penalties of perjury.


(d) *Penalties.* See sections 6652, 6693, and 6721 through 6724 of the Code for failure to comply with information reporting requirements on information returns described in this section.


(e) *No effect on time to furnish statements.* An extension of time to file an information return under this section does not extend the time for furnishing a statement to the person with respect to whom the information is required to be reported.


(f) *Form W-2 filed on expedited basis.* This section does not apply to an information return on a form in the W-2 series if the procedures authorized in Rev. Proc. 96-57 (1996-2 CB 389) (or a successor revenue procedure) allow an automatic extension of time to file the information return. See § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(*b*) of this chapter.


(g) *Applicability date.* This section applies to requests for extensions of time to file information returns required to be filed after December 31, 2018. Section 1.6081-8T (as contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised April 1, 2018) applies to extensions of time to file information returns required to be filed before January 1, 2019.



---

[N] [T.D. 9838, 83 FR 38028, Aug. 3, 2018]




