# § 1.721(c)-3   Gain deferral method.

(a) *Scope*. This section describes the gain deferral method to avoid the immediate recognition of gain upon a contribution of section 721(c) property to a section 721(c) partnership. Paragraph (b) of this section provides the requirements of the gain deferral method, including the requirement to apply the consistent allocation method. Paragraph (c) of this section describes the consistent allocation method. Paragraph (d) of this section provides rules for tiered partnerships. Paragraph (e) of this section provides the dates of applicability. For definitions that apply for purposes of this section, see § 1.721(c)-1(b).


(b) Requirements of the gain deferral method. A contribution of section 721(c) property to a section 721(c) partnership that would be subject to § 1.721(c)-2(b) will not be subject to § 1.721(c)-2(b) if the conditions in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section are satisfied with respect to that property.


(1) Either—


(i) Both—


(A) The section 721(c) partnership adopts the remedial allocation method described in § 1.704-3(d) with respect to the section 721(c) property; and


(B) The section 721(c) partnership applies the consistent allocation method provided in paragraph (c) of this section; or


(ii) For the period beginning on the date of the contribution of the section 721(c) property and ending on the date on which there is no remaining built-in gain with respect to that property, all distributive shares of income and gain with respect to the section 721(c) property for all direct and indirect partners that are related foreign persons with respect to the U.S. transferor will be subject to taxation as income effectively connected with a trade or business within the United States (under either section 871 or 882), and neither the section 721(c) partnership nor a related foreign person that is a direct or indirect partner in the section 721(c) partnership claims benefits under an income tax convention that would exempt the income or gain from tax or reduce the rate of taxation to which the income or gain is subject.


(2) Upon an acceleration event, the U.S. transferor recognizes an amount of gain equal to the remaining built-in gain with respect to the section 721(c) property or an amount of gain required to be recognized under § 1.721(c)-5(d) or (e), as applicable.


(3) The procedural and reporting requirements provided in § 1.721(c)-6(b) are satisfied.


(4) The U.S. transferor consents to extend the period of limitations on assessment of tax as required by § 1.721(c)-6(b)(5).


(5) If the section 721(c) property is a partnership interest or property described in the partnership look-through rule provided in § 1.721(c)-2(d), the applicable tiered-partnership rules provided in paragraph (d) of this section are applied.


(c) *Consistent allocation method*—(1) *In general*. For each taxable year of a section 721(c) partnership in which there is remaining built-in gain in the section 721(c) property, the section 721(c) partnership must allocate each book item of income, gain, deduction, and loss with respect to the section 721(c) property to the U.S. transferor in the same percentage. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(1), upon a variation (as defined in § 1.706-4(a)(1)) of a U.S. transferor's interest in a section 721(c) partnership, a book item of income, gain, deduction, and loss with respect to a section 721(c) property is treated as allocated in the same percentage if the item is allocated under the interim closing method (as described in § 1.706-4), unless the variation results from a transaction undertaken with a principal purpose of avoiding the tax consequences of the gain deferral method. For exceptions to the first sentence in this paragraph (c)(1), see paragraph (c)(4) of this section.


(2) *Determining income or gain with respect to section 721(c) property*. For purposes of applying paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a section 721(c) partnership must attribute book income and gain to each item of section 721(c) property in a consistent manner using any reasonable method taking into account all the facts and circumstances. All items of book income and gain attributable to an item of section 721(c) property will comprise a single class of gross income for purposes of applying paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(3) *Determining deduction or loss with respect to section 721(c) property*. For purposes of applying paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a section 721(c) partnership must use the principles of §§ 1.861-8 and 1.861-8T to allocate and apportion its items of deduction, except for interest expense and research and experimental expenditures, and loss to the class of gross income with respect to each item of section 721(c) property as determined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Accordingly, a deduction or loss will be considered to be definitely related and therefore allocable to a class of gross income with respect to particular section 721(c) property whether or not there is any item of gross income in that class that is received or accrued during the taxable year and whether or not the amount of deduction or loss exceeds the amount of gross income in that class during the taxable year. If a deduction or loss is definitely related and therefore allocable to gross income attributable to more than one class of gross income of the section 721(c) partnership or if a deduction or loss is not definitely related to any class of gross income of the section 721(c) partnership, the section 721(c) partnership must apportion that deduction or loss among its classes of gross income using a reasonable method that reflects to a reasonably close extent the factual relationship between the deduction or loss and the classes of gross income. The section 721(c) partnership may allocate and apportion its interest expense and research and experimental expenditures under any reasonable method, including, but not limited to, the methods prescribed in §§ 1.861-9 and 1.861-9T (interest expense) and § 1.861-17 (research and experimental expenditures). For purposes of this paragraph (c)(3), the section 721(c) partnership must allocate and apportion its deductions and losses without regard to the partners' percentage interests in the partnership.


(4) *Exceptions to the consistent allocation method*—(i) *Regulatory allocations*. A regulatory allocation (as defined in § 1.721(c)-1(b)(10)) of book income, gain, deduction, or loss with respect to section 721(c) property that otherwise would fail to satisfy paragraph (c)(1) of this section is nevertheless deemed to satisfy paragraph (c)(1) of this section if the allocation is—


(A) An allocation of income or gain to the U.S. transferor (or a member of its consolidated group as defined in § 1.1502-1(h));


(B) An allocation of deduction or loss to a partner other than the U.S. transferor (or a member of its consolidated group); or


(C) Treated as a partial acceleration event pursuant to § 1.721(c)-5(d)(2).


(ii) *Allocation of creditable foreign tax expenditures*. An allocation of a creditable foreign tax expenditure (as defined in § 1.704-1(b)(4)(viii)(b)) is not subject to the consistent allocation method.


(d) *Tiered partnership rules*. This paragraph (d) provides the tiered partnership rules referred to in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.


(1) *Section 721(c) property is a partnership interest*. If the section 721(c) property that is contributed to a section 721(c) partnership is an interest in a partnership (lower-tier partnership), then the lower-tier partnership, if it is a controlled partnership with respect to the U.S. transferor, and each partnership in which an interest is owned (directly or indirectly through one or more partnerships) by the lower-tier partnership and that is a controlled partnership with respect to the U.S. transferor, must satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section.


(i) The partnership must revalue all its property under § 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(f)(6) if the revaluation would result in a separate positive difference between book value and adjusted tax basis in at least one property that is not excluded property.


(ii) The partnership must apply the gain deferral method for each property (other than excluded property) for which there is a separate positive difference between book value and adjusted tax basis resulting from the revaluation described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section (*new positive reverse section 704(c) layer*). If the partnership has previously adopted a section 704(c) method other than the remedial allocation method for the property, the partnership satisfies the requirement of paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A) of this section by adopting the remedial allocation method for the new positive reverse section 704(c) layer.


(iii) The partnership must treat a partner that is a partnership in which the U.S. transferor is a direct or indirect partner as if it were the U.S. transferor with respect to the section 721(c) property solely for purposes of applying the consistent allocation method.


(2) *Section 721(c) property is indirectly contributed by a U.S. transferor under the partnership look-through rule*. If the U.S. transferor is a direct or indirect partner in the upper-tier partnership described in § 1.721(c)-2(d)(1), and under § 1.721(c)-2(d)(1), the U.S. transferor is treated as contributing the section 721(c) property (including an interest in a partnership described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section) to a section 721(c) partnership, then the requirements of paragraphs (d)(2)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section must be satisfied.


(i) The section 721(c) partnership must treat the upper-tier partnership as the U.S. transferor of the section 721(c) property solely for purposes of applying the consistent allocation method;


(ii) The upper-tier partnership, if it is a controlled partnership with respect to the U.S. transferor, must apply the gain deferral method to its interest in the section 721(c) partnership; and


(iii) If the U.S. transferor is an indirect partner in the upper-tier partnership through one or more partnerships, the principles of paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section must be applied with respect to those partnerships that are controlled partnerships with respect to the U.S. transferor.


(e) *Applicability dates*—(1) *In general*. Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(2) and (3) of this section, this section applies to contributions occurring on or after August 6, 2015, and to contributions that occurred before August 6, 2015 resulting from an entity classification election made under § 301.7701-3 of this chapter that was effective on or before August 6, 2015 but was filed on or after August 6, 2015.


(2) *Certain provisions*. Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, paragraphs (b)(1)(ii), (c)(2) and (3), (c)(4)(i) and (ii), and (d)(1) and (2) of this section apply to contributions occurring on or after January 18, 2017, and to contributions that occurred before January 18, 2017 resulting from an entity classification election made under § 301.7701-3 of this chapter that was effective on or before January 18, 2017 but was filed on or after January 18, 2017. Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, the second sentence of paragraph (c)(1) of this section applies to contributions occurring on or after January 17, 2020.


(3) *Election to apply the provisions described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section retroactively*. Paragraphs (b)(1)(ii), (c)(2) and (3), (c)(4)(i) and (ii), and (d)(1) and (2) of this section may, by election, be applied to a contribution that occurred on or after August 6, 2015 but before January 18, 2017, and to a contribution that occurred before August 6, 2015 resulting from an entity classification election made under § 301.7701-3 of this chapter that was effective on or before August 6, 2015 but was filed on or after August 6, 2015. The election described in the preceding sentence must have been made by applying paragraph (b)(1)(ii), (c)(2) or (3), (c)(4)(i) or (ii), or (d)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable, to the contribution on a timely filed original return (including extensions) or an amended return filed no later than July 18, 2017. In order to elect to apply paragraph (c)(2) or (3) of this section to a contribution described in this paragraph (e)(3), an election must also have been made to apply paragraph (c)(3) or (2) of this section, respectively, to the contribution. The second sentence of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, may, by election, be applied to a contribution that occurred on or after August 6, 2015 but before January 17, 2020, and to a contribution that occurred before August 6, 2015 resulting from an entity classification election made under § 301.7701-3 of this chapter that was effective on or before August 6, 2015 but was filed on or after August 6, 2015. The election described in the preceding sentence must be made by applying the second sentence of paragraph (c)(1) of this section to the contribution on a timely filed original return (including extensions) or an amended return filed no later than July 17, 2020.


(4) *Transitional rules*. If a contribution is described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section and no election described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section is made to apply one or more of paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) and (c)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section, as applicable, to the contribution, then, for purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the section 721(c) partnership must attribute book income, gain, loss, and deduction to the section 721(c) property in a consistent manner under any reasonable method taking into account all the facts and circumstances. If a contribution is described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section and no election described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section is made to apply paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable, to the contribution, then, this section must be applied in a manner consistent with the purpose of the section 721(c) regulations. Thus, for example, if a U.S. transferor is a direct or indirect partner in a partnership and that partnership contributes section 721(c) property to a lower-tier partnership, or, if a U.S. transferor contributes an interest in a partnership that owns section 721(c) property to a lower-tier partnership, then paragraph (b) of this section applies as though the U.S. transferor contributed its share of the section 721(c) property directly.



---

[N] [T.D. 9891, 85 FR 3842, Jan. 23, 2020]




