# ยง 1700.26   Graywater.

(a) For discharges from vessels that have the capacity to hold graywater:


(1) Graywater must not be discharged in federally-protected waters or the Great Lakes.


(2) Graywater must not be discharged within one mile of shore if an onshore facility is available and disposal at such a facility is reasonable and practicable.


(3) Production and discharge of graywater must be minimized within one mile of shore when an onshore facility is either not available or use of such a facility is not reasonable and practicable.


(b) For discharges from vessels that do not have the capacity to hold graywater:


(1) Production and discharge of graywater must be minimized in federally-protected waters or the Great Lakes.


(2) Graywater must not be discharged within one mile of shore if an onshore facility is available and disposal at such a facility is reasonable and practicable.


(3) Production and discharge of graywater must be minimized within one mile of shore when an onshore facility is either not available or use of such a facility is not reasonable and practicable.


(c) Large quantities of cooking oils (*e.g.,* from a deep fat fryer), including animal fats and vegetable oils, must not be added to the graywater system. Small quantities of cooking oils (*e.g.,* from pot and dish rinsing) must be minimized if added to the graywater system within three miles of shore.


(d) Minimally-toxic soaps, cleaners, and detergents and phosphate-free soaps, cleaners, and detergents must be used in the galley, scullery, and laundry. These soaps, cleaners, and detergents should also be free from bioaccumulative compounds and not lead to extreme shifts in the receiving water pH. For purposes of this subparagraph, extreme shifts means causing the receiving water pH to fall below 6.0 or rise above 9.0 as a direct result of the discharge.


(e) The discharge of graywater must not contain oil in quantities that:


(1) Cause a film or sheen upon or discoloration of the surface of the water or adjoining shorelines; or


(2) Cause a sludge or emulsion to be deposited beneath the surface of the water or upon adjoining shorelines; or


(3) Contain an oil content above 15 ppm as measured by EPA Method 1664a (as defined at 40 CFR 136.3) or other appropriate method for determination of oil content as accepted by the International Maritime Organization (IMO) (*e.g.,* ISO Method 9377) or U.S. Coast Guard; or


(4) Otherwise are harmful to the public health or welfare of the United States.


---

[N] [85 FR 43476, July 17, 2020]




