# § 216.4   Special authorizations.

(a) *Applications.* Any foreign air carrier may apply to the Department for a Special Authorization, as required by this part, for the carriage of blind sector traffic on a particular flight, series of flights, or for a specified or indefinite period of time between specified points. Applications shall be submitted directly to the Department, addressed to the attention of the Director, Office of International Aviation. One original and two copies in conformity with the requirements of §§ 302.3(b) and 302.4 (a) and (b) of this chapter shall be filed. The applications shall contain a proper identification of the applicant; the flight or flights upon which it is proposed to carry such blind sector traffic, including routing, nontraffic stops, and dates or duration of the authority sought; a full description of such traffic, and points between which such traffic will be carried; information or documentation as to whether the country of which the applicant is a national grants reciprocal privileges to U.S. carriers; and the reasons for requesting such authorization together with such additional information as will establish that the grant of such authority will otherwise be in the public interest. Such additional information as may be specifically requested by the Department shall also be furnished. 


(b) *Service.* Applications shall be served upon each direct U.S. air carrier certificated to engage in individually ticketed or waybilled foreign air transportation over any portion of the route to which the application pertains, and on such other persons as the Department may require, and proof of such service shall accompany the application as provided in § 302.7 of this chapter. Notice of such applications shall also be published in the Department's Weekly List of Applications Filed. 


(c) *Memoranda in support or opposition.* Any interested person may file a memorandum in support of or in opposition to the grant of an application. Such memorandum shall set forth in detail the reasons why it is believed that the application should be granted or denied and shall be accompanied by such data, including affidavits, which it is desired that the Department consider. Copies of the memorandum shall be served upon the applicant. Nothing in this subparagraph shall be deemed to preclude the Department from granting or denying an application when the circumstances so warrant without awaiting the filing of memoranda in support of or in opposition to the application. 


(d) *Time for filing.* (1) Applications seeking authority to engage in blind sector operations for a period of 3 months or longer, shall be submitted at least 60 days in advance of the proposed commencement of such operations. Memoranda in response to such an application shall be submitted within 15 days after the date of filing thereof. 


(2) Applications seeking authority to engage in blind sector operations for a period less than three months shall be filed at least 20 days in advance of the proposed commencement of such operations, and memoranda in response thereto within 7 days after the date of filing thereof: *Provided,* That the Department may consider late filed applications upon a showing of good cause for failure to adhere to this requirement. 


(e) *General procedural requirements.* Except as otherwise provided herein, the provisions of part 302, subpart A, of this chapter shall apply to the extent applicable. 


(f) *Issuance of Special Authorization.* A Special Authorization authorizing the carriage of blind sector traffic will be issued only if the Department finds that the proposed carriage is fully consistent with applicable law and this part, and that grant of such authority would be in the public interest. The application may be granted or denied in whole or in part without hearing, and a Special Authorization made subject to any conditions or limitations, to the extent that such action is deemed by the Department to be in the public interest. Special Authorizations are not transferable. 


(g) *Nature of the privilege conferred.* A Special Authorization issued pursuant to this section shall constitute a privilege conferred upon a carrier, which may be enjoyed only to the extent that its continued exercise remains in the interest of the public. Accordingly, any Special Authorization issued pursuant to this section may be revoked, suspended, amended or restricted without hearing.



---

[N] [ER-525, 33 FR 692, Jan. 19, 1968, as amended by ER-910, 40 FR 23844, June 3, 1975; ER-1060, 43 FR 34117, Aug. 3, 1978; 65 FR 6456, Feb. 9, 2000; Doc. No. DOT-OST-2014-0140, 84 FR 15926, Apr. 16, 2019] 




