# ยง 75.1100-2   Quantity and location of firefighting equipment.

(a) *Working sections.* (1) Each working section of coal mines producing 300 tons or more per shift shall be provided with two portable fire extinguishers and 240 pounds of rock dust in bags or other suitable containers; waterlines shall extend to each section loading point and be equipped with enough fire hose to reach each working face unless the section loading point is provided with one of the following: 


(i) Two portable water cars; or 


(ii) Two portable chemical cars; or 


(iii) One portable water car or one portable chemical car, and either (*a*) a portable foam-generating machine or (*b*) a portable high-pressure rock-dusting machine fitted with at least 250 feet of hose and supplied with at least 60 sacks of rock dust. 


(2) Each working section of coal mines producing less than 300 tons of coal per shift shall be provided with the following:


(i) Two portable fire extinguishers; and


(ii) 240 pounds of rock dust in bags or other suitable containers; and


(iii) At least 500 gallons of water and at least three pails of 10-quart capacity; or a waterline with sufficient hose to reach the working places; or a portable water car of at least 500-gallons capacity; or a portable, all-purpose, dry-powder chemical car of at least 125-pounds capacity.


(3) As an alternative to paragraph (a)(2) of this section, each working section with no electrical equipment at the face of an anthracite coal mine producing less than 300 tons of coal per shift shall be provided with the following:


(i) Portable fire extinguishers containing a total capacity of at least 30 pounds of dry chemical or 15 gallons of foam and located at the entrance to the gangway at the bottom of the slope; and


(ii) Portable fire extinguishers containing a total capacity of at least 20 pounds of dry chemical or 10 gallons of foam and located within 500 feet from the working face.


(b) *Belt conveyors.* In all coal mines, waterlines shall be installed parallel to the entire length of belt conveyors and shall be equipped with firehose outlets with valves at 300-foot intervals along each belt conveyor and at tailpieces. At least 500 feet of firehose with fittings suitable for connection with each belt conveyor waterline system shall be stored at strategic locations along the belt conveyor. Waterlines may be installed in entries adjacent to the conveyor entry belt as long as the outlets project into the belt conveyor entry. 


(c) *Haulage tracks.* (1) In mines producing 300 tons of coal or more per shift waterlines shall be installed parallel to all haulage tracks using mechanized equipment in the track or adjacent entry and shall extend to the loading point of each working section. Waterlines shall be equipped with outlet valves at intervals of not more than 500 feet, and 500 feet of firehose with fittings suitable for connection with such waterlines shall be provided at strategic locations. Two portable water cars, readily available, may be used in lieu of waterlines prescribed under this paragraph. 


(2) In mines producing less than 300 tons of coal per shift, there shall be provided at 500-foot intervals in all main and secondary haulage roads: 


(i) A tank of water of at least 55-gallon capacity with at least 3 pails of not less than 10-quart capacity; or 


(ii) Not less than 240 pounds of bagged rock dust. 


(d) *Transportation.* Each track or off-track locomotive, self-propelled man-trip car, or personnel carrier shall be equipped with one portable fire extinguisher. 


(e) *Electrical installations.* At each electrical installation, the operator shall provide two portable fire extinguishers that have a nominal capacity of 5 pounds of dry chemical, or one extinguisher that has a nominal capacity of at least 10 pounds of dry chemical, and which have a 2-A:10-B:C or higher rating.


(f) *Oil storage stations.* Two portable fire extinguishers and 240 pounds of rock dust, shall be provided at each permanent underground oil storage station. One portable fire extinguisher shall be provided at each working section where 25 gallons or more of oil are stored in addition to extinguishers required under paragraph (a) of this section. 


(g) *Welding, cutting, soldering.* One portable fire extinguisher or 240 pounds of rock dust shall be provided at locations where welding, cutting, or soldering with arc or flame is being done. 


(h) *Powerlines.* At each wooden door through which powerlines pass there shall be one portable fire extinguisher or 240 pounds of rock dust within 25 feet of the door on the intake air side. 


(i) *Emergency materials.* (1) At each mine producing 300 tons of coal or more per shift there shall be readily available the following materials at locations not exceeding 2 miles from each working section: 


(2) At each mine producing less than 300 tons of coal per shift the above materials shall be available at the mine, provided, however, that the emergency materials for one or more mines may be stored at a central warehouse or building supply company and such supply must be the equivalent of that required for all mines involved and within 1-hour's delivery time from each mine. This exception shall not apply where the active working sections are more than 2 miles from the surface. 



---

[N] [35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 73 FR 53127, Sept. 15, 2008]




