# ยง 351.302   Extension of time limits; return of untimely filed or unsolicited material.

(a) *Introduction.* This section sets forth the procedures for requesting an extension of a time limit. In addition, this section explains that certain untimely filed or unsolicited material will be rejected together with an explanation of the reasons for the rejection of such material.


(b) *Extension of time limits.* Unless expressly precluded by statute, the Secretary may, for good cause, extend any time limit established by this part.


(c) *Requests for extension of specific time limit.* Before the applicable time limit established under this part expires, a party may request an extension pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section. An untimely filed extension request will not be considered unless the party demonstrates that an extraordinary circumstance exists. The request must be in writing, in a separate, stand-alone submission, filed consistent with ยง 351.303, and state the reasons for the request. An extension granted to a party must be approved in writing.


(1) An extension request will be considered untimely if it is received after the applicable time limit expires or as otherwise specified by the Secretary.


(2) An extraordinary circumstance is an unexpected event that:


(i) Could not have been prevented if reasonable measures had been taken, and


(ii) Precludes a party or its representative from timely filing an extension request through all reasonable means.




(d) *Rejection of untimely filed or unsolicited material.* (1) Unless the Secretary extends a time limit under paragraph (b) of this section, the Secretary will not consider or retain in the official record of the proceeding:


(i) Untimely filed factual information, written argument, or other material that the Secretary rejects, except as provided under ยง 351.104(a)(2); or




(ii) Unsolicited questionnaire responses, except as provided for voluntary respondents under ยง 351.109(h)(2).


(2) The Secretary will reject such information, argument, or other material, or unsolicited questionnaire response with, to the extent practicable, written notice stating the reasons for rejection.



---

[N] [62 FR 27379, May 19, 1997, as amended at 76 FR 39275, July 6, 2011; 78 FR 57795, Sept. 20, 2013; 89 FR 101763, Dec. 16, 2024]




