# § 75.135   Competition exception for proposed implementation sites, implementation partners, or service providers.

(a) When entering into a contract with implementation sites or partners, an applicant is not required to comply with the competition requirements in 2 CFR 200.320(b), if—


(1) The contract is with an entity that agrees to provide a site or sites where the applicant would conduct the project activities under the grant;


(2) The implementation sites or partner entities that the applicant proposes to use are identified in the application for the grant; and


(3) The implementation sites or partner entities are included in the application in order to meet a regulatory, statutory, or priority requirement related to the competition.


(b) When entering into a contract for data collection, data analysis, evaluation services, or essential services, an applicant may select a provider using the informal, small-purchase procurement procedures in 2 CFR 200.320(a)(2), regardless of whether that applicant would otherwise be subject to that part or whether the evaluation contract would meet the standards for a small purchase order, if—


(1) The contract is with the data collection, data analysis, evaluation service, or essential service provider;


(2) The data collection, data analysis, evaluation service, or essential service provider that the applicant proposes to use is identified in the application for the grant; and


(3) The data collection, data analysis, evaluation service, or essential service provider is identified in the application in order to meet a statutory, regulatory, or priority requirement related to the competition.


(c) If the grantee relied on the exceptions under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, the grantee must certify in its application that any employee, officer, or agent participating in the selection, award, or administration of a contract is free of any real or apparent conflict of interest and, if the grantee relied on the exceptions of paragraph (b) of this section, that the grantee used small purchase procedures to obtain the product or service.


(d) A grantee must obtain the Secretary's prior approval for any change to an implementation site, implementation partner, or data collection, data analysis, evaluation service, or essential service provider, if the grantee relied on the exceptions under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section to select the entity.


(e) The exceptions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not extend to the other procurement requirements in 2 CFR part 200 regarding contracting by grantees and subgrantees.


(f) For the purposes of this section, *essential service* means a product or service directly related to the grant that would, if not provided, have a detrimental effect on the grant.



---

[N] [78 FR 49352, Aug. 13, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 76091, Dec. 19, 2014; 80 FR 67264, Nov. 2, 2015; 89 FR 70321, Aug. 29, 2024]




