# § 523.41   Definitions.

(a) *Evidence-Based Recidivism Reduction (EBRR) Program.* An EBRR Program is a group or individual activity that has been shown by empirical evidence to reduce recidivism or is based on research indicating that it is likely to be effective in reducing recidivism; and is designed to help prisoners succeed in their communities upon release from prison. EBRR Programs may include, but are not limited to, those involving the following types of activities:


(1) Social learning and communication, interpersonal, anti-bullying, rejection response, and other life skills;


(2) Family relationship building, structured parent-child interaction, and parenting skills;


(3) Classes on morals or ethics;


(4) Academic classes;


(5) Cognitive behavioral treatment;


(6) Mentoring;


(7) Substance abuse treatment;


(8) Vocational training;


(9) Faith-based classes or services;


(10) Civic engagement and reintegrative community services;


(11) Inmate work and employment opportunities;


(12) Victim impact classes or other restorative justice programs; and


(13) Trauma counseling and trauma-informed support programs.


(b) *Productive Activity (PA).* A PA is a group or individual activity that allows an inmate to remain productive and thereby maintain or work toward achieving a minimum or low risk of recidivating.


(c) *Successful participation.* (1) An eligible inmate must be “successfully participating” in EBRR Programs or PAs to earn FSA Time Credits for those EBRR Programs or PAs.


(2) “Successful participation” requires a determination by Bureau staff that an eligible inmate has participated in the EBRR programs or PAs that the Bureau has recommended based on the inmate's individualized risk and needs assessment, and has complied with the requirements of each particular EBRR Program or PA.


(3) Temporary operational or programmatic interruptions authorized by the Bureau that would prevent an inmate from participation in EBRR programs or PAs will not ordinarily affect an eligible inmate's “successful participation” for the purposes of FSA Time Credit eligibility.


(4) An eligible inmate, as described in paragraph (d) of this section, will generally not be considered to be “successfully participating” in EBRR Programs or PAs in situations including, but not limited to:


(i) Placement in a Special Housing Unit;


(ii) Designation status outside the institution (*e.g.,* for extended medical placement in a hospital or outside institution, an escorted trip, a furlough, etc.);


(iii) Temporary transfer to the custody of another Federal or non-Federal government agency (*e.g.,* on state or Federal writ, transfer to state custody for service of sentence, etc.);


(iv) Placement in mental health/psychiatric holds; or


(v) “Opting out” (choosing not to participate in the EBRR programs or PAs that the Bureau has recommended based on the inmate's individualized risk and needs assessment).


(5)(i) If an eligible inmate “opts out,” or chooses not to participate in any of the EBRR programs or PAs that the Bureau has recommended based on the inmate's individualized risk and needs assessment, the inmate's choice must be documented by staff.


(ii) Opting out will not, by itself, be considered a disciplinary violation. However, violation of specific requirements or rules of a particular recommended EBRR Program or PA, including refusal to participate or withdrawal, may be considered a disciplinary violation (*see* this part).


(iii) Opting out will result in exclusion from further benefits or privileges allowable under the FSA, until the date the inmate “opts in” (chooses to participate in the EBRR programs or PAs that the Bureau has recommended based on the inmate's individualized risk and needs assessment, as documented by staff).


(d) *Eligible inmate*—(1) *Eligible to earn FSA Time Credits.* An inmate who is *eligible to earn* FSA Time Credits is an *eligible inmate* for the purposes of this subpart. Any inmate sentenced to a term of imprisonment pursuant to a conviction for a Federal criminal offense, or any person in the custody of the Bureau, is *eligible to earn* FSA Time Credits, subject to the exception described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(2) *Exception.* If the inmate is serving a term of imprisonment for an offense specified in 18 U.S.C. 3632(d)(4)(D), the inmate is not *eligible to earn* FSA Time Credits.




