# ยง 61.413   What are the privileges of my flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating?

(a) If you hold a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating, you are authorized, within the limits of your certificate and rating, to conduct ground training, flight training, certain checking events, and to issue endorsements related to:


(1) A student pilot seeking a sport pilot certificate;


(2) A sport pilot certificate;


(3) A flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating;


(4) A powered parachute or weight-shift-control aircraft rating;


(5) Sport pilot privileges;


(6) A flight review or operating privilege for a sport pilot, or training to maintain or improve the skills of a sport pilot;


(7) A practical test for a sport pilot certificate, a private pilot certificate with a powered parachute or weight-shift-control aircraft rating or a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating;


(8) A knowledge test for a sport pilot certificate, a private pilot certificate with a powered parachute or weight-shift-control aircraft rating or a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating; and


(9) A proficiency check for an additional category or class privilege for a sport pilot certificate or a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating.


(b) A person who holds a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating is authorized, in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator, to:


(1) Accept an application for a student pilot certificate or, for an applicant who holds a pilot certificate (other than a student pilot certificate) issued under part 61 of this chapter and meets the flight review requirements specified in ยง 61.56, a remote pilot certificate with a small UAS rating;


(2) Verify the identity of the applicant; and


(3) Verify that an applicant for a student pilot certificate meets the eligibility requirements in ยง 61.83.


(c) The privileges authorized in this section do not permit a person who holds a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating to conduct operations that would otherwise require an air carrier or operating certificate or specific authorization from the Administrator.



---

[N] [Docket FAA-2010-1127, Amdt. 61-135, 81 FR 1307, Jan. 12, 2016, as amended by Docket FAA-2015-0150, Amdt. 61-137, 81 FR 42208, June 28, 2016; Docket No. FAA-2023-1351; Amdt. No. 61-156, 89 FR 80340, Oct. 2, 2024]






