# § 721.185   Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.

(a) *Criteria for modification or revocation.* EPA may at any time modify or revoke significant new use notification requirements for a chemical substance which has been added to subpart E of this part using the procedures under § 721.160 or § 721.170. Such action may be taken under this section if EPA makes one of the following determinations, unless other information shows that the requirements should be retained: 


(1) Test data or other information obtained by EPA provide a reasonable basis for concluding that activities designated as significant new uses of the substance will not present an unreasonable risk of injury to human health or the environment. 


(2) EPA has promulgated a rule under section 4 or 6 of the Act, or EPA or another agency has taken action under another law for the substance that eliminates the need for significant new use notification under section 5(a)(2) of the Act. 


(3) EPA has received significant new use notices for some or all of the activities designated as significant new uses of the substance and, after reviewing such notices, concluded that there is no need to require additional notice from persons who propose to engage in identical or similar activities. 


(4) EPA has examined new information, or has reexamined the test data or other information or analysis supporting its decision to add the substance to subpart E of this part under § 721.170 and has concluded that the substance does not meet the criteria under § 721.170(b). 


(5) For a substance added to subpart E of this part under § 721.160, EPA has examined new information, or has reexamined the test data or other information or analysis supporting its finding under section 5(e)(1)(A)(ii)(I) of the Act, and has concluded that a rational basis no longer exists for the findings that activities involving the substance may present an unreasonable risk of injury to human health or the environment required under section 5(e)(1)(A) of the Act. 


(6) For a substance added to subpart E of this part under § 721.160, certain activities involving the substance have been designated as significant new uses pending the completion of testing, and adequate test data developed in accordance with applicable procedures and criteria have been submitted to EPA.


(b) *Procedures for limitation or revocation.* Modification or revocation of significant new use notification requirements for a substance that has been added to subpart E of this part using the procedures described under § 721.160 or § 721.170 may occur either at EPA's initiative or in response to a written request. 


(1) Any affected person may request modification or revocation of significant new use notification requirements for a chemical substance that has been added to subpart E of this part using the procedures described in § 721.160 or § 721.170 by submitting a request that is accompanied by information sufficient to support the request. Persons submitting a request to EPA under this part must submit the request to EPA using e-PMN software in the manner set forth in 40 CFR 720.40(a)(2)(i). See 40 CFR 720.40(a)(2)(ii) for information on how to obtain the e-PMN software. Support documents related to these requests must also be submitted to EPA in the manner set forth in 40 CFR 720.40(c).


(2) The Director of the Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics will consider the request, make a determination whether to initiate rulemaking to modify the requirements, and notify the requester of that determination by certified letter. If the request is denied, the letter will explain why EPA has concluded that the significant new use notification requirements for that substance should remain in effect. 


(3) If EPA concludes that significant new use notification requirements for a substance should be limited or revoked, EPA will propose the changes in the _Federal Register,_ briefly describe the grounds for the action, and provide interested parties an opportunity to comment. 



---

[N] [54 FR 31314, July 27, 1989, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 60 FR 34464, July 3, 1995; 71 FR 33641, June 12, 2006; 76 FR 30836, May 27, 2011; 78 FR 72827, Dec. 4, 2013]




