# § 761.77   Coordinated approval.

(a) *General requirements.* Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, the EPA Regional Administrator for the Region in which a PCB disposal or PCB commercial storage facility described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section is located may issue a TSCA PCB Coordinated Approval to the persons described in those paragraphs if the conditions listed in this section are met. A TSCA PCB Coordinated Approval will designate the persons who own and who are authorized to operate the facilities described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and will apply only to such persons. All requirements, conditions, and limitations of any other permit or waste management document cited or described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, as the technical or legal basis on which the TSCA PCB Coordinated Approval is issued, are conditions of the TSCA PCB Coordinated Approval.


(1) Persons seeking a TSCA PCB Coordinated Approval shall submit a request for approval by certified mail, to the EPA Regional Administrator for the Region in which the activity will take place. Persons seeking a TSCA PCB Coordinated Approval for a new PCB activity shall submit the request for approval at the same time they seek a permit, approval, or other action for a PCB waste management activity under any other Federal or State authority.


(i) The request for a TSCA PCB Coordinated Approval shall include a copy of the letter from EPA announcing or confirming the EPA identification number issued to the facility for conducting PCB activities; the name, organization, and telephone number of the person who is the contact point for the non-TSCA Federal or State waste management authority; a copy of the relevant permit or waste management document specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, including all requirements, conditions, and limitations, if the EPA Regional Administrator does not have a copy of the document, or a description of the waste management activities to be conducted if a permit or other relevant waste management document has not been issued; and a certification that the person who owns or operates the facility is aware of and will adhere to the TSCA PCB reporting and recordkeeping requirements at subparts J and K of this part.


(ii) The EPA Regional Administrator shall review the request for completeness, for compliance with the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, and to ensure that the PCB activity for which approval is requested will not present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment. The EPA Regional Administrator shall either:


(A) Issue a written notice of deficiency explaining why the request for approval is deficient. If appropriate, the EPA Regional Administrator may either:


(*1*) Request additional information to cure the deficiency.


(*2*) Deny the request for a TSCA PCB Coordinated Approval.


(B) Issue a letter granting or denying the TSCA PCB Coordinated Approval. If the EPA Regional Administrator grants the TSCA PCB Coordinated Approval, they may acknowledge the non-TSCA approval meets the regulatory requirements under TSCA as written, or require additional conditions the EPA Regional Administrator has determined are necessary to prevent unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment.


(C) If the EPA Regional Administrator denies a request for a Coordinated Approval under paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) or (a)(1)(ii)(B) of this section, the person who requested the TSCA PCB Coordinated Approval may submit an application for a TSCA Disposal Approval.


(2) The EPA Regional Administrator may issue a notice of deficiency, revoke the TSCA PCB Coordinated Approval, require the person to whom the TSCA PCB Coordinated Approval was issued to submit an application for a TSCA PCB approval, or bring an enforcement action under TSCA if they determine that:


(i) Conditions of the approval relating to PCB waste management activities are not met.


(ii) The PCB waste management process is being operated in a manner which may result in an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment.


(iii) The non-TSCA approval expires, is revoked, is suspended, or otherwise ceases to be in full effect.


(3) Any person with a TSCA PCB Coordinated Approval must notify the EPA Regional Administrator in writing within 5 calendar days of changes relating to PCB waste requirements in the non-TSCA waste management document which serves as the basis for a TSCA PCB Coordinated Approval. Changes in the ownership of a commercial storage facility which holds a TSCA PCB Coordinated Approval shall be handled pursuant to § 761.65(j).


(b) Any person who owns or operates a facility that they intend to use to landfill PCB wastes; incinerate PCB wastes; dispose of PCB wastes using an alternative disposal method that is equivalent to disposal in an incinerator approved under § 761.70 or a high efficiency boiler operating in compliance with § 761.71; or store PCB wastes may apply for a TSCA PCB Coordinated Approval. The EPA Regional Administrator may approve the request if the EPA Regional Administrator determines that the activity will not pose an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment and the person:


(1)(i) Has a waste management permit or other decision or enforcement document which exercises control over PCB wastes, issued by EPA or an authorized State Director for a State program that has been approved by EPA and is no less stringent in protection of health or the environment than the applicable TSCA requirements found in this part; or


(ii) Has a PCB waste management permit or other decision or enforcement document issued by a State Director pursuant to a State PCB waste management program no less stringent in protection of health or the environment than the applicable TSCA requirements found in this part; or


(iii) Is subject to a waste management permit or other decision or enforcement document which is applicable to the disposal of PCBs and which was issued through the promulgation of a regulation published in Title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations.


(2) Complies with the terms and conditions of the permit or other decision or enforcement document described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(3) Unless otherwise waived or modified in writing by the EPA Regional Administrator, complies with § 761.75(b); § 761.70(a)(1) through (a)(9), (b)(1) and (b)(2), and (c); or the PCB storage requirements at §§ 761.65(a), (c), and (d)(2), as appropriate.


(4) Complies with the reporting and recordkeeping requirements in subparts J and K of this part.


(c) A person conducting research and development (R&D) into PCB disposal methods (regardless of PCB concentration), or conducting PCB remediation activities may apply for a TSCA PCB Coordinated Approval. The EPA Regional Administrator may approve the request if the EPA Regional Administrator determines that the activity will not pose an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment and the person:


(1)(i) Has a permit or other decision and enforcement document issued or otherwise agreed to by EPA, or permit or other decision and enforcement document issued by an authorized State Director for a State program that has been approved by EPA, which exercises control over the management of PCB wastes, and that person is in compliance with all terms and conditions of that document; or


(ii) Has a permit, which exercises control over the management of PCB wastes, issued by a State Director pursuant to a State PCB disposal program no less stringent than the requirements in this part.


(2) Complies with the terms and conditions of that permit or other decision and enforcement document.


(3) Complies with the reporting and recordkeeping requirements in subparts J and K of this part.



---

[N] [63 FR 35456, June 29, 1998, as amended at 88 FR 59691, Aug. 29, 2023]




