# § 21.192   “Independent living program” status.

(a) *Purpose.* The *independent living program* status serves to:


(1) Identify veterans who are being furnished a program of independent living services by VA; and


(2) Assure that such veterans receive necessary services from VA in a timely manner.


(b) *Assignment to independent living program* status. A veteran may be assigned or reassigned to *independent living program* status under the provisions of § 21.88, § 21.94, or § 21.96.


(c) *Continuation in independent living program* status. A veteran will be in *independent living program* status during periods in which:


(1) The provisions of § 21.282 for induction into a program are met, but the veteran is pending induction into the facility at which rehabilitation services will be provided;


(2) The veteran receives rehabilitation services prescribed in an IILP; or


(3) The veteran is on authorized leave of absence status.


(d) *Termination of independent living program* status. When a veteran's case has been assigned to *independent living program* status, the case will be terminated from that status, if one of the following occurs:


(1) A veteran, who has been notified of necessary arrangements to begin a program, the date the program begins and instructions as to the next steps to be taken:


(i) Fails to report and does not respond to followup contact by the case manager;


(ii) Declines or refuses to enter the program; or


(iii) Defers entry for more than 30 days beyond the scheduled beginning date, unless the deferment is due to illness or other sufficient reason.


(2) The veteran completes the IILP;


(3) Either the veteran or VA interrupts the program;


(4) Either the veteran or VA discontinues the program; or


(5) Service-connection for the veteran's service-connected disability is severed by VA or he or she otherwise ceases to be eligible.



---

[N] [49 FR 40814, Oct. 18, 1984, as amended at 84 FR 193, Jan. 18, 2019]




