# § 1.13   Conduct of informal hearing by the presiding officer.

(a) *Presiding officer*—(1) *Designation.* In a trade regulation rule proceeding in which the Commission determines an informal hearing will be conducted, the initial notice of informal hearing must designate a presiding officer, who will be appointed by the Chief Presiding Officer specified in § 0.8 of this chapter.


(2) *Powers of the presiding officer.* The presiding officer is responsible for the orderly conduct of the informal hearing. The presiding officer has all powers necessary or useful to that end, including the following:


(i) To issue any public notice that may be necessary for the orderly conduct of the informal hearing;


(ii) To modify the location, format, or time limits prescribed for the informal hearing, except that the presiding officer may not increase the time allotted for an informal hearing beyond a total of five hearing days over the course of a thirty-day period, unless the Commission, upon a showing of good cause, extends the number of days for the hearing;


(iii) To prescribe procedures or issue rulings to avoid unnecessary costs or delay, including, but not limited to, the imposition of reasonable time limits on the number and duration of oral presentations from individuals or groups with the same or similar interests in the proceeding and requirements that any cross-examination, which a person may be entitled to conduct or have conducted, be conducted by the presiding officer on behalf of that person in such a manner as the presiding officer determines to be appropriate and to be required for a full and true disclosure with respect to any issue designated for consideration in accordance with § 1.13(b)(1);


(iv) To issue rulings selecting or modifying the designated representatives of groups of interested persons, as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section;


(v) To require that oral presentations at the informal hearing be under oath;


(vi) To require that oral presentations at the informal hearing be submitted in writing in advance of presentation; and


(viii) To rule on all requests of interested persons made during the course of the informal hearing.


(3) *Selection or modification of group representatives.* If a group of interested persons designated by the Commission under § 1.12(d) to select a group representative is unable to agree upon a representative, the presiding officer may select a representative for the group. The presiding officer may entertain requests by a member of a group of interested persons to conduct or have conducted cross-examination under paragraph (b)(2) of this section if, after good-faith effort, the person is unable to agree upon a single representative with other group members and is able to demonstrate that the group representative will not adequately represent the person's interests. If the presiding officer finds that there are substantial and relevant issues or data that will not be adequately presented by the group representative, then the presiding officer may allow that person to conduct or have conducted any appropriate cross-examination on issues affecting the person's particular interests.


(4) *Organization.* In the performance of their rulemaking functions, presiding officers are responsible to the chief presiding officer who must not be responsible to any other officer or employee of the Commission.


(5) *Ex parte communications.* Except as required for the disposition of ex parte matters as authorized by law, no presiding officer may consult any person or party with respect to any fact in issue unless such officer gives notice and opportunity for all parties to participate.


(b) *Additional procedures when there are disputed issues of material fact.* If requested under § 1.11(e), an informal hearing with the opportunity for oral presentations will be conducted by the presiding officer. In addition, if the Commission determines that there are disputed issues of material fact that are material and necessary to resolve, the informal hearing on such issues will be conducted in accordance with § 1.13(b)(2).


(1) *Nature of issues for consideration in accordance with § 1.13(b)(2)*—(i) *Issues that must be considered in accordance with § 1.13(b)(2).* The only issues that must be designated for consideration in accordance with paragraphs (b)(2) of this section are disputed issues of fact that are determined by the Commission to be material and necessary to resolve.


(ii) *Addition or modification of issues for consideration in accordance with § 1.13(b)(2).* The presiding officer may at any time on the presiding officer's own motion or pursuant to a written petition by interested persons, add or modify any issues designated pursuant to § 1.12(a). No such petition shall be considered unless good cause is shown why any such proposed issue was not proposed pursuant to § 1.11(e). In the event that new issues are designated, the presiding officer may determine whether interested persons may conduct cross-examination or present rebuttal submissions with respect to each new issue, as provided in § 1.12(b), and may select or modify group representatives for cross examination with respect to each new issue, as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.


(2) *Cross-examination and the presentation of rebuttal submissions by interested persons.* The presiding officer will conduct or allow to be conducted cross-examination of oral presentations and the presentation of rebuttal submissions relevant to the disputed issues of material fact designated for consideration during the informal hearing. For that purpose, the presiding officer may require submission of written requests for presentation of questions to any person making oral presentations and will determine whether to ask such questions or any other questions. All requests for presentation of questions will be placed in the rulemaking record. The presiding officer will also allow the presentation of rebuttal submissions as appropriate and required for a full and true disclosure with respect to the disputed issues of material fact designated for consideration during the informal hearing.


(c) *Written transcript.* A verbatim transcript will be made of the informal hearing and placed in the rulemaking record.


(d) *Recommended decision.* The presiding officer will make a recommended decision based on their findings and conclusions as to all relevant and material evidence. The recommended decision will be made by the presiding officer who presided over the informal hearing except that such recommended decision may be made by another officer if the officer who presided over the hearing is no longer available to the Commission. The recommended decision must be rendered within sixty days of the completion of the hearing. If a petition for review of a ruling by the presiding officer has been filed under paragraph (e) of this section, the recommended decision must be rendered within sixty days following the resolution of that petition or any rehearing required by the Commission. The presiding officer's recommended decision will be limited to explaining the presiding officer's proposed resolution of disputed issues of material fact.


(e) *Post-hearing review by the Commission of rulings by the presiding officer.* (1) Within ten days of the completion of the informal hearing, any interested person may petition the Commission for review of a ruling by the presiding officer denying or limiting the petitioner's ability to conduct cross-examination or make rebuttal submissions upon a showing that the ruling precluded disclosure of a disputed material fact that was necessary for fair determination by the Commission of the rulemaking proceeding as a whole. Such petitions must not exceed eight thousand words. This word count limitation includes headings, footnotes, and quotations, but does not include the cover, table of contents, table of citations or authorities, glossaries, statements with respect to oral argument, any addendums containing statutes, rules or regulations, any certificates of counsel, or proposed form of order. A petition hereunder will not stay the rulemaking proceeding unless the Commission so orders. All petitions filed under this paragraph will be a part of the rulemaking record.


(2) The Commission may, in its discretion, hear the appeal. Commission review, if granted, will be based on the petition and anything on the rulemaking record, without oral argument or further briefs, unless otherwise ordered by the Commission. If the Commission grants review, it will render a decision within thirty days of the announcement of its decision to review unless, upon a showing of good cause, the Commission extends the number of days for review.



---

[N] [86 FR 38549, July 22, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 42874, July 5, 2023]










