# § 52.1222   Original Identification of plan section.

(a) This section identifies the original “Air Implementation Plan for the State of Minnesota” and all revisions submitted by Minnesota that were federally approved prior to December 1, 2004.


(b) The plan was officially submitted on January 28, 1972.


(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.


(1) A revised copy of the State emergency episode criteria was forwarded on February 7, 1972. (Non-regulatory)


(2) Information concerning intergovernmental cooperation was submitted by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency on March 27, 1972.


(3) Certification that the State had adopted amendments to APC-1, 3, 4, 11, and 15, adopted a new air pollution control regulation (APC-16) and projected manpower resources was submitted by the State on April 28, 1972.


(4) An opinion on the availability of emission data to the public and evaluation of regulation concerning new construction was submitted by the State Attorney General's office on June 15, 1972. (Non-regulatory)


(5) A revised version of the State's regulation APC-3 was submitted by the Governor on July 25, 1972.


(6) On June 8, 1973, the Governor of Minnesota submitted a transportation control plan for the Minneapolis-St. Paul Intrastate Air Quality Control Region.


(7) Information concerning the transportation control plan was submitted on June 18, 1973, by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.


(8) Compliance schedules were submitted on June 28, 1973, by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.


(9) Information concerning the transportation control plan was submitted on July 30, 1973, by the Metropolitan Transit Commission.


(10) Information concerning the transportation control plan was submitted on August 1, 1973, by the Minnesota Department of Highways.


(11) Compliance schedules were submitted on August 9, 1973, by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.


(12) On November 15, 1974, the Governor of Minnesota submitted recommended Air Quality Maintenance Area identifications.


(13) A request for an extension of the statutory timetable for the submittal of the portion of the Minnesota State Implementation Plan implementing the National Secondary Ambient Air Quality Standards for total suspended particulates was submitted by the Executive Director of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency on January 8, 1979, and was supplemented with additional information on March 9, 1979.


(14) A transportation control plan for the St. Cloud Metropolitan Area was submitted on May 17, 1979, by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.


(15) Transportation control plans for the Metropolitan Areas of Duluth, Rochester and Minneapolis-St. Paul were submitted on July 3, 1979, and July 23, 1979, by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.


(16) On March 5, 1980, the State of Minnesota submitted a revision to provide for modification of the existing air quality surveillance network. An amendment to the revision was submitted by the State of Minnesota on June 2, 1980.


(17) The sulfur dioxide control plan and revised operating permits for the Rochester and Twin Cities nonattainment areas were submitted by the State of Minnesota on July 17, 1980, and August 4, 1980. Amendments to the control plans were submitted on September 4, 1980. EPA's approval of the control plan includes approval of the emission limitations contained in the revised operating permits.


(18) Stipulation Agreement between the State Pollution Control Agency and Erie Mining Company submitted by the State on February 20, 1981.


(19) On July 29, 1981, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency submitted an amendment to the transportation control plan for the Minneapolis-St. Paul Metropolitan Area.


(20) On August 4, 1980, and October 17, 1980, the State submitted its total suspended particulate Part D control plans for the Twin Cities Seven County Metropolitan Area and the City of Duluth. As part of the control strategies the State on January 5, 1981 submitted rule APC-33 and on January 23, 1981 further submitted amended and new rules. The amended and new rules that control total suspended particulate (TSP) emissions are: Amended APC-2, APC-4, APC-5, APC-7, APC-11; and new APC-18, APC-21, APC-22, APC-23, APC-24, APC-25, APC-26, APC-28, APC-29, and APC-32. Regulations APC-4, APC-24, and APC-32 are only approved as they apply to TSP emissions.


(21) On January 23, 1981, the State submitted new rules and amendments to some of their previously approved rules. On November 17, 1981, the State submitted amendments to APC-33. On May 6, 1982 (47 FR 19520), EPA approved some of the rules insofar as they applied to the total suspended particulate strategy for the Twin Cities Seven County Metropolitan Area and the City of Duluth. The remainder of the rules are:


(i) Those portions of APC-4, APC-24, and APC-32 which control emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, and carbon monoxide; (ii) the amendments to APC-33; and (iii) APC-8, APC-12, APC-13, APC-15, APC-16, APC-19 and APC-39.


(22) On April 28, 1983, Minnesota submitted its Lead SIP. Additional information was submitted on February 15, 1984, and February 21, 1984.


(23) On May 20, 1985, and on April 17, 1986, the State submitted a carbon monoxide plan for the intersection of Snelling and University Avenues in the City of St. Paul. The plan committed to improved signal progression through the intersection by December 31, 1987, and a parking ban on University Avenue within 1 block in either direction of the intersection with Snelling Avenue by December 31, 1989.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Amendment to Air Quality Control Plan for Transportation for the Metropolitan Council of the Twin Cities Area dated January 28, 1985.


(B) Letter from Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, dated April 17, 1986, and letter from the City of St. Paul, dated April 1, 1986, committing to implementing of transportation control measures.


(24) On January 7, 1985, the State of Minnesota submitted a consolidated permit rule (CPR) to satisfy the requirements of 40 CFR 51.160 through 51.164 for a general new source review (NSR) program, including lead. On October 25, 1985, the State submitted a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) which remedied certain deficiencies (40 CFR 52.1225(d)). On October 1, 1986, and January 14, 1987, the State committed to implement its NSR program using USEPA's July 8, 1985 (50 FR 27892), regulations for implementing the stack height requirements of Section 123 of the Clean Air Act (40 CFR 52.1225(e)). USEPA is approving the above for general NSR purposes for all sources, except it is disapproving them for those few sources subject to an NSPS requirement (40 CFR Part 60) and exempted from review under 6 MCAR section 4.4303 B.3. For these sources, NSR Rule APC 3 (40 CFR 52.1220(c)(5)), will continue to apply. Additionally, USEPA is taking no action on the CPR in relationship to the requirements of Section 111, Part C, and Part D of the Clean Air Act.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Within Title 6 Environment, Minnesota Code of Administrative Rules, Part 4 Pollution Control Agency (6 MCAR 4), Rule 6 MCAR 4 section 4.0002, Parts A, B, C, and E—Definitions, Abbreviations, Applicability of Standards, and Circumvention (formerly APC 2) Proposed and Published in Volume 8 of the State of Minnesota STATE REGISTER (8 S.R.) on October 17, 1983, at 8 S.R. 682 and adopted as modified on April 16, 1984, at 8 S.R. 2275.


(B) Rules 6 MCAR section 4.4001 through section 4.4021—Permits (formerly APC 3)—Proposed and Published on December 19, 1983, at 8 S.R. 1419 (text of rule starting at 8 S.R. 1420) and adopted as modified on April 16, 1984, at 8 S.R. 2278.


(C) Rules 6 MCAR section 4.4301 through section 4.4305—Air Emission Facility Permits—Proposed and Published on December 19, 1983, at 8 S.R. 1419 (text of rule starting at 8 S.R. 1470) and adopted as proposed on April 16, 1984, at 8 S.R. 2276.


(D) Rules 6 MCAR section 4.4311 through section 4.4321—Indirect Source Permits (formerly APC 19)—Proposed and Published on December 19, 1983, at 8 S.R. 1419 (text of rule starting at 8 S.R. 1472) and adopted as modified on April 16, 1984, at 8 S.R. 2277.


(25) On July 9, 1986, the State of Minnesota submitted Rules 7005.2520 through 7005.2523, submitted to replace the rule APC-29 in the existing SIP (see paragraph (20)). This submittal also included State permits for three sources, but these permits were withdrawn from USEPA consideration on February 24, 1992. This submittal provides for regulation of particulate matter from grain handling facilities, and was submitted to satisfy a condition on the approval of Minnesota's Part D plan for particulate matter.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Minnesota Rule 7005.2520, Definitions; Rule 7005.2521, Standards of Performance for Dry Bulk Agricultural Commodity Facilities; Rule 7005.2522, Nuisance; and Rule 7005.2523, Control Requirements Schedule, promulgated by Minnesota on January 16, 1984, and effective at the State level on January 23, 1984.


(ii) Additional Material.


(A) Appendix E to Minnesota's July 9, 1986, submittal, which is a statement signed on April 18, 1986, by Thomas J. Kalitowski, Executive Director, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, interpreting Rules 7005.2520 through 7005.2523 in the context of actual barge loading practices in Minnesota.


(26) On March 13, 1989, the State of Minnesota requested that EPA revise the referencing of regulations in the SIP to conform to the State's recodification of its regulations. On November 26, 1991, and September 18, 1992, the State submitted an official version of the recodified regulations to be incorporated into the SIP. The recodified regulations are in Chapter 7001 and Chapter 7005 of Minnesota's regulations. Not approved as part of the SIP are recodified versions of regulations which EPA previously did not approve. Therefore, the SIP does not include Rules 7005.1550 through 7005.1610 (National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) for asbestos), Rules 7005.2300 through 7005.2330 (limits for iron and steel plants), Rules 7005.2550 through 7005.2590 (NESHAP for beryllium), Rules 7005.2650 through 7005.2690 (NESHAP for mercury), Rule 7005.0116 (Opacity Standard Adjustment) and Rule 7005.2910 (Performance Test Methods for coal handling facilities). Similarly, the SIP continues to exclude the exemption now in Rule 7001.1210 as applied to small sources subject to new source performance standards, and the SIP is approved only for “existing sources” in the case of Rules 7005.1250 through 7005.1280 (Standards of Performance for Liquid Petroleum Storage Vessels), Rules 7005.1350 through 7005.1410 (Standards of Performance for Sulfuric Acid Plants), Rules 7005.1450 through 7005.1500 (Standards of Performance for Nitric Acid Plants), and Rules 7005.2100 through 7005.2160 (Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries). The SIP also does not include changes in the State's Rule 7005.0100 (relating to offsets) that were withdrawn by the State on February 24, 1992, and does not include the new rules 7005.0030 and 7005.0040.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Minnesota regulations in Chapter 7005 as submitted November 26, 1991, and in Chapter 7001 as submitted September 18, 1992, except for those regulations that EPA has not approved as identified above.


(27) On August 16, 1982, the MPCA submitted an amendment to the St. Cloud Area Air Quality Control Plan for Transportation as a State Implementation Plan revision. This revision to the SIP was adopted by the Board of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency on July 27, 1982. On August 31, 1989, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency submitted a revision to the Minnesota State Implementation Plan (SIP) for carbon monoxide deleting the Lake George Interchange roadway improvement project (10th Avenue at First Street South) from its St. Cloud transportation control measures. This revision to the SIP was approved by the Board on June 27, 1989. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Letter dated August 16, 1982, from Louis J. Breimburst, Executive Director, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency to Valdas V. Adamkus, Regional Administrator, United States Environmental Protection Agency—Region 5 and its enclosed amendment to the Air Quality Plan for Transportation for the St. Cloud Metropolitan Area entitled, “Staff Resolution,” measures 1, 4 and 5 adopted by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency on July 27, 1982.


(B) Letter dated August 31, 1989, from Gerald L. Willet, Commissioner, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency to Valdas V. Adamkus, Regional Administrator, United States Environmental Protection Agency—Region 5.


(28) On November 9, 1992, the State of Minnesota submitted the Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental Compliance Assistance plan. This submittal satisfies the requirements of section 507 of the Clean Air Act, as amended.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Minnesota Laws Chapter 546, sections 5 through 9 enacted by the Legislature, and signed into Law on April 29, 1992.


(29) On November 26, 1991, August 31, 1992, November 13, 1992, February 3, 1993, April 30, 1993, and October 15, 1993, the State of Minnesota submitted revisions to its State Implementation Plans (SIPs) for particulate matter for the Saint Paul and Rochester areas. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) An administrative order for Ashbach Construction Company, dated August 25, 1992, submitted August 31, 1992, for the facility at University Avenue and Omstead Street. 


(B) An administrative order for Commercial Asphalt, Inc., dated August 25, 1992, submitted August 31, 1992, for the facility at Red Rock Road. 


(C) An administrative order for Great Lakes Coal & Dock Company dated August 25, 1992, submitted August 31, 1992, for the facility at 1031 Childs Road. 


(D) An administrative order for Harvest States Cooperatives dated January 26, 1993, submitted February 3, 1993, for the facility at 935 Childs Road. 


(E) An administrative order for LaFarge Corporation dated November 30, 1992, submitted in a letter dated November 13, 1992, for the facility at 2145 Childs Road. 


(F) An administrative order for the Metropolitan Waste Control Commission and the Metropolitan Council dated November 30, 1992, submitted in a letter dated November 13, 1992, for the facility at 2400 Childs Road. 


(G) An administrative order for North Star Steel Company dated April 22, 1993, submitted April 30, 1993, for the facility at 1678 Red Rock Road. 


(H) An administrative order for PM Ag Products, Inc., dated August 25, 1992, submitted August 31, 1992, for the facility at 2225 Childs Road. 


(I) An administrative order for Rochester Public Utilities dated November 30, 1992, submitted in a letter dated November 13, 1992, for the facility at 425 Silver Lake Drive. 


(J) An amendment to the administrative order for Rochester Public Utilities, dated October 14, 1993, submitted October 15, 1993, for the facility at 425 Silver Lake Drive. 


(K) An administrative order for J.L. Shiely Company dated August 25, 1992, submitted August 31, 1992, for the facility at 1177 Childs Road. 


(ii) Additional materials. 


(A) A letter from Charles Williams to Valdas Adamkus dated November 26, 1991, with attachments. 


(B) A letter from Charles Williams to Valdas Adamkus dated August 31, 1992, with attachments. 


(C) A letter from Charles Williams to Valdas Adamkus dated November 13, 1992, with attachments. 


(D) A letter from Charles Williams to Valdas Adamkus dated February 3, 1993, with attachments. 


(E) A letter from Charles Williams to Valdas Adamkus dated April 30, 1993, with attachments. 


(F) A letter from Charles Williams to Valdas Adamkus dated October 15, 1993, with attachments. 


(30) On June 4, 1992, March 30, 1993, and July 15, 1993, the State of Minnesota submitted revisions to its State Implementation Plans (SIPs) for sulfur dioxide for Air Quality Control Region (AQCR) 131 (excluding the Dakota County Pine Bend area and an area around Ashland Refinery in St. Paul Park).


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) An administrative order, received on June 4, 1992, for FMC Corporation and U.S. Navy, located in Fridley, Anoka County, Minnesota. The administrative order became effective on May 27, 1992. Amendment One, which was received on March 30, 1993, became effective on March 5, 1993. Amendment Two, which was received on July 15, 1993, became effective on June 30, 1993.


(B) An administrative order, received on June 4, 1992, for Federal Hoffman, Incorporated, located in Anoka, Anoka County, Minnesota. The administrative order became effective on May 27, 1992. Amendment one, received on July 15, 1993, became effective on June 30, 1993.


(C) An administrative order, received on June 4, 1992, for GAF Building Materials Corporation (Asphalt Roofing Products Manufacturing Facility) located at 50 Lowry Avenue, Minneapolis, Hennepin County, Minnesota. The administrative order became effective on May 27, 1992. Amendment One, received on July 15, 1993, became effective on June 30, 1993.


(D) An administrative order, received on June 4, 1992, for Northern States Power Company-Riverside Generating Plant, located in Minneapolis, Hennepin County, Minnesota. The administrative order became effective on May 27, 1992. Amendment One, received on July 15, 1993, became effective on June 30, 1993.


(E) An administrative order for Minneapolis Energy Center, received on July 15, 1993, Inc.'s Main Plant, Baker Boiler Plant, and the Soo Line Boiler Plant all located in Minneapolis, Hennepin County, Minnesota. The administrative order became effective on June 30, 1993.


(ii) Additional material.


(A) A letter from Charles Williams to Valdas Adamkus dated May 29, 1992, with enclosures providing technical support (e.g., computer modeling) for the revisions to the administrative orders for five facilities.


(B) A letter from Charles Williams to Valdas Adamkus dated March 26, 1993, with enclosures providing technical support for an amendment to the administrative order for FMC Corporation and U.S. Navy.


(C) A letter from Charles Williams to Valdas Adamkus dated July 12, 1993, with enclosures providing technical support for amendments to administrative orders for four facilities and a reissuance of the administrative order to Minneapolis Energy Center, Inc.


(31) In a letter dated October 30, 1992, the MPCA submitted a revision to the Carbon Monoxide State Implementation Plan for Duluth, Minnesota. This revision contains a maintenance plan that the area will use to maintain the CO NAAQS. The maintenance plan contains park and ride lots and an oxygenated fuels program as the contingency measure. 


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Letter dated October 30, 1992, from Charles Williams, Commissioner, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency to Valdas Adamkus, Regional Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5 and its enclosures entitled Appendix E. 


(ii) Additional information.


(A) Letter dated November 10, 1992, from Charles Williams, Commissioner, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency to Valdas Adamkus, Regional Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5. 


(B) Letter dated December 22, 1993, from Charles Williams, Commissioner, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency to Valdas Adamkus, Regional Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5. 


(32) In a letter dated October 30, 1992, the MPCA submitted a revision to the Carbon Monoxide State Implementation Plan for Duluth, Minnesota. This revision removes a transportation control measure (TCM) from the State Implementation Plan. The TCM is an increased turning radius at 14th Avenue and 3rd Street East. 


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Letter dated October 30, 1992, from Charles Williams, Commissioner, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency to Valdas Adamkus, Regional Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5 and its enclosure entitled Appendix D.


(ii) Additional information. 


(A) Letter dated November 10, 1992, from Charles Williams, Commissioner, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency to Valdas Adamkus, Regional Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5.


(33) On August 5, 1992, and August 26, 1993, the State of Minnesota submitted its “Offset Rules” as revisions to its State Implementation Plan (SIP) for new source review in nonattainment areas. 


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Rules 7005.3020, 7005.3030, and 7005.3040, with amendments effective August 24, 1992. 


(B) Amendments to Rule 7005.3040, effective June 28, 1993.


(ii) Additional materials.


(A) A letter from Charles Williams to Valdas Adamkus dated August 5, 1992, with attachments.


(B) A letter from Charles Williams to Valdas Adamkus dated August 26, 1993, with attachments.


(34) On November 9, 1992, the State of Minnesota submitted the Oxygenated Gasoline Program. This submittal satisfies the requirements of section 211(m) of the Clean Air Act, as amended. 


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Minnesota Laws Chapter 2509, sections 1 through 31, except for sections 29 (b) and (c), enacted by the Legislature and signed into Law on April 29, 1992. 


(ii) Additional material. 


(A) Letter dated August 12, 1994, from the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA), to the United States Environmental Protection Agency that withdraws the MPCA Board resolution dated October 27, 1992, and any reference to it, from the oxygenated gasoline State Implementation Plan revision request of 1992. 


(35) On July 29, 1992, February 11, 1993, and February 25, 1994, the State of Minnesota submitted revisions to its State Implementation Plans (SIPs) for sulfur dioxide for Dakota County Pine Bend area of Air Quality Control Region (AQCR) 131.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) For Continental Nitrogen and Resources Corporation, located in Rosemount, Dakota County, Minnesota:


(*1*) An administrative order, dated and effective July 28, 1992, submitted July 29, 1992. 


(*2*) Amendment One to the administrative order, dated and effective February 25, 1994, submitted February 25, 1994. 


(B) For Northern States Power Company, Inver Hills Generating Facility, located in Dakota County, Minnesota: 


(*1*) An administrative order, dated and effective July 28, 1992, submitted July 29, 1992. 


(*2*) Amendment one to the administrative order, dated and effective February 25, 1994, submitted February 25, 1994.


(C) For Koch Refining Company and Koch Sulfuric Acid Unit, located in the Pine Bend area of Rosemount, Dakota County, Minnesota:


(*1*) An administrative order, identified as Amendment One to Findings and Order by Stipulation, dated and effective March 24, 1992, submitted July 29, 1992. 


(*2*) Amendment two to the administrative order, dated and effective January 22, 1993, submitted February 11, 1993.


(*3*) Amendment three to the administrative order, dated and effective February 25, 1994, submitted February 25, 1994.


(ii) Additional material.


(A) A letter from Charles Williams to Valdas Adamkus dated July 29, 1992, with enclosures providing technical support (e.g., computer modeling) for the revisions to the administrative orders for three facilities.


(B) A letter from Charles Williams to Valdas Adamkus dated February 11, 1993, submitting Amendment Two to the administrative order for Koch Refining Company. 


(C) A letter from Charles Williams to Valdas Adamkus dated February 25, 1994, with enclosures providing technical support for amendments to administrative orders for three facilities.


(36) On June 22, 1993, and September 13, 1994, the State of Minnesota submitted revisions to its State Implementation Plan for lead for a portion of Dakota County.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) For Gopher Smelting and Refining Company, located in the city of Eagan, Dakota County, Minnesota:


(*1*) An administrative order, dated, submitted, and effective June 22, 1993.


(*2*) Amendment One to the administrative order, dated, submitted, and effective, September 13, 1994.


(ii) Additional material.


(A) A letter from Charles W. Williams to Valdas V. Adamkus, dated June 22, 1993, with enclosures providing technical support (e.g., computer modeling) for the revisions to the State Implementation Plan for lead.


(B) A letter from Charles W. Williams to Valdas V. Adamkus, dated September 13, 1994, with enclosures providing technical support for the revised administrative order for Gopher Smelting and Refining Company.


(37) On March 9, 1994, the State of Minnesota submitted a revision to its particulate matter plan for the Saint Paul area, providing substitute limits for an aggregate heater at the J.L. Shiely facility.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) An amendment dated January 12, 1994, amending the administrative order of August 25, 1992, for the J.L. Shiely facility at 1177 Childs Road, Saint Paul.


(37) On November 23, 1993, the State of Minnesota submitted updated air permitting rules. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Rules 7007.0050 through 7007.1850, effective August 10, 1993. 


(B) Rules 7001.0020, 7001.0050, 7001.0140, 7001.0180, 7001.0550, 7001.3050, 7002.0005, 7002.0015, and 7005.0100, effective August 10, 1993.


(38)-(39) [Reserved]


(40) On November 23, 1993, the State of Minnesota requested recodification of the regulations in its State Implementation Plan, requested removal of various regulations, and submitted recodified regulations containing minor revisions. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Minnesota regulations in Chapters 7005, 7007, 7009, 7011, 7017, 7019, and 7023, effective October 18, 1993. 


(B) Submitted portions of Minnesota Statutes Sections 17.135, 88.01, 88.02, 88.03, 88.16, 88.17, and 88.171, effective 1993. 


(41) On December 22, 1994, Minnesota submitted miscellaneous amendments to 11 previously approved administrative orders. In addition, the previously approved administrative order for PM Ag Products (dated August 25, 1992) is revoked. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Amendments, all effective December 21, 1994, to administrative orders approved in paragraph (c)(29) of this section for: Ashbach Construction Company; Commercial Asphalt, Inc.; Great Lakes Coal & Dock Company; Harvest States Cooperatives; LaFarge Corporation; Metropolitan Council; North Star Steel Company; Rochester Public Utilities; and J.L. Shiely Company. 


(B) Amendments, effective December 21, 1994, to the administrative order approved in paragraph (c)(30) of this section for United Defense, LP (formerly FMC/U.S. Navy). 


(C) Amendments, effective December 21, 1994, to the administrative order approved in paragraph (c)(35) of this section for Northern States Power-Inver Hills Station. 


(42) On September 7, 1994, the State of Minnesota submitted a revision to its State Implementation Plan (SIP) for particulate matter for the Rochester area of Olmsted County, Minnesota. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Amendment Two to the administrative order for the Silver Lake Plant of Rochester Public Utilities, located in Rochester, Minnesota, dated and effective August 31, 1994, submitted September 7, 1994. 


(43) On November 12, 1993, the State of Minnesota submitted a contingency plan to control the emissions of carbon monoxide from mobile sources by use of oxygenated gasoline on a year-round basis. The submittal of this program satisfies the provisions under section 172(c)(9) and 172(b) of the Clean Air Act as amended. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Laws of Minnesota for 1992, Chapter 575, section 29(b), enacted by the legislature and signed into law on April 29, 1992.


(44) This revision provides for data which have been collected under the enhanced monitoring and operating permit programs to be used for compliance certifications and enforcement actions.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Minnesota Rules, sections 7007.0800 Subpart 6.C(5), 7017.0100 Subparts 1 and 2, both effective February 28, 1995.


(45) On December 15, 1995, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency submitted a revision to the State Implementation Plan for the general conformity rules. The general conformity SIP revisions enable the State of Minnesota to implement and enforce the Federal general conformity requirements in the nonattainment or maintenance areas at the State or local level in accordance with 40 CFR part 93, subpart B—Determining Conformity of General Federal Actions to State or Federal Implementation Plans.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Minnesota rules Part 7009.9000, as created and published in the (Minnesota) Register, November 13, 1995, number 477, effective November 20, 1995.


(46) On April 24, 1997, the State of Minnesota submitted Administrative Order amendments for sulfur dioxide for two Northern States Power facilities: Inver Hills and Riverside.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Amendment Two, dated and effective November 26, 1996, to administrative order approved in paragraph (c)(30) of this section for Northern States Power-Riverside Station.


(B) Amendment Three, dated and effective November 26, 1996, to administrative order and amendments approved in paragraphs (c)(35) and (c)(41), respectively, of this section for Northern States Power-Inver Hills Station.


(47) On October 17, 1997, the State of Minnesota submitted amendments to three previously approved Administrative Orders for North Star Steel Company, LaFarge Corporation, and GAF Building Materials, all located in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Amendments, both dated and effective September 23, 1997, to administrative orders and amendments approved in paragraphs (c)(29) and (c)(41) of this section, respectively, of this section for: LaFarge Corporation (Childs Road facility) and North Star Steel Company.


(B) Amendment Two, dated and effective September 18, 1997, to administrative order and amendment approved in paragraph (c)(30) of this section for GAF Building Materials.


(48) On January 12, 1995, Minnesota submitted revisions to its air permitting rules. The submitted revisions provide generally applicable limitations on potential to emit for certain categories of sources.


(i) Incorporation by reference. Submitted portions of Minnesota regulations in Chapter 7007, and 7011.0060 through 7011.0080 effective December 27, 1994.


(49) [Reserved]


(50) On July 22, 1998 the State of Minnesota submitted a supplemental SIP revision for the control of particulate matter emissions from certain sources located along Red Rock Road, within the boundaries of Ramsey County. This supplemental SIP revision is in response to EPA's July 22, 1997 conditional approval (62 FR 39120), of a February 9, 1996 SIP revision for Red Rock Road. In addition, the previously approved administrative order for Lafarge Corporation (dated February 2, 1996) is revoked.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Air Emission Permit No. 12300353-001, issued by the MPCA to Lafarge Corporation—Red Rock Terminal on April 14, 1998, Title I conditions only.


(B) Revocation of Findings and Order, dated and effective July 21, 1998, to Findings and Order issued to Lafarge Corporation on February 2, 1996.


(ii) Additional material.


(A) Letter submitting vendor certifications of performance for the pollution control equipment at Lafarge Corporation's facility on Red Rock Road in St. Paul, Minnesota, dated May 4, 1998, from Arthur C. Granfield, Regional Environmental Manager for Lafarge Corporation, to Michael J. Sandusky, MPCA Air Quality Division Manager.


(B) Letter submitting operating ranges for the pollution control equipment at Lafarge Corporation's facility on Red Rock Road in St. Paul, Minnesota, dated July 13, 1998, from Arthur C. Granfield, Regional Environmental Manager for Lafarge Corporation, to Michael J. Sandusky, MPCA Air Quality Division Manager. 


(51) On November 14, 1995, July 8, 1996, September 24, 1996, June 30, 1999, and September 1, 1999, the State of Minnesota submitted revisions to its State Implementation Plan for carbon monoxide regarding the implementation of the motor vehicle inspection and maintenance program in the Minneapolis/St. Paul carbon monoxide nonattainment area. This plan approves Minnesota Statutes Sections 116.60 to 116.65 and Minnesota Rules 7023.1010-7023.1105. This plan also removes Minnesota Rules Part 7023.1010, Subp. 35(B), Part 7023.1030, Subp. 11(B,C), and Part 7023.1055, Subp. 1 (E)(2) from the SIP.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Minnesota Statutes Sections 116.60 to 116.65;


(B) Minnesota Rules 7023.1010-7023.1105 (except Part 7023.1010, Subp. 35(B), Part 7023.1030, Subp. 11(B,C), and Part 7023.1055, Subp. 1 (E)(2)).


(52) [Reserved]


(53) On September 29, 1998, the State of Minnesota submitted a site-specific revision to the particulate matter (PM) SIP for LTV Steel Mining Company (LTV), formerly known as Erie Mining Company, located in St. Louis County, Minnesota. This SIP revision was submitted in response to a request from LTV that EPA remove the Stipulation Agreement for Erie Mining Company from the State SIP, as was approved by EPA in paragraph (c)(18) of this section. Accordingly the Stipulation Agreement for Erie Mining Company referenced in paragraph (c)(18) of this section is removed from the SIP without replacement. 


(54) On December 7, 1999, the State of Minnesota submitted to remove an Administrative Order and replace it with a federally enforceable State operating permit for Commercial Asphalt's facility located on Red Rock Road in the city of St. Paul. EPA approved a federally enforceable State operating permit (FESOP)(60 FR 21447) for the State of Minnesota on May 2, 1995. 


(i) Incorporation by reference 


(A) Air Emission Permit No. 12300347-002, issued by the MPCA to Commercial Asphalt CO-Plant 905, on September 10, 1999. Title I conditions only. 


(55) On February 6, 2000, the State of Minnesota submitted a site-specific revision to the Minnesota Sulfur Dioxide (SO_2_) SIP for Marathon Ashland Petroleum, LLC (Marathon Ashland), located in the cities of St. Paul Park and Newport, Washington County, Minnesota. Specifically, EPA is only approving into the SIP only those portions of the Marathon Ashland Title V Operating permit cited as “Title I condition: SIP for SO_2_ NAAQS 40 CFR pt.50 and Minnesota State Implementation Plan (SIP).” In this same action, EPA is removing from the state SO_2_ SIP the Marathon Ashland Administrative Order previously approved in paragraph (c)(38) and revised in paragraph (c)(49) of this section. 


(i) Incorporation by reference 


(A) AIR EMISSION PERMIT NO. 16300003-003, issued by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency to Marathon Ashland Petroleum, LLC on October 26, 1999, Title I conditions only.


(56) On November 4, 1998, the State of Minnesota submitted a SIP revision for Olmsted County, Minnesota, for the control of emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO_2_) in the city of Rochester. The state also submitted on that date a request to redesignate the Rochester nonattainment area to attainment of the SO_2_ National Ambient Air Quality Standards. The state's maintenance plan is complete and the submittals meet the SO_2_ nonattainment area SIP and redesignation requirements of the Clean Air Act. 


(i) Incorporation by reference 


(A) Air Emission Permit No. 10900011-001, issued by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) to City of Rochester—Rochester Public Utilities—Silver Lake Plant on July 22, 1997, Title I conditions only. 


(B) Air Emission Permit No. 00000610-001, issued by the MPCA to City of Rochester—Rochester Public Utilities—Cascade Creek Combustion on January 10, 1997, Title I conditions only. 


(C) Air Emission Permit No. 10900010-001, issued by the MPCA to Associated Milk Producers, Inc. on May 5, 1997, Title I conditions only. 


(D) Air Emission Permit No. 10900008-007 (989-91-OT-2, AMENDMENT No. 4), issued by the MPCA to St. Mary's Hospital on February 28, 1997, Title I conditions only. 


(E) Air Emission Permit No. 10900005-001, issued by the MPCA to Olmsted County—Olmsted Waste-to-Energy Facility on June 5, 1997, Title I conditions only. 


(F) Amendment No. 2 to Air Emission Permit No. 1148-83-OT-1 [10900019], issued by the MPCA to Franklin Heating Station on June 19, 1998, Title I conditions only. 


(G) Air Emission Permit No. 10900006-001, issued by the MPCA to International Business Machine Corporation—IBM—Rochester on June 3, 1998, Title I conditions only.


(57) [Reserved]


(58) On December 16, 1998, the State submitted an update to the Minnesota performance test rule, which sets out the procedures for facilities that are required to conduct performance tests to demonstrate compliance with their emission limits and/or operating requirements. In addition, EPA is removing from the state SIP Minnesota Rule 7017.2000 previously approved as APC 21 in paragraph (c)(20) and amended in paragraph (c)(40) of this section. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Amendments to Minnesota Rules 7011.0010, 7011.0105, 7011.0510, 7011.0515, 7011.0610, 7011.0710, 7011.0805, 7011.1305, 7011.1405, 7011.1410, 7017.2001, 7017.2005, 7017.2015, 7017.2018, 7017.2020, 7017.2025, 7017.2030, 7017.2035, 7017.2045, 7017.2050 and 2060, published in the *Minnesota State Register* April 20, 1998, and adopted by the state on July 13, 1998.


(59) On September 1, 1999, the State of Minnesota submitted a site-specific revision to the Minnesota Sulfur Dioxide (SO_2_) SIP for the Northern States Power Company (NSP) Riverside Plant, located in Minneapolis, Hennepin County, Minnesota. Specifically, EPA is approving into the SO_2_ SIP only those portions of the NSP Riverside Plant Title V Operating Permit cited as “Title I condition: State Implementation Plan for SO_2_.” In this same action, EPA is removing from the state SO_2_ SIP the NSP Riverside Plant Administrative Order previously approved and amended in paragraphs (c)(30) and (c)(46) of this section respectively.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Air Emission Permit No. 05300015-001, issued by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) to Northern States Power Company—Riverside Plant on May 11, 1999, Title I conditions only.


(60) [Reserved]


(61) On June 1, 2001, the State of Minnesota submitted a site-specific revision to the Minnesota particulate matter (PM) State Implementation Plan (SIP) for Metropolitan Council Environmental Service's (MCES) Metropolitan Wastewater Treatment Plant located on Childs Road in St. Paul, Ramsey County, Minnesota. Specifically, EPA is only approving into the SIP those portions of the MCES federally enforceable state operating permit cited as “Title I Condition: State Implementation Plan for PM10.” In this same action, EPA is removing from the state PM SIP the MCES Administrative Order previously approved in paragraph (c)(29) of this section. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Air Emission Permit No. 12300053-001, issued by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency to MCES's Metropolitan Wastewater Treatment Plant at 2400 Childs Road on March 13, 2001, Title I conditions only.


(62) On March 13, 2003, the State of Minnesota submitted a site-specific State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision for the control of emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO_2_) for Flint Hills Resources, L.P., located in the Pine Bend Area of Rosemount, Dakota County, Minnesota. Specifically, EPA is approving into the SO_2_ SIP Amendment No. 6 to the Administrative Order previously approved in paragraph (c)(35) and revised in paragraphs (c)(57) and (c)(60) of this section. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) An administrative order identified as Amendment Six to Findings and Order by Stipulation, for Flint Hills Resources, L.P., dated and effective March 11, 2003, submitted March 13, 2003.


(63) On August 9, 2002, the State of Minnesota submitted a revision to the Minnesota sulfur dioxide (SO_2_) State Implementation Plan (SIP) for Xcel Energy's Inver Hills Generating Plant (Xcel) located in the city of Inver Grove Heights, Dakota County, Minnesota. Specifically, EPA is only approving into the SO_2_ SIP those portions of the Xcel Title V operating permit cited as “Title I Condition: State Implementation Plan for SO_2_” and is removing from the state SO_2_ SIP the Xcel Administrative Order previously approved in paragraph (c)(46) and modified in paragraphs (c)(35) and (c)(41) of this section. In this same action, EPA is removing from the state particulate matter SIP the Administrative Order for Ashbach Construction Company previously approved in paragraph (c)(29) and modified in paragraph (c)(41) of this section.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) AIR EMISSION PERMIT NO. 03700015-001, issued by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency to Northern States Power Company Inver Hills Generating Plant on July 25, 2000, Title I conditions only.


(64) On July 18, 2002, the State of Minnesota submitted a site-specific revision to the Minnesota particulate matter (PM) SIP for the Lafarge Corporation (Lafarge) Red Rock Road facility, located in Saint Paul, Ramsey County, Minnesota. Specifically, EPA is approving into the PM SIP only those portions of the Lafarge Red Rock Road facility state operating permit cited as “Title I condition: SIP for PM10 NAAQS.”


(i) Incorporation by reference. AIR EMISSION PERMIT NO. 12300353-002, issued by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) to Lafarge Corporation—Red Rock Terminal on May 7, 2002, Title I conditions only.


(65) The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency submitted a revision to Minnesota's State Implementation Plan for sulfur dioxide on December 19, 2002. This revision consists of a Title V permit for the United Defense, LP facility located in Anoka County at 4800 East River Road, Fridley, Minnesota. The Permit contains non-expiring Title I SIP conditions.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Title I conditions contained in the November 25, 2002, Title V permit (permit number 00300020-001) issued to the United Defense, LP facility located in Anoka County at 4800 East River Road, Fridley, Minnesota.



---

[N] [37 FR 10874, May 31, 1972. Redesignated at 70 FR 8932, Feb. 24, 2005]


