# ยง 750.25   Permit fees.

(a) *Applicability.* An applicant for a new permit to conduct surface coal mining operations on lands subject to this part shall submit to OSM fees in the amounts set out in paragraph (d) of this section. For applications submitted prior to the effective date of this rule, fees shall apply only for stages of OSM review begun on or after the effective date. The applicant shall either submit all applicable fees with the permit application, or by stage of review as follows: 


(1) *Administrative completeness review.* An applicant who pays by stage of review shall submit the administrative completeness review fee with the permit application. 


(2) *Technical review.* Following receipt from OSM of a notice of administrative completeness, an applicant who pays by stage of review shall submit the technical review basic fee, plus the per-acre fee for each acre of disturbed area or fraction thereof to be included in the permit area. 


(3) *Permit issuance.* Following receipt from OSM of a notice of technical adequacy, an applicant who pays by stage of review shall submit the decision document fee. 


(b) *Refund of fees.* (1) Upon receipt of a written request from an applicant, OSM will refund any permit fees paid under this section for a permit application when OSM denies the permit: 


(i) On the basis of information concerning endangered or threatened species or their critical habitats or information concerning cultural or historical resources, where such information was not available prior to submission of the permit application; 


(ii) Because subsequent to submittal of a permit application, the lands contained in the permit application are declared unsuitable for mining under subchapter F of this chapter; or 


(iii) Because subsequent to submittal of a permit application, the applicant is denied valid existing rights to mine under part 761 of this chapter where such rights are required for surface coal mining operations on the lands contained in the permit application. 


(2) An applicant may file a written request for withdrawal of a permit application and a refund of fees in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section. 


(3) OSM will, upon receipt of written request for withdrawal of a permit application, cease processing of that application. If requested, OSM will refund fees paid by the applicant for the withdrawn application as follows: 


(i) Any fees for a stage of OSM review not yet begun will be refunded;


(ii) Where technical review has begun, partial refund will be made of any technical review fee amounts remaining after deduction of actual costs incurred for that technical review. Costs to process the withdrawal may also be deducted. 


(4) No interest will be paid on refunded fees. 


(c) *Form of payment.* All fees due under this section shall be submitted to OSM by the applicant in the form of a certified check, bank draft or money order, payable to Office of Surface Mining. 


(d) *Fee schedule for a new permit.*


---

[N] [55 FR 29548, July 19, 1990]




