# § 5.653   Section 8 project-based assistance programs: Admission—Income-eligibility and income-targeting.

(a) *Applicability.* This section describes requirements concerning income-eligibility and income-targeting that apply to the Section 8 project-based assistance programs, except for the moderate rehabilitation and the project-based voucher programs. 


(b) *Who is eligible?*—(1) *Basic eligibility.* An applicant must meet all eligibility requirements in order to receive housing assistance. At a minimum, the applicant must be a family, as defined in § 5.403, and must be income-eligible, as described in this section. Such eligible applicants include single persons. 


(2) *Low income limit.* No family other than a low income family is eligible for admission to the Section 8 project-based assistance programs. (This paragraph (b) does not apply to the Section 8 project-based voucher program under part 983 of this title.) 


(c) *Targeting to extremely low income families.* For each project assisted under a contract for project-based assistance, of the dwelling units that become available for occupancy in any fiscal year that are assisted under the contract, not less than 40 percent shall be available for leasing only by families that are extremely low income families at the time of admission. 


(d) *Limitation on admission of non-very low income families*—(1) *Admission to units available before October 1, 1981.* Not more than 25 percent of the Section 8 project-based dwelling units that were available for occupancy under Section 8 Housing Assistance Payments Contracts effective before October 1, 1981 and that are leased on or after that date shall be available for leasing by low income families other than very low income families. HUD reserves the right to limit the admission of low income families other than very low income families to these units. 


(2) *Admission to units available on or after October 1, 1981.* Not more than 15 percent of the Section 8 project-based dwelling units that initially become available for occupancy under Section 8 Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) Contracts on or after October 1, 1981 shall be available for leasing by low income families other than families that are very low income families at the time of admission to the Section 8 program. Except with the prior approval of HUD under paragraphs (d)(3) and (d)(4) of this section, the owner may only lease such units to very low income families. 


(3) *Request for exception.* A request by an owner for approval of admission of low income families other than very low income families to section 8 project-based units must state the basis for requesting the exception and provide supporting data. Bases for exceptions that may be considered include the following: 


(i) Need for admission of a broader range of tenants to preserve the financial or management viability of a project because there is an insufficient number of potential applicants who are very low income families; 


(ii) Commitment of an owner to attaining occupancy by families with a broad range of incomes; 


(iii) Project supervision by a State Housing Finance Agency having a policy of occupancy by families with a broad range of incomes supported by evidence that the Agency is pursuing this goal throughout its assisted projects in the community, or a project with financing through Section 11(b) of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437i) or under Section 103 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 103); and 


(iv) Low-income families that otherwise would be displaced from a Section 8 project. 


(4) *Action on request for exception.* Whether to grant any request for exception is a matter committed by law to HUD's discretion, and no implication is intended to be created that HUD will seek to grant approvals up to the maximum limits permitted by statute, nor is any presumption of an entitlement to an exception created by the specification of certain grounds for exception that HUD may consider. HUD will review exceptions granted to owners at regular intervals. HUD may withdraw permission to exercise those exceptions for program applicants at any time that exceptions are not being used or after a periodic review, based on the findings of the review. 


(e) *Income used for eligibility and targeting.* Family annual income (see § 5.609) is used both for determination of income-eligibility and for income-targeting under this section. 


(f) *Reporting.* The Section 8 owner must comply with HUD-prescribed reporting requirements, including income reporting requirements that will permit HUD to maintain the data necessary to monitor compliance with income-eligibility and income-targeting requirements. 



---

[N] [65 FR 16719, Mar. 29, 2000, as amended at 89 FR 38290, May 7, 2024]




