# ยง 201.28   Flood and hazard insurance, and Coastal Barriers properties.

(a) *Flood insurance.* No property improvement loan or manufactured home loan shall be eligible for insurance under this part if the property securing repayment of the loan is located in a special flood hazard area identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), unless the community in which the area is situated is participating in the National Flood Insurance Program, flood insurance under the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) is available with respect to such property improvements, and flood insurance on the property is obtained by the borrower in compliance with section 102 of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4012a). Such insurance shall be in the form of the standard policy issued under the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) or private flood insurance, as defined in 24 CFR 203.16a. Such insurance shall be obtained at any time during the term of the loan that the lender determines that the secured property is located in a special flood hazard area identified by FEMA and shall be maintained by the borrower for the remaining term of the loan, or until the lender determines that the property is no longer in a special flood hazard area, or until the property is repossessed or foreclosed upon by the lender. The amount of such insurance shall be at least equal to the unpaid balance of the Title I loan, and the lender shall be named as the loss payee for flood insurance benefits. A lender may determine that a private flood insurance policy meets the definition of private flood insurance, as defined in 24 CFR 203.16a, without further review of the policy, if the compliance aid statement provided in 24 CFR 203.16a(c) is included within the policy or as an endorsement to the policy. 


(b) *Hazard insurance.* No manufactured home purchase loan or combination loan shall be eligible for insurance under this part unless hazard insurance on the manufactured home is obtained by the borrower and the lender is named as a loss payee of insurance benefits. Such insurance shall be maintained by the borrower for the full term of the loan or until the property is repossessed or foreclosed by the lender, and in an amount at least equal to the unpaid balance of the loan, except that the amount of insurance coverage shall be not less than the actual cash value of the home where State law precludes a higher amount. If the borrower fails to maintain such insurance, the lender shall obtain it at the borrower's expense. If the home is not insured against hazards and sustains damage which would normally be covered by such insurance during the borrower's ownership, the appraised value of the home for claim purposes will be adjusted in accordance with ยง 201.51(b)(3). Upon acquiring title to the property through repossession or foreclosure, the lender shall maintain hazard insurance upon the property in the amount prescribed above until its disposition and sale.


(c) *Coastal barriers properties.* No title I insurance shall be made available under this part for any property improvement loan or manufactured home loan except pursuant to a loan application approved before October 18, 1982, with respect to any property within the Coastal Barriers Resources System established by the Coastal Barriers Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3501).



---

[N] [50 FR 43523, Oct. 25, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 32060, Sept. 9, 1986; 53 FR 10537, Mar. 14, 1989; 54 FR 36265, Aug. 31, 1989; 61 FR 19799, May 2, 1996; 87 FR 70742, Nov. 21, 2022] 




