# § 429.70   Alternative methods for determining energy efficiency and energy use.

(a) *General.* A manufacturer of covered products or covered equipment explicitly authorized to use an AEDM in §§ 429.14 through 429.69 may not distribute any basic model of such product or equipment in commerce unless the manufacturer has determined the energy consumption or energy efficiency of the basic model, either from testing the basic model in conjunction with DOE's certification sampling plans and statistics or from applying an alternative method for determining energy efficiency or energy use (*i.e.,* AEDM) to the basic model, in accordance with the requirements of this section. In instances where a manufacturer has tested a basic model to validate the AEDM, the represented value of energy consumption or efficiency of that basic model must be determined and certified according to results from actual testing in conjunction with 10 CFR part 429, subpart B certification sampling plans and statistics. In addition, a manufacturer may not knowingly use an AEDM to overrate the efficiency of a basic model.


(b) *Testing.* Testing for each covered product or covered equipment must be done in accordance with the sampling plan provisions established in § 429.11 and the testing procedures in parts 430 and 431 of this chapter.


(c) *Alternative efficiency determination method (AEDM) for commercial HVAC & WH products (excluding air-cooled, three-phase, small commercial package air conditioning and heating equipment with a cooling capacity of less than 65,000 Btu/h and air-cooled, three-phase, variable refrigerant flow multi-split air conditioners and heat pumps with less than 65,000 Btu/h cooling capacity), and commercial refrigerators, freezers, and refrigerator-freezers*—(1) *Criteria an AEDM must satisfy.* A manufacturer may not apply an AEDM to a basic model to determine its efficiency pursuant to this section unless:


(i) The AEDM is derived from a mathematical model that estimates the energy efficiency or energy consumption characteristics of the basic model as measured by the applicable DOE test procedure;


(ii) The AEDM is based on engineering or statistical analysis, computer simulation or modeling, or other analytic evaluation of performance data; and


(iii) The manufacturer has validated the AEDM, in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section with basic models that meet the current Federal energy conservation standards.


(2) *Validation of an AEDM.* Before using an AEDM, the manufacturer must validate the AEDM's accuracy and reliability as follows:


(i) The manufacturer must select at least the minimum number of basic models for each validation class specified in paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section to which the particular AEDM applies. Using the AEDM, calculate the energy use or efficiency for each of the selected basic models.


(A) Except for variable refrigerant flow multi-split air conditioners and heat pumps (other than air-cooled with rated cooling capacity less than 65,000 btu/h) when certifying to standards in terms of IEER, test a single unit of each selected basic model in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section. Compare the results from the single unit test and the AEDM energy use or efficiency output according to paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section. The manufacturer is responsible for ensuring the accuracy and reliability of the AEDM.


(B) For variable refrigerant flow multi-split air conditioners and heat pumps (other than air-cooled with rated cooling capacity less than 65,000 btu/h) when certifying to standards in terms of IEER, the following provisions apply.


(*1*) If a manufacturer makes representations for a single type of indoor unit combination (*i.e.,* only ducted, non-ducted, or SDHV indoor unit combinations) across all the basic models for which an AEDM applies, the manufacturer must test at least a single tested combination of that type of indoor unit combination for each selected basic model in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section.


(*2*) If a manufacturer makes representations for two types of indoor unit combinations (*i.e.,* ducted, non-ducted, and/or SDHV) within or across all the basic models for which the AEDM applies, the manufacturer must test at least a single tested combination of a selected basic model for one of those two types of indoor unit combination, and at least a single tested combination of a different selected basic model for the other of those two types of indoor unit combination, each tested in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section.


(*3*) If a manufacturer makes representations for all three types of indoor unit combinations (*i.e.,* ducted, non-ducted, and SDHV) within or across basic models for which the AEDM applies, the manufacturer must test at least a single tested combination of a selected basic model as a non-ducted tested combination and a single tested combination of a different selected basic model as a ducted tested combination, each in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section.


(*4*) In all cases, compare the results from each tested basic model and the AEDM energy use or efficiency output according to paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section. The manufacturer is responsible for ensuring the accuracy and reliability of the AEDM.


(ii) *Individual model tolerances.* (A) For those covered products with an energy-efficiency metric, the predicted efficiency for each model calculated by applying the AEDM may not be more than five percent greater than the efficiency determined from the corresponding test of the model.


(B) For those covered products with an energy-consumption metric, the predicted energy consumption for each model, calculated by applying the AEDM, may not be more than five percent less than the energy consumption determined from the corresponding test of the model.


(C) For all covered products, the predicted energy efficiency or consumption for each model calculated by applying the AEDM must meet or exceed the applicable federal energy conservation performance standard.


(D) An AEDM that is validated based on test results obtained from one or more field tests (pursuant to § 431.86(c)) can only be used to certify the performance of basic models of commercial packaged boilers with a certified rated input greater than 5,000,000 Btu/h.


(iii) *Additional test unit requirements.* (A) Each AEDM must be supported by test data obtained from physical tests of current models; and


(B) Test results used to validate the AEDM must meet or exceed current, applicable Federal standards as specified in part 431 of this chapter; and


(C) Each test must have been performed in accordance with the DOE test procedure specified in parts 430 or 431 of this chapter or test procedure waiver for which compliance is required at the time the basic model is distributed in commerce.



(iv) *Validation classes.*

(3) *AEDM records retention requirements.* If a manufacturer has used an AEDM to determine representative values pursuant to this section, the manufacturer must have available upon request for inspection by the Department records showing:


(i) The AEDM, including the mathematical model, the engineering or statistical analysis, and/or computer simulation or modeling that is the basis of the AEDM;


(ii) Product information, complete test data, AEDM calculations, and the statistical comparisons from the units tested that were used to validate the AEDM pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section; and


(iii) Product information and AEDM calculations for each basic model to which the AEDM has been applied.


(4) *Additional AEDM requirements.* If requested by the Department and at DOE's discretion, the manufacturer must perform at least one of the following:


(i) Conduct simulations before representatives of the Department to predict the performance of particular basic models of the product to which the AEDM was applied;


(ii) Provide analyses of previous simulations conducted by the manufacturer; or


(iii) Conduct certification testing of basic models selected by the Department.


(5) *AEDM verification testing.* DOE may use the test data for a given individual model generated pursuant to § 429.104 to verify the certified rating determined by an AEDM as long as the following process is followed:


(i) *Selection of units.* DOE will obtain units for test from retail, where available. If units cannot be obtained from retail, DOE will request that a unit be provided by the manufacturer;


(ii) *Lab requirements.* DOE will conduct testing at an independent, third-party testing facility of its choosing. In cases where no third-party laboratory is capable of testing the equipment, it may be tested at a manufacturer's facility upon DOE's request.


(iii) *Manufacturer participation.* (A) Except when testing variable refrigerant flow systems (which are governed by the rules found at § 431.96(f)), testing will be completed without a manufacturer representative on-site. In limited instances further described in paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(B) of this section, a manufacturer and DOE representative may be present to witness the test set-up.


(B) A manufacturer's representative may request to be on-site to witness the test set-up if:


(*1*) The installation manual for the basic model specifically requires it to be started only by a factory-trained installer; or


(*2*) The manufacturer has elected, as part of the certification of that basic model, to have the opportunity to witness the test set-up. A manufacturer may elect to witness the test set-up for the initial verification test for no more than 10 percent of the manufacturer's basic models submitted for certification and rated with an AEDM per validation class specified in section (c)(2)(iv) of this paragraph. The 10-percent limit applies to all of the eligible basic models submitted for certification by a given manufacturer no matter how many AEDMs a manufacturer has used to develop its ratings. The 10-percent limit is determined by first calculating 10 percent of the total number of basic models rated with an AEDM per validation class, and then truncating the resulting product. Manufacturers who have submitted fewer than 10 basic models rated with an AEDM for certification may elect to have the opportunity to witness the test set-up of one basic model. A manufacturer must identify the basic models it wishes to witness as part of its certification report(s) prior to the basic model being selected for verification testing.


(*3*) In those instances in which a manufacturer has not provided the required information as specified in § 429.12(b)(13) for a given basic model that has been rated and certified as compliant with the applicable standards, a manufacturer is precluded from witnessing the testing set up for that basic model.


(C) A DOE representative will be present for the test set-up in all cases where a manufacturer representative requests to be on-site for the test set-up. The manufacturer's representative cannot communicate with a lab representative outside of the DOE representative's presence.


(D) If DOE has obtained through retail channels a unit for test that meets either of the conditions in paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(B) of this section, DOE will notify the manufacturer that the basic model was selected for testing and that the manufacturer may have a representative present for the test set-up. If the manufacturer does not respond within five calendar days of receipt of that notification, the manufacturer waives the option to be present for test set-up, and DOE will proceed with the test set-up without a manufacturer's representative present.


(E) If DOE has obtained directly from the manufacturer a unit for test that meets either of the conditions in paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(B) of this section, DOE will notify the manufacturer of the option to be present for the test set-up at the time the unit is purchased. DOE will specify the date (not less than five calendar days) by which the manufacturer must notify DOE whether a manufacturer's representative will be present. If the manufacturer does not notify DOE by the date specified, the manufacturer waives the option to be present for the test set-up, and DOE will proceed with the test set-up without a manufacturer's representative present.


(F) DOE will review the certification submissions from the manufacturer that were on file as of the date DOE purchased a basic model (under paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(D) of this section) or the date DOE notifies the manufacturer that the basic model has been selected for testing (under paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(E) of this section) to determine if the manufacturer has indicated that it intends to witness the test set-up of the selected basic model. DOE will also verify that the manufacturer has not exceeded the allowable limit of witness testing selections as specified in paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(B)(*2*) of this section. If DOE discovers that the manufacturer exceeded the limits specified in paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(B)(*2*), DOE will notify the manufacturer of this fact and deny its request to be present for the test set-up of the selected basic model. The manufacturer must update its certification submission to ensure it has not exceeded the allowable limit of witness testing selections as specified in paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(B)(*2*) to be present at set-up for future selections. At this time DOE will also review the supplemental PDF submission(s) for the selected basic model to determine that all necessary information has been provided to the Department.


(G) If DOE determines, pursuant to paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section, that the model should be tested at the manufacturer's facility, a DOE representative will be present on site to observe the test set-up and testing with the manufacturer's representative. All testing will be conducted at DOE's direction, which may include DOE-contracted personnel from a third-party lab, as well as the manufacturer's technicians.


(H) As further explained in paragraph (c)(5)(v)(B) of this section, if a manufacturer's representative is present for the initial test set-up for any reason, the manufacturer forfeits any opportunity to request a retest of the basic model. Furthermore, if the manufacturer requests to be on-site for test set-up pursuant to paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(B) of this section but is not present on site, the manufacturer forfeits any opportunity to request a retest of the basic model.


(iv) *Testing.* At no time during verification testing may the lab and the manufacturer communicate without DOE authorization. All verification testing will be conducted in accordance with the applicable DOE test procedure, as well as each of the following to the extent that they apply:


(A) Any active test procedure waivers that have been granted for the basic model;


(B) Any test procedure guidance that has been issued by DOE;


(C) The installation and operations manual that is shipped with the unit;


(D) Any additional information that was provided by the manufacturer at the time of certification (prior to DOE obtaining the unit for test); and


(E) If during test set-up or testing, the lab indicates to DOE that it needs additional information regarding a given basic model in order to test in accordance with the applicable DOE test procedure, DOE may organize a meeting between DOE, the manufacturer and the lab to provide such information.


(v) *Failure to meet certified rating.* If a model tests worse than its certified rating by an amount exceeding the tolerance prescribed in paragraph (c)(5)(vi) of this section, DOE will notify the manufacturer. DOE will provide the manufacturer with all documentation related to the test set up, test conditions, and test results for the unit. Within the timeframe allotted by DOE, the manufacturer may then:


(A) Present all claims regarding testing validity; and


(B) If the manufacturer was not on site for the initial test set-up, request a retest of the previously tested unit with manufacturer and DOE representatives on-site for the test set-up. DOE will not conduct the retest using a different unit of the same basic model unless DOE and the manufacturer determine it is necessary based on the test results, claims presented, and DOE regulations.


(vi) *Tolerances.* (A) For consumption metrics, the result from a DOE verification test must be less than or equal to the certified rating × (1 + the applicable tolerance).


(B) For efficiency metrics, the result from a DOE verification test must be greater than or equal to the certified rating × (1 − the applicable tolerance).


(vii) *Invalid rating.* If, following discussions with the manufacturer and a retest where applicable, DOE determines that the verification testing was conducted appropriately in accordance with the DOE test procedure, DOE will issue a determination that the rating for the model is invalid. The manufacturer must elect, within 15 days, one of the following to be completed in a time frame specified by DOE, which is never to exceed 180 days:


(A) Re-rate and re-certify the model based on DOE's test data alone; or


(B) Discontinue the model through the certification process; or


(C) Conduct additional testing and re-rate and re-certify the basic model based on all test data collected, including DOE's test data.


(viii) *AEDM use.* (A) If DOE has determined that a manufacturer made invalid ratings on two or more models rated using the same AEDM within a 24 month period, the manufacturer must take the action listed in the table corresponding to the number of invalid certified ratings. The twenty-four month period begins with a DOE determination that a rating is invalid through the process outlined above. Additional invalid ratings apply for the purposes of determining the appropriate consequences if the subsequent determination(s) is based on selection of a unit for testing within the twenty-four month period (i.e., subsequent determinations need not be made within 24 months).


(B) If, as a result of eight or more invalid ratings, a manufacturer has lost the privilege of using an AEDM for rating, the manufacturer may regain the ability to use an AEDM by:


(*1*) Investigating and identifying cause(s) for failures;


(*2*) Taking corrective action to address cause(s);


(*3*) Performing six new tests per validation class, a minimum of two of which must be performed by an independent, third-party laboratory to validate the AEDM; and


(*4*) Obtaining DOE authorization to resume use of the AEDM.


(d) *Alternative efficiency determination method for distribution transformers.* A manufacturer may use an AEDM to determine the efficiency of one or more of its untested basic models only if it determines the efficiency of at least five of its other basic models (selected in accordance with paragraph (d)(3) of this section) through actual testing.


(1) *Criteria an AEDM must satisfy.* (i) The AEDM has been derived from a mathematical model that represents the electrical characteristics of that basic model;


(ii) The AEDM is based on engineering and statistical analysis, computer simulation or modeling, or other analytic evaluation of performance data; and


(iii) The manufacturer has substantiated the AEDM, in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section, by applying it to, and testing, at least five other basic models of the same type, *i.e.,* low-voltage dry-type distribution transformers, medium-voltage dry-type distribution transformers, or liquid-immersed distribution transformers.


(2) *Substantiation of an AEDM.* Before using an AEDM, the manufacturer must substantiate the AEDM's accuracy and reliability as follows:


(i) Apply the AEDM to at least five of the manufacturer's basic models that have been selected for testing in accordance with paragraph (d)(3) of this section, and calculate the power loss for each of these basic models;


(ii) Test at least five units of each of these basic models in accordance with the applicable test procedure and § 429.47, and determine the power loss for each of these basic models;


(iii) The predicted total power loss for each of these basic models, calculated by applying the AEDM pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, must be within plus or minus five percent of the mean total power loss determined from the testing of that basic model pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section; and


(iv) Calculate for each of these basic models the percentage that its power loss calculated pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section is of its power loss determined from testing pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, compute the average of these percentages, and that calculated average power loss, expressed as a percentage of the average power loss determined from testing, must be no less than 97 percent and no greater than 103 percent.


(3) *Additional testing requirements.* (i) A manufacturer must select basic models for testing in accordance with the following criteria:


(A) Two of the basic models must be among the five basic models with the highest unit volumes of production by the manufacturer in the prior year, or during the prior 12-calendar-month period beginning in 2003,
1 whichever is later;


(B) No two basic models should have the same combination of power and voltage ratings; and


(C) At least one basic model should be single-phase and at least one should be three-phase.


(ii) In any instance where it is impossible for a manufacturer to select basic models for testing in accordance with all of these criteria, the criteria shall be given priority in the order in which they are listed. Within the limits imposed by the criteria, basic models shall be selected randomly.


(4) *Subsequent verification of an AEDM.* (i) Each manufacturer that has used an AEDM under this section shall have available for inspection by the Department of Energy records showing:


(A) The method or methods used;


(B) The mathematical model, the engineering or statistical analysis, computer simulation or modeling, and other analytic evaluation of performance data on which the AEDM is based;


(C) Complete test data, product information, and related information that the manufacturer has generated or acquired pursuant to paragraph (d)(4) of this section; and


(D) The calculations used to determine the efficiency and total power losses of each basic model to which the AEDM was applied.


(ii) If requested by the Department, the manufacturer must perform at least one of the following:


(A) Conduct simulations to predict the performance of particular basic models of distribution transformers specified by the Department;


(B) Provide analyses of previous simulations conducted by the manufacturer;


(C) Conduct sample testing of basic models selected by the Department; or


(D) Conduct a combination of these.


(e) *Alternate Efficiency Determination Method (AEDM) for central air conditioners and heat pumps.* This paragraph (e) sets forth the requirements for a manufacturer to use an AEDM to rate central air conditioners and heat pumps.


(1) *Criteria an AEDM must satisfy.* A manufacturer may not apply an AEDM to an individual model/combination to determine its represented values (SEER, EER, HSPF, SEER2, EER2, HSPF2, and/or P_W,OFF_) pursuant to this section unless authorized pursuant to § 429.16(d) and:


(i) The AEDM is derived from a mathematical model that estimates the energy efficiency or energy consumption characteristics of the individual model or combination (SEER, EER, HSPF, SEER2, EER2, HSPF2, and/or P_W,OFF_) as measured by the applicable DOE test procedure; and


(ii) The manufacturer has validated the AEDM in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section.


(2) *Validation of an AEDM.* Before using an AEDM, the manufacturer must validate the AEDM's accuracy and reliability as follows:


(i) Follow paragraph (e)(2)(i)(A) of this section for requirements on minimum testing. Follow paragraph (e)(2)(i)(B) of this section for requirements on ensuring the accuracy and reliability of the AEDM.


(A) *Minimum testing.* (*1*) For non-space-constrained single-split system air conditioners and heat pumps rated based on testing in accordance with appendix M to subpart B of part 430, the manufacturer must test each basic model as required under § 429.16(b)(2). Until July 1, 2024, for non-space-constrained single-split-system air conditioners and heat pumps rated based on testing in accordance with appendix M1 to subpart B of part 430, the manufacturer must test a single-unit sample from 20 percent of the basic models distributed in commerce to validate the AEDM. On or after July 1, 2024, for non-space-constrained single-split-system air conditioners and heat pumps rated based on testing in accordance with appendix M1 to subpart B of part 430, the manufacturer must complete testing of each basic model as required under § 429.16(b)(2).


(*2*) For other than non-space-constrained single-split-system air conditioners and heat pumps, the manufacturer must test each basic model as required under § 429.16(b)(2).


(B) Using the AEDM, calculate the energy use or efficiency for each of the tested individual models/combinations within each basic model. Compare the represented value based on testing and the AEDM energy use or efficiency output according to paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section. The manufacturer is responsible for ensuring the accuracy and reliability of the AEDM and that their representations are appropriate and the models being distributed in commerce meet the applicable standards, regardless of the amount of testing required in paragraphs (e)(2)(i)(A) and (e)(2)(i)(B) of this section.


(ii) *Individual model/combination tolerances.* This paragraph (e)(2)(ii) provides the tolerances applicable to individual models/combinations rated using an AEDM.


(A) The predicted represented values for each individual model/combination calculated by applying the AEDM may not be more than four percent greater (for measures of efficiency) or less (for measures of consumption) than the values determined from the corresponding test of the individual model/combination.


(B) The predicted energy efficiency or consumption for each individual model/combination calculated by applying the AEDM must meet or exceed the applicable federal energy conservation standard.


(iii) *Additional test unit requirements.* (A) Each AEDM must be supported by test data obtained from physical tests of current individual models/combinations; and


(B) Test results used to validate the AEDM must meet or exceed current, applicable Federal standards as specified in part 430 of this chapter; and


(C) Each test must have been performed in accordance with the applicable DOE test procedure with which compliance is required at the time the individual models/combinations used for validation are distributed in commerce.


(3) *AEDM records retention requirements.* If a manufacturer has used an AEDM to determine representative values pursuant to this section, the manufacturer must have available upon request for inspection by the Department records showing:


(i) The AEDM, including the mathematical model, the engineering or statistical analysis, and/or computer simulation or modeling that is the basis of the AEDM;


(ii) Product information, complete test data, AEDM calculations, and the statistical comparisons from the units tested that were used to validate the AEDM pursuant to paragraph (e)(2) of this section; and


(iii) Product information and AEDM calculations for each individual model/combination to which the AEDM has been applied.


(4) *Additional AEDM requirements.* If requested by the Department, the manufacturer must:


(i) Conduct simulations before representatives of the Department to predict the performance of particular individual models/combinations;


(ii) Provide analyses of previous simulations conducted by the manufacturer; and/or


(iii) Conduct certification testing of individual models or combinations selected by the Department.


(5) *AEDM verification testing.* DOE may use the test data for a given individual model/combination generated pursuant to § 429.104 to verify the represented value determined by an AEDM as long as the following process is followed:


(i) *Selection of units.* DOE will obtain one or more units for test from retail, if available. If units cannot be obtained from retail, DOE will request that a unit be provided by the manufacturer;


(ii) *Lab requirements.* DOE will conduct testing at an independent, third-party testing facility of its choosing. In cases where no third-party laboratory is capable of testing the equipment, testing may be conducted at a manufacturer's facility upon DOE's request.


(iii) *Testing.* At no time during verification testing may the lab and the manufacturer communicate without DOE authorization. If during test set-up or testing, the lab indicates to DOE that it needs additional information regarding a given individual model or combination in order to test in accordance with the applicable DOE test procedure, DOE may organize a meeting between DOE, the manufacturer and the lab to provide such information.


(iv) *Failure to meet certified value.* If an individual model/combination tests worse than its certified value (*i.e.,* lower than the certified efficiency value or higher than the certified consumption value) by more than 5 percent, or the test results in cooling capacity that is lower than its certified cooling capacity, DOE will notify the manufacturer. DOE will provide the manufacturer with all documentation related to the test set up, test conditions, and test results for the unit. Within the timeframe allotted by DOE, the manufacturer may present any and all claims regarding testing validity.


(v) *Tolerances.* This paragraph specifies the tolerances DOE will permit when conducting verification testing.


(A) For consumption metrics, the result from a DOE verification test must be less than or equal to 1.05 multiplied by the certified represented value.


(B) For efficiency metrics, the result from a DOE verification test must be greater than or equal to 0.95 multiplied by the certified represented value.


(vi) *Invalid represented value.* If, following discussions with the manufacturer and a retest where applicable, DOE determines that the verification testing was conducted appropriately in accordance with the DOE test procedure, DOE will issue a determination that the represented values for the basic model are invalid. The manufacturer must conduct additional testing and re-rate and re-certify the individual models/combinations within the basic model that were rated using the AEDM based on all test data collected, including DOE's test data.


(vii) *AEDM use.* This paragraph (e)(5)(vii) specifies when a manufacturer's use of an AEDM may be restricted due to prior invalid represented values.


(A) If DOE has determined that a manufacturer made invalid represented values on individual models/combinations within two or more basic models rated using the manufacturer's AEDM within a 24 month period, the manufacturer must test the least efficient and most efficient individual model/combination within each basic model in addition to the individual model/combination specified in § 429.16(b)(2). The twenty-four month period begins with a DOE determination that a represented value is invalid through the process outlined above.


(B) If DOE has determined that a manufacturer made invalid represented values on more than four basic models rated using the manufacturer's AEDM within a 24-month period, the manufacturer may no longer use an AEDM.


(C) If a manufacturer has lost the privilege of using an AEDM, the manufacturer may regain the ability to use an AEDM by:


(*1*) Investigating and identifying cause(s) for failures;


(*2*) Taking corrective action to address cause(s);


(*3*) Performing six new tests per basic model, a minimum of two of which must be performed by an independent, third-party laboratory from units obtained from retail to validate the AEDM; and


(*4*) Obtaining DOE authorization to resume use of an AEDM.


(f) *Alternative efficiency determination method (AEDM) for walk-in refrigeration systems and doors*—

(1) *Criteria an AEDM must satisfy.* A manufacturer may not apply an AEDM to a basic model to determine its efficiency pursuant to this section unless:


(i) The AEDM is derived from a mathematical model that estimates the energy efficiency or energy consumption characteristics of the basic model as measured by the applicable DOE test procedure;


(ii) The AEDM is based on engineering or statistical analysis, computer simulation or modeling, or other analytical evaluation of performance data; and






(iii) The manufacturer has validated the AEDM, in accordance with paragraph (f)(2) of this section.


(2) *Validation of an AEDM.* Before using an AEDM, the manufacturer must validate the AEDM's accuracy and reliability as follows:


(i) The manufacturer must select at least the minimum number of basic models for each validation class specified in paragraph (f)(2)(iv) of this section to which the particular AEDM applies. Test a single unit of each basic model in accordance with paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section. Using the AEDM, calculate the energy use or energy efficiency for each of the selected basic models. Compare the results from the single unit test and the AEDM output according to paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section. The manufacturer is responsible for ensuring the accuracy and repeatability of the AEDM.


(ii) *Individual model tolerances.*

(A) For refrigeration systems, which are subject to an energy efficiency metric, the predicted efficiency for each model calculated by applying the AEDM may not be more than five percent greater than the efficiency determined from the corresponding test of the model.


(B) For doors, which are subject to an energy consumption metric the predicted daily energy consumption for each model calculated by applying the AEDM may not be more than five percent less than the daily energy consumption determined from the corresponding test of the model.




(C) The predicted energy efficiency or energy consumption for each model calculated by applying the AEDM must meet or exceed the applicable federal energy conservation standard.




(iii) *Additional test unit requirements.* (A) Each AEDM must be supported by test data obtained from physical tests of current models; and


(B) Test results used to validate the AEDM must meet or exceed current, applicable Federal standards as specified in part 431 of this chapter;


(C) Each test must have been performed in accordance with the applicable DOE test procedure with which compliance is required at the time the basic model is distributed in commerce; and


(D) For rating WICF refrigeration system components, an AEDM may not simulate or model portions of the system that are not required to be tested by the DOE test procedure. That is, if the test results used to validate the AEDM are for either a unit cooler only or a condensing unit only, the AEDM must estimate the system rating using the nominal values specified in the DOE test procedure for the other part of the refrigeration system.




(E) For rating doors, an AEDM may not simulate or model components of the door that are not required to be tested by the DOE test procedure. That is, if the test results used to validate the AEDM are for the U-factor test of the door, the AEDM must estimate the daily energy consumption, specifically the conduction thermal load, and the direct and indirect electrical energy consumption, using the nominal values and calculation procedure specified in the DOE test procedure.








(iv) *WICF validation classes*—(A) *Doors.*

(B) *Refrigeration systems.* (*1*) For representations made prior to the compliance date of revised energy conservation standards for walk-in cooler and walk-in freezer refrigeration systems, use the following validation classes.


(*2*) For representations made on or after the compliance date of revised energy conservation standards for walk-in cooler and walk-in freezer refrigeration systems, use the following validation classes.


(3) *AEDM records retention requirements.* If a manufacturer has used an AEDM to determine representative values pursuant to this section, the manufacturer must have available upon request for inspection by the Department records showing:


(i) The AEDM, including the mathematical model, the engineering or statistical analysis, and/or computer simulation or modeling that is the basis of the AEDM;


(ii) Equipment information, complete test data, AEDM calculations, and the statistical comparisons from the units tested that were used to validate the AEDM pursuant to paragraph (f)(2) of this section; and


(iii) Equipment information and AEDM calculations for each basic model to which the AEDM has been applied.


(4) *Additional AEDM requirements.* If requested by the Department the manufacturer must perform at least one of the following:


(i) Conduct simulations before representatives of the Department to predict the performance of particular basic models of the product to which the AEDM was applied;


(ii) Provide analyses of previous simulations conducted by the manufacturer; or


(iii) Conduct certification testing of basic models selected by the Department.


(5) *AEDM verification testing.* DOE may use the test data for a given individual model generated pursuant to § 429.104 to verify the certified rating determined by an AEDM as long as the following process is followed:


(i) *Selection of units.* DOE will obtain units for test from retail, where available. If units cannot be obtained from retail, DOE will request that a unit be provided by the manufacturer.


(ii) *Lab requirements.* DOE will conduct testing at an independent, third-party testing facility of its choosing. In cases where no third-party laboratory is capable of testing the equipment, it may be tested at a manufacturer's facility upon DOE's request.


(iii) *Manufacturer participation.* Testing will be performed without manufacturer representatives on-site.


(iv) *Testing.* All verification testing will be conducted in accordance with the applicable DOE test procedure, as well as each of the following to the extent that they apply:


(A) Any active test procedure waivers that have been granted for the basic model;


(B) Any test procedure guidance that has been issued by DOE;


(C) If during test set-up or testing, the lab indicates to DOE that it needs additional information regarding a given basic model in order to test in accordance with the applicable DOE test procedure, DOE may organize a meeting between DOE, the manufacturer and the lab to provide such information.


(D) At no time during the process may the lab communicate directly with the manufacturer without DOE present.


(v) *Failure to meet certified rating.* If a model tests worse than its certified rating by an amount exceeding the tolerance prescribed in paragraph (f)(5)(vi) of this section, DOE will notify the manufacturer. DOE will provide the manufacturer with all documentation related to the test set up, test conditions, and test results for the unit. Within the timeframe allotted by DOE, the manufacturer may then present all claims regarding testing validity.




(vi) *Tolerances.* For efficiency metrics, the result from a DOE verification test must be greater than or equal to the certified rating × (1−the applicable tolerance). For energy consumption metrics, the result from a DOE verification test must be less than or equal to the certified rating × (1 + the applicable tolerance).


(vii) *Invalid rating.* If, following discussions with the manufacturer and a retest where applicable, DOE determines that the testing was conducted appropriately in accordance with the DOE test procedure, the rating for the model will be considered invalid. Pursuant to 10 CFR 429.13(b), DOE may require a manufacturer to conduct additional testing as a remedial measure.


(g) *Alternative determination of ratings for untested basic models of residential water heaters and residential-duty commercial water heaters.* For models of water heaters that differ only in fuel type or power input, ratings for untested basic models may be established in accordance with the following procedures in lieu of testing. This method allows only for the use of ratings identical to those of a tested basic model as provided below; simulations or other modeling predictions for ratings of the uniform energy factor, volume, first-hour rating, or maximum gallons per minute (GPM) are not permitted.


(1) *Gas Water Heaters.* For untested basic models of gas-fired water heaters that differ from tested basic models only in whether the basic models use natural gas or propane gas, the represented value of uniform energy factor, first-hour rating, and maximum gallons per minute for an untested basic model is the same as that for a tested basic model, as long as the input ratings of the tested and untested basic models are within ±10%, that is:


(2) *Electric Storage Water Heaters.* Rate an untested basic model of an electric storage-type water heater using the first-hour rating or maximum GPM (whichever is applicable under section 5.3.1 of appendix E to subpart B of this part) and uniform energy factor obtained from a tested basic model as the basis for ratings of basic models with other input ratings, provided that certain conditions are met:


(i) For an untested basic model, the represented value of the first-hour rating or maximum GPM and the uniform energy factor is the same as that of a tested basic model, provided that each heating element of the untested basic model is rated at or above the input rating for the corresponding heating element of the tested basic model.


(ii) For an untested basic model having any heating element with an input rating that is lower than that of the corresponding heating element in the tested basic model, the represented value of the first-hour rating or maximum GPM and the uniform energy factor is the same as that of a tested basic model, provided that the first-hour rating for the untested basic model results in the same draw pattern specified in Table I of appendix E for the simulated-use test as was applied to the tested basic model. To establish whether this condition is met, determine the first-hour ratings or maximum GPMs for the tested and the untested basic models in accordance with the procedure described in section 5.3 of 10 CFR part 430, subpart B, appendix E, then compare the appropriate draw pattern specified in Table I of appendix E for the first-hour rating of the tested basic model with that for the untested basic model. If this condition is not met, then the untested basic model must be tested, and the appropriate sampling provisions must be applied to determine its uniform energy factor in accordance with appendix E and this part.










(3) *Electric Instantaneous Water Heaters.* Rate an untested basic model of an electric instantaneous-type water heater using the first-hour rating or maximum GPM and the uniform energy factor obtained from a tested basic model as a basis for ratings of basic models with other input ratings, provided that certain conditions are met:


(i) For an untested basic model, the represented value of the first-hour rating or maximum GPM and the uniform energy factor is the same as that of a tested basic model, provided that the untested basic model's input is rated at or above the input rating for the corresponding tested basic model.


(ii) For an untested basic model having an input rating that is lower than that of the corresponding tested basic model, the represented value of the first-hour rating or maximum GPM and the uniform energy factor is the same as that of a tested basic model, provided that the first-hour rating or maximum GPM for the untested basic model results in the same draw pattern specified in Table II of appendix E for the 24-hour simulated-use test as was applied to the tested basic model. To establish whether this condition is met, determine the first-hour rating or maximum GPM for the tested and the untested basic models in accordance with the procedure described in section 5.3 of 10 CFR part 430, subpart B, appendix E, then compare the appropriate draw pattern specified in Table II of appendix E for the first-hour rating or maximum GPM of the tested basic model with that for the untested basic model. If this condition is not met, then the untested basic model must be tested, and the appropriate sampling provisions must be applied to determine its uniform energy factor in accordance with appendix E and this part.




(h) *Alternative efficiency determination method (AEDM) for compressors*—(1) *Criteria an AEDM must satisfy.* A manufacturer may not apply an AEDM to a basic model to determine its efficiency pursuant to this section, unless:


(i) The AEDM is derived from a mathematical model that estimates the energy efficiency or energy consumption characteristics of the basic model as measured by the applicable DOE test procedure;


(ii) The AEDM is based on engineering or statistical analysis, computer simulation or modeling, or other analytic evaluation of performance data; and


(iii) The manufacturer has validated the AEDM, in accordance with paragraph (h)(2) of this section.


(2) *Validation of an AEDM.* Before using an AEDM, the manufacturer must validate the AEDM's accuracy and reliability as follows:


(i) *AEDM overview.* The manufacturer must select at least the minimum number of basic models for each validation class specified in paragraph (h)(2)(iv) of this section to which the particular AEDM applies. Using the AEDM, calculate the energy use or energy efficiency for each of the selected basic models. Test each basic model and determine the represented value(s) in accordance with § 429.63(a). Compare the results from the testing and the AEDM output according to paragraph (h)(2)(ii) of this section. The manufacturer is responsible for ensuring the accuracy and repeatability of the AEDM.


(ii) *AEDM basic model tolerances.* (A) The predicted representative values for each basic model calculated by applying the AEDM may not be more than five percent greater (for measures of efficiency) or less (for measures of consumption) than the represented values determined from the corresponding test of the model.


(B) The predicted package isentropic efficiency for each basic model calculated by applying the AEDM must meet or exceed the applicable federal energy conservation standard.


(iii) *Additional test unit requirements.* (A) Each AEDM must be supported by test data obtained from physical tests of current models; and


(B) Test results used to validate the AEDM must meet or exceed current, applicable Federal standards as specified in part 431 of this chapter; and


(C) Each test must have been performed in accordance with the applicable DOE test procedure with which compliance is required at the time the basic models used for validation are distributed in commerce.


(iv) *Compressor validation classes.*

(3) *AEDM Records Retention Requirements.* If a manufacturer has used an AEDM to determine representative values pursuant to this section, the manufacturer must have available upon request for inspection by the Department records showing:


(i) The AEDM, including the mathematical model, the engineering or statistical analysis, and/or computer simulation or modeling that is the basis of the AEDM;


(ii) Equipment information, complete test data, AEDM calculations, and the statistical comparisons from the units tested that were used to validate the AEDM pursuant to paragraph (h)(2) of this section; and


(iii) Equipment information and AEDM calculations for each basic model to which the AEDM was applied.


(4) *Additional AEDM requirements.* If requested by the Department, the manufacturer must:


(i) Conduct simulations before representatives of the Department to predict the performance of particular basic models of the equipment to which the AEDM was applied;


(ii) Provide analyses of previous simulations conducted by the manufacturer; and/or


(iii) Conduct certification testing of basic models selected by the Department.


(i) *Alternative determination of standby mode and off mode power consumption for untested basic models of consumer furnaces and consumer boilers.* For models of consumer furnaces or consumer boilers that have identical standby mode and off mode power consuming components, ratings for untested basic models may be established in accordance with the following procedures in lieu of testing. This method allows only for the use of ratings identical to those of a tested basic model as provided in paragraphs (i)(1) and (2) of this section; simulations or other modeling predictions for ratings for standby mode power consumption and off mode power consumption are not permitted.


(1) *Consumer furnaces.* Rate the standby mode and off mode power consumption of an untested basic model of a consumer furnace using the standby mode and off mode power consumption obtained from a tested basic model as a basis for ratings if all aspects of the electrical components, controls, and design that impact the standby mode power consumption and off mode power consumption are identical.


(2) *Consumer boilers.* Rate the standby mode and off mode power consumption of an untested basic model of a consumer boiler using the standby mode and off mode power consumption obtained from a tested basic model as a basis for ratings if all aspects of the electrical components, controls, and design that impact the standby mode power consumption and off mode power consumption are identical.


(j) *Alternative efficiency determination method (AEDM) for electric motors subject to requirements in subpart B of part 431 of this subchapter*—(1) *Criteria an AEDM must satisfy.* A manufacturer is not permitted to apply an AEDM to a basic model of electric motor to determine its efficiency pursuant to this section unless:


(i) The AEDM is derived from a mathematical model that estimates the energy efficiency characteristics and losses of the basic model as measured by the applicable DOE test procedure and accurately represents the mechanical and electrical characteristics of that basic model; and


(ii) The AEDM is based on engineering or statistical analysis, computer simulation or modeling, or other analytic evaluation of actual performance data.


(iii) The manufacturer has validated the AEDM in accordance with paragraph (i)(2) of this section with basic models that meet the current Federal energy conservation standards (if any).


(2) *Validation of an AEDM.* Before using an AEDM, the manufacturer must validate the AEDM's accuracy and reliability by comparing the simulated full-load losses to tested average full-load losses as follows.


(i) *Select basic models.* A manufacturer must select at least five basic models compliant with the energy conservation standards at § 431.25 of this subchapter (if any), in accordance with the criteria paragraphs (i)(2)(i)(A) through (D) of this section. In any instance where it is impossible for a manufacturer to select basic models for testing in accordance with all of these criteria, prioritize the criteria in the order in which they are listed. Within the limits imposed by the criteria, select basic models randomly. In addition, a basic model with a sample size of fewer than five units may not be selected to validate an AEDM.


(A) Two of the basic models must be among the five basic models with the highest unit volumes of production by the manufacturer in the prior 5 years;


(B) No two basic models may have the same horsepower rating;


(C) No two basic models may have the same frame number series; and


(D) Each basic model must have the lowest nominal full-load efficiency among the basic models within the same equipment class.


(ii) *Apply the AEDM to the selected basic models.* Using the AEDM, calculate the simulated full-load losses for each of the selected basic models as follows: hp × (1/simulated full-load efficiency−1), where hp is the horsepower of the basic model.


(iii) *Test at least five units of each of the selected basic models in accordance with § 431.16 of this subchapter.* Use the measured full-load losses for each of the tested units to determine the average of the measured full-load losses for each of the selected basic models.


(iv) *Compare.* The simulated full-load losses for each basic model (as determined under paragraph (i)(2)(ii) of this section) must be greater than or equal to 90 percent of the average of the measured full-load losses (as determined under paragraph (i)(2)(iii) of this section) (*i.e.,* 0.90 × average of the measured full-load losses ≤ simulated full-load losses).


(3) *Verification of an AEDM.* (i) Each manufacturer must periodically select basic models representative of those to which it has applied an AEDM. The manufacturer must select a sufficient number of basic models to ensure the AEDM maintains its accuracy and reliability. For each basic model selected for verification:


(A) Subject at least one unit for each basic model to test in accordance with § 431.16 of this subchapter by an accredited laboratory that meets the requirements of § 429.65(f). If one unit per basic model is selected, the simulated full-load losses for each basic model must be greater than or equal to 90 percent of the measured full-load losses (*i.e.,* 0.90 × the measured full-load losses ≤ simulated full-load losses). If more than one unit per basic model is selected, the simulated full-load losses for each basic model must be greater than or equal to 90 percent of the average of the measured full-load losses (*i.e.,* 0.90 × average of the measured full-load losses ≤ simulated full-load losses); or


(B) Have a certification body recognized under § 429.73 certify the results of the AEDM as accurately representing the basic model's average full-load efficiency. The simulated full-load efficiency for each basic model must be greater than or equal to 90 percent of the certified full-load losses (*i.e.,* 0.90 × certified full-load losses ≤ simulated full-load losses).


(ii) Each manufacturer that has used an AEDM under this section must have available for inspection by the Department of Energy records showing:


(A) The method or methods used to develop the AEDM;


(B) The mathematical model, the engineering or statistical analysis, computer simulation or modeling, and other analytic evaluation of performance data on which the AEDM is based;


(C) Complete test data, product information, and related information that the manufacturer has generated or acquired pursuant to paragraphs (i)(2) and (3) of this section; and


(D) The calculations used to determine the simulated full-load efficiency of each basic model to which the AEDM was applied.


(iii) If requested by the Department, the manufacturer must:


(A) Conduct simulations to predict the performance of particular basic models of electric motors specified by the Department;


(B) Provide analyses of previous simulations conducted by the manufacturer; and/or


(C) Conduct testing of basic models selected by the Department.


(k) *Alternative efficiency determination method (AEDM) for dedicated-purpose pool pump motors subject to requirements in subpart Z of part 431 of this subchapter*—(1) *Criteria an AEDM must satisfy.* A manufacturer is not permitted to apply an AEDM to a basic model of dedicated-purpose pool pump motors, to determine its efficiency pursuant to this section unless:


(i) The AEDM is derived from a mathematical model that estimates the energy efficiency characteristics and losses of the basic model as measured by the applicable DOE test procedure and accurately represents the mechanical and electrical characteristics of that basic model;


(ii) The AEDM is based on engineering or statistical analysis, computer simulation or modeling, or other analytic evaluation of actual performance data; and


(iii) The manufacturer has validated the AEDM in accordance with paragraph (i)(2) of this section with basic models that meet the current Federal energy conservation standards (if any).


(2) *Validation of an AEDM.* Before using an AEDM, the manufacturer must validate the AEDM's accuracy and reliability by comparing the simulated full-load losses to tested full-load losses as follows:


(i) *Select basic models.* A manufacturer must select at least five basic models compliant with any relevant energy conservation standards at § 431.485 of this subchapter (if any), in accordance with the criteria paragraphs (j)(2)(i)(A) through (D) of this section. In any instance where it is impossible for a manufacturer to select basic models for testing in accordance with all of these criteria, prioritize the criteria in the order in which they are listed. Within the limits imposed by the criteria, select basic models randomly. In addition, a basic model with a sample size of fewer than five units may not be selected to validate an AEDM.


(A) Two of the basic models must be among the five basic models with the highest unit volumes of production by the manufacturer in the prior 5 years.


(B) No two basic models may have the same total horsepower rating;


(C) No two basic models may have the same speed configuration; and


(D) Each basic model must have the lowest full-load efficiency among the basic models within the same equipment class.


(ii) *Apply the AEDM* to the selected basic models. Using the AEDM, calculate the simulated full-load losses for each of the selected basic models as follows: THP × (1/simulated full-load efficiency−1), where THP is the total horsepower of the basic model.


(iii) *Test at least five units of each of the selected basic models in accordance with § 431.483 of this subchapter.* Use the measured full-load losses for each of the tested units to determine the average of the measured full-load losses for each of the selected basic models.


(iv) *Compare.* The simulated full-load losses for each basic model (paragraph (i)(2)(ii) of this section) must be greater than or equal to 90 percent of the average of the measured full-load losses (paragraph (i)(2)(iii) of this section) (*i.e.,* 0.90 × average of the measured full-load losses ≤ simulated full-load losses).


(3) *Verification of an AEDM.* (i) Each manufacturer must periodically select basic models representative of those to which it has applied an AEDM. The manufacturer must select a sufficient number of basic models to ensure the AEDM maintains its accuracy and reliability. For each basic model selected for verification:


(A) Subject at least one unit to testing in accordance with § 431.483 of this subchapter by an accredited laboratory that meets the requirements of § 429.65(d). If one unit per basic model is selected, the simulated full-load losses for each basic model must be greater than or equal to 90 percent of the measured full-load losses (*i.e.,* 0.90 × the measured full-load losses ≤ simulated full-load losses). If more than one unit per basic model is selected, the simulated full-load losses for each basic model must be greater than or equal to 90 percent of the average measured full-load losses (*i.e.,* 0.90 × average of the measured full-load losses ≤ simulated full-load losses); or


(B) Have a certification body recognized under § 429.73 certify the results of the AEDM accurately represent the basic model's full-load efficiency. The simulated full-load efficiency for each basic model must be greater than or equal to 90 percent of the certified full-load losses (*i.e.,* 0.90 × certified full-load losses ≤ simulated full-load losses).


(ii) Each manufacturer that has used an AEDM under this section must have available for inspection by the Department of Energy records showing:


(A) The method or methods used to develop the AEDM;


(B) The mathematical model, the engineering or statistical analysis, computer simulation or modeling, and other analytic evaluation of performance data on which the AEDM is based;


(C) Complete test data, product information, and related information that the manufacturer has generated or acquired pursuant to paragraphs (i)(2) and (3) of this section; and


(D) The calculations used to determine the simulated full-load efficiency of each basic model to which the AEDM was applied.


(iii) If requested by the Department, the manufacturer must:


(A) Conduct simulations to predict the performance of particular basic models of dedicated-purpose pool pump motors specified by the Department;


(B) Provide analyses of previous simulations conducted by the manufacturer;


(C) Conduct testing of basic models selected by the Department; or


(D) A combination of the foregoing.


(l) *Alternate Efficiency Determination Method (AEDM) for air-cooled, three-phase, small commercial package air conditioning and heating equipment with a cooling capacity of less than 65,000 Btu/h and air-cooled, three-phase, variable refrigerant flow multi-split air conditioners and heat pumps with less than 65,000 Btu/h cooling capacity*—(1) *Applicability.* (i) For air-cooled, three-phase, small commercial package air conditioning and heating equipment with a cooling capacity of less than 65,000 Btu/h and air-cooled, three-phase, variable refrigerant flow multi-split air conditioners and heat pumps with a cooling capacity of less than 65,000 Btu/h subject to standards in terms of seasonal energy efficiency ratio (SEER) and heating seasonal performance factor (HSPF), representations with respect to the energy use or efficiency, including compliance certifications, are subject to the requirements in § 429.70(c) of this title as it appeared in the 10 CFR parts 200-499 edition revised as of January 1, 2021.


(ii) For air-cooled, three-phase, small commercial package air conditioning and heating equipment with a cooling capacity of less than 65,000 Btu/h and air-cooled, three-phase, variable refrigerant flow multi-split air conditioners and heat pumps with a cooling capacity of less than 65,000 Btu/h subject to standards in terms of seasonal energy efficiency ratio 2 (SEER2) and heating seasonal performance factor 2 (HSPF2) metrics, representations with respect to the energy use or efficiency, including compliance certifications, are subject to the requirements in this section. If manufacturers choose to certify compliance with any standards in terms of SEER2 and HSPF2 prior to the applicable compliance date for those standards, the requirements of this section must be followed.


(2) *Criteria an AEDM must satisfy.* A manufacturer may not apply an AEDM to an individual model/combination to determine its represented values (SEER2 and HSPF2, as applicable) pursuant to this section unless authorized pursuant to § 429.67(e) and:


(i) The AEDM is derived from a mathematical model that estimates the energy efficiency or energy consumption characteristics of the individual model or combination (SEER2 and HSPF2, as applicable) as measured by the applicable DOE test procedure; and


(ii) The manufacturer has validated the AEDM in accordance with paragraph (i)(3) of this section.


(3) *Validation of an AEDM.* For manufacturers whose models of air-cooled, three-phase, small commercial package air conditioning and heating equipment with a cooling capacity of less than 65,000 Btu/h or air-cooled, three-phase, variable refrigerant flow multi-split air conditioners and heat pumps with a cooling capacity of less than 65,000 Btu/h are otherwise identical to their central air conditioner and heat pump models (meaning differing only in phase or voltage of the electrical system and the phase or voltage of power input for which the motors and compressors are designed) and who have validated an AEDM for the otherwise identical central air conditioners and heat pumps under § 429.70(e)(2), no additional validation is required. For manufacturers whose models of air-cooled, three-phase, small commercial package air conditioning and heating equipment with a cooling capacity of less than 65,000 Btu/h or air-cooled, three-phase, variable refrigerant flow multi-split air conditioners and heat pumps with a cooling capacity of less than 65,000 Btu/h who have not validated an AEDM for otherwise identical central air conditioners and heat pumps under § 429.70(e)(2) must, before using an AEDM, validate the AEDM's accuracy and reliability as follows:


(i) *Minimum testing.* The manufacturer must test a single unit each of two basic models in accordance with paragraph (i)(3)(iii) of this section. Using the AEDM, calculate the energy use or efficiency for each of the tested individual models/combinations within each basic model. Compare the represented value based on testing and the AEDM energy use or efficiency output according to paragraph (i)(3)(ii) of this section. The manufacturer is responsible for ensuring the accuracy and reliability of the AEDM and that their representations are appropriate and the models being distributed in commerce meet the applicable standards, regardless of the amount of testing required in this paragraph.


(ii) *Individual model/combination tolerances.* This paragraph (i)(3)(ii) provides the tolerances applicable to individual models/combinations rated using an AEDM.


(A) The predicted represented values for each individual model/combination calculated by applying the AEDM may not be more than four percent greater (for measures of efficiency) or less (for measures of consumption) than the values determined from the corresponding test of the individual model/combination.


(B) The predicted energy efficiency or consumption for each individual model/combination calculated by applying the AEDM must meet or exceed the applicable federal energy conservation standard.


(iii) *Additional test unit requirements.* (A) Each AEDM must be supported by test data obtained from physical tests of current individual models/combinations; and


(B) Test results used to validate the AEDM must meet or exceed current, applicable Federal standards as specified in part 431 of this chapter; and


(C) Each test must have been performed in accordance with the applicable DOE test procedure with which compliance is required at the time the individual models/combinations used for validation are distributed in commerce.


(4) *AEDM records retention requirements.* If a manufacturer has used an AEDM to determine representative values pursuant to this section, the manufacturer must have available upon request for inspection by the Department records showing:


(i) The AEDM, including the mathematical model, the engineering or statistical analysis, and/or computer simulation or modeling that is the basis of the AEDM;


(ii) Product information, complete test data, AEDM calculations, and the statistical comparisons from the units tested that were used to validate the AEDM pursuant to paragraph (i)(3) of this section; and


(iii) Product information and AEDM calculations for each individual model/combination to which the AEDM has been applied.


(5) *Additional AEDM requirements.* If requested by the Department, the manufacturer must:


(i) Conduct simulations before representatives of the Department to predict the performance of particular individual models/combinations;


(ii) Provide analyses of previous simulations conducted by the manufacturer; and/or


(iii) Conduct certification testing of individual models or combinations selected by the Department.


(6) *AEDM verification testing.* DOE may use the test data for a given individual model/combination generated pursuant to § 429.104 to verify the represented value determined by an AEDM as long as the following process is followed:


(i) *Selection of units.* DOE will obtain one or more units for test from retail, if available. If units cannot be obtained from retail, DOE will request that a unit be provided by the manufacturer;


(ii) *Lab requirements.* DOE will conduct testing at an independent, third-party testing facility of its choosing. In cases where no third-party laboratory is capable of testing the equipment, testing may be conducted at a manufacturer's facility upon DOE's request.


(iii) *Testing.* At no time during verification testing may the lab and the manufacturer communicate without DOE authorization. If, during test set-up or testing, the lab indicates to DOE that it needs additional information regarding a given individual model or combination in order to test in accordance with the applicable DOE test procedure, DOE may organize a meeting between DOE, the manufacturer, and the lab to provide such information.


(iv) *Failure to meet certified value.* If an individual model/combination tests worse than its certified value (*i.e.,* lower than the certified efficiency value or higher than the certified consumption value) by more than 5 percent, or the test results in cooling capacity that is lower than its certified cooling capacity, DOE will notify the manufacturer. DOE will provide the manufacturer with all documentation related to the test set up, test conditions, and test results for the unit. Within the timeframe allotted by DOE, the manufacturer may present any and all claims regarding testing validity.


(v) *Tolerances.* This paragraph specifies the tolerances DOE will permit when conducting verification testing.


(A) For consumption metrics, the result from a DOE verification test must be less than or equal to 1.05 multiplied by the certified represented value.


(B) For efficiency metrics, the result from a DOE verification test must be greater than or equal to 0.95 multiplied by the certified represented value.


(vi) *Invalid represented value.* If, following discussions with the manufacturer and a retest where applicable, DOE determines that the verification testing was conducted appropriately in accordance with the DOE test procedure, DOE will issue a determination that the represented values for the basic model are invalid. The manufacturer must conduct additional testing and re-rate and re-certify the individual models/combinations within the basic model that were rated using the AEDM based on all test data collected, including DOE's test data.


(vii) *AEDM use.* This paragraph (i)(6)(vii) specifies when a manufacturer's use of an AEDM may be restricted due to prior invalid represented values.


(A) If DOE has determined that a manufacturer made invalid represented values on individual models/combinations within two or more basic models rated using the manufacturer's AEDM within a 24-month period, the manufacturer must test the least efficient and most efficient individual model/combination within each basic model in addition to the individual model/combination specified in § 429.16(b)(2). The 24-month period begins with a DOE determination that a represented value is invalid through the process outlined in paragraphs (i)(6)(i) through (vi) of this section.


(B) If DOE has determined that a manufacturer made invalid represented values on more than four basic models rated using the manufacturer's AEDM within a 24-month period, the manufacturer may no longer use an AEDM.


(C) If a manufacturer has lost the privilege of using an AEDM, the manufacturer may regain the ability to use an AEDM by:


(*1*) Investigating and identifying cause(s) for failures;


(*2*) Taking corrective action to address cause(s);


(*3*) Performing six new tests per basic model, a minimum of two of which must be performed by an independent, third-party laboratory from units obtained from retail to validate the AEDM; and


(*4*) Obtaining DOE authorization to resume use of an AEDM.




(m) *Alternative efficiency determination method (AEDM) for general pumps*—(1) *Criteria an AEDM must satisfy.* A manufacturer may not apply an AEDM to a basic model to determine its efficiency pursuant to this section, unless:


(i) The AEDM is derived from a mathematical model that estimates the energy efficiency or energy consumption characteristics of the basic model as measured by the applicable DOE test procedure;


(ii) The AEDM is based on engineering or statistical analysis, computer simulation or modeling, or other analytic evaluation of performance data; and


(iii) The manufacturer has validated the AEDM, in accordance with paragraph (m)(2) of this section.


(2) *Validation of an AEDM.* Before using an AEDM, the manufacturer must validate the AEDM's accuracy and reliability as follows:


(i) *AEDM overview.* The manufacturer must select at least the minimum number of basic models for each validation class specified in paragraph (m)(2)(iv) of this section to which the particular AEDM applies. Using the AEDM, calculate the PEI for each of the selected basic models. Test each basic model and determine the represented value(s) in accordance with § 429.63(a). Compare the results from the testing and the AEDM output according to paragraph (m)(2)(ii) of this section. The manufacturer is responsible for ensuring the accuracy and repeatability of the AEDM.


(ii) *AEDM basic model tolerances.* (A) The predicted representative PEI for each basic model calculated by applying the AEDM may not be more than five percent less than the represented PEI determined from the corresponding test of the model.


(B) The predicted constant or variable load pump energy index for each basic model calculated by applying the AEDM must meet or exceed the applicable federal energy conservation standard.


(iii) *Additional test unit requirements.* (A) Each AEDM must be supported by test data obtained from physical tests of current models; and


(B) Test results used to validate the AEDM must meet or exceed current, applicable Federal standards as specified in part 431 of this chapter; and


(C) Each test must have been performed in accordance with the applicable DOE test procedure with which compliance is required at the time the basic models used for validation are distributed in commerce.


(iv) *Pump validation classes.*

(3) *AEDM records retention requirements.* If a manufacturer has used an AEDM to determine representative values pursuant to this section, the manufacturer must have available upon request for inspection by the Department records showing:


(i) The AEDM, including the mathematical model, the engineering or statistical analysis, and/or computer simulation or modeling that is the basis of the AEDM;


(ii) Regarding the units tested that were used to validate the AEDM pursuant to paragraph (m)(2) of this section, equipment information, complete test data, AEDM calculations, and the statistical comparisons; and


(iii) For each basic model to which the AEDM was applied, equipment information and AEDM calculations.


(4) *Additional AEDM requirements.* If requested by the Department, the manufacturer must:


(i) Conduct simulations before representatives of the Department to predict the performance of particular basic models of the equipment to which the AEDM was applied;


(ii) Provide analyses of previous simulations conducted by the manufacturer; and/or


(iii) Conduct certification testing of basic models selected by the Department.


(5) *AEDM verification testing.* DOE may use the test data for a given individual model generated pursuant to § 429.104 to verify the certified rating determined by an AEDM as long as the following process is followed:


(i) *Selection of units.* DOE will obtain units for test from retail, where available. If units cannot be obtained from retail, DOE will request that a unit be provided by the manufacturer.


(ii) *Lab requirements.* DOE will conduct testing at an independent, third-party testing facility of its choosing. In cases where no third-party laboratory is capable of testing the equipment, it may be tested at a manufacturer's facility upon DOE's request.


(iii) *Manufacturer participation.* Testing will be performed without manufacturer representatives on-site.


(iv) *Testing.* All verification testing will be conducted in accordance with the applicable DOE test procedure, as well as each of the following to the extent that they apply:


(A) Any active test procedure waivers that have been granted for the basic model;


(B) Any test procedure guidance that has been issued by DOE;


(C) If during test set-up or testing, the lab indicates to DOE that it needs additional information regarding a given basic model in order to test in accordance with the applicable DOE test procedure, DOE may organize a meeting between DOE, the manufacturer and the lab to provide such information.


(D) At no time during the process may the lab communicate directly with the manufacturer without DOE present.


(v) *Failure to meet certified rating.* If a model's test results are worse than its certified rating by an amount exceeding the tolerance prescribed in paragraph (f)(5)(vi) of this section, DOE will notify the manufacturer. DOE will provide the manufacturer with all documentation related to the test set up, test conditions, and test results for the unit. Within the timeframe allotted by DOE, the manufacturer may then present all claims regarding testing validity.


(vi) *Tolerances.* For consumption metrics, the result from a DOE verification test must be less than or equal to the certified rating × (1 + the applicable tolerance).


(vii) *Invalid rating.* If, following discussions with the manufacturer and a retest where applicable, DOE determines that the testing was conducted appropriately in accordance with the DOE test procedure, the rating for the model will be considered invalid. The manufacturer must conduct additional testing and re-rate and re-certify the basic models that were rated using the AEDM based on all test data collected, including DOE's test data.


(viii) *AEDM use.* This paragraph (m)(5)(viii) specifies when a manufacturer's use of an AEDM may be restricted due to prior invalid represented values.


(A) If DOE has determined that a manufacturer made invalid ratings on two or more models rated using the same AEDM within a 24-month period, the manufacturer must take the action listed in the table corresponding to the number of invalid certified ratings. The twenty-four month period begins with a DOE determination that a rating is invalid through the process outlined previously. Additional invalid ratings apply for the purposes of determining the appropriate consequences if the subsequent determination(s) is based on selection of a unit for testing within the twenty-four-month period (*i.e.,* subsequent determinations need not be made within 24 months).


(B) If, as a result of eight or more invalid ratings, a manufacturer has lost the privilege of using an AEDM for rating, the manufacturer may regain the ability to use an AEDM by:


(*1*) Investigating and identifying cause(s) for failures;


(*2*) Taking corrective action to address cause(s);


(*3*) Performing six new tests per validation class, a minimum of two of which must be performed by an independent, third-party laboratory to validate the AEDM; and


(*4*) Obtaining DOE authorization to resume use of the AEDM.


(n) *Alternative efficiency determination method (AEDM) for fans and blowers.* (1) *Criteria an AEDM must satisfy.* A manufacturer is not permitted to apply an AEDM to a basic model of fan or blower to determine represented values pursuant to this section unless:


(i) The AEDM is derived from a mathematical model that estimates the energy use characteristics of the basic model as measured by the applicable DOE test procedure and accurately represents the performance characteristics of that basic model;


(ii) The AEDM is based on engineering or statistical analysis, computer simulation or modeling, or other analytic evaluation of actual performance data; and


(iii) The manufacturer has validated the AEDM in accordance with paragraph (n)(2) of this section.


(2) *Validation of an AEDM.* Before using an AEDM, the manufacturer must validate the AEDM's accuracy and reliability by comparing the simulated FEI, or simulated efficacy, as applicable, to the tested FEI or tested efficacy, as applicable (determined by testing), as follows.


(i) *Select basic models.* For each fan or blower validation class listed as follows: centrifugal housed fan; radial housed fan; centrifugal inline fan; centrifugal unhoused fan; centrifugal power roof ventilator exhaust fan; centrifugal power roof ventilator supply fan; axial inline fan; axial panel fan; axial power roof ventilator; unhoused ACFH; axial housed ACFH; and housed centrifugal air circulating fan to which the AEDM is applied, a manufacturer must select at least two basic models compliant with any energy conservation standards in subpart J of part 431 of this chapter. In addition, at least one basic model selected for validation testing should include a motor, or a motor and controller if the AEDM is applied to a basic model with a motor or to a basic model with a motor and controller.


(ii) *Apply the AEDM* to the selected basic models. Using the AEDM, calculate the simulated FEI, or efficacy, as applicable, for each of the selected basic models.


(iii) *Testing.* Test a sample of units of each of the selected basic models in accordance with 10 CFR 431.174 and determine the FEI or efficacy, as applicable, in accordance with § 429.69(a)(1) and (b)(1) as applicable.


(iv) *Compare.* The simulated FEI or simulated efficacy, as applicable, for each basic model must be less than or equal to 105 percent of the FEI or efficacy, as applicable, determined in paragraph (n)(2)(iii) of this section through testing.


(v) *Additional AEDM requirements.* When making representations of values other than FEI (*e.g.,* FEP, fan shaft power) or efficacy (as applicable) for a basic model that relies on an AEDM, all other representations are required to be based on the same AEDM results used to generate the represented value of FEI or efficacy.


(3) *Verification of an AEDM*—(i) *Periodic review*s. Each manufacturer must periodically select basic models representative of those to which it has applied an AEDM. The manufacturer must select a sufficient number of basic models to ensure the AEDM maintains its accuracy and reliability. For each basic model selected for verification: subject at least one unit to testing in accordance with 10 CFR 431.174. The provisions in paragraph (n)(2)(iv) of this section must be met.


(ii) *Inspection records.* Each manufacturer that has used an AEDM under this section must have available for inspection by the Department of Energy records showing:


(A) The method or methods used to develop the AEDM;


(B) The mathematical model, the engineering or statistical analysis, computer simulation or modeling, and other analytic evaluation of performance data on which the AEDM is based;


(C) Complete test data, equipment information, and related information that the manufacturer has generated or acquired pursuant to paragraphs (n)(2) and (3) of this section; and


(D) The calculations used to determine the simulated FEI or simulated weighted-average FEI, as applicable, of each basic model to which the AEDM was applied.


(iii) *Simulations.* If requested by the Department, the manufacturer must:


(A) Conduct simulations to predict the performance of particular basic models of electric motors specified by the Department;


(B) Provide analyses of previous simulations conducted by the manufacturer; and/or


(C) Conduct testing of basic models selected by the Department.





---

[N] [76 FR 12451, Mar. 7, 2011; 76 FR 24780, May 2, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 79595, Dec. 31, 2013; 79 FR 25505, May 5, 2014; 79 FR 27410, May 13, 2014; 80 FR 152, Jan. 5, 2015; 79 FR 40565, July 11, 2014; 81 FR 4145, Jan. 25, 2016; 81 FR 37054, June 8, 2016; 81 FR 89304, Dec. 9, 2016; 82 FR 1100, Jan. 4, 2017; 82 FR 1475, Jan. 5, 2017; 87 FR 43979, July 22, 2022; 87 FR 45195, July 27, 2022; 87 FR 63649, Oct. 19, 2022; 87 FR 63894, Oct. 20, 2022; 87 FR 77321, Dec. 16, 2022; 88 FR 17973, Mar. 24, 2023; 88 FR 21837 Apr. 11, 2023; 88 FR 27388, May 1, 2023; 88 FR 28835, May 4, 2023; 88 FR 40472, June 21, 2023; 88 FR 53375, Aug. 8, 2023; 89 FR 44034, May 20, 2024; 89 FR 82070, Oct. 9, 2024]






