# § 431.244   Hearing decisions.

(a) Hearing recommendations or decisions must be based exclusively on evidence introduced at the hearing.


(b) The record must consist only of—


(1) The transcript or recording of testimony and exhibits, or an official report containing the substance of what happened at the hearing;


(2) All papers and requests filed in the proceeding; and


(3) The recommendation or decision of the hearing officer.


(c) The applicant or beneficiary must have access to the record at a convenient place and time.


(d) In any evidentiary hearing, the decision must be a written one that—


(1) Summarizes the facts; and


(2) Identifies the regulations supporting the decision.


(e) In a *de novo* hearing, the decision must—


(1) Specify the reasons for the decision; and


(2) Identify the supporting evidence and regulations.


(f) The agency must take final administrative action as follows: 


(1) Ordinarily, within 90 days from:


(i) The date the enrollee filed an MCO, PIHP, or PAHP appeal, not including the number of days the enrollee took to subsequently file for a State fair hearing; or


(ii) For all other fair hearings, the date the agency receives a request for a fair hearing in accordance with § 431.221(a)(1).


(2) As expeditiously as the enrollee's health condition requires, but no later than 3 working days after the agency receives, from the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP, the case file and information for any appeal of a denial of a service that, as indicated by the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP—


(i) Meets the criteria for expedited resolution as set forth in § 438.410(a) of this chapter, but was not resolved within the timeframe for expedited resolution; or 


(ii) Was resolved within the timeframe for expedited resolution, but reached a decision wholly or partially adverse to the enrollee. 


(3) In the case of individuals granted an expedited fair hearing in accordance with § 431.224(a)—


(i) For a claim related to eligibility described in § 431.220(a)(1), or any claim described in § 431.220(a)(2) (relating to a nursing facility) or § 431.220(a)(3) (related to preadmission and annual resident review), as expeditiously as possible and, effective no later than the date described in § 435.1200(i) of this chapter, no later than 7 working days after the agency receives a request for expedited fair hearing; or


(ii) For a claim related to services or benefits described in § 431.220(a)(1) as expeditiously as possible and, effective no later than the date described in § 435.1200(i) of this chapter, within the time frame in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.


(iii) For a claim related to services or benefits described in § 431.220(a)(4), (5) or (6), in accordance with the time frame in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.


(4)(i) The agency must take final administrative action on a fair hearing request within the time limits set forth in this paragraph except in unusual circumstances when—


(A) The agency cannot reach a decision because the appellant requests a delay or fails to take a required action; or


(B) There is an administrative or other emergency beyond the agency's control.


(ii) The agency must document the reasons for any delay in the appellant's record.


(g) The public must have access to all agency hearing decisions, subject to the requirements of subpart F of this part for safeguarding of information. 



---

[N] [44 FR 17932, Mar. 29, 1979, as amended at 67 FR 41095, June 14, 2002; 81 FR 27853, May 6, 2016; 81 FR 86449, Nov. 30, 2016]




