# § 132.1   Definitions.

When used in this part, the following terms shall have the meaning indicated:


(a) *Absolute* (*or quantitative*) *quotas.* “Absolute (or quantitative) quotas” are those which permit a limited number of units of specified merchandise to be entered or withdrawn for consumption during specified periods. Once the quantity permitted under the quota is filled, no further entries or withdrawals for consumption of merchandise subject to quota are permitted. Some absolute quotas limit the entry or withdrawal of merchandise from particular countries (geographic quotas) while others are global quotas and limit the entry or withdrawal of merchandise not by source but by total quantity.


(b) *Tariff-rate quotas.* “Tariff-rate quotas” permit a specified quantity of merchandise to be entered or withdrawn for consumption at a reduced duty rate during a specified period.


(c) [Reserved]


(d) *Presentation.* “Presentation” is the delivery in proper form to the appropriate Customs officer of:


(1) An entry summary for consumption, which shall serve as both the entry and the entry summary, with estimated duties attached (see § 141.0a(b)); or


(2) An entry summary for consumption, which shall serve as both the entry and the entry summary, without estimated duties attached, if the entry/entry summary information and a valid scheduled statement date (pursuant to § 24.25 of this chapter) have been successfully received by Customs via the Automated Broker Interface; or


(3) A withdrawal for consumption with estimated duties attached.


(e) *Quota-class merchandise.* “Quota-class merchandise” is any imported merchandise subject to limitations under an absolute or a tariff-rate quota.


(f) *Quota priority.* “Quota priority” is the precedence granted to one entry or withdrawal for consumption of quota-class merchandise over other entries or withdrawals of merchandise subject to the same quota.


(g) *Quota status.* “Quota status” is the standing which entitles quota-class merchandise to admission under an absolute quota, or to a reduced rate of duty under a tariff-rate quota, or to any other quota benefit.



---

[N] [T.D. 73-203, 38 FR 20230, July 30, 1973, as amended by T.D. 79-221, 44 FR 46814, Aug. 9, 1979; T.D. 89-104, 54 FR 50498, Dec. 7, 1989]




