# § 62.14451   What are the testing requirements for HMIWI that are not small rural?

(a) Except as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, you must conduct an initial performance test for PM, opacity, CO, dioxin/furan, HCl, Pb, Cd, Hg, SO_2_, NO_X_ and fugitive ash emissions using the test methods and procedures outlined in § 62.14452.


(b) After the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 62.14470, whichever date comes first, you must: 


(1) Determine compliance with the opacity limit by conducting an annual performance test (no more than 12 months following the previous performance test) using the applicable procedures and test methods listed in § 62.14452. 


(2) Determine compliance with the PM, CO, and HCl emission limits by conducting an annual performance test (no more than 12 months following the previous performance test) using the applicable procedures and test methods listed in § 62.14452. If all three performance tests over a 3-year period indicate compliance with the emission limit for a pollutant (PM, CO, or HCl), you may forego a performance test for that pollutant for the next 2 years. At a minimum, you must conduct a performance test for PM, CO, and HCl every third year (no more than 36 months following the previous performance test). If a performance test conducted every third year indicates compliance with the emission limit for a pollutant (PM, CO, or HCl), you may forego a performance test for that pollutant for an additional 2 years. If any performance test indicates noncompliance with the respective emission limit, you must conduct a performance test for that pollutant annually until all annual performance tests over a 3-year period indicate compliance with the emission limit. 


(3) If you use a large HMIWI that commenced construction or modification according to § 62.14400(a)(2)(ii), determine compliance with the visible emissions limits for fugitive emissions from flyash/bottom ash storage and handling by conducting a performance test using EPA Reference Method 22 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 on an annual basis (no more than 12 months following the previous performance test).


(c) The 2,000 lb/wk limitation for small rural HMIWI does not apply during performance tests.


(d) The EPA Administrator may request a repeat performance test at any time. 


(e) You may use the results of previous emissions tests to demonstrate compliance with the emissions limits, provided that the conditions in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section are met:


(1) Your previous emissions tests must have been conducted using the applicable procedures and test methods listed in § 62.14452. Previous emissions test results obtained using the EPA-accepted voluntary consensus standards are also acceptable.


(2) The HMIWI at your facility must currently be operated in a manner (*e.g.,* with charge rate, secondary chamber temperature, etc.) that would be expected to result in the same or lower emissions than observed during the previous emissions test(s), and the HMIWI may not have been modified such that emissions would be expected to exceed the results from previous emissions test(s).


(3) The previous emissions test(s) must have been conducted in 1996 or later.



---

[N] [65 FR 49881, Aug. 15, 2000, as amended at 78 FR 28068, May 13, 2013]




