# § 308.512   Declaration of shipments under Open Cargo Policy.

(a) *Closing report.* (1) The assured shall file with the underwriting agent, not later than the twenty-fifth (25th) day of each month, a closing report for all inward shipments and a closing report for all outward shipments, and pay the premium and fees, for all shipments covered during the preceding calendar month, as required by Clause 19. Each closing report shall be filed in duplicate on Form MA-313, prescribed in § 308.533, supported by a certificate executed by the assured on Form MA-313-A, prescribed in § 308.534. If the assured has no shipments to report during any calendar month, the closing report, Form MA-313, shall, nevertheless, be filed with one or both of the following statements, depending upon their applicability, noted thereon certifying that:


(i) No inward shipment coming within the scope of this policy arrived at destination during the preceding calendar month, and that during the preceding calendar month no knowledge has come to the assured of an inward shipment covered under the terms of the policy which will not arrive by reason of loss, frustration or other similar cause,


(ii) No outward shipment coming within the scope of this policy was made during the preceding calendar month, and


(iii) Whenever a sea passage is made with respect to cargo covered under the policy by a barge or sailing vessel the assured shall note that fact upon the closing report, unless the Maritime Administrator otherwise agrees.


(2) An assured reporting for one calendar month shall not include therein a report of a shipment due to be reported in the report for the next succeeding calendar month. Thus, the report of January closing shipments filed in February does not include February closings.


(b) *Inward shipments.* The closing report covering inward shipments shall include:


(1) All such shipments which have arrived at the port of destination during the preceding calendar month, and


(2) All such shipments with respect to which inability to so arrive by reason of loss, frustration, or other similar causes has come to the knowledge of the assured during the preceding calendar month.


(c) *Outward shipments.* The closing report covering outward shipments shall include all such shipments which attached under the policy during the preceding calendar month.


(d) *Definition of inward and outward shipments.* A shipment will be classified as an inward shipment or as an outward shipment by reference to the geographical location of the assured with respect to the movement of the shipment. The address of the assured as stated in the application filed by him for the policy shall be deemed to be the assured's geographical location for the purpose of determining whether the shipment is inward or outward. To illustrate, if an assured has stated in his application that his address is in Hawaii, the assured's shipments of goods from the United States to Hawaii would be classified as inward, and his shipments from Hawaii to the United States would be classified as outward. Any shipments that cannot be classified as inward or outward under this definition shall be treated as inward shipments for the purposes of the declaration.


(e) *Supplemental closing report.* If an assured files a closing report and thereafter discovers that one or more additional shipments should have been included in the report, then, even though the assured has executed the certificate on Form MA-313-A, prescribed in § 308.534, or Form MA-313-B, prescribed in § 308.535, in connection with the closing report, the assured must nevertheless amend the closing report by filing a supplemental closing report supported by an appropriate certificate. The supplemental closing report must be accompanied by a statement in writing signed by the assured giving the reasons for the omission of such shipments from the original closing report. If the Maritime Administrator finds that the failure to file the complete closing report was either inadvertent or unintentional or arose by reason of causes beyond the control of the assured, the otherwise automatic termination of the policy by reason of a breach of the warranty embodied in Clause 20 shall be avoided pursuant to the provisions of Clause 23.




