# ยง 148.31   Effects taken abroad.

(a) *Exemption.* Each returning resident (including American citizens who are residents of American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Virgin Islands of the United States) is entitled to bring in free of duty and internal revenue tax under subheading 9804.00.45, and Chapter 98, U.S Note 3, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States, (19 U.S.C. 1202), all personal and household effects taken abroad. To ensure allowance of the exemption, articles of foreign origin should be registered in accordance with ยง 148.1. Automobiles and other vehicles, aircraft, boats, teams and saddle horses, together with their accessories, may be brought in free of duty if taken abroad for noncommercial use (see ยง 148.32). 


(b) *Repair or alteration while abroad.* If any such personal or household effect taken abroad has been advanced in value or improved in condition while abroad by repairs (including cleaning) not merely incidental to wear or use while abroad, or by alterations (including additions) which did not change the identity of the article, the cost or value of such repairs or alterations is subject to duty unless all or part of such cost or value is covered by an allowance of the $800 or $1,600 exemption for articles acquired abroad (see ยง 148.33). An effect taken abroad and there changed into a different article is dutiable at its full value when returned to the United States, unless covered in whole or in part by some provision for free entry.



---

[N] [T.D. 73-27, 38 FR 2449, Jan. 26, 1973, as amended by T.D. 78-394, 43 FR 49788, Oct. 25, 1978; T.D. 86-118, 51 FR 22516, June 20, 1986; T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51264, Dec. 21, 1988; T.D. 97-75, 62 FR 46441, Sept. 3, 1997; CBP Dec. 09-37, 74 FR 48854, Sept. 25, 2009]




