# § 117.3   Definitions.

As used in this part:


(a) The term *act* means the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended (Title III of Pub. L. 94-135).


(b) The term *action* means any act, activity, policy, rule, standard, or method of administration; or the use of any policy, rule, standard, or method of administration.


(c) The term *age* means how old a person is, or the number of years from the date of a person's birth.


(d) The term *age distinction* means any action using age or an age-related term.


(e) The term *age-related* means a word or words which necessarily imply a particular age or range of ages (for example, *children, adult, older persons,* but not *student*).


(f) The term *agency* means a Federal department or agency that is empowered to extend financial assistance.


(g) The term *applicant* means one who applies for Federal financial assistance.


(h) The term *Federal financial assistance* includes: (1) Grants and loans of Federal funds; (2) the grant or donation of Federal property and interests in property; (3) the detail of Federal personnel; (4) the sale and lease of, and the permission to use (on other than a casual or transient basis), Federal property or any interest in such property without consideration, or at a nominal consideration, or at a consideration which is reduced for the purpose of assisting the recipient, or in recognition of the public interest to be served by such sale or lease to the recipient; and (5) any Federal agreement, arrangement, or other contract which has as one of its purposes the provision of assistance. 


(i) The term *normal operation* means the operation of a business or activity without significant changes that would impair its ability to meet its objectives.


(j) The term *program or activity* means all of the operations of any entity described in paragraphs (j)(1) through (4) of this section, any part of which is extended Federal financial assistance:


(1)(i) A department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a State or of a local government; or


(ii) The entity of such State or local government that distributes such assistance and each such department or agency (and each other State or local government entity) to which the assistance is extended, in the case of assistance to a State or local government;


(2)(i) A college, university, or other postsecondary institution, or a public system of higher education; or


(ii) A local educational agency (as defined in 20 U.S.C. 7801), system of vocational education, or other school system;


(3)(i) An entire corporation, partnership, or other private organization, or an entire sole proprietorship—


(A) If assistance is extended to such corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship as a whole; or


(B) Which is principally engaged in the business of providing education, health care, housing, social services, or parks and recreation; or


(ii) The entire plant or other comparable, geographically separate facility to which Federal financial assistance is extended, in the case of any other corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship; or


(4) Any other entity which is established by two or more of the entities described in paragraph (j)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.


(k) The term *recipient* means one who receives any Federal financial assistance administered by the Small Business Administration. (See Appendix A.) The term *recipient* also shall be deemed to include *subrecipients* of SBA financial assistance.


(l) The term *SBA* means the Small Business Administration.


(m) The term *subrecipient* means any business concern that receives Federal financial assistance from the primary recipient of such financial assistance. A subrecipient is generally regarded as a recipient of Federal financial assistance and has all the duties of a recipient in these regulations.


(n) The term *statutory objective* means the purposes of the legislation as stated in an act, statute or ordinance or can be shown in the legislative history of any Federal statute, State statute, or local statute or ordinance adopted by an elected, general purpose legislative body.



---

[N] [50 FR 41648, Oct. 11, 1985, as amended at 68 FR 51349, Aug. 26, 2003]




