# ยง 22.300   Permits for take of eagle nests.

(a) *Purpose.* This section authorizes the take of a bald eagle nest or a golden eagle nest, including relocation, removal, and otherwise temporarily or permanently preventing eagles from using the nest structure for breeding, when there is no practicable alternative that would protect the interest to be served. Apply using Form 3-200-72.


(b) *Definitions.* The following terms used in this section have the meanings set forth in this paragraph (b):


*Nest take for emergency.* Take of an in-use or alternate eagle nest when necessary to alleviate an existing safety emergency for humans or eagles or to prevent a rapidly developing situation that is likely to result in a safety emergency for humans or eagles.


*Nest take for health and safety.* Take of an eagle nest when the removal is necessary to ensure public health and safety. Nest take for health and safety is limited to in-use nests prior to egg laying or alternate nests.


*Nest take for human-engineered structure.* Take of an eagle nest built on a human-engineered structure that creates, or is likely to create, a functional hazard that renders the structure inoperable for its intended use. Take is limited to in-use nests prior to egg-laying or alternate nests.


*Nest take for species protection.* Take of an eagle nest when nest removal is necessary to protect a species federally protected under the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531-1544) and included on the List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife (at ยง 17.11 of this subchapter). Take is limited to in-use nests prior to egg laying or alternate nests.


*Other purposes.* Take of an alternate eagle nest, provided the take is necessary to protect an interest in a particular locality and the activity necessitating the take or the mitigation for the take will, with reasonable certainty, provide a net benefit to eagles.


(c) *Eligibility for a general permit for nest take.* To qualify for a general permit, you must meet the requirements of ยง 22.210.


(1) General permits are available for bald eagle nest take for emergency, nest take for health and safety, or nest take for a human-engineered structure, or, if located in Alaska, other purposes.


(2) General permits are not available for take of golden eagle nests. General permits are not available for bald eagle nests if removal may result in the complete loss of a territory.


(3) General permits are not available if the nest is located in Indian country (18 U.S.C. 1151), unless the Tribe is the applicant.


(d) *Eligibility for a specific permit for nest take.* To qualify for a specific permit, you must meet the requirements of ยง 22.200. Specific permits are required for take of a golden eagle nest for any purpose, nest take for species protection, and, except in Alaska, nest take for other purposes.


(e) *Permits for species protection.* If you are applying for a nest-take permit for species protection, you must:


(1) Be a Federal, State, or Tribal agency responsible for implementing actions for the protection of the species of concern.


(2) Include documentation that:


(i) Describes relevant management efforts to protect the species of concern.


(ii) Identifies and describes how the nesting eagles are a limiting factor to recovery of the species using the best available scientific information and data.


(iii) Explains how take of eagle nests is likely to have a positive effect on recovery for the species of concern.


(f) *Permit conditions for nest take.* Permit conditions may include requirements to:


(1) Adjust the timing of your activity to minimize the effects of nest take on eagles.


(2) Place an obstruction in the nest or nest substrate.


(3) Minimize or deter renesting attempts that would cause the same emergency, safety, or functional hazard.


(4) Relocate the nest or provide suitable nesting substrate within the same territory.


(5) Remove chicks or eggs from an in-use nest for immediate transport to a foster nest, rehabilitation facility, or as otherwise directed by the Service.


(6) If nestlings or eggs are relocated with a nest or to a foster nest, monitor the nest to ensure adults are tending to nestlings or eggs.


(7) Monitor the area near the nest removal for one or more seasons to determine the effect on eagles.


(8) Submit an annual report using Form 3-202-16.


(g) *Tenure of permits.* General permits issued under this section are valid until the start of the next breeding season, not to exceed 1 year. The tenure of specific permits is set forth on the face of the permit and may not exceed 5 years.












