# § 686.120   What definitions apply to this part?

The following definitions apply to this part:


*Absent Without Official Leave (AWOL)* means an adverse enrollment status to which a student is assigned based on extended, unapproved absence from his/her assigned center or off-center place of duty. Students do not earn Job Corps allowances while in AWOL status.


*Applicable Local WDB* means a Local WDB that:


(1) Works with a Job Corps center and provides information on local employment opportunities and the job skills and credentials needed to obtain the opportunities; and


(2) Serves communities in which the graduates of the Job Corps seek employment.


*Applicable one-stop center* means a one-stop center that provides career transition services, such as referral, assessment, recruitment, and placement, to support the purposes of the Job Corps.


*Capital improvement* means any modification, addition, restoration or other improvement:


(1) Which increases the usefulness, productivity, or serviceable life of an existing site, facility, building, structure, or major item of equipment;


(2) Which is classified for accounting purposes as a “fixed asset;” and


(3) The cost of which increases the recorded value of the existing building, site, facility, structure, or major item of equipment and is subject to depreciation.


*Career technical training* means career and technical education and training.


*Career transition service provider* means an organization acting under a contract or other agreement with Job Corps to provide career transition services for graduates and, to the extent possible, for former students.


*Civilian Conservation Center (CCC)* means a center operated on public land under an agreement between the Department of Labor (the Department) and the Department of Agriculture, which provides, in addition to other training and assistance, programs of work-based learning to conserve, develop, or manage public natural resources or public recreational areas or to develop community projects in the public interest.


*Contract center* means a Job Corps center operated under a contract with the Department.


*Contracting officer* means an official authorized to enter into contracts or agreements on behalf of the Department.


*Enrollee* means an individual who has voluntarily applied for, been selected for, and enrolled in the Job Corps program, and remains with the program, but has not yet become a graduate. Enrollees also are referred to as “students” in this part.


*Enrollment* means the process by which an individual formally becomes a student in the Job Corps program.


*Former enrollee* means an individual who has voluntarily applied for, been selected for, and enrolled in the Job Corps program, but left the program prior to becoming a graduate.


*Graduate* means an individual who has voluntarily applied for, been selected for, and enrolled in the Job Corps program and who, as a result of participation in the program, has received a secondary school diploma or recognized equivalent, or has completed the requirements of a career technical training program that prepares individuals for employment leading to economic self-sufficiency or entrance into postsecondary education or training.


*Individual with a disability* means an individual with a disability as defined in sec. 3 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12102).


*Interagency agreement* means a formal agreement between the Department and another Federal agency administering and operating centers. The agreement establishes procedures for the funding, administration, operation, and review of those centers as well as the resolution of any disputes.


*Job Corps* means the Job Corps program established within the Department of Labor and described in sec. 143 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA).


*Job Corps center* means a facility and an organizational entity, including all of its parts, providing Job Corps training and designated as a Job Corps center, as described in sec. 147 of WIOA.


*Job Corps Director* means the chief official of the Job Corps or a person authorized to act for the Job Corps Director.


*Low-income individual* means an individual who meets the definition in WIOA sec. 3(36).


*National Office* means the national office of Job Corps.


*National training contractor* means a labor union, union-affiliated organization, business organization, association, or a combination of such organizations, which has a contract with the national office to provide career technical training, career transition services, or other services.


*Operational support services* means activities or services required to support the operation of Job Corps, including:


(1) Outreach and admissions services;


(2) Contracted career technical training and off-center training;


(3) Career transition services;


(4) Continued services for graduates;


(5) Certain health services; and


(6) Miscellaneous logistical and technical support.


*Operator* means a Federal, State or local agency, or a contractor selected under this subtitle to operate a Job Corps center under an agreement or contract with the Department.


*Outreach and admissions provider* means an organization that performs recruitment services, including outreach activities, and screens and enrolls youth under a contract or other agreement with Job Corps.


*Participant,* as used in this part, includes both graduates and enrollees and former enrollees that have completed their career preparation period. It also includes all enrollees and former enrollees who have remained in the program for at least 60 days.


*Placement* means student employment, entry into the Armed Forces, or enrollment in other training or education programs following separation from Job Corps.


*Regional appeal board* means the board designated by the Regional Director to consider student appeals of disciplinary discharges.


*Regional Director* means the chief Job Corps official of a regional office or a person authorized to act for the Regional Director.


*Regional office* means a regional office of Job Corps.


*Regional Solicitor* means the chief official of a regional office of the Department of Labor Office of the Solicitor, or a person authorized to act for the Regional Solicitor.


*Separation* means the action by which an individual ceases to be a student in the Job Corps program, either voluntarily or involuntarily.


*Service provider* means an entity selected under this subtitle to provide operational support services described in this subtitle to a Job Corps center.


*Student* means an individual enrolled in the Job Corps.


*Unauthorized goods* means:


(1) Firearms and ammunition;


(2) Explosives and incendiaries;


(3) Knives;


(4) Homemade weapons;


(5) All other weapons and instruments used primarily to inflict personal injury;


(6) Stolen property;


(7) Drugs, including alcohol, marijuana, depressants, stimulants, hallucinogens, tranquilizers, and drug paraphernalia except for drugs and/or paraphernalia that are prescribed for medical reasons; and


(8) Any other goods prohibited by the Secretary, center director, or center operator in a student handbook.




