# § 423.2   Definitions of terms used in this part.

*Aircraft* means a device that is:


(1) Used or intended to be used for flight in the air;


(2) Capable of carrying a pilot, a payload, and/or passengers;


(3) Controlled either by onboard crew or remotely; and/or


(4) Identified by the Federal Aviation Administration as: general aviation aircraft, bush planes, seaplanes, float planes, ski planes, gliders, and helicopters, including those that are float/ski-equipped, variations of model aircraft, and unmanned or uncrewed aircraft systems.


*Archaeological resource* means any material remains of past human life or activities which are of archaeological interest, as determined under 43 CFR part 7, including, but not limited to, pottery, basketry, bottles, weapons, projectiles, tools, structures or portions of structures, pit houses, rock paintings, rock carvings, intaglios, graves, human remains, or any portion of any of the foregoing items. Archaeological resources are a component of cultural resources.


*Authorized official* means the Commissioner of the Bureau of Reclamation and those Federal, State, local, and tribal officials, and agencies to which the Commissioner has delegated specific and limited authorities to enforce and implement this part 423.


*Camping* means erecting a tent or shelter; preparing a sleeping bag or other bedding material for use; parking a motor vehicle, motor home, or trailer; or mooring a vessel for the intended or apparent purpose of overnight occupancy.


*Closed* means a prohibition to all public access.


*Cultural resource* means any man-made or associated prehistoric, historic, architectural, sacred, or traditional cultural property and associated objects and documents that are of interest to archaeology, anthropology, history, or other associated disciplines. Cultural resources include archaeological resources, historic properties, traditional cultural properties, sacred sites, and cultural landscapes that are associated with human activity or occupation.


*Explosive* means any device or substance that can be ignited or detonated to produce a violent burst of gas and/or other materials, including, but not limited to, blasting caps and detonatable fireworks and pyrotechnics. This definition does not include fuel and ammunition when properly transported and used.


*Firearm* means:


(1) Any weapon (including a starter gun) which will, is designed to, or may readily be converted to expel a projectile by the action of an explosive;


(2) The frame or receiver of any such weapon; and


(3) Any firearm muffler or firearm silencer.


*Fishing* means taking or attempting to take, by any means, any fish, mollusk, or crustacean found in fresh or salt water.


*Geophysical discovery device* means any mechanism, tool, or equipment including, but not limited to, metal detectors and radar devices, that can be used to detect or probe for objects beneath land or water surfaces.


*Historic property* means any prehistoric or historic district, site, building, structure, or object included on, or eligible for inclusion on, the National Register of Historic Places, including artifacts, records, and material remains related to such a property or resource.


*Hunting* means taking or attempting to take wildlife by any means, except by trapping or fishing.


*Museum property* means personal property acquired according to some rational scheme and preserved, studied, or interpreted for public benefit, including, but not limited to, objects selected to represent archaeology, art, ethnography, history, documents, botany, paleontology, geology, and environmental samples.


*Natural resources* means assets or values related to the natural world, including, but not limited to, plants, animals, water, air, soils, minerals, geologic features and formations, fossils and other paleontological resources, scenic values, etc. Natural resources are those elements of the environment not created by humans.


*Off-road vehicle* means any motorized vehicle (including the standard automobile) designed for or capable of cross-country travel on or immediately over land, water, sand, snow, ice, marsh, swampland, or natural terrain. The term excludes all of the following:


(1) Nonamphibious registered motorboats;


(2) Military, fire, emergency, or law enforcement vehicles when used for emergency purpose;


(3) Self-propelled lawnmowers, snowblowers, garden or lawn tractors, and golf carts while being used for their designed purpose;


(4) Agricultural, timbering, construction, exploratory, and development equipment and vehicles while being used exclusively as authorized by permit, lease, license, agreement, or contract with Reclamation;


(5) Any combat or combat support vehicle when used in times of national defense emergencies;


(6) “Official use” vehicles;


(7) Wheelchairs and carts designed and used for transporting persons with disabilities; and


(8) *Electric bikes* as defined and codified at 43 CFR part 420.


*Operator* means a person who operates, drives, controls, has charge of, or is in actual physical control of any mode of transportation or other equipment.


*Permit* means any written document issued by an authorized official pursuant to subpart D of this part 423 authorizing a particular activity with specified time limits, locations, and/or other conditions.


*Person* means an individual, entity, or organization.


*Pet* means a domesticated animal other than livestock. (“Livestock” is any hoofed animal used for agricultural, riding, pulling, or packing purposes.)


*Public use limit* means any limitation on public uses or activities established by law or regulation.


*Real property* means any legal interest in land and the water, oil, gas, and minerals in, on, and beneath the land surface, together with the improvements, structures, and fixtures located thereon.


*Reclamation* means the Bureau of Reclamation, United States Department of the Interior.


*Reclamation facilities, lands, and waterbodies* means Reclamation facilities, Reclamation lands, and Reclamation waterbodies.


*Reclamation facility* means any facility constructed or acquired under Federal reclamation law that is situated on Reclamation lands and is used or occupied by Reclamation under a lease, easement, right-of-way, license, contract, or other arrangement. The term includes, but is not limited to, any of the following that are under the jurisdiction of or administered by Reclamation: dams, powerplants, buildings, switchyards, transmission lines, recreation facilities, fish and wildlife facilities, pumping plants, and warehouses.


*Reclamation lands* means any real property under the jurisdiction of or administered by Reclamation, and includes, but is not limited to, all acquired and withdrawn lands and lands in which Reclamation has a lease interest, easement, or right-of-way.


*Reclamation project* means any water supply, water delivery, flood control, or hydropower project, together with any associated facilities for fish, wildlife, recreation, or water treatment constructed or administered by Reclamation under the Federal reclamation laws (the Act of June 17, 1902 (32 Stat. 388, chapter 1093; 43 U.S.C. 371 *et seq.*), and Acts supplementary thereto and amendatory thereof).


*Reclamation waterbody* means any body of water situated on Reclamation lands or under Reclamation jurisdiction.


*Refuse* means any human or pet waste, litter, trash, garbage, rubbish, debris, contaminant, pollutant, waste liquid, or other discarded materials.


*Sacred site* means any specific, discrete, or narrowly delineated location on Federal land that is identified by an Indian tribe, or Indian individual determined to be an appropriately authoritative representative of an Indian religion, as sacred by virtue of its established religious significance to, or ceremonial use by, an Indian religion; provided that the tribe or appropriately authoritative representative of an Indian religion has informed the land managing agency of the existence of such a site.


*Special use area* means an area at or within a Reclamation facility, or an area of Reclamation lands or waterbodies, in which special rules for public conduct apply that may differ from those established in subpart C of this part 423. A special use area must be established by an authorized official as provided in subpart E of this part 423.


*State and local laws* means the laws, statutes, regulations, ordinances, codes, and court decisions of a State and of the counties, municipalities, or other governmental entities which are enabled by statute and vested with legislative authority.


*Traditional cultural property* means a discretely defined property that is eligible for inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places because of its association with cultural practices or beliefs of a living community that:


(1) Are rooted in that community's history; and


(2) Are important in maintaining the continuing cultural identity of the community.


*Trapping* means taking, or attempting to take, wildlife with a snare, trap, mesh, wire, or other implement, object, or mechanical device designed to entrap, ensnare, or kill animals, including fish.


*Vehicle* means every device in, upon, or by which a person or property is or may be transported or drawn on land, whether moved by mechanical, animal, or human power, including, but not limited to, automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, mini-bikes, snowmobiles, dune buggies, all-terrain vehicles, trailers, campers, bicycles, and those used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks; except wheelchairs used by persons with disabilities.


*Vessel* means any craft that is used or capable of being used as a means of transportation on or under water or ice, including, but not limited to, powerboats, cruisers, houseboats, sailboats, airboats, hovercraft, rowboats, canoes, kayaks, ice yachts, or personal watercraft. Inner tubes, air mattresses, and other personal flotation devices are not considered vessels. A seaplane may be considered a vessel.


*Weapon* means a firearm or any other instrument or substance designed, used, or which can be used to cause or threaten to cause pain, injury, or death.


*Wildlife* means any non-domestic member of the animal kingdom and includes a part, product, egg, offspring, or dead body or part thereof, including, but not limited to, mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, fish, mollusks, crustaceans, arthropod, coelenterate, or other invertebrate, whether or not bred, hatched, or born in captivity.


*You* means a person or entity on Reclamation facilities, lands, or waterbodies.



---

[N] [73 FR 75349, Dec. 11, 2008, as amended at 88 FR 80991, Nov. 21, 2023]




