# § 300.20   Interim acceptance and review of Bonneville Power Administration rates.

(a) *Opportunity to comment.* The Commission will publish in the _Federal Register_ notice of any filing made under this part, for which interim approval is requested. This notice will give interested persons an opportunity to submit written comments on whether interim approval should be granted.


(b) *Action on request for interim rate acceptance*—(1) *Deficient applications.* Upon receipt of an application that does not comply with the requirements of this part, the Commission may:


(i) Accept the application and order the rate schedule into effect on an interim basis, effective on the date requested by the Administrator or at such time as the Commission may otherwise order, on the condition that any deficiencies in the filing are corrected by the Administrator to the satisfaction of and within such time specified by the Director of the Office of Energy Market Regulation; or


(ii) Deny the Administrator's interim rate request and reject the application, if the Commission determines that the Administrator's application:


(A) Is patently deficient with respect to the filing requirements of this part; or


(B) Fails to comply with the applicable provisions of the Northwest Power Act or such other Acts as may be applicable.


(2) *Applications that are in compliance.* Upon receipt of an application that complies with the requirements of this part, the Commission may:


(i) Order the rate schedule into effect on an interim basis, effective on the date requested by the Administrator or at such time as the Commission may otherwise order; or


(ii) Deny the Administrator's interim rate request and review the application for final confirmation and approval of the rate schedule pursuant to the provisions of this part.


(c) *Condition of acceptance.* Any rate schedule the Commission allows to become effective on an interim basis under paragraph (b) of this section is subject to refund with interest.


(d) *Notice of action on interim approval.* The Commission will publish in the _Federal Register_ a notice of any action taken under paragraph (b) of this section and will mail notice to any person on the Commission's service list.



---

[N] [Order 382, 49 FR 25235, June 20, 1984, as amended by Order 699, 72 FR 45326, Aug. 14, 2007; Order 701, 72 FR 61054, Oct. 29, 2007]




