# § 60.705a   What records must I keep and what reports must I submit?

(a) You must notify the Administrator of the specific provisions in table 1 to this subpart or § 60.702a(c) with which you have elected to comply. Notification shall be submitted with the notification of initial start-up required by § 60.7(a)(3). If you elect at a later date to comply with an alternative provision of § 60.702a, then you must notify the Administrator 90 days before implementing a change and, upon implementing the change, you must conduct a performance as specified by § 60.704a within 180 days.


(b) If you use a non-flare control device or recovery system to comply with the TOC emission limit specified in table 1 to this subpart, then you must keep an up-to-date, readily accessible record of the data measured during each performance test to show compliance with the TOC emission limit. You must also include all of the data you use to comply with § 60.703a(a)(2). The same data specified in this paragraph must also be submitted in the initial performance test required in § 60.8 and the reports of all subsequently required performance tests where either the emission reduction efficiency of a combustion device or recovery system or outlet concentration of TOC is determined. Alternatively, you must keep records of each CEMS performance evaluation.


(1) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test or CEMS performance evaluation required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test or performance evaluation following the procedures specified in paragraph (l) of this section. Data collected using test methods and performance evaluations of CEMS measuring relative accuracy test audit (RATA) pollutants supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert*) at the time of the test or performance evaluation must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, owners and operators may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Data collected using test methods and performance evaluations of CEMS measuring RATA pollutants that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or alternate electronic file.


(2) If you use a boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 44 MW (150 million Btu/hour) or greater to comply with the TOC emission limit specified in table 1 to this subpart, then you are not required to submit a report containing performance test data; however, you must submit a description of the location at which the vent stream is introduced into the boiler or process heater.


(c) If you use a non-flare control device or recovery system to comply with the TOC emission limit specified in table 1 to this subpart, then you must keep up-to-date, readily accessible records of periods of operation during which the operating parameter limits established during the most recent performance test are exceeded or periods of operation where the TOC CEMS, averaged on a 3-hour block basis, indicate an exceedance of the emission standard in table 1 of this subpart. Additionally, you must record all periods when the TOC CEMS is inoperable. The Administrator may at any time require a report of these data. Periods of operation during which the operating parameter limits established during the most recent performance tests are exceeded are defined as follows:


(1) For absorbers:


(i) All 3-hour periods of operation during which the average absorbing liquid temperature was above the maximum absorbing liquid temperature established during the most recent performance test; and


(ii) All 3-hour periods of operation during which the average absorbing liquid specific gravity was outside the exit specific gravity range (*i.e.,* more than 0.1 unit above, or more than 0.1 unit below, the average absorbing liquid specific gravity) established during the most recent performance test.


(2) For boilers or process heaters:


(i) Whenever there is a change in the location at which the vent stream is introduced into the flame zone as required under § 60.703a(b); and


(ii) If the boiler or process heater has a design heat input capacity of less than 44 MW (150 million Btu/hr), then all 3-hour periods of operation during which the average firebox temperature was below the minimum firebox temperature during the most recent performance test.


(3) For catalytic incinerators:


(i) All 3-hour periods of operation during which the average temperature of the vent stream immediately before the catalyst bed is below the minimum temperature of the vent stream established during the most recent performance test.


(ii) All 3-hour periods of operation during which the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed is less than the average temperature difference of the device established during the most recent performance test.


(4) For carbon adsorbers:


(i) All carbon bed regeneration cycles during which the total mass stream flow or the total volumetric stream flow was below the minimum flow established during the most recent performance test, or


(ii) All carbon bed regeneration cycles during which the temperature of the carbon bed after regeneration (and after completion of any cooling cycle(s)) was greater than the maximum carbon bed temperature (in degrees Celsius) established during the most recent performance test.


(5) For condensers, all 3-hour periods of operation during which the average exit (product side) condenser operating temperature was above the maximum exit (product side) operating temperature established during the most recent performance test.


(6) For scrubbers used to control halogenated vent streams:


(i) All 3-hour periods of operation during which the average pH of the scrubber effluent is below the minimum pH of the scrubber effluent established during the most recent performance test,


(ii) All 3-hour periods of operation during which the average influent liquid flow to the scrubber is below the minimum influent liquid flow to the scrubber established during the most recent performance test, or


(iii) All 3-hour periods of operation during which the average liquid-to-gas ratio flow of the scrubber is below the minimum liquid-to-gas ratio of the scrubber established during the most recent performance test.


(7) For thermal incinerators, all 3-hour periods of operation during which the average firebox temperature was below the minimum firebox temperature established during the most recent performance test.


(8) For all other control devices, all periods (for the averaging time specified by the Administrator) when the operating parameter(s) established under § 60.703a(c) exceeded the operating limit established during the most recent performance test.


(d) You must keep up-to-date, readily accessible continuous records of the flow indication specified in table 2 to this subpart, as well as up-to-date, readily accessible records of all periods when the vent stream is diverted from the control device or recovery device or has no flow rate, including the records as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) For each flow event from a relief valve discharge subject to the requirements in § 60.702a(b)(1), you must include an estimate of the volume of gas, the concentration of TOC in the gas and the resulting emissions of TOC that released to the atmosphere using process knowledge and engineering estimates.


(2) For each flow event from a bypass line subject to the requirements in §§ 60.702a(b)(2) and 60.710a(e), you must maintain records sufficient to determine whether or not the detected flow included flow requiring control. For each flow event from a bypass line requiring control that is released either directly to the atmosphere or to a control device or recovery device not meeting the requirements in this subpart, you must include an estimate of the volume of gas, the concentration of TOC in the gas and the resulting emissions of TOC that bypassed the control device or recovery device using process knowledge and engineering estimates.


(e) If you use a boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 44 MW (150 million Btu/hour) or greater to comply with the TOC emission limit specified in table 1 to this subpart, then you must keep an up-to-date, readily accessible record of all periods of operation of the boiler or process heater. (Examples of such records could include records of steam use, fuel use, or monitoring data collected pursuant to other State or Federal regulatory requirements).


(f) If you use a flare to comply with the TOC emission standard specified in table 1 to this subpart, then you must keep up-to-date, readily accessible records of all visible emission readings, heat content determinations, flow rate measurements, and exit velocity determinations made during the initial visible emissions demonstration required by § 63.670(h) of part 63, subpart CC of this chapter, as applicable; and all periods during the compliance determination when the pilot flame or flare flame is absent.


(g) For each maintenance vent opening subject to the requirements of § 60.702a(c), you must keep the applicable records specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) You must maintain standard site procedures used to deinventory equipment for safety purposes (*e.g.,* hot work or vessel entry procedures) to document the procedures used to meet the requirements in § 60.702a(c). The current copy of the procedures must be retained and available on-site at all times. Previous versions of the standard site procedures, as applicable, must be retained for five years.


(2) If complying with the requirements of § 60.702a(c)(1)(i), and the lower explosive limit at the time of the vessel opening exceeds 10 percent, identification of the maintenance vent, the process units or equipment associated with the maintenance vent, the date of maintenance vent opening, and the lower explosive limit at the time of the vessel opening.


(3) If complying with the requirements of § 60.702a(c)(1)(ii), and either the vessel pressure at the time of the vessel opening exceeds 5 psig or the lower explosive limit at the time of the active purging was initiated exceeds 10 percent, identification of the maintenance vent, the process units or equipment associated with the maintenance vent, the date of maintenance vent opening, the pressure of the vessel or equipment at the time of discharge to the atmosphere and, if applicable, the lower explosive limit of the vapors in the equipment when active purging was initiated.


(4) If complying with the requirements of § 60.702a(c)(1)(iii), records of the estimating procedures used to determine the total quantity of VOC in the equipment and the type and size limits of equipment that contain less than 50 pounds of VOC at the time of maintenance vent opening. For each maintenance vent opening that contains greater than 50 pounds of VOC for which the inventory procedures specified in paragraph (g)(1) of this section are not followed or for which the equipment opened exceeds the type and size limits established in the records specified in this paragraph (g)(4), records that identify the maintenance vent, the process units or equipment associated with the maintenance vent, the date of maintenance vent opening, and records used to estimate the total quantity of VOC in the equipment at the time the maintenance vent was opened to the atmosphere.


(5) If complying with the requirements of § 60.702a(c)(1)(iv), identification of the maintenance vent, the process units or equipment associated with the maintenance vent, records documenting actions taken to comply with other applicable alternatives and why utilization of this alternative was required, the date of maintenance vent opening, the equipment pressure and lower explosive limit of the vapors in the equipment at the time of discharge, an indication of whether active purging was performed and the pressure of the equipment during the installation or removal of the blind if active purging was used, the duration the maintenance vent was open during the blind installation or removal process, and records used to estimate the total quantity of VOC in the equipment at the time the maintenance vent was opened to the atmosphere for each applicable maintenance vent opening.


(h) If you seek to comply with the requirements of this subpart by complying with the design production capacity provision in § 60.700a(c)(2) you must keep up-to-date, readily accessible records of any change in equipment or process operation that increases the design production capacity of the process unit in which the affected facility is located.


(i) If you seek to comply with the requirements of this subpart by complying with the flow rate cutoff in § 60.700a(c)(3) you must keep up-to-date, readily accessible records to indicate that the vent stream flow rate is less than 0.011 scm/min and of any change in equipment or process operation that increases the operating vent stream flow rate, including a measurement of the new vent stream flow rate.


(j) If you seek to comply with the requirements of this subpart by complying with the low concentration exemption in § 60.700a(c)(7) you must keep up-to-date, readily accessible records of any change in equipment or process operation that increases the concentration of the vent stream of the affected facility.


(k) You must submit to the Administrator semiannual reports of the information specified in paragraphs (k)(1) through (10) of this section. You are exempt from the reporting requirements specified in § 60.7(c). If there are no exceedances, periods, or events specified in paragraphs (k)(1) through (10) of this section that occurred during the reporting period, then you must include a statement in your report that no exceedances, periods, and events specified in paragraphs (k)(1) through (10) of this section occurred during the reporting period. The initial report must be submitted within 6 months after the initial start-up-date. On and after July 15, 2024 or once the report template for this subpart has been available on the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri*) for 1 year, whichever date is later, you must submit all subsequent reports using the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website for this subpart and following the procedure specified in paragraph (l) of this section. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated state agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports, the report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted. All semiannual reports must include the following general information: company name, address (including county), and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.


(1) Exceedances of monitored parameters recorded under paragraph (c) of this section. For each exceedance, the report must include a list of the affected facilities or equipment, the monitored parameter that was exceeded, the start date and time of the exceedance, the duration (in hours) of the exceedance, an estimate of the quantity in pounds of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, a description of the method used to estimate the emissions, the cause of the exceedance (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken.


(2) All periods recorded under paragraph (d) of this section when the vent stream is diverted from the control device or recovery device, or has no flow rate, including the information specified in paragraphs (k)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) For periods when the flow indicator is not operating, report the identification of the flow indicator and the start date, start time, and duration in hours.


(ii) For each flow event from a relief valve discharge subject to the requirements in § 60.702a(b)(1), the semiannual report must include the identification of the relief valve, the start date, start time, duration in hours, estimate of the volume of gas in standard cubic feet, the concentration of TOC in the gas in parts per million by volume and the resulting mass emissions of TOC in pounds that released to the atmosphere.


(iii) For each flow event from a bypass line subject to the requirements in §§ 60.702a(b)(2) and 60.710a(e)(2), the semiannual report must include the identification of the bypass line, the start date, start time, duration in hours, estimate of the volume of gas in standard cubic feet, the concentration of TOC in the gas in parts per million by volume and the resulting mass emissions of TOC in pounds that bypass a control device or recovery device.


(3) All periods when a boiler or process heater was not operating (considering the records recorded under paragraph (e) of this section), including the start date, start time, and duration in hours of each period.


(4) For each flare subject to the requirements in § 60.709a, the semiannual report must include an identification of the flare and the items specified in § 60.709a(l)(2).


(5) For each closed vent system subject to the requirements in § 60.710a, the semiannual report must include an identification of the closed vent system and the items specified in § 60.710a(i).


(6) Any change in equipment or process operation, as recorded under paragraph (h) of this section, that increases the design production capacity above the low capacity exemption level in § 60.700a(c)(2) and the new capacity resulting from the change for the reactor process unit containing the affected facility. These must be reported as soon as possible after the change and no later than 180 days after the change. These reports may be submitted either in conjunction with semiannual reports or as a single separate report. Unless the facility qualifies for an exemption under § 60.700a(c), the facility must begin compliance with the requirements set forth in § 60.702a.


(7) Any change in equipment or process operation that increases the operating vent stream flow rate above the low flow exemption level in § 60.700a(c)(3), including a measurement of the new vent stream flow rate, as recorded under paragraph (i) of this section. These must be reported as soon as possible after the change and no later than 180 days after the change. These reports may be submitted either in conjunction with semiannual reports or as a single separate report. Unless the facility qualifies for an exemption under § 60.700a(c), the facility must begin compliance with the requirements set forth in § 60.702a.


(8) Any change in equipment or process operation that increases the vent stream concentration above the low concentration exemption level in § 60.700a(c)(7), including a measurement of the new vent stream concentration, as recorded under paragraph (j) of this section. These must be reported as soon as possible after the change and no later than 180 days after the change. These reports may be submitted either in conjunction with semiannual reports or as a single separate report. The performance test is subject to the requirements of § 60.8 and must be submitted according to paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Unless the facility qualifies for an exemption under § 60.700a(c), the facility must begin compliance with the requirements set forth in § 60.702a.


(9) Exceedances of the emission standard in table 1 of this subpart as indicated by a 3-hour average of the TOC CEMS and recorded under paragraph (c) of this section. For each exceedance, the report must include a list of the affected facilities or equipment, the start date and time of the exceedance, the duration (in hours) of the exceedance, an estimate of the quantity in pounds of each regulated pollutant emitted over the emission limit, a description of the method used to estimate the emissions, the cause of the exceedance (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken.


(10) Periods when the TOC CEMS was inoperative. For each period, the report must include a list of the affected facilities or equipment, the start date and time of the period, the duration (in hours) of the period, the cause of the inoperability (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken.


(l) If you are required to submit notifications or reports following the procedure specified in this paragraph (l), you must submit notifications or reports to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim for some of the information in the report or notification, you must submit a complete file in the format specified in this subpart, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA following the procedures in paragraphs (l)(1) and (2) of this section. Clearly mark the part or all of the information that you claim to be CBI. Information not marked as CBI may be authorized for public release without prior notice. Information marked as CBI will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available. You must submit the same file submitted to the CBI office with the CBI omitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph (l).


(1) The preferred method to receive CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol, or other online file sharing services. Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address *oaqpscbi@epa.gov,* and as described above, should include clear CBI markings. ERT files should be flagged to the attention of the Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group; all other files should be flagged to the attention of the SOCMI NSPS Sector Lead. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if you do not have your own file sharing service, please email *oaqpscbi@epa.gov* to request a file transfer link.


(2) If you cannot transmit the file electronically, you may send CBI information through the postal service to the following address: OAQPS Document Control Officer (C404-02), OAQPS, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, P.O. Box 12055, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711. ERT files should be sent to the attention of the Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, and all other files should be sent to the attention of the SOCMI NSPS Sector Lead. The mailed CBI material should be double wrapped and clearly marked. Any CBI markings should not show through the outer envelope.


(m) If you are required to electronically submit notifications or reports through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with the electronic submittal requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (m)(1) through (7) of this section.


(1) You must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.


(2) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date that the submission is due.


(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.


(4) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.


(5) You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:


(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;


(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;


(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and


(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.


(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(7) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.


(n) If you are required to electronically submit notifications or reports through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of *force majeure* for failure to timely comply with the electronic submittal requirement. To assert a claim of *force majeure,* you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (n)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) You may submit a claim if a *force majeure* event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a *force majeure* event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (*e.g.,* hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (*e.g.,* large scale power outage).


(2) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.


(3) You must provide to the Administrator:


(i) A written description of the *force majeure* event;


(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the *force majeure* event;


(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and


(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.


(4) The decision to accept the claim of *force majeure* and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(5) In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the *force majeure* event occurs.


(o) The requirements of paragraph (k) of this section remain in force until and unless EPA, in delegating enforcement authority to a State under section 111(c) of the Act, approves reporting requirements or an alternative means of compliance surveillance adopted by such State. In that event, affected sources within the State will be relieved of the obligation to comply with paragraph (k) of this section, provided that they comply with the requirements established by the State. The EPA will not approve a waiver of electronic reporting to the EPA in delegating enforcement authority. Thus, electronic reporting to the EPA cannot be waived, and as such, the provisions of this paragraph cannot be used to relieve owners or operators of affected facilities of the requirement to submit the electronic reports required in this section to the EPA.


(p) If you seek to demonstrate compliance with § 60.700a(c)(2), then you must submit to the Administrator an initial report detailing the design production capacity of the process unit.


(q) If you seek to demonstrate compliance with § 60.700a(c)(3), then you must submit to the Administrator an initial report including a flow rate measurement using the test methods specified in § 60.704a.


(r) If you seek to demonstrate compliance with § 60.700a(c)(4), then you must submit to the Administrator a process design description as part of the initial report. This process design description must be retained for the life of the process. No other records or reports would be required unless process changes are made.


(s) If you seek to demonstrate compliance with § 60.700a(c)(7), then you must submit to the Administrator an initial report including a concentration measurement using the test method specified in § 60.704a.


(t) The Administrator will specify appropriate reporting and recordkeeping requirements where the owner or operator of an affected facility complies with the standards specified under § 60.702a other than as provided under § 60.703a.


(u) If you seek to demonstrate compliance with § 60.702a using a control device, then you must maintain on file a schematic diagram of the affected vent streams, collection system(s), fuel systems, control devices, and bypass systems as part of the initial report. This schematic diagram must be retained for the life of the system.


(v) Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.






