# § 77.217   Definitions.

For the purpose of §§ 77.214 through 77.216-5, the term: 


(a) *Abandoned* as applied to any refuse pile or impoundment and impounding structure means that work on such pile or structure has been completed in accordance with a plan for abandonment approved by the District Manager. 


(b) *Area-capacity curves* means graphic curves which readily show the reservoir water surface area, in acres, at different elevations from the bottom of the reservoir to the maximum water surface, and the capacity or volume, in acre-feet, of the water contained in the reservoir at various elevations. 


(c) *Impounding structure* means a structure which is used to impound water, sediment, or slurry, or any combination of such materials. 


(d) *Probable maximum precipitation* means the value for a particular area which represents an envelopment of depth-duration-area rainfall relations for all storm types affecting that area adjusted meteorologically to maximum conditions. 


(e) *Refuse pile* means a deposit of coal mine waste which may contain a mixture of coal, shale, claystone, siltstone, sandstone, limestone, and related materials that are excavated during mining operations or separated from mined coal and disposed of on the surface as waste byproducts of either coal mining or preparation operations. *Refuse pile* does not mean temporary spoil piles of removed overburden material associated with surface mining operations. 


(f) *Safety factor* means the ratio of the forces tending to resist the failure of a structure to the forces tending to cause such failure as determined by accepted engineering practice. 



---

[N] [40 FR 41778, Sept. 9, 1975] 




