# ยง 250.737   What are the BOP system testing requirements?

Your BOP system (this includes the choke manifold, kelly-type valves, inside BOP, and drill string safety valve) must meet the following testing requirements:


(a) *Pressure test frequency.* You must pressure test your BOP system:


(1) When installed;


(2) Before 14 days have elapsed since your last BOP pressure test, or 30 days since your last blind shear ram BOP pressure test. You must begin to test your BOP system before midnight on the 14th day (or 30th day for your blind shear rams) following the conclusion of the previous test;


(3) Before drilling out each string of casing or a liner. You may omit this pressure test requirement if you did not remove the BOP stack to run the casing string or liner, the required BOP test pressures for the next section of the hole are not greater than the test pressures for the previous BOP test, and the time elapsed between tests has not exceeded 14 days (or 30 days for blind shear rams). You must indicate in your APD which casing strings and liners meet these criteria;


(4) In lieu of meeting the schedule established in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, you may request that BSEE approve a 21-day BOP testing frequency. To obtain BSEE approval, you must submit a request to the appropriate BSEE Regional Supervisor, District Field Operations. Your request must demonstrate that you have developed a BOP health monitoring plan that includes certain system capabilities. As long as your plan is consistent with recognized engineering and industry practice, BSEE will approve your request if it includes the following:


(i) Condition monitoring tools, including continuous surveillance of sensor readings from the BOP control system, real-time condition analysis and displays, functional pressure signal analysis, historical sensor data;


(ii) Failure propagation analysis;


(iii) A failure tracking and resolution system that includes detailed failure reports and identification of recurring problems; and


(iv) Submission of quarterly reports of the data collected pursuant to paragraphs (a)(4)(i)(iii) to the BSEE Regional Supervisor, District Field Operations.


(5) The District Manager may require more frequent testing if conditions or your BOP performance warrant.


(b) *Pressure test procedures.* When you pressure test the BOP system, you must conduct a low-pressure test and a high-pressure test for each BOP component (excluding test rams and non-sealing shear rams). You must begin each test by conducting the low-pressure test then transition to the high-pressure test. Each individual pressure test must hold pressure long enough to demonstrate the tested component(s) holds the required pressure. The table in this paragraph (b) outlines your pressure test requirements.


(c) *Duration of pressure test.* Each test must hold the required pressure for 5 minutes, which must be recorded on a chart not exceeding 4 hours, or on a digital recorder. However, for surface BOP systems and surface equipment of a subsea BOP system, a 3-minute test duration is acceptable if recorded on a chart not exceeding 4 hours, or on a digital recorder. The recorded test pressures must be within the middle half of the chart range, *i.e.,* cannot be within the lower or upper one-fourth of the chart range. If the equipment does not hold the required pressure during a test, you must correct the problem and retest the affected component(s).


(d) *Additional test requirements.* You must meet the following additional BOP testing requirements:


(e) Prior to conducting any shear ram tests in which you will shear pipe, you must notify the District Manager at least 72 hours in advance, to ensure that a BSEE representative will have access to the location to witness any testing.



---

[N] [81 FR 26022, Apr. 29, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 21981, May 15, 2019; 88 FR 57348, Aug. 23, 2023]




