# ยง 501.5   Oral argument.

(a) *Oral argument.* Oral argument may be held in the discretion of the Board, on its own determination or on application by Appellant or the Director.


(b) *Request.* A request for oral argument must be submitted in writing to the Clerk. The application must specify the issue(s) to be argued and provide a statement supporting the need for oral argument. The request must be made no later than 60 days after the filing of an appeal. Any appeal in which a request for oral argument is not granted by the Board will proceed to a decision based on the case record and any pleadings submitted.


(c) *Notice of argument.* If a request for oral argument is granted, the Clerk will notify the Appellant and the Director at least 30 days prior to the date set for argument. The notice of oral argument will state the issues that the Board has determined will be heard and whether the oral argument will take place in person in Washington, DC or by videoconference.


(d) *Time allowed.* Appellant and any Representative for the Director shall be allowed no more than 30 minutes to present oral argument. The Board may, in its discretion, extend the time allowed.


(e) *Appearances.* An Appellant may appear at oral argument before the Board or designate a Representative. Argument shall be presented by the Appellant or a Representative, not both. The Director may be represented by an attorney with the Solicitor of Labor. Argument is limited to the evidence of record on appeal.


(f) *Location.* Oral argument in person is heard before the Board only in Washington, DC. The Board may, in its discretion, hear oral argument by videoconference. The Board does not reimburse costs associated with an oral argument.


(g) *Continuance.* Once oral argument has been scheduled by the Board, a continuance will not be granted except on a showing of good cause. Good cause may include extreme hardship or where attendance by an Appellant or Representative is mandated at a previously scheduled judicial proceeding. Any request for continuance must be received by the Board at least 15 days before the date scheduled for oral argument and be served by the requester upon Appellant and the Director. No request for a second continuance will be entertained by the Board. In such case, the appeal will proceed to a decision based on the case record. The Board may reschedule or cancel oral argument on its own motion at any time.


(h) *Nonappearance.* The absence of an Appellant, his or her Representative, or the Director at the time and place set for oral argument will not delay the Board's resolution of an appeal. In such event, the Board may, in its discretion, reschedule oral argument, or cancel oral argument and treat the case as submitted on the case record.



---

[N] [73 FR 62193, Oct. 20, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 1771, Jan. 11, 2021]








