# § 281.208   Calculation of essential agricultural requirements and attributable priority 2 entitlements.

(a) *Scope.* This section sets forth the method by which: 


(1) An essential agricultural user calculates total essential agricultural requirements, direct essential agricultural requirements, and indirect essential agricultural requirements; 


(2) A local distribution company calculates attributable indirect essential agricultural requirements for its essential agricultural user customers; and 


(3) An interstate pipeline purchaser calculates it attributable priority 2 entitlements. 


(b) *Calculation by an essential agricultural user*—(1) *Total essential agricultural requirements*—(i) *General Rule.* (A) The essential agricultural requirements of an essential agricultural user are those volumes (expressed in daily, monthly, seasonal or other appropriate periodic volumes) designated by the Secretary of Agriculture and calculated in accordance with 7 CFR 2900.4; less 


(B) Alternative fuel volumes (determined under § 281.304). 


(ii) *Definitions.* Current requirements as used in 7 CFR part 2900 means the lesser of 


(A) The energy consumption from the most recent 12 month period for which actual data is available, with necessary adjustments; or 


(B) The maximum volume of natural gas for which the essential agricultural user has installed capability to use for essential agricultural uses. 


(2) *Attribution of total essential agricultural requirement and indirect essential agricultural requirements.* (i) The essential agricultural user shall attribute its total essential agricultural requirements among all its sources of supply of natural gas in accordance with § 281.209. 


(ii) The direct essential agricultural requirement with respect to a particular interstate pipeline supplier is that part of the total essential agricultural requirements attributed under § 281.209 to the direct interstate pipeline supplier. The indirect essential agricultural requirement with respect to a particular local distribution company supplier is that part of the total essential agricultural requirements attributed under § 281.209 to a direct local distribution company supplier. 


(c) *Calculation by local distribution companies.* (1) A local distribution company shall attribute under § 281.209 the indirect essential agricultural requirements of each of its essential agricultural user customers (calculated under paragraph (b)(2) of this section) among all the interstate pipelines which are direct suppliers of the local distribution company. 


(2) That part of the indirect essential agricultural requirements which the local distribution company attributes to a particular interstate pipeline supplier is the attributed indirect essential agricultural requirements attributed to that interstate pipeline. 


(d) *Interstate pipelines.* (1) An interstate pipeline purchaser may attribute under § 281.209 the priority 2 entitlements it includes in its index of entitlements among its direct interstate pipeline suppliers. 


(2) The attributable priority 2 entitlements attributed to a particular interstate pipeline supplier is that part of the priority 2 entitlements of the interstate pipeline purchaser which it attributes to a particular interstate pipeline supplier. 



---

[N] [44 FR 26862, May 8, 1979, as amended at 44 FR 62490, Oct. 31, 1979] 




