# ยง 1275.101   Definitions.

(a) Research misconduct means fabrication, falsification, or plagiarism in proposing, performing, or reviewing research, or in reporting research results. Research misconduct does not include honest error or differences of opinion. Research as used in this part includes all basic and applied research as defined in OMB Circular A-11 in all fields of science, engineering, and mathematics, including, but not limited to, research in space and Earth sciences, economics, education, linguistics, medicine, psychology, social sciences, statistics, and biological and physical research (ground based and microgravity), including research involving human subjects or animals.


(b) *Fabrication* means making up data or results and recording or reporting them.


(c) *Falsification* means manipulating research materials, equipment, or processes, or changing or omitting data or results such that the research is not accurately represented in the research record.


(d) *Plagiarism* means the appropriation of another person's ideas, processes, results, or words without giving appropriate credit.


(e) *Awardee institution* means any public or private entity or organization (including a Federal, State, or local agency) that is a party to a NASA contract, grant, cooperative agreement, Space Act agreement, or to any other transaction with NASA, whose purpose includes the conduct of research.


(f) *NASA research* means research wholly or partially funded or supported by NASA involving an awardee institution or a NASA installation. This definition includes research wholly or partially funded by NASA appropriated funds, or research involving the use of NASA facilities, equipment, or personnel.


(g) *NASA research discipline* means one of the following areas of research that together comprise NASA's research mission for aeronautics, space science, Earth science, biomedicine, biology, engineering and physical sciences (physics and chemistry).


(h) *Inquiry* means the assessment of whether an allegation of research misconduct has substance and warrants an investigation.


(i) *Investigation* means the formal development of a factual record and the examination of that record leading to recommended findings on whether research misconduct has occurred, and if the recommended findings are that such conduct has occurred, to include recommendations on appropriate administrative actions.


(j) *Complainant* is the individual bringing an allegation of research misconduct related to NASA research.


(k) *Respondent* is the individual or institution who is the subject of an allegation of research misconduct related to NASA research.


(l) *Adjudication* means the formal procedure for reviewing and evaluating the investigation report and the accompanying evidentiary record and for determining whether to accept the recommended findings and any recommendations for administrative actions resulting from the investigation.


(m) NASA Adjudication Official is the NASA Associate Administrator of a Mission Directorate, Chief Technologist, or Chief Engineer, depending on the research area involved in the misconduct allegation (as described in the list of NASA research disciplines and their associated directorates contained in the Appendix to this part).


(n) *Appeal* means the formal procedure initiated at the request of the Respondent for review of a determination resulting from the adjudication and for affirming, overturning, or modifying it.


(o) *NASA Appeals Official* is the NASA Deputy Administrator or other official designated by the NASA Administrator.



---

[N] [69 FR 42103, July 14, 2004, as amended at 77 FR 44441, July 30, 2012]




