# § 410.76   Clinical nurse specialists' services.

(a) *Definition.* As used in this section, the term “physician” means a doctor of medicine or osteopathy, as set forth in section 1861(r)(1) of the Act.


(b) *Qualifications.* For Medicare Part B coverage of his or her services, a clinical nurse specialist must—


(1) Be a registered nurse who is currently licensed to practice in the State where he or she practices and be authorized to perform the services of a clinical nurse specialist in accordance with State law;


(2) Have a master's degree in a defined clinical area of nursing from an accredited educational institution or a Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) doctoral degree; and 


(3) Be certified as a clinical nurse specialist by a national certifying body that has established standards for clinical nurse specialists and that is approved by the Secretary. 


(c) *Services.* Medicare Part B covers clinical nurse specialists' services in all settings in both rural and urban areas only if the services would be covered if furnished by a physician and the clinical nurse specialist—


(1) Is legally authorized to perform them in the State in which they are performed;


(2) Is not performing services that are otherwise excluded from coverage by one of the statutory exclusions; and


(3) Performs them while working in collaboration with a physician.


(i) Collaboration is a process in which a clinical nurse specialist works with one or more physicians to deliver health care services within the scope of the practitioner's expertise, with medical direction and appropriate supervision as provided for in jointly developed guidelines or other mechanisms as provided by the law of the State in which the services are performed.


(ii) In the absence of State law governing collaboration, collaboration is a process in which a clinical nurse specialist has a relationship with one or more physicians to deliver health care services. Such collaboration is to be evidenced by clinical nurse specialists documenting the clinical nurse specialists' scope of practice and indicating the relationships that they have with physicians to deal with issues outside their scope of practice. Clinical nurse specialists must document this collaborative process with physicians.


(iii) The collaborating physician does not need to be present with the clinical nurse specialist when the services are furnished, or to make an independent evaluation of each patient who is seen by the clinical nurse specialist.


(d) *Services and supplies furnished incident to clinical nurse specialists' services.* Medicare Part B covers services and supplies incident to the services of a clinical nurse specialist if the requirements of § 410.26 are met.


(e) *Professional services.* Clinical nurse specialists can be paid for professional services only when the services have been personally performed by them and no facility or other provider charges, or is paid, any amount for the furnishing of the professional services.


(1) Supervision of other nonphysician staff by clinical nurse specialists does not constitute personal performance of a professional service by clinical nurse specialists.


(2) The services of a clinical nurse specialist are provided on an assignment-related basis, and the clinical nurse specialist may not charge a beneficiary in excess of the amounts permitted under 42 CFR 424.55. If a beneficiary has made payment for a service in excess of these limits, the clinical nurse specialist must refund the full amount of the impermissible charge to the beneficiary.


(f) *Medical record documentation.* For clinical nurse specialists' services, the clinical nurse specialist may review and verify (sign and date), rather than re-document, notes in a patient's medical record made by physicians; residents; nurses; medical, physician assistant, and advanced practice registered nurse students; or other members of the medical team, including, as applicable, notes documenting the clinical nurse specialist's presence and participation in the service.



---

[N] [63 FR 58908, Nov. 2, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 80040, Dec. 31, 2002; 73 FR 69934, Nov. 19, 2008; 78 FR 74811, Dec. 10, 2013; 84 FR 63191, Nov. 15, 2019; 86 FR 65665, Nov. 19, 2021]




