# ยง 248.311   Notice of intent.

(a) *Eligibility for filing.* An owner of a project with a State assisted or subsidized mortgage intending to extend the low income affordability restrictions of the housing in accordance with ยง 248.153 or transfer the housing to a qualified purchaser under ยง 248.157 may file a notice of intent. 


(b) *Filing with the State agency.* The notice of intent shall be filed with the agency specified in ยง 248.307(b) or the agency which regulates or otherwise supervises the State assisted or subsidized mortgage. The notice of intent shall also request the tenants to notify the owner and the State agency of any individual or organization that has been designated or retained by the tenants to represent the tenants with respect to the actions to be taken under subpart B and subpart D of this part. 


(c) *Filing with HUD, mortgagee and tenants.* The owner simultaneously shall file the notice of intent with the local HUD field office having jurisdiction over the area in which the project is located and with the mortgagee, if any. In addition, the owner shall deliver a copy of the notice of intent to each tenant in the project and to any tenant representative, if any, known to the owner, and shall post a copy of the notice of intent in readily accessible locations within each affected building of the project. The copies of the notice of intent delivered to the tenants and the tenant representative shall include a summary of possible outcomes of the filing which shall be furnished by the State agency. Upon the request of any non-English speaking tenants residing in the affected project, the owner shall tabulate the number and type of translations needed by the tenants and request the State agency to provide the appropriate translations. The owner shall deliver a copy of the translated notice of intent to all of the tenants who requested such a translation. The failure of an owner to comply with any non-federal notice requirements shall not invalidate the notice of intent.




