# ยง 4281.2   Definitions.

The following terms are defined in ยง 4001.2 of this chapter: annuity, employer, ERISA, fair market value, IRS, insurer, irrevocable commitment, mass withdrawal, multiemployer plan, nonforfeitable benefit, normal retirement age, PBGC, person, plan, plan administrator, and plan year. In addition, for purposes of this part:


*Actuarial valuation* means a report submitted to a plan of a valuation of plan assets and liabilities that is performed in accordance with subpart B of this part.


*Available resources* means available resources as described in section 4245(b)(3) of ERISA. 


*Benefits subject to reduction* means those benefits accrued under plan amendments (or plans) adopted after March 26, 1980, or under collective bargaining agreements entered into after March 26, 1980, that are not eligible for PBGC's guarantee under section 4022A(b) of ERISA. 


*Financial assistance* means financial assistance from PBGC under section 4261 of ERISA. 


*Insolvency benefit level* means the greater of the resource benefit level or the benefit level guaranteed by PBGC for each participant and beneficiary in pay status. 


*Insolvency year* means insolvency year as described in section 4245(b)(4) of ERISA. 


*Insolvent* means unable to pay benefits when due during the plan year. 


*Pro rata* means that the required benefit reduction or payment must be allocated among affected participants in the same proportion that each such participant's nonforfeitable benefits under the plan bear to all nonforfeitable benefits of those participants under the plan. 


*Reasonably expected to enter pay status* means, with respect to plan participants and beneficiaries, persons (other than those in pay status) who, according to plan records, are disabled, have applied for benefits, or have reached or will reach during the applicable period the normal retirement age under the plan, and any others whom it is reasonable for the plan sponsor to expect to enter pay status during the applicable period. 


*Resource benefit level* means resource benefit level as described in section 4245(b)(2) of ERISA. 


*Valuation date* means the last day of the plan year in which the plan terminates and the last day of each plan year thereafter. 



---

[N] [61 FR 34118, July 1, 1996, as amended at 84 FR 18725, May 2, 2019]




