# § 164.39   Steering gear: Foreign tankers.

(a) This section applies to each foreign tanker of 10,000 gross tons or more, except a public vessel, that—


(1) Transfers oil at a port or place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States; or 


(2) Otherwise enters or operates in the navigable waters of the United States, except a vessel described by § 164.02 of this part. 


(b) *Definitions.* The terms used in this section are as follows: 


*Constructed* means the same as in Chapter II-1, Regulations 1.1.2 and 1.1.3.1, of SOLAS 74. 


*Existing tanker* means a tanker—


(1) For which the building contract is placed on or after June 1, 1979; 


(2) In the absence of a building contract, the keel of which is laid or which is at a similar stage of construction on or after January 1, 1980; 


(3) The delivery of which occurs on or after June 1, 1982; or 


(4) That has undergone a major conversion contracted for on or after June 1, 1979; or construction of which was begun on or after January 1, 1980, or completed on or after June 1, 1982. 


*Public vessel, oil, hazardous materials,* and *foreign vessel* mean the same as in 46 U.S.C. 2101. 


*SOLAS 74* means the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974, as amended. 


*Tanker* means a self-propelled vessel defined as a tanker by 46 U.S.C. 2101(38) or as a tank vessel by 46 U.S.C. 2101(39). 


(c) Each tanker constructed on or after September 1, 1984, must meet the applicable requirements of Chapter II-1, Regulations 29 and 30, of SOLAS 74. 


(d) Each tanker constructed before September 1, 1984, must meet the requirements of Chapter II-1, Regulation 29.19, of SOLAS 74. 


(e) Each tanker of 40,000 gross tons or more, constructed before September 1, 1984, that does not meet the single-failure criterion of Chapter II-1, Regulation 29.16, of SOLAS 74, must meet the requirements of Chapter II-1, Regulation 29.20, of SOLAS 74. 


(f) Each tanker constructed before September 1, 1984, must meet the applicable requirements of Chapter II-1, Regulations 29.14 and 29.15, of SOLAS 74. 



---

[N] [CGD 83-043, 60 FR 24771, May 10, 1995]




