# ยง 168.17   Concurrence procedures.

(a) *Definitions.* As used in this section, terms shall have the meaning set forth as follows:


(1) *Concurrence* means agreement by the Area Director and the Hopi Tribe, speaking through the Chairman of the Tribe (or his designee).


(2) *Non-concurrence* means disagreement between the Area Director and the Hopi Tribe, speaking through the Chairman of the Hopi Tribe (or his designee), or a failure of the Hopi Tribe to respond to a proposal by the Area Director in a timely manner.


(3) *Timely manner* means a period of thirty days, unless this period is shortened by the existence of an emergency. Upon request by the Tribal Council, the Area Director may extend the 30 day period. In instances where this period applies to the Area Director, he may extend the period by so notifying the Tribe.


(4) *An emergency* is a condition that the Area Director finds threatens the rights and property of life tenants and persons awaiting relocation or one that the Area Director finds is causing the condition of the range land to deteriorate.


(5) *Conservation practice* is a program consisting of a series of acts in conformance with the Bureau's range management policies and procedures which maintains or seeks to achieve the grazing potential of range lands on a continuing basis.


(6) *Range restoration activities* is a program consisting of a series of range management acts, including but not limited to procedures which increase range forage production, reduce erosion, improve range usability and reduce stocking by issuing grazing permits to persons residing on Hopi partitioned lands at rates which maximize the carrying capacity of the range lands on a continuing basis.


(7) *Grazing control* is a program consisting of a series of range management acts, including but not limited to procedures by which grazing permits are issued to persons residing on Hopi partitioned lands, which limit the grazing on range lands to its carrying capacity.


(b) The Area Director will seek the participation of the Hopi Tribe in his investigation, formulation and planning of conservation practices for Hopi partitioned lands. The Area Director will submit, in writing, the proposed plan to the Hopi Tribe.


(c) Upon receipt of the Area Director's proposed conservation practices, the Hopi Tribe will deliver, in writing, to the Area Director its concurrence or non-concurrence on all of the proposed conservation practices in a timely manner. The Area Director will continue to seek Hopi Tribal participation during the review process.


(d) Concurrence of the Hopi Tribe will be sought on all conservation practices, range restoration activities, and grazing control programs on the Hopi Partitioned Lands.


(1) If the Area Director and the Hopi Tribe concur on all or part of the proposed conservation practices in writing in a timely manner, those practices concurred upon may be immediately implemented.


(2) If the Hopi Tribe does not concur on all or part of the proposed conservation practices in a timely manner, the Area Director will submit in writing to the Hopi Tribe a declaration of non-concurrence. The Area Director will then notify the Hopi Tribe in writing of a formal hearing to be held not sooner than 15 days from the date of the non-concurrence declaration. 


(i) The formal hearing on non-concurrence will permit the submission of written evidence and argument concerning the proposal. Minutes of the hearing will be taken. Following the hearing, the Area Director may amend, alter or otherwise change his proposed conservation practices. Except as provided in ยง 168.17(d)(1) of this section, if following the hearing, the Area Director altered or amends portions of his proposed plan of action, he will submit those individual altered or amended portions of the plan to the Tribe in a timely manner for their concurrence. 


(ii) In the event the Tribe fails or refuses to give its concurrence to the proposal at the hearing, then the implementation of such proposal may only be undertaken in those situations where the Area Director expressly determines in a written order, based upon findings of fact, that the proposed action is necessary to protect the rights and property of life tenants and/or persons awaiting relocation. 




