# ยง 62.3913   Identification of plan.

(a) *Identification of plan.* Iowa plan for control of landfill gas emissions from existing municipal solid waste landfills and associated state regulations submitted on December 22, 1997.


(b) *Identification of sources.* The plan applies to all existing municipal solid waste landfills for which construction, reconstruction, or modification was commenced before May 30, 1991, that accepted waste at any time since November 8, 1987, or that have additional capacity available for future waste deposition, and have design capacities greater than 2.5 million megagrams and nonmethane organic emissions greater than 50 megagrams per year, as described in 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cc.


(c) *Effective date.* The effective date of the plan for municipal solid waste landfills is June 22, 1998.


(d) *Amended plan, submitted September 19, 2001.* Clarifying revisions to the plan with regard to design capacity reports for control of air emissions from municipal solid waste landfills submitted by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources on September 19, 2001. The amended plan was effective February 11, 2002.


(e) *Amended plan, submitted April 13, 2017.* Grammatical revision to the plan for the control of air emissions from municipal solid waste landfills submitted by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources, on April 13, 2017. The state effective date of the revision was March 22, 2017. The effective date of the amended plan is August 7, 2018.



---

[N] [63 FR 20103, Apr. 23, 1998, as amended at 66 FR 64154, Dec. 12, 2001; 83 FR 26604, June 8, 2018]




