# ยง 60.5372c   In lieu of a state or Tribal plan submittal, are there other acceptable option(s) for a state to meet its Clean Air Act section 111(d) obligations?

Yes, a state may meet its Clean Air Act section 111(d) obligations by submitting an acceptable written request for delegation of an applicable Federal plan that meets the requirements of this section. This is the only other option for a state to meet its section 111(d) obligations.


(a) An acceptable Federal plan delegation request must include the following:


(1) A demonstration of adequate resources and legal authority to administer and enforce the Federal plan.


(2) The items under ยง 60.5363c(a)(1), (a)(2), and (a)(8) of this subpart.


(3) Certification that the hearing on the state delegation request, similar to the hearing for a state or Tribal plan submittal, was held, a list of witnesses and their organizational affiliations, if any, appearing at the hearing, and a brief written summary of each presentation or written submission.


(4) A commitment to enter into a Memorandum of Agreement with the Regional Administrator that sets forth the terms, conditions, and effective date of the delegation and that serves as the mechanism for the transfer of authority. Additional guidance and information is given in EPA's Delegation Manual, Item 7-139, Implementation and Enforcement of 111(d)(2) and 111(d)/(2)/129 (b)(3) Federal plans.


(b) A state with an already approved oil and natural gas designated facility Clean Air Act section 111(d) state or Tribal plan is not precluded from receiving the EPA's approval of a delegation request for any revised Federal plan, provided the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section are met, and at the time of the delegation request, the state also requests withdrawal of the EPA's previous state or Tribal plan approval.


(c) A state's Clean Air Act section 111(d) obligations are separate from its obligations under title V of the Clean Air Act.






