# § 1.851-2   Limitations.

(a) *Election to be a regulated investment company.* Under the provisions of section 851(b)(1), a corporation, even though it satisfies the other requirements of part I, subchapter M, chapter 1 of the Code, for the taxable year, will not be considered a regulated investment company for such year, within the meaning of such part I, unless it elects to be a regulated investment company for such taxable year, or has made such an election for a previous taxable year which began after December 31, 1941. The election shall be made by the taxpayer by computing taxable income as a regulated investment company in its return for the first taxable year for which the election is applicable. No other method of making such election is permitted. An election once made is irrevocable for such taxable year and all succeeding taxable years.


(b) *Gross income requirement*—(1) *General rule.* A corporation will not be a regulated investment company for a taxable year unless 90 percent of its gross income for that year is income described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section. Any loss from the sale or other disposition of stock or securities is not taken into account in the gross income computation.


(i) *Gross income amounts.* Income is described in this paragraph (b)(1)(i) if it is gross income derived from:


(A) Dividends;


(B) Interest;


(C) Payments with respect to securities loans (as defined in section 512(a)(5));


(D) Gains from the sale or other disposition of stocks or securities (as defined in section 2(a)(36) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended);


(E) Gains from the sale or other disposition of foreign currencies; or


(F) Other income (including but not limited to gains from options, futures, or forward contracts) derived with respect to the corporation's business of investing in such stock, securities, or currencies.


(ii) *Income from a publicly traded partnership.* Income is described in this paragraph (b)(1)(ii) if it is net income derived from an interest in a qualified publicly traded partnership (as defined in section 851(h)).


(2) *Special rules.* (i) For purposes of section 851(b)(2)(A) and paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A) of this section, amounts included in gross income for the taxable year under section 951(a)(1)(A) or 1293(a) are treated as dividends only to the extent that, under section 959(a)(1) or 1293(c) (as the case may be), there is a distribution out of the earnings and profits of the taxable year that are attributable to the amounts included in gross income for the taxable year under section 951(a)(1)(A) or 1293(a). For allocation of distributions to earnings and profits of foreign corporations, see § 1.959-3.


(ii) For purposes of subdivision (i) of this subparagraph, if by reason of section 959(a)(1) a distribution of a foreign corporation's earnings and profits for a taxable year described in section 959(c)(2) is not included in a shareholder's gross income, then such distribution shall be allocated proportionately between amounts attributable to amounts included under each clause of section 951(a)(1)(A). Thus, for example, M is a United States shareholder in X Corporation, a controlled foreign corporation. M and X each use the calendar year as the taxable year. For 1977, M is required by section 951(a)(1)(a) to include $3,000 in its gross income, $1,000 of which is included under clause (i) thereof. In 1977, M received a distribution described in section 959(c)(2) of $2,700 out of X's earnings and profits for 1977, which is, by reason of section 959(a)(1), excluded from M's gross income. The amount of the distribution attributable to the amount included under section 951(a)(1)(A)(i) is $900, i.e., $2,700 multiplied by ($1,000/$3,000).


(iii) If an amount is included in gross income of the corporation referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section under section 951(a)(1) or 1293(a) and is derived with respect to that corporation's business of investing in stock, securities, or currencies, then the amount is other income described in section 851(b)(2)(A) and paragraph (b)(1)(i)(F) of this section. Notwithstanding paragraph (d) of this section, a taxpayer may rely on the rule in this paragraph (b)(2)(iii) for taxable years that begin after September 28, 2016.


(c) *Diversification of investments.* (1) Subparagraph (A) of section 851(b)(4) requires that at the close of each quarter of the taxable year at least 50 percent of the value of the total assets of the taxpayer corporation be represented by one or more of the following:


(i) Cash and cash items, including receivables;


(ii) Government securities;


(iii) Securities of other regulated investment companies; or


(iv) Securities (other than those described in subdivisions (ii) and (iii) of this subparagraph) of any one or more issuers which meet the following limitations: (*a*) The entire amount of the securities of the issuer owned by the taxpayer corporation is not greater in value than 5 percent of the value of the total assets of the taxpayer corporation, and (*b*) the entire amount of the securities of such issuer owned by the taxpayer corporation does not represent more than 10 percent of the outstanding voting securities of such issuer. For the modification of the percentage limitations applicable in the case of certain venture capital investment companies, see section 851(e) and § 1.851-6.


(2) Subparagraph (B) of section 851(b)(4) prohibits the investment at the close of each quarter of the taxable year of more than 25 percent of the value of the total assets of the corporation (including the 50 percent or more mentioned in subparagraph (A) of section 851(b)(4)) in the securities (other than Government securities or the securities of other regulated investment companies) of any one issuer, or of two or more issuers which the taxpayer company controls and which are engaged in the same or similar trades or businesses or related trades or businesses, including such issuers as are merely a part of a unit contributing to the completion and sale of a product or the rendering of a particular service. Two or more issuers are not considered as being in the same or similar trades or businesses merely because they are engaged in the broad field of manufacturing or of any other general classification of industry, but issuers shall be construed to be engaged in the same or similar trades or businesses if they are engaged in a distinct branch of business, trade, or manufacture in which they render the same kind of service or produce or deal in the same kind of product, and such service or products fulfill the same economic need. If two or more issuers produce more than one product or render more than one type of service, then the chief product or service of each shall be the basis for determining whether they are in the same trade or business.


(d) *Applicability date.* The rules in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2)(i) and (iii) of this section apply to taxable years that begin after June 17, 2019.



---

[N] [T.D. 6500, 25 FR 11910, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6598, 27 FR 4090, Apr. 28, 1962; T.D. 7555, 43 FR 32753, July 28, 1978; T.D. 9851, 84 FR 9961, Mar. 19, 2019; 84 FR 17082, Apr. 24, 2019]




