# § 63.1566   What are my requirements for organic HAP emissions from catalytic reforming units?

(a) *What emission limitations and work practice standards must I meet?* You must: 


(1) Meet each emission limitation in Table 15 of this subpart that applies to you. You can choose from the two options in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) You can elect to vent emissions of total organic compounds (TOC) to a flare (Option 1). On and after January 30, 2019, the flare must meet the requirements of § 63.670. Prior to January 30, 2019, the flare must meet the control device requirements in § 63.11(b) or the requirements of § 63.670.


(ii) You can elect to meet a TOC or nonmethane TOC percent reduction standard or concentration limit, whichever is less stringent (Option 2).


(2) Comply with each site-specific operating limit in Table 16 of this subpart that applies to you. 


(3) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the emission limitations in Tables 15 and 16 of this subpart apply to emissions from catalytic reforming unit process vents associated with initial catalyst depressuring and catalyst purging operations that occur prior to the coke burn-off cycle. The emission limitations in Tables 15 and 16 of this subpart do not apply to the coke burn-off, catalyst rejuvenation, reduction or activation vents, or to the control systems used for these vents.


(4) The emission limitations in tables 15 and 16 of this subpart do not apply to emissions from process vents during passive depressuring when the reactor vent pressure is 5 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) or less or during active depressuring or purging prior to January 30, 2019, when the reactor vent pressure is 5 psig or less. On and after January 30, 2019, the emission limitations in tables 15 and 16 of this subpart do apply to emissions from process vents during active purging operations (when nitrogen or other purge gas is actively introduced to the reactor vessel) or active depressuring (using a vacuum pump, ejector system, or similar device) regardless of the reactor vent pressure.


(5) Prepare an operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan according to the requirements in § 63.1574(f) and operate at all times according to the procedures in the plan. 


(b) *How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standard?* You must: 


(1) Install, operate, and maintain a continuous monitoring system(s) according to the requirements in § 63.1572 and Table 17 of this subpart. 


(2) Conduct each performance test for a catalytic reforming unit according to the requirements in § 63.1571 and under the conditions specified in Table 18 of this subpart. 


(3) Establish each site-specific operating limit in Table 16 of this subpart that applies to you according to the procedures in Table 18 of this subpart. 


(4) Use the procedures in paragraph (b)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section to determine initial compliance with the emission limitations. 


(i) If you elect the percent reduction standard under Option 2, calculate the emission rate of nonmethane TOC using Equation 1 of this section (if you use Method 25) or Equation 2 of this section (if you use Method 25A or Methods 25A and 18), then calculate the mass emission reduction using Equation 3 of this section as follows:


(ii) If you elect the 20 parts per million by volume (ppmv) concentration limit, correct the measured TOC concentration for oxygen (O_2_) content in the gas stream using Equation 4 of this section as follows: 


(5) You are not required to do a TOC performance test if: 


(i) You elect to vent emissions to a flare as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section (Option 1); or 


(ii) You elect the TOC percent reduction or concentration limit in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section (Option 2), and you use a boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 44 MW or greater or a boiler or process heater in which all vent streams are introduced into the flame zone. 


(6) Demonstrate initial compliance with each emission limitation that applies to you according to Table 19 of this subpart. 


(7) Demonstrate initial compliance with the work practice standard in paragraph (a)(5) of this section by submitting the operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan to your permitting authority as part of your Notification of Compliance Status. 


(8) Submit the Notification of Compliance Status containing the results of the initial compliance demonstration according to the requirements in § 63.1574. 


(c) *How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards?* You must: 


(1) Demonstrate continuous compliance with each emission limitation in Tables 15 and 16 of this subpart that applies to you according to the methods specified in Tables 20 and 21 of this subpart. 


(2) Demonstrate continuous compliance with the work practice standards in paragraph (a)(3) of this section by complying with the procedures in your operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan.



---

[N] [67 FR 17773, Apr. 11, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 6938, Feb. 9, 2005; 80 FR 75275, Dec. 1, 2015; 81 FR 45243, July 13, 2016]




