# § 210.16   Default.

(a) *Definition of default.* (1) A party shall be found in default if it fails to respond to the complaint and notice of investigation in the manner prescribed in § 210.13 or § 210.59(c), or otherwise fails to answer the complaint and notice, and fails to show cause why it should not be found in default. 


(2) A party may be found in default as a sanction for abuse of process, under § 210.4(c), or failure to make or cooperate in discovery, under § 210.33(b). 




(b) *Procedure for determining default.* (1)(i) If a respondent has failed to respond or appear in the manner described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a party may file a motion for, or the administrative law judge may issue *sua sponte,* an order directing the respondent to show cause why it should not be found in default. 

(ii) If the respondent fails to make the necessary showing pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the administrative law judge shall issue an initial determination finding the respondent in default. An administrative law judge's decision denying a motion for a finding of default under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be in the form of an order.




(2) Any party may file a motion for issuance of, or the administrative law judge may issue *sua sponte,* an initial determination finding a party in default for abuse of process under § 210.4(c) or failure to make or cooperate in discovery under § 210.33. A motion for a finding of default as a sanction for abuse of process or failure to make or cooperate in discovery shall be granted by initial determination or denied by order.


(3)(i) A proposed respondent may file a notice of intent to default under this section with the administrative law judge at any time before the issuance of the final initial determination.


(ii) Upon the filing of a notice of intent to default under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, the administrative law judge shall issue an initial determination finding the respondent in default without first issuing the show-cause order of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section. Such default will be treated in the same manner as any other default under this section.


(4) A party found in default shall be deemed to have waived its right to appear, to be served with documents, and to contest the allegations at issue in the investigation. 


(c) *Relief against a respondent in default*—(1) *Types of relief available.* After a respondent has been found in default by the Commission, the complainant may file with the Commission a declaration that it is seeking immediate entry of relief against the respondent in default. The facts alleged in the complaint will be presumed to be true with respect to the defaulting respondent. The Commission may issue an exclusion order, a cease and desist order, or both, affecting the defaulting respondent only after considering the effect of such order(s) upon the public health and welfare, competitive conditions in the U.S. economy, the production of like or directly competitive articles in the United States, and U.S. consumers, and concluding that the order(s) should still be issued in light of the aforementioned public interest factors. 


(2) *General exclusion orders.* In any motion requesting the entry of default or the termination of the investigation with respect to the last remaining respondent in the investigation, the complainant shall declare whether it is seeking a general exclusion order. The Commission may issue a general exclusion order pursuant to section 337(g)(2) of the Tariff Act of 1930, regardless of the source or importer of the articles concerned, provided that a violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 is established by substantial, reliable, and probative evidence and that the other requirements of 19 U.S.C. 1337(d)(2) are satisfied, and only after considering the aforementioned public interest factors and the requirements of § 210.50(c).



---

[N] [59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 67627, Dec. 30, 1994; 78 FR 23482, Apr. 19, 2013; 90 FR 242, Jan. 3, 2025]




