# § 170.16   CMMC Level 2 self-assessment and affirmation requirements.

(a) *Level 2 self-assessment.* To comply with Level 2 self-assessment requirements, the OSA must meet the requirements detailed in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. An OSA conducts a Level 2 self-assessment as detailed in paragraph (c) of this section to achieve a CMMC Status of either Conditional or Final Level 2 (Self). Achieving a CMMC Status of Level 2 (Self) also satisfies the requirements for a CMMC Status of Level 1 (Self) detailed in § 170.15 for the same CMMC Assessment Scope.


(1) *Level 2 self-assessment requirements.* The OSA must complete and achieve a MET result for all security requirements specified in § 170.14(c)(3) to achieve the CMMC Status of Level 2 (Self). The OSA must conduct a self-assessment in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section and submit assessment results in Supplier Performance Risk System (SPRS). To maintain compliance with the requirements for a CMMC Status of Level 2 (Self), the OSA must conduct a Level 2 self-assessment every three years and submit the results in SPRS, within three years of the CMMC Status Date associated with the Conditional Level 2 (Self).


(i) *Inputs to SPRS.* The Level 2 self-assessment results in the SPRS shall include, at minimum, the following information:


(A) CMMC Level.


(B) CMMC Status Date.


(C) CMMC Assessment Scope.


(D) All industry CAGE code(s) associated with the information system(s) addressed by the CMMC Assessment Scope.


(E) Overall Level 2 self-assessment score (*e.g.,* 105 out of 110).


(F) POA&M usage and compliance status, if applicable.


(ii) *Conditional Level 2 (Self).* The OSA has achieved the CMMC Status of Conditional Level 2 (Self) if the Level 2 self-assessment results in a POA&M and the POA&M meets all the CMMC Level 2 POA&M requirements listed in § 170.21(a)(2).


(A) *Plan of Action and Milestones.* A Level 2 POA&M is allowed only in accordance with the CMMC POA&M requirements listed in § 170.21.


(B) *POA&M closeout.* The OSA must remediate any NOT MET requirements, must perform a POA&M closeout self-assessment, and must post compliance results to SPRS within 180 days of the CMMC Status Date associated with the Conditional Level 2 (Self). If the POA&M is not successfully closed out within the 180-day timeframe, the Conditional Level 2 (Self) CMMC Status for the information system will expire. If Conditional Level 2 (Self) CMMC Status expires within the period of performance of a contract, standard contractual remedies will apply, and the OSA will be ineligible for additional awards with a requirement for the CMMC Status of Level 2 (Self), or higher requirement, for the information system within the CMMC Assessment Scope until such time as a new CMMC Status is achieved.


(iii) *Final Level 2 (Self).* The OSA has achieved the CMMC Status of Final Level 2 (Self) if the Level 2 self-assessment results in a passing score as defined in § 170.24. This score may be achieved upon initial self-assessment or as the result of a POA&M closeout self-assessment, as applicable.


(iv) *CMMC Status investigation.* The DoD reserves the right to conduct a DCMA DIBCAC assessment of the OSA, as provided for under the 48 CFR 252.204-7020. If the investigative results of a subsequent DCMA DIBCAC assessment show that adherence to the provisions of this part have not been achieved or maintained, these DCMA DIBCAC results will take precedence over any pre-existing CMMC Status. At that time, standard contractual remedies will be available and the OSA will be ineligible for additional awards with CMMC Status requirement of Level 2 (Self), or higher requirement, for the information system within the CMMC Assessment Scope until such time as a new CMMC Status is achieved.


(2) *Affirmation.* Affirmation of the Level 2 (Self) CMMC Status is required for all Level 2 self-assessments at the time of each assessment, and annually thereafter. Affirmation procedures are set forth in § 170.22.


(b) *Contract eligibility.* Prior to award of any contract or subcontract with requirement for CMMC Status of Level 2 (Self), the following two requirements must be met:


(1) The OSA must achieve, as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a CMMC Status of either Conditional Level 2 (Self) or Final Level 2 (Self).


(2) The OSA must submit an affirmation of compliance into SPRS, as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(c) *Procedures*—(1) *Level 2 self-assessment of the OSA.* The OSA must conduct a Level 2 self-assessment in accordance with NIST SP 800-171A Jun2018 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2) and the CMMC Level 2 scoping requirements set forth in §§ 170.19(a) and (c) for the information systems within the CMMC Assessment Scope. The Level 2 self-assessment must be scored in accordance with the CMMC Scoring Methodology described in § 170.24 and the OSA must upload the results into SPRS. If a POA&M exists, a POA&M closeout self-assessment must be performed by the OSA when all NOT MET requirements have been remediated. The POA&M closeout self-assessment must be performed within 180-days of the Conditional CMMC Status Date. Additional guidance can be found in the guidance document listed in paragraph (c) of appendix A to this part.


(2) *Level 2 self-assessment with the use of Cloud Service Provider (CSP).* An OSA may use a cloud environment to process, store, or transmit CUI in performance of a contract or subcontract with a requirement for the CMMC Status of Level 2 (Self) under the following circumstances:


(i) The CSP product or service offering is FedRAMP Authorized at the FedRAMP Moderate (or higher) baseline in accordance with the FedRAMP Marketplace; or


(ii) The CSP product or service offering is not FedRAMP Authorized at the FedRAMP Moderate (or higher) baseline but meets security requirements equivalent to those established by the FedRAMP Moderate (or higher) baseline. FedRAMP Moderate or FedRAMP Moderate equivalent is in accordance with DoD Policy.


(iii) In accordance with § 170.19(c)(2), the OSA's on-premises infrastructure connecting to the CSP's product or service offering is part of the CMMC Assessment Scope, which will also be assessed. As such, the security requirements from the Customer Responsibility Matrix (CRM) must be documented or referred to in the OSA's System Security Plan (SSP).


(3) *Level 2 self-assessment with the use of an External Service Provider (ESP), not a CSP.* An OSA may use an ESP that is not a CSP to process, store, or transmit CUI in performance of a contract or subcontract with a requirement for the CMMC Status of Level 2 (Self) under the following circumstances:


(i) The use of the ESP, its relationship to the OSA, and the services provided are documented in the OSA's SSP and described in the ESP's service description and CRM.


(ii) The ESP services used to meet OSA requirements are assessed within the scope of the OSA's assessment against all Level 2 security requirements.


(iii) In accordance with § 170.19(c)(2), the OSA's on-premises infrastructure connecting to the ESP's product or service offering is part of the CMMC Assessment Scope, which will also be assessed. As such, the security requirements from the CRM must be documented or referred to in the OSA's SSP.


(4) *Artifact retention.* The artifacts used as evidence for the assessment must be retained by the OSA for six (6) years from the CMMC Status Date.






