# § 93.437   Tuberculosis status of foreign regions.

(a) *Level I regions.* APHIS considers certain regions of the world to have a program that meets APHIS requirements for tuberculosis classification in accordance with § 93.438, and a prevalence of tuberculosis in their domestic bovine herds of less than 0.001 percent over at least the previous 2 years (24 consecutive months).


(b) *Level II regions.* APHIS considers certain regions of the world to have a program that meets APHIS requirements for tuberculosis classification in accordance with § 93.438, and a prevalence of tuberculosis in their domestic bovine herds equal to or greater than 0.001 percent, but less than 0.01 percent, over the previous 2 years (24 consecutive months).


(c) *Level III regions.* APHIS considers certain regions of the world to have a program that meets APHIS requirements for tuberculosis classification in accordance with § 93.438, and a prevalence of tuberculosis in their domestic bovine herds equal to or greater than 0.01 percent, but less than 0.1 percent, over the previous year (12 consecutive months).


(d) *Level IV regions.* APHIS considers certain regions of the world to have a program that meets APHIS requirements for tuberculosis classification in accordance with § 93.438, and a prevalence of tuberculosis in their domestic bovine herds equal to or greater than 0.1 percent, but less than 0.5 percent, over the previous year (12 consecutive months).


(e) *Level V regions.* APHIS considers certain regions of the world not to have a program that meets APHIS requirements for tuberculosis classification in accordance with § 93.438, to have a prevalence of tuberculosis in their domestic bovine herds equal to or greater than 0.5 percent, or to be unassessed by APHIS with regard to tuberculosis.


(f) *Listing of regions.* Lists of all Level I regions, Level II regions, Level III regions, Level IV regions, and Level V regions for tuberculosis are found online, at *http://www.aphis.usda.gov/import_export/animals/live_animals.shtml.* Changes to the lists will be made in accordance with § 93.438.



---

[N] [85 FR 57953, Sept. 17, 2020]




