# ยง 612.2145   Disclosing and reporting conflicts of interest.

(a) *Responsibilities.* As a director or employee of a System institution you must identify, disclose, and report on any interest or circumstances that does or could constitute a conflict of interest and potential conflict of interest. You must carry out this responsibility to the best of your knowledge and belief. You must cooperate with, and provide information requested by, the Standards of Conduct Official for use in determining the materiality of a conflict and to resolve conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest.


(1) If you have a conflict of interest in a matter, transaction, or activity subject to official action by the institution or before the board of directors then you must disclose it and refrain from participating in official action or board discussion of the matter, transaction, or activity. You must also avoid voting on or influencing any decision directed at the matter, transaction, or activity.


(2) You must report, either to the SOCO or by using the institution's anonymous reporting procedures, any known or suspected activity by a person affiliated with the institution that you suspect is illegal, unethical, or a violation of the institution's standards of conduct and Code of Ethics.


(b) *Reporting conflicts of interest.* As a director or employee of a System institution, you must file with the SOCO reports on any real or potential conflicts of interest. The reports must be filed at least annually and at such other times as may be required by your institution policies and procedures. The reports must be in sufficient detail for a reasonable person to make a conflict of interest determination and decide if the conflict is material. You must file a report with the SOCO that contains the disclosures required by this section and those required by the institution's SOC program policies and procedures. At a minimum, the report must be signed by you and include:


(1) Any interest you have in any business matter, including any loan or loan application, to be considered by the System institution, or supervised or supervising institution in the current year;


(2) All material financial interests, including those arising in the ordinary course of business, you have with any director, employee, agent, or borrower of your System institution, or a supervised or supervising institution;


(3) The name(s) of your reportable business entities that you know or have reason to know in the current year transacted business with:


(i) Your System institution;


(ii) Any supervised or supervising institution; or


(iii) A borrower that transacts business with your System institution, or any supervised or supervising institution.


(4) The name(s) of your family members you know or have reason to know transacted business with your System institution or any supervised or supervising institution in the current year.


(5) Reportable gifts received or disposed of under the institution's SOC program policies and procedures.


(c) *Other required disclosures for directors and officers.* If you are a director or officer at the institution, you must give the SOCO the disclosures required under ยง 620.6(a), (e), and (f) of this chapter, regardless of who else in the institution has been provided them. The timing and frequency of disclosing the information to the SOCO, or any updates to them, is determined by your institution's SOC program policies and procedures but must occur no less than annually and at issuance of the institution's Annual Meeting Information Statement.




