# ยง 421.5   General provisions.

(a) *Competitive bidding not required for carriers.* CMS may enter into contracts with carriers, or with intermediaries to act as carriers in certain circumstances, without regard to section 3709 of the U.S. Revised Statutes or any other provision of law that requires competitive bidding. 


(b) *Indemnification of intermediaries and carriers.* Intermediaries and carriers act on behalf of CMS in carrying out certain administrative responsibilities that the law imposes. Accordingly, their agreements and contracts contain clauses providing for indemnification with respect to actions taken on behalf of CMS and CMS is the real party of interest in any litigation involving the administration of the program. 


(c) *Use of intermediaries to perform carrier functions.* CMS may contract with an intermediary to perform carrier functions with respect to services for which Part B payment is made to a provider. 


(d) *Nonrenewal of agreement or contract.* Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this part, CMS has the authority not to renew an agreement or contract when its term expires. 


(e) *Intermediary availability in an area.* For more effective and efficient administration of the program, CMS retains the right to expand or diminish the geographical area in which an intermediary is available to serve providers. 


(f) *Provision for automatic renewal.* Agreements and contracts under this part may contain automatic renewal clauses for continuation from term to term unless either party gives notice, within timeframes specified in the agreement or contract, of its intention not to renew. 



---

[N] [45 FR 42179, June 23, 1980, as amended at 54 FR 4026, Jan. 27, 1989]




