# ยง 403.732   Condition of participation: Quality assessment and performance improvement.

The RNHCI must develop, implement, and maintain a quality assessment and performance improvement program.


(a) *Standard: Program scope.* (1) The quality assessment and performance improvement program must include, but is not limited to, measures to evaluate:


(i) Access to care.


(ii) Patient satisfaction.


(iii) Staff performance.


(iv) Complaints and grievances.


(v) Discharge planning activities.


(vi) Safety issues, including physical environment.


(2) In each of the areas listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and any other areas the RNHCI includes, the RNHCI must do the following:


(i) Define quality assessment and performance improvement measures.


(ii) Describe and outline quality assessment and performance improvement activities appropriate for the services furnished by or in the RNHCI.


(iii) Measure, analyze, and track performance that reflect care and RNHCI processes.


(iv) Inform all patients, in writing, of the scope and responsibilities of the quality assessment and performance improvement program.


(3) The RNHCI must set priorities for performance improvement, considering the prevalence of and severity of identified problems.


(4) The RNHCI must act to make performance improvements and must track performance to assure that improvements are sustained.


(b) *Standard: Program responsibilities.* (1) The governing body, administration, and staff are responsible for ensuring that the quality assessment and performance improvement program addresses identified priorities in the RNHCI and are responsible for the development, implementation, maintenance, and performance improvement of assessment actions.


(2) The RNHCI must include all programs, departments, functions, and contracted services when developing, implementing, maintaining, and evaluating the program of quality assessment and performance improvement.




