# ยง 4284.902   Organization of subpart.

The information in this subpart is organized into six main topics:


(a) *General information.* Sections 4284.901 through 4284.919 discuss the purpose of the program, definitions, exception authority, conflict of interest, compliance with other laws and regulations, and reserved funds.


(b) *Eligibility information.* Sections 4284.920 through 4284.929 discuss the eligibility requirements for the program. The sections include information on Applicant eligibility, Project eligibility, reserved funds eligibility, priority points eligibility, and the use of funds.


(c) *Application requirements information.* Sections 4284.930 through 4284.939 discuss the requirements for submitting an application. The sections include information on what forms and other information are required for a complete application as well as the format of the application, the application deadline, and how to submit the application.


(d) *Application processing information.* Sections 4284.940 through 4284.949 discuss how the Agency will process applications. The sections include information on how applications will be reviewed for eligibility, how applications will be evaluated for merit, and how an Applicant can withdraw an application from consideration.


(e) *Award information.* Sections 4284.950 through 4284.959 discuss how the Agency will make awards. The sections include information about how applications will be selected for funding, how Applicants will be notified whether their applications have been selected for funding, how Applicants can resolve disputes regarding funding selections, and the requirements for an Applicant to accept an award and be approved as a recipient of an award.


(f) *Post-award information.* Sections 4284.960 through 4284.962 discuss the reporting requirements for recipients after an award is approved as well as monitoring procedures that the Agency will use.


(g) *Other.* (1) Sections 4284.963 through 4284.999 are reserved.


(2) Section 4284.1000 includes the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) control number for reporting and recordkeeping requirements under this subpart.






