# § 350.1   Authorization for garnishment of benefits paid by the Board.

(a) Annuities and accrued annuities payable under the Railroad Retirement Act, sickness and unemployment benefits payable under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act, and benefits payable under any other Act administered by the Board, are subject, in like manner and to the same extent as if the Board were a private person, to legal process brought for the enforcement of legal obligations to provide child support or to make alimony payments.


(b) Lump sums, other than accrued annuities, which are payable under the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974, such as those payable under sections 6(b)(1) and 6(c)(1) of that Act, are not subject to legal process as defined in this subchapter. However, an individual entitled to a benefit under section 6 of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974 may assign the right to receive all or any part of that benefit.


(c) Except as authorized under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and part 295 of this chapter, no benefit paid by the Board shall be assignable or be subject to garnishment, attachment, or other legal process, nor shall the payment thereof be anticipated.


(d) In the absence of law to the contrary, it will be assumed that “wages,” “earnings,” and analogous terms referred to in relevant provisions of state law include payments made by a private person which are analogous to those paid by the Board.



---

[N] [45 FR 28314, Apr. 29, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 12242, Mar. 28, 1985; 53 FR 35807, Sept. 15, 1988]




