# § 433.1   Definitions.

(a) *Person.* An individual, corporation, or any other business organization.


(b) *Consumer.* A natural person who seeks or acquires goods or services for personal, family, or household use.


(c) *Creditor.* A person who, in the ordinary course of business, lends purchase money or finances the sale of goods or services to consumers on a deferred payment basis; *Provided,* such person is not acting, for the purposes of a particular transaction, in the capacity of a credit card issuer.


(d) *Purchase money loan.* A cash advance which is received by a consumer in return for a “Finance Charge” within the meaning of the Truth in Lending Act and Regulation Z, which is applied, in whole or substantial part, to a purchase of goods or services from a seller who (1) refers consumers to the creditor or (2) is affiliated with the creditor by common control, contract, or business arrangement.


(e) *Financing a sale.* Extending credit to a consumer in connection with a “Credit Sale” within the meaning of the Truth in Lending Act and Regulation Z.


(f) *Contract.* Any oral or written agreement, formal or informal, between a creditor and a seller, which contemplates or provides for cooperative or concerted activity in connection with the sale of goods or services to consumers or the financing thereof.


(g) *Business arrangement.* Any understanding, procedure, course of dealing, or arrangement, formal or informal, between a creditor and a seller, in connection with the sale of goods or services to consumers or the financing thereof.


(h) *Credit card issuer.* A person who extends to cardholders the right to use a credit card in connection with purchases of goods or services.


(i) *Consumer credit contract.* Any instrument which evidences or embodies a debt arising from a “Purchase Money Loan” transaction or a “financed sale” as defined in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.


(j) *Seller.* A person who, in the ordinary course of business, sells or leases goods or services to consumers.



---

[N] [40 FR 53506, Nov. 18, 1975]




