# ยง 232.501   Modular submissions and segmented filings.

An electronic filer may use the following procedures to submit information to the EDGAR system for subsequent inclusion in an electronic filing:


(a) *Modular submissions.* (1) One or more electronic format documents may be submitted for storage in the non-public EDGAR data storage area as a modular submission for subsequent inclusion in one or more electronic submissions. 


(2) An electronic filer shall be permitted a maximum of ten modular submissions in the non-public EDGAR data storage area at any time, not to exceed a total of one megabyte of digital information. If an electronic filer attempts to submit a modular filing which would cause either of these limits to be exceeded, EDGAR will suspend the modular submission and notify the electronic filer by electronic mail. After six business days, the modular submission held in suspense will be deleted from the system. 


(3) A modular submission may be corrected or amended only by resubmitting the entire modular submission. 


(b) *Segmented filings.* (1) Segments of a document intended to become an electronic filing may be submitted to the non-public EDGAR data storage area for assembly as a segmented filing. 


(2) Segments shall be submitted no more than six business days in advance of the anticipated filing date and are not limited in number or size. They may be submitted from several geographic locations by more than one filing entity. Segments may be included in only one electronic filing. Once used, segments will be removed from the non-public EDGAR data storage area. The assembly of segments into a segmented filing shall be effected pursuant to the applicable provisions of the EDGAR Filer Manual. If segments are not prepared in accordance with the EDGAR Filer Manual, the filing will not be constructed. The filing date of a segmented filing shall be the date upon which the filing is assembled and satisfies the requirements of Rule 13(a) of Regulation S-T (ยง 232.13(a)). 


(3) Segments may be corrected or amended only by resubmitting the entire segment. 


(c) A modular submission or segment shall not: 


(1) be publicly available; 


(2) Be deemed filed with the Commission for purposes of Securities Act section 11 (15 U.S.C. 77k), Exchange Act section 18 (15 U.S.C. 78r), Trust Indenture Act section 323 (15 U.S.C. 77www), or Investment Company Act section 34(b) (15 U.S.C. 80a-33(b)) prior to its inclusion in a filing; or 


(3) Be deemed to constitute an official filing prior to its inclusion in a filing under the federal securities laws. Once a modular submission or segment has been included in an electronic filing, the liability and anti-fraud provisions of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the Trust Indenture Act, and the Investment Company Act shall apply to the electronic filing. 



---

[N] [58 FR 14670, Mar. 18, 1993; 58 FR 21349, Apr. 21, 1993, as amended at 65 FR 24801, Apr. 27, 2000; 76 FR 71876, Nov. 21, 2011]




