# § 300.155   Requirements.

(a) *Compliance with permit requirements.* (1) U.S. nationals and vessels subject to this subpart must have a valid permit, as specified in § 300.153(c) in order to fish for Russian fishery resources. 


(2) U.S. nationals and vessels subject to this subpart that are fishing for Russian fishery resources must comply with all provisions, conditions, and restrictions of any applicable permit. 


(b) *Compliance with Russian law.* U.S. nationals and vessels fishing for Russian fishery resources must comply with the relevant laws and regulations of the Russian Federation. 


(c) *Protection of marine mammals.* U.S. nationals and vessels fishing for Russian fishery resources may not harass, hunt, capture, or kill any marine mammal within the Russian EZ, attempt to do so, except as may be provided for by an international agreement to which both the United States and Russia are parties, or in accordance with specific authorization and controls established by the Russian Federation. The provisions of the Marine Mammal Protection Act (MMPA), 16 U.S.C. 1361 *et seq.* also apply to any person or vessel subject to the jurisdiction of the United States while in the Russian EZ, and it shall not be a defense to any violation of the MMPA that the person or vessel was acting in accordance with any permit or authorization issued by the Russian Federation. 


(d) *Cooperation with enforcement procedures.* (1) The operator of, or any person aboard, any U.S. vessel subject to this subpart must immediately comply with instructions and signals issued by an authorized officer of the Russian Federation to stop the vessel and with instructions to facilitate safe boarding and inspection of the vessel, its gear, equipment, fishing record, and catch for purposes of enforcing the relevant laws and regulations of Russia. 


(2) The operator of, and any person aboard, any U.S. vessel subject to this subpart, must comply with directions issued by authorized officers of the Russian Federation in connection with the seizure of the vessel for violation of the relevant laws or regulations of the Russian Federation. 


(3) U.S. nationals and vessels subject to this subpart must pay all fines and penalties and comply with forfeiture sanctions imposed by the Russian Federation for violations of its relevant laws and regulations. 


(4) The operator of, and any person aboard, any U.S. vessel subject to this subpart must immediately comply with instructions and signals issued by an authorized officer of the United States to stop the vessel and with instructions to facilitate safe boarding and inspection of the vessel, its gear, equipment, fishing records, and catch for purposes of enforcing the Magnuson-Stevens Act, the Agreement, and this subpart. 


(e) *Compliance with observer requirements.* The owner of, operator of, and any person aboard, any U.S. vessel fishing in the Russian EZ or for Russian fishery resources to which a Russian observer is assigned must— 


(1) Allow and facilitate, on request, boarding of a U.S. vessel by the observer. 


(2) Provide to the observer, at no cost to the observer or the Russian Federation, the courtesies and accommodations provided to ship's officers. 


(3) Cooperate with the observer in the conduct of his or her official duties. 


(4) Reimburse the Russian Federation for the costs of providing an observer aboard the vessel. 




