# § 105.2   Definitions.

*Applicant* means the person authorized to complete the application on behalf of an industrial organization or political subdivision of States. 


*Application* means a completed questionnaire, nomination form, or other documentation submitted to or by the States, EPA Regions or headquarters for consideration of a national CWA Recognition Award. 


*I* means the applicant for an award. 


*Industrial organization* means any company, corporation, association, partnership, firm, university, not-for-profit organization, or wastewater treatment facility, as well as a Federal, State or Tribal government wastewater treatment facility, or U.S. military command to the extent such government and other organizations operate in an “industrial” capacity in the treatment of wastes or abatement of pollution. 


*Nominee* means a candidate recommended by the State or Tribe or EPA for consideration for a CWA Recognition Award. 


*Political subdivision of State* means a municipality, city, town, borough, county, parish, district, association, or other public body (including an intermunicipal agency of two or more of the foregoing entities) created by or pursuant to State law. 


*State* means any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands. 


*State water pollution control agency* means the State agency designated by the Governing Authority having responsibility for enforcing State laws relating to the abatement of water pollution. 


*You* means the applicant for an award. 




