# § 665.935   Fishing permit procedures and criteria.

(a) *Non-commercial fishing*—(1) *Applicability.* Except as provided in section 665.934(d), a vessel that is used to non-commercially fish for, take, retain, or possess MUS in the Monument must be registered for use with a permit issued pursuant to §§ 665.603, 665.624, 665.642, 665.662, 665.801(f), or 665.801(g).


(2) *Terms and conditions.* Customary exchange of fish harvested in the Monument is prohibited.


(b) *Pacific Remote Islands Monument recreational charter permit*—(1) *Applicability.* Except as provided in § 665.934(d), both the owner and operator of a vessel that is chartered to recreationally fish for, take, retain, or possess MUS in the Monument must have a permit issued under this section, and the permit must be registered for use with that vessel. Charter boat customers are not required to obtain a permit.


(2) *Terms and conditions.* (i) The sale or exchange through barter or trade of fish caught by a charter boat fishing in the Monument is prohibited.


(ii) Customary exchange of fish harvested under a Monument recreational charter permit is prohibited.


(c) *Application.* An application for a permit required under this section must be submitted to PIRO as described in § 665.13.


(d) *Transfer.* A permit issued under this section is not transferrable.


(e) *Reporting and recordkeeping.* The operator of a vessel subject to the requirements of this section must comply with the terms and conditions described in § 665.14.



---

[N] [78 FR 33003, June 3, 2013, as amended at 78 FR 39583, July 2, 2013]




