# § 442.118   Denial of payments for new admissions to an ICF/IID.

(a) *Basis for denial of payments.* The Medicaid agency may deny payment for new admissions to an ICF/IID that no longer meets the applicable conditions of participation specified under subpart I of part 483 of this chapter. 


(b) *Agency procedures.* Before denying payments for new admissions, the Medicaid agency must comply with the following requirements:


(1) Provide the facility up to 60 days to correct the cited deficiencies and comply with conditions of participation for ICFs/IID. 


(2) If at the end of the specified period the facility has not achieved compliance, give the facility notice of intent to deny payment for new admissions, and opportunity for an informal hearing.


(3) If the facility requests a hearing, provide an informal hearing that includes—


(i) The opportunity for the facility to present, before a State Medicaid official who was not involved in making the initial determination, evidence or documentation, in writing or in person, to refute the decision that the facility is out of compliance with the conditions of participation for ICFs/IID. 


(ii) A written decision setting forth the factual and legal bases pertinent to a resolution of the dispute.


(4) If the decision of the informal hearing is to deny payments for new admissions, provide the facility and the public, at least 15 days before the effective date of the sanction, with a notice that includes the effective date and the reasons for the denial of payments. 



---

[N] [51 FR 24491, July 3, 1986, as amended at 59 FR 56236, Nov. 10, 1994]




