# ยง 142.43   Line Release application approval process.

(a) *Port review.* The port director shall review each Line Release application to determine whether the shipments qualify for Line Release processing. The port director may contact the applicant for further information, if necessary. An application that fails to elect whether the Line Release transaction is to be considered an entry or an immediate delivery will be returned to the applicant. If all required information is submitted, the application will be forwarded to Headquarters for final processing.


(b) *Assignment of C-4 Codes.* A C-4 Code (Common Commodity Classification Code), which is a unique code identifying the shipper or manufacturer, importer, entry filer, and the product for each Line Release shipment, shall be assigned by Headquarters to each application approved for Line Release. Headquarters shall annotate each approved application with a C-4 Code and return the application to the port director who shall return the approved application to the entry filer.


(c) *Denial of Line Release application.* If the port director is considering the denial of a Line Release application, consideration shall be given to whether an application by the same filer for the same transaction has been approved at another port. If there is not an approved application at another port and the port director determines that the application shall be denied, the application shall be noted denied and returned to the entry filer without a C-4 Code annotation by the port director. If an application has been approved at another port, but the port director still questions whether the application should be approved at his port, the port director shall forward the application to the Assistant Commissioner, Office of Information Management. The Office of Information and Technology will review the application and will notify the port director of the final determination.




