# § 61.23   Medical certificates: Requirement and duration.

(a) *Operations requiring a medical certificate.* Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a person— 


(1) Must hold a first-class medical certificate:


(i) When exercising the pilot-in-command privileges of an airline transport pilot certificate;


(ii) When exercising the second-in-command privileges of an airline transport pilot certificate in a flag or supplemental operation in part 121 of this chapter that requires three or more pilots; or


(iii) When serving as a required pilot flightcrew member in an operation conducted under part 121 of this chapter if the pilot has reached his or her 60th birthday.


(2) Must hold at least a second class medical certificate when exercising:




(i) Second-in-command privileges of an airline transport pilot certificate in part 121 of this chapter (other than operations specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section);


(ii) Privileges of a commercial pilot certificate in an aircraft other than a balloon or glider; or


(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, privileges of a commercial pilot certificate with a balloon class rating for compensation or hire; or


(3) Must hold at least a third-class medical certificate—


(i) When exercising the privileges of a private pilot certificate, recreational pilot certificate, or student pilot certificate, except when operating under the conditions and limitations set forth in § 61.113(i);


(ii) When exercising the privileges of a flight instructor certificate and acting as the pilot in command or as a required flightcrew member, except when operating under the conditions and limitations set forth in § 61.113(i);


(iii) When taking a practical test in an aircraft for a recreational pilot, private pilot, commercial pilot, or airline transport pilot certificate, or for a flight instructor certificate, except when operating under the conditions and limitations set forth in § 61.113(i); or


(iv) When performing the duties as an Examiner in an aircraft when administering a practical test or proficiency check for an airman certificate, rating, or authorization, except when meeting the requirements to operate under the conditions and limitations set forth in § 61.113(i).


(b) *Operations not requiring a medical certificate.* A person is not required to hold a medical certificate—


(1) When exercising the privileges of a student pilot certificate while seeking—


(i) A sport pilot certificate with glider or balloon privileges; or


(ii) A pilot certificate with a glider category rating or balloon class rating;


(2) When exercising the privileges of a sport pilot certificate with privileges in a glider or balloon;




(3) When exercising the privileges of a pilot certificate with a glider category rating in a glider;


(4) When exercising the privileges of a private pilot certificate with a balloon class rating in a balloon;


(5) When exercising the privileges of a commercial pilot certificate with a balloon class rating in a balloon if the person is providing flight training in accordance with § 61.133(a)(2)(ii);


(6) When exercising the privileges of a flight instructor certificate with—


(i) A sport pilot rating in a glider or balloon; or


(ii) A glider category rating; 


(7) When exercising the privileges of a flight instructor certificate if the person is not acting as pilot in command or serving as a required pilot flight crewmember; 


(8) When exercising the privileges of a ground instructor certificate; 


(9) When serving as an Examiner or check airman and administering a practical test or proficiency check for an airman certificate, rating, or authorization conducted in a glider, balloon, flight simulator, or flight training device;


(10) When taking a practical test or a proficiency check for a certificate, rating, authorization or operating privilege conducted in a glider, balloon, flight simulator, or flight training device;


(11) When a military pilot of the U.S. Armed Forces can show evidence of an up-to-date medical examination authorizing pilot flight status issued by the U.S. Armed Forces and—


(i) The flight does not require higher than a third-class medical certificate; and


(ii) The flight conducted is a domestic flight operation within U.S. airspace; or


(12) When exercising the privileges of a student pilot certificate or higher while acting as pilot in command on a special medical flight test authorized under part 67 of this chapter.


(c) *Operations requiring either a medical certificate or U.S. driver's license.* (1) A person must hold and possess either a medical certificate issued under part 67 of this chapter or a U.S. driver's license when—


(i) Exercising the privileges of a student pilot certificate while seeking sport pilot privileges in a light-sport aircraft other than a glider or balloon;


(ii) Exercising the privileges of a sport pilot certificate in a light-sport aircraft other than a glider or balloon;


(iii) Exercising the privileges of a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating while acting as pilot in command or serving as a required flight crewmember of a light-sport aircraft other than a glider or balloon;


(iv) Serving as an Examiner and administering a practical test for the issuance of a sport pilot certificate in a light-sport aircraft other than a glider or balloon;


(v) Exercising the privileges of a student, recreational or private pilot certificate if the flight is conducted under the conditions and limitations set forth in § 61.113(i);


(vi) Exercising the privileges of a flight instructor certificate and acting as the pilot in command or as a required flight crewmember if the flight is conducted under the conditions and limitations set forth in § 61.113(i); or


(vii) Serving as an Examiner and administering a practical test or proficiency check for an airman certificate, rating, or authorization if the flight is conducted under the conditions and limitations set forth in § 61.113(i).


(2) A person using a U.S. driver's license to meet the requirements of paragraph (c) while exercising sport pilot privileges must—


(i) Comply with each restriction and limitation imposed by that person's U.S. driver's license and any judicial or administrative order applying to the operation of a motor vehicle;


(ii) Have been found eligible for the issuance of at least a third-class airman medical certificate at the time of his or her most recent application (if the person has applied for a medical certificate);


(iii) Not have had his or her most recently issued medical certificate (if the person has held a medical certificate) suspended or revoked or most recent Authorization for a Special Issuance of a Medical Certificate withdrawn; and


(iv) Not know or have reason to know of any medical condition that would make that person unable to operate a light-sport aircraft in a safe manner.


(3) A person using a U.S. driver's license to meet the requirements of paragraph (c) while operating under the conditions and limitations of § 61.113(i) must meet the following requirements—


(i) The person must—


(A) Comply with all medical requirements or restrictions associated with his or her U.S. driver's license;


(B) At any point after July 14, 2006, have held a medical certificate issued under part 67 of this chapter;


(C) Complete the medical education course set forth in § 68.3 of this chapter during the 24 calendar months before acting as pilot in command or serving as a required flightcrew member in an operation conducted under § 61.113(i) and retain a certification of course completion in accordance with § 68.3(b)(1) of this chapter;


(D) Receive a comprehensive medical examination from a State-licensed physician during the 48 calendar months before acting as pilot in command or serving as a required flightcrew member of an operation conducted under § 61.113(i) and that medical examination is conducted in accordance with the requirements in part 68 of this chapter; and


(E) If the individual has been diagnosed with any medical condition that may impact the ability of the individual to fly, be under the care and treatment of a State-licensed physician when acting as pilot in command or serving as a required flightcrew member of an operation conducted under § 61.113(i).


(ii) The most recently issued medical certificate—


(A) May include an authorization for special issuance;


(B) May be expired; and


(C) Cannot have been suspended or revoked.


(iii) The most recently issued Authorization for a Special Issuance of a Medical Certificate cannot have been withdrawn; and


(iv) The most recent application for an airman medical certificate submitted to the FAA cannot have been completed and denied.


(d) *Duration of a medical certificate.* Use the following table to determine duration for each class of medical certificate:



---

[N] [Doc. No. 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40895, July 30, 1997; Amdt. 61-110, 69 FR 44864, July 27, 2004, as amended by Amdt. 61-121, 73 FR 43064, July 24, 2008; Amdt. 61-121, 73 FR 48125, Aug. 18, 2008; Amdt. 61-123, 74 FR 34234, July 15, 2009; Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42547, Aug. 21, 2009; Amdt. 61-129, 76 FR 78143, Dec. 16, 2011; Amdt. 61-129A, 77 FR 61721, Oct. 11, 2012; Amdt. 61-130, 78 FR 42372, July 15, 2013; Docket FAA-2016-9157, Amdt. 61-140, 82 FR 3164, Jan. 11, 2017; Docket No. FAA-2021-1040, Amdt. Nos. 61-152, 87 FR 71236, Nov. 22, 2022; Docket No. FAA-2021-1040; Amdt. Nos. 61-152, 87 FR 71237, Nov. 22, 2022; Docket No. FAA-2024-2580; Amdt. No. 61-158, 89 FR 90577, Nov. 18, 2024]









