# § 703.5   Requirements for asserting and maintaining confidentiality claims.

Any person who submits information under TSCA or these implementing regulations may assert a business confidentiality claim to information included in such submission except where such a claim is disallowed by applicable regulation under this subchapter. Such claim must be made concurrent with submission of the information. If no such claim accompanies the submission, EPA will not recognize a confidentiality claim, and the information in or referred to in that submission may be made available to the public (e.g., by publication of specific chemical name and CASRN on the public portion of the TSCA Inventory) without further notice.


(a) *Supporting statement and certification.* (1) A person asserting a confidentiality claim must submit a statement that the person has:


(i) Taken reasonable measures to protect the confidentiality of the information;


(ii) Determined that the information is not required to be disclosed or otherwise made available to the public under any other Federal law;


(iii) A reasonable basis to conclude that disclosure of the information is likely to cause substantial harm to the competitive position of the person; and


(iv) A reasonable basis to believe that the information is not readily discoverable through reverse engineering.


(2) The person must also certify that these four statements and any information required to substantiate the confidentiality claim in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section are true and correct.


(b) *Substantiation.* (1) Confidentiality claims must be substantiated at the time of submission to EPA, unless exempt under paragraph (b)(5) of this section. In the case of information collected by EPA or on behalf of EPA in person at the site of a TSCA inspection under section 11 of the Act, the affected company must assert its confidentiality claim(s) in writing at the time the information is collected, and then must provide substantiation of its confidentiality claims and the supporting statement and certification described in paragraph (a) of this section within ten business days after the inspection ends. Confidentiality claims lacking required substantiation after ten business days will be treated as deficient under paragraph (e) of this section. Unless otherwise directed by EPA, such information or materials must be submitted via CDX. In the case of an unusually voluminous document collection under section 11 of the Act, the affected company may request additional time to assert claims and provide substantiation, which EPA may grant at its discretion. The inspection is considered to have ended when the inspector physically exits the regulated facility on the last day of the inspection.


(2) Information in substantiations may be claimed as confidential. Such claims must be accompanied by the certification described in paragraph (a) of this section but need not be themselves separately substantiated.


(3) Substantiation questions for all claims. Unless otherwise specified elsewhere in this subchapter (e.g., 40 CFR part 711), answers to the following questions must be provided for each confidentiality claim in a TSCA submission:


(i) Please specifically explain what harm to the competitive position of your business would be likely to result from the release of the information claimed as confidential. How would that harm be *substantial*? Why is the substantial harm to your competitive position *likely* (*i.e.,* probable) to be caused by release of the information rather than just *possible*? If you claimed multiple types of information to be confidential (e.g., site information, exposure information, environmental release information, etc.), explain how disclosure of each type of information would be likely to cause substantial harm to the competitive position of your business.


(ii) Has your business taken precautions to protect the confidentiality of the disclosed information? If yes, please explain and identify the specific measures, including but not limited to internal controls, that your business has taken to protect the information claimed as confidential. If the same or similar information was previously reported to EPA as non-confidential (such as in an earlier version of this submission), please explain the circumstances of that prior submission and reasons for believing the information is nonetheless still confidential.


(iii)(A) Is any of the information claimed as confidential required to be publicly disclosed under any other Federal law? If yes, please explain.


(B) Does any of the information claimed as confidential otherwise appear in any public documents, including (but not limited to) safety data sheets; advertising or promotional material; professional or trade publications; State, local, or Federal agency files; or any other media or publications available to the general public? If yes, please explain why the information should be treated as confidential. If this chemical is patented and the patent reveals the information you are claiming confidential, please explain your reasons for believing the information is nonetheless still confidential.


(iv) Is the claim of confidentiality intended to last less than 10 years (see TSCA section 14(e)(1)(B))? If yes, please indicate the number of years (between 1 and 10 years) or the specific date after which the claim is withdrawn.


(v) Has EPA, another Federal agency, or court made any confidentiality determination regarding information associated with this chemical substance? If yes, please provide the circumstances associated with the prior determination, whether or not the information was found to be entitled to confidential treatment, the entity that made the decision, and the date of the determination.


(4) Additional substantiation questions for chemical identity-related claims only. Unless otherwise specified in the relevant electronic reporting form, answers to the following questions must be provided for each chemical identity-related confidentiality claim in a TSCA submission:


(i) Is this chemical substance publicly known (including by your competitors) to be in U.S. commerce? If yes, please explain why the specific chemical identity should still be afforded confidential status (e.g., the chemical substance is publicly known only as being distributed in commerce for research and development purposes, but no other information about the current commercial distribution of the chemical substance in the United States is publicly available). If no, please complete the certification statement:


(ii) Does this specific chemical substance leave the site of manufacture (including import) in any form, e.g., as a product, effluent, emission? If yes, please explain what measures have been taken to guard against the discovery of its identity.


(iii) If the chemical substance leaves the site in a form that is available to the public or your competitors, can the chemical identity be readily discovered by analysis of the substance (e.g., product, effluent, emission), in light of existing technologies and any costs, difficulties, or limitations associated with such technologies? Please explain why or why not.


(iv) Would disclosure of the specific chemical identity release confidential process information? If yes, please explain.


(5) Information described in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section is exempt from the requirement to substantiate the claim at the time of submission. EPA may identify on a reporting form certain information as exempt from substantiation. Additional assertions of exemption from substantiation may be asserted by the submitter. Each such assertion must include a detailed explanation for why the information falls within the claimed exemption. If the explanation is missing or inadequate, and the claim is not otherwise substantiated, EPA will place a hold on the submission, as described in paragraph (e) of this section.


(i) The following information types are exempt from the substantiation requirement at the time of information submission:


(A) Specific information describing the processes used in manufacture or processing of a chemical substance, mixture, or article;


(B) Marketing and sales information;


(C) Information identifying a supplier or customer;


(D) Details of the full composition of a mixture and the respective percentages of constituents;


(E) Specific information regarding the use, function, or application of a chemical substance or mixture in a process, mixture, or article; and


(F) Specific production or import volumes.


(ii) Exemption for chemical substances not yet offered for commercial distribution.


(A) A confidentiality claim for specific identity of a chemical substance, where the submission is made prior to the date on which the chemical substance whose identity is claimed as confidential is first offered for commercial distribution, is exempt from the requirement to substantiate confidentiality claims at the time of submission.


(B) A specific chemical identity claim includes specific chemical names, CAS numbers, molecular formulas, reactants (if required to be reported as part of the identification of the chemical, such as for Class 2 substances in § 720.45(a) of this subchapter), and structural diagrams; or in the case of microorganisms, genus and species name and genetic construct.


(C) This exemption applies where the submitter lacks information to reasonably conclude that the chemical substance has been offered for commercial distribution, where both:


(*1*) The chemical substance is not on the TSCA Inventory; and


(*2*) The substance is otherwise not publicly known to have been offered for commercial distribution.


(c) *Public copies.* All TSCA submissions and their accompanying attachments that include a confidentiality claim must be accompanied, at the time of submission, by a public version of the submission and any attachments, with all information that is claimed as confidential removed. In the case of documents collected by EPA or on behalf of EPA in person at the site of a TSCA inspection under section 11 of the Act, the affected company must provide such public copies at the same time and in the same manner as it provides substantiation of its confidentiality claims in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, within ten working days after the inspection ends. Only information that is claimed as confidential may be redacted or removed. Generally, a public copy that removes all or substantially all of the information would not meet the requirements of this paragraph (c) so will likely be treated as deficient under paragraph (e) of this section.


(1) Where the applicable reporting form or electronic reporting tool contains a checkbox or other means of designating with specificity what information is claimed as confidential, no further action by the submitter is required to satisfy this requirement.


(2) For all other information claimed as confidential, including but not limited to information in attachments and in substantiations required under paragraph (b) of this section, the submitter must prepare and attach a public copy. EPA may treat as deficient submissions with public copies that are entirely blank or that are substantially reduced in length as compared to the CBI version (*see* paragraph (e) of this section).


(d) *Generic name.* Each confidentiality claim for specific chemical identity must be accompanied by a structurally descriptive generic name for that substance. This generic name must be consistent with guidance on the determination of structurally descriptive generic names developed in accordance with, and made binding by, section 14(c)(4)(A) of the Act (e.g., *Guidance for Creating Generic Names for Confidential Chemical Substance Identity Reporting under TSCA;* available at *https://www.epa.gov/tsca-inventory/guidance-creating-generic-names-confidential-chemical-substance-identity-reporting*), and 15 U.S.C. 2613(c)(1)(C)(ii).


(1) At a minimum, the generic name must either:


(i) Be identical to the generic name for the same substance included on the non-confidential portion of the TSCA Inventory (if the substance is listed on the TSCA Inventory), or


(ii) For substances that are not listed on the TSCA Inventory, mask only the confidential portions of the specific chemical name. In most cases, only one structural element of a specific chemical name may be masked to protect a confidential chemical identity—if the submitter of a proposed generic name wishes to mask more than one such element, the submission must include an explanation of why masking only one element is insufficient to protect the confidential identity.


(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(1) of this section, EPA may conclude that a generic name provided with the submission and listed on the current non-confidential version of the TSCA Inventory does not comply with 15 U.S.C. 2613(c)(1)(C). In such cases, EPA will notify the submitting company and proceed as described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.


(3) A generic name that meets the requirements of section 14(c)(1)(C) of the Act prior to the date on which the chemical substance is first offered for commercial distribution for the purposes of a pre-market submission (e.g., a PMN) may not be sufficient for the purposes of subsequent listing on the TSCA Inventory, as identified upon review under section 14(g)(1)(C)(i) of the Act of a confidentiality claim for specific chemical identity made in a Notice of Commencement required under § 720.102 or § 725.190(f) of this subchapter. In such cases, EPA will notify the submitting company and proceed as described in § 720.102(f) or § 725.190(f) of this subchapter.


(4) If EPA concludes that the proposed generic name does not comply with 15 U.S.C. 2613(c)(1)(C), EPA will notify the submitter, and provide 10 business days for the submitter to provide a revised generic name. If EPA concludes that the revised generic name is still not acceptable, EPA will hold the submission for an additional period of up to 10 business days, proceeding as set out in paragraph (e) of this section.


(e) *Deficient confidentiality claims.* (1) A confidentiality claim under TSCA is deficient if it meets one or more of the following criteria:


(i) The confidentiality claim is not accompanied by the supporting statement and certification required by paragraph (a) of this section.


(ii) The confidentiality claim is not accompanied by the substantiation required by paragraph (b) of this section. If the submitter claims an exemption from substantiation under paragraph (b)(5) of this section and the exemption does not apply or an explanation is not provided for the exemption pursuant to paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the confidentiality claim is deficient.


(iii) The confidentiality claim is not accompanied by a public copy that meets the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.


(iv) The confidentiality claim is for a specific chemical identity and is not accompanied by a generic name that meets the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.


(2) A submission that is identified as deficient under paragraph (e)(1) of this section will be held for a period of up to 10 business days, and the submitter will be notified via CDX as described in paragraph (h) of this section. During the hold, which commences on the day the CDX notice is sent, any applicable review period for the underlying submission will be suspended until either the deficiency is corrected or the 10 business days elapse without such correction. Upon the occurrence of the first of either of these events, the applicable review period for the underlying submission commences or comes out of suspension. If the deficiency is not remedied during the suspension, EPA will proceed with review of the submission and may deny the CBI claim(s).


(f) *Electronic reporting required.* (1) TSCA submissions bearing confidentiality claims must be submitted via CDX, except where EPA directs that information subpoenaed under section 11(c) of the Act or materials collected or requested by EPA as part of an inspection under section 11(a) of the Act, not be submitted via CDX. Any required TSCA submission asserting a CBI claim that does not meet the requirements of this paragraph will be deemed incomplete. EPA reserves the ability to waive the requirements of this paragraph, at its discretion, where compliance is infeasible.


(2) You must use CISS to complete and submit TSCA submissions via CDX. To access CISS go to *https://cdx.epa.gov/* and follow the appropriate links.


(3) On receipt by EPA, each electronic TSCA submission will be assigned a case number or document identifier, which will be available to the submitter in their CDX account. This identifier may be used as a reference in future communications that concern the substance and may be used by EPA in public communications (e.g., _Federal Register_ notices) that concern the submission, such as notices of receipt, final confidentiality determination, pending confidentiality claim expiration, or in other regulatory actions that concern the TSCA submission.


(g) *Requirement to report health and safety studies using templates.* Submitters of health and safety studies or information from such studies must provide such data in templated form, using an appropriate OECD harmonized template, if such template is available for the data type (*https://www.oecd.org/ehs/templates/*). Individual test or data submission rules or orders may specify an appropriate template or templates. Submission of templated data is not a substitute for submitting a full study report where a specific TSCA rule or order requires submission of the full study report (e.g., § 720.50(a) of this subchapter, or according to the terms of a specific order under section 5(e) of the Act).


(h) *Requirement to maintain company contact information; electronic notices concerning confidentiality claims.* (1) To facilitate ongoing or future communication concerning TSCA submissions, current contact information for all of the individuals associated with a particular TSCA submission must be maintained. Contact information for all the individuals associated with a particular TSCA submission must be updated by amending the submission via CDX, except that submissions that are either no longer accessible to the submitting company or that were not submitted via CDX (e.g., submissions that were originally provided on paper or other physical media), updated company contact must be provided via CDX using the appropriate EPA-provided electronic reporting application in CISS. In circumstances where ownership of the company or unit of a company has changed, such that contact information for one or more prior TSCA submissions that include confidentiality claims is affected, a notice of transfer of ownership must be directed to EPA via CDX. Instructions for providing this notice and for requesting access to copies of a prior TSCA submission are available at *https://cdx.epa.gov/.*

(2) When EPA contacts a TSCA submitter concerning confidentiality claims (e.g., related to a pending or concluded confidentiality claim review, a deficient submission, or in relation to the 10-year expiration of a confidentiality claim (described in section 14(e) of the Act)), EPA may provide notices and other correspondence to the submitter via CDX, using the contact information provided in the most recent version of the submission, or using the contact information provided in a more recent notice of transfer of ownership relating to that submission. The fact and date of delivery of such notice is verified automatically by CDX.


(3) In addition to individual notice described in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, EPA will publish on its website, or other appropriate platform, a list of TSCA submissions with confidentiality claims that are approaching the end of the ten-year period of protection described in section 14(e) of the Act. Such TSCA submissions will be referred to by the TSCA case or document identifier (as described in paragraph (f)(3) of this section) that was assigned to the submission by EPA when it was originally submitted. TSCA submissions will be added to this list at least 60 days prior to the end of the ten-year period of protection, along with instructions for reasserting and substantiating expiring claims.


(4) When a confidentiality claim is being reviewed pursuant to section 14(f) of the Act, EPA will provide, when necessary, notice of such review and an opportunity to substantiate or resubstantiate the affected confidentiality claim to the submitter using the contact information for the authorized official or technical contact provided in the most recent version of the submission or in a more recent notice of transfer of ownership relating to that submission.


(5) Where the submission with the relevant CBI claim was not originally made via CDX, EPA will send the notice via courier or US Mail to the company address provided in the most recent TSCA submission made by that company, or via other means that allows verification of the fact and date of receipt. The notice will provide instructions for substantiating claims that were exempt from substantiation when the confidentiality claim was asserted or for which the submitter was otherwise not required to provide substantiation at the time of initial submission, and for updating or re-substantiating as necessary any claims that were previously substantiated.


(i) *Withdrawing confidentiality claims.* TSCA confidentiality claims may be voluntarily withdrawn by the submitter at any time.


(1) Confidentiality claims in TSCA submissions that were originally made via electronic submission may be withdrawn. To withdraw a claim, a person must reopen the submission in CDX, remove confidentiality markings (e.g., confidential checkmarks or bracketing), revise public copies including any attachments to unredact the information no longer claimed confidential, and then resubmit the submission.


(2) For submissions that were not originally made via CDX, or that are no longer accessible to the submitting company via CDX, confidentiality claims may also be withdrawn via CDX using the “TSCA Communications” application or successor system. The withdrawal correspondence must indicate the case or document number (or other applicable document identifier or document identifying details) from which CBI claims are being withdrawn, identify the submitting company, and include a list or description of the information for which CBI claims are being withdrawn, including page numbers where relevant. Current contact information for the person withdrawing the claim must also be provided, in the event EPA needs clarification concerning which claim or claims are being withdrawn.


(j) *Amending public copy following confidentiality claim denial or expiration.* (1) Following the expiration or EPA's denial of a TSCA confidentiality claim, the person who asserted the denied or expired claim should prepare and submit a revised public copy of the submission to EPA, following the procedures for voluntarily withdrawing claims described in paragraph (i) of this section.


(2) If the person who asserted the denied or expired claim declines or fails to provide within 30 days a revised public copy of the submission that includes the information for which the confidentiality claim(s) were denied or expired, EPA may prepare an addendum to the original public copy, as needed, disclosing the information to the public.






