# ยง 284.122   Transportation by intrastate pipelines.

(a) Subject to paragraph (d) of this section, other provisions of this subpart, and the applicable conditions of Subpart A of this part, any intrastate pipeline may, without prior Commission approval, transport natural gas on behalf of: 


(1) Any interstate pipeline; or


(2) Any local distribution company served by an interstate pipeline.


(b) No rate charged for transportation authorized under this subpart may exceed a fair and equitable rate under ยง 284.123.


(c) Any intrastate pipeline engaged in transportation arrangements authorized under this section must file reports as required by ยง 284.126.


(d) Transportation of natural gas is not on behalf of an interstate pipeline or local distribution company served by an interstate pipeline or authorized under this section unless:


(1) The interstate pipeline or local distribution company has physical custody of and transports the natural gas at some point; or


(2) The interstate pipeline or local distribution company holds title to the natural gas at some point, which may occur prior to, during, or after the time that the gas is being transported by the intrastate pipeline, for a purpose related to its status and functions as an interstate pipeline or its status and functions as a local distribution company.



---

[N] [Order 436, 50 FR 42495, Oct. 18, 1985, as amended by Order 537, 56 FR 50245, Oct. 4, 1991; Order 537-A, 57 FR 46501, Oct. 9, 1992; Order 581, 60 FR 53073, Oct. 11, 1995; Order 756, 77 FR 4894, Feb. 1, 2012]




