# 6105.502   Request for decision [Rule 502].

(a) *Request for decision.* (1) A disbursing or certifying official of an agency, or the head of an agency, may request from the Board a decision (referred to as a “Section 3529 decision”) on a question involving a payment the disbursing official or head of agency will make, or a voucher presented to a certifying official for certification, which concerns the following type of claim made against the United States by a federal civilian employee:


(i) A claim for reimbursement of expenses incurred while on official temporary duty travel; and


(ii) A claim for reimbursement of expenses incurred in connection with relocation to a new duty station.


(2) A request for a Section 3529 decision shall be in writing; no particular form is required. The request must refer to a specific payment or voucher; it may not seek general legal advice. The request should—


(i) Explain why the official is seeking a Section 3529 decision, rather than taking action on his or her own regarding the matter;


(ii) State the question presented and include citations to applicable statutes, regulations, and cases;


(iii) Include—


(A) The name, address, telephone number, facsimile machine number, and e-mail address, if available, of the official making the request;


(B) The name, address, telephone number, facsimile machine number, and e-mail address, if available, of the employee affected by the specific payment or


(C) Any other information which the official believes the Board should consider; and


(iv) Be delivered to the Office of the Clerk of the Board. The Board will accept hand-delivered and mailed filings during business hours at 1800 M Street NW, 6th Floor, Washington, DC 20036.  The Clerk's telephone number is: (202) 606-8800. The Clerk's e-mail address for receipt of filings is: *cbca.efile@cbca.gov.* The Clerk's facsimile machine number is: (202) 606-0019. The Board's working hours are 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Eastern Time, on each day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday.


(b) *Notice of docketing.* A request for a Section 3529 decision will be docketed by the Office of the Clerk of the Board. A written notice of docketing will be sent promptly to the official and the affected employee. The notice of docketing will identify the judge to whom the request has been assigned.


(c) *Service of copy.* The official submitting a request for a Section 3529 decision shall send to the affected employee copies of all material provided to the Board. All submissions to the Board shall indicate that a copy has been provided to the affected employee.



---

[N] [72 FR 36819, July 5, 2007, as amended at 76 FR 50928, Aug. 17, 2011; 85 FR 5335, Jan. 30, 2020]




