# § 970.5   Definitions.

*ACC*, or *annual contributions contract*, is defined in 24 CFR 5.403.


*Act* means the United States Housing Act of 1937, 42 U.S.C. 1437 *et seq.*

*Appropriate government officials* mean the Chief Executive Officer or officers of a unit of general local government.


*Assistant Secretary* means the Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing at HUD.


*Chief Executive Officer of a unit of general local government* means the elected official or the legally designated official, who has the primary responsibility for the conduct of that entity's governmental affairs. Examples of the chief executive officer of a unit of general local government are: the elected mayor of a municipality; the elected county executive of a county; the chairperson of a county commission or board in a county that has no elected county executive; and the official designated pursuant to law by the governing body of a unit of general local government.


*Demolition* means the removal by razing or other means, in whole or in part, of one or more permanent buildings of a public housing development. A demolition involves any four or more of the following:


(1) Envelope removal (roof, windows, exterior walls);


(2) Kitchen removal;


(3) Bathroom removal;


(4) Electrical system removal (unit service panels and distribution circuits); or


(5) Plumbing system removal (e.g., either the hot water heater or distribution piping in the unit, or both).


*Disposition* means the conveyance or other transfer by the PHA, by sale or other transaction, of any interest in the real estate of a public housing development, subject to the exceptions stated in § 970.3.


*DOFA*, or date of full availability, means the last day of the month in which substantially all (95 percent or more) of the units in a housing development are available for occupancy.


*Firm financial commitment* means a commitment that obligates a creditable source, lender, or equity provider, to the lending or equity investment of a specific sum of funds to be made on or before a specific date(s) and may contain contingencies or conditions that must be satisfied by the borrower (or entity receiving equity investments) before the closing of the transaction. The condition of a firm commitment must be that it is enforceable by the borrower (or entity receiving the equity investment) upon the satisfaction of all contingencies or conditions.


*PHA Plan*—Means the PHA's initial, annual, and 5-year submissions under section 5A of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937, 42 U.S.C. 1437c-1.


*Resident Advisory Board* (RAB) has the same meaning as in § 903.13(a) of this title.


*Resident Council* means a resident organization, the role and requirements of which are as described in 24 CFR part 964.


*Total development cost* has the same meaning as in 24 CFR 941.103.




