# § 222.53   What restrictions and requirements apply to the use of funds provided under section 8003(d)?

(a) An LEA shall use funds provided under section 8003(d) in accordance with the provisions of section 8003(d)(2) and 34 CFR parts 300 and 303. 


(b) Obligations and expenditures of section 8003(d) funds may be incurred in either of the two following ways: 


(1) An LEA may obligate or expend section 8003(d) funds for the fiscal year for which the funds were appropriated. 


(2) An LEA may reimburse itself for obligations or expenditures of local and general State aid funds for the fiscal year for which the section 8003(d) funds were appropriated. 


(c) An LEA shall use its section 8003(d) funds for the following types of expenditures: 


(1) Expenditures that are reasonably related to the conduct of programs or projects for the free appropriate public education of, or early intervention services for, federally connected children with disabilities, which may include—


(i) Program planning and evaluation; and


(ii) Construction of or alteration to existing school facilities, but only when in accordance with section 605 of the IDEA and when the Secretary authorizes in writing those uses of funds.


(2) Acquisition cost (net invoice price) of equipment required for the free appropriate public education of, and early intervention services for, federally connected children with disabilities. 


(i) If section 8003(d) funds are used for the acquisition of any equipment described in this paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the fair market value of any financial advantage realized through rebates, discounts, bonuses, free pieces of equipment used in a program or project for the free appropriate public education of, or early intervention services for, federally connected children with disabilities, or other circumstances, is not an allowable expenditure and may not be credited as an expenditure of those funds. 


(ii) Funds awarded under the provisions of section 8003(d) may be used to acquire equipment for the free appropriate public education of, or early intervention services for, the federally connected children with disabilities only if title to the equipment would be in the applicant agency. 


(d) An LEA shall account for the use of section 8003(d) funds as follows: 


(1) By recording, for each fiscal year, the receipt (or credit) of section 8003(d) funds separately from other funds received under the Act, *i.e.*, on a line item basis in the general fund account or in a separate account; and 


(2) By demonstrating that, for each fiscal year, the amount of expenditures for special education and related services and for early intervention services provided to the federally connected children with disabilities is at least equal to the amount of section 8003(d) funds received or credited for that fiscal year. This is done as follows: 


(i) For each fiscal year determine the amount of an LEA's expenditures for special education and related services and for early intervention services provided to all children with disabilities. 


(ii) The amount determined in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section is divided by the average daily attendance (ADA) of the total number of children with disabilities the LEA served during that fiscal year. 


(iii) The amount determined in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section is then multiplied by the total ADA of the LEA's federally connected children with disabilities claimed by the LEA for that fiscal year. 


(3) If the amount of section 8003(d) funds the LEA received (or was credited) for the fiscal year exceeds the amount obtained in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section, an overpayment equal to the excess section 8003(d) funds is established. This overpayment may be reduced or eliminated to the extent that the LEA can demonstrate that the average per pupil expenditure for special education and related services and for early intervention services provided to federally connected children with disabilities exceeded its average per pupil expenditure for serving non-federally connected children with disabilities.



---

[N] [60 FR 50778, Sept. 29, 1995, as amended at 80 FR 33166, June 11, 2015]




