# ยง 2809.16   When do variable offsets apply?

(a) The successful bidder may be eligible for an offset of up to 20 percent of the bonus bid based on the factors identified in the notice of competitive offer.


(b) The BLM may apply a variable offset to the bonus bid of the successful bidder. The notice of competitive offer will identify each factor of the variable offset, the specific percentage for each factor that would be applied to the bonus bid, and the documentation required to be provided to the BLM prior to the day of the offer to qualify for the offset. The total variable offset cannot be greater than 20 percent of the bonus bid.


(c) The variable offset may be based on the following factors, including progressive steps towards:




(1) Power purchase agreement;


(2) Large generator interconnect agreement;


(3) Preferred solar or wind energy technologies;


(4) Prior site testing and monitoring inside the designated leasing area;


(5) Pending applications inside the designated leasing area;


(6) Submission of nomination fees;


(7) Submission of biological opinions, strategies, or plans;


(8) Environmental benefits;


(9) Holding a solar or wind energy grant or lease on adjacent or mixed land ownership;


(10) Public benefits;


(11) Use of items qualifying for the Domestic Content preference;


(12) Use of a project labor agreement; and


(13) Other factors.




(d) The BLM will determine your variable offset prior to the competitive offer.


(e) If the successful bidder's eligibility for a variable offset cannot be verified until a later time, the BLM may require the successful bidder to submit the full bid amount, without taking into account the variable offset, and hold the amount of the variable offset in suspense. The amount of the bonus bid corresponding to the variable offset will be refunded or credited to the successful bidder once the successful bidder has demonstrated that it has qualified for the variable offset. The BLM may set a deadline in the notice of competitive process by which the successful bidder must demonstrate its qualifications.



---

[N] [81 FR 92224, Dec. 19, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 35684, May 1, 2024]




