# ยง 3550.159   Borrower actions requiring RHS approval.

(a) *Mineral leases.* Borrowers who wish to lease mineral rights to a security property must request authorization from RHS. RHS may consent to the lease of mineral rights and subordinate its liens to the lessee's rights and interests in the mineral activity if the security property will remain suitable as a residence and the Government's security interest will not be adversely affected. Subordination of RHS loans to a mineral lease does not entitle the leaseholder to any proceeds from the sale of the security property. 


(1) If the proposed activity is likely to decrease the value of the security property, RHS may consent to the lease only if the borrower assigns 100 percent of the income from the lease to RHS to be applied to reduce principal and the rent to be paid is at least equal to the estimated decrease in the market value of the security. 


(2) If the proposed activity is not likely to decrease the value of the security property, RHS may consent to the lease if the borrower agrees to use any damage compensation received from the lessee to repair damage to the site or dwelling, or to assign it to RHS to be applied to reduce principal. 


(b) *Subordination.* RHS may subordinate its interests to permit a borrower to defer recapture amounts and refinance the loan, or to obtain a subsequent loan with private credit. 


(1) When it is in the best interest of the Government, subordination will be permitted if: 


(i) The other lender will verify that the funds will be used for purposes for which an RHS loan could be made; 


(ii) The prior lien debt will be on terms and conditions that the borrower can reasonably be expected to meet without jeopardizing repayment of the RHS indebtedness;


(iii) Any proposed development will be planned and performed in accordance with 7 CFR part 1924, subpart A or directed by the other lender in a manner which is consistent with that subpart; and 


(iv) An agreement is obtained in writing from the prior lienholder providing that at least 30 days prior written notice will be given to RHS before action to foreclose on the prior lien is initiated. 


(2) The total amount of debt permitted when RHS subordinates its interests depends on whether the borrower pays off the RHS loan. 


(i) For situations in which the borrower is obtaining a subsequent loan from another source and will not pay off the RHS debt, the prior lien debt plus the unpaid balance of all RHS loans, exclusive of recapture, will not exceed the market value of the security. 


(ii) For situations in which RHS is subordinating only a deferred recapture amount, the prior lien debt plus the deferred recapture amount will not exceed the market value of the security. 


(c) *Partial release of security.* RHS may consent to transactions affecting the security, such as sale or exchange of security property or granting of a right-of-way across the security property, and grant a partial release provided: 


(1) The compensation is: 


(i) For sale of the security property, cash in an amount equal to the value of the security being disposed of or rights granted. 


(ii) For exchange of security property, another parcel of property acquired in exchange with value equal to or greater than that being disposed of. 


(iii) For granting an easement or right-of-way, benefits derived that are equal to or greater than the value of the security property being disposed of. 


(2) An appraisal must be conducted if the latest appraisal is more than 1 year old or if it does not reflect market value and the amount of consideration exceeds $5,000. The appraisal fee will be charged to the borrower. 


(3) The security property, after the transaction is completed, will be an adequate but modest, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling and related facilities. 


(4) Repayment of the RHS debt will not be jeopardized. 


(5) Environmental requirements are met and environmental documentation is submitted in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.


(6) When exchange of all or part of the security is involved, title clearance is obtained before release of the existing security. 


(7) Proceeds from the sale of a portion of the security property, granting an easement or right-of-way, damage compensation, and all similar transactions requiring RHS consent, will be used in the following order: 


(i) To pay customary and reasonable costs related to the transaction that must be paid by the borrower. 


(ii) To be applied on a prior lien debt, if any. 


(iii) To be applied to RHS indebtedness or used for improvements to the security property in keeping with purposes and limitations applicable for use of RHS loan funds. Proposed development will be planned and performed in accordance with 7 CFR part 1924, subpart A and supervised to ensure that the proceeds are used as planned. 


(d) *Lease of security property.* A borrower must notify RHS if they lease the property. If the lease is for a term of more than 3 years or contains an option to purchase, RHS may liquidate the loan. During the period of any lease, the borrower is not eligible for a payment subsidy or special servicing benefits. 



---

[N] [61 FR 59779, Nov. 22, 1996, as amended at 81 FR 11048, Mar. 2, 2016]




