# § 200.83   Responsibilities of SEAs to implement projects through a comprehensive needs assessment and a comprehensive State plan for service delivery.

(a) An SEA that receives a grant of MEP funds must develop and update a written comprehensive State plan for service delivery based on a current statewide needs assessment that, at a minimum, has the following components:


(1) *Performance targets.* The plan must specify— 


(i) Performance targets that the State has adopted for all children in reading and mathematics achievement, high school graduation, and the number of school dropouts, as well as the State's performance targets, if any, for school readiness; and 


(ii) Any other performance targets that the State has identified for migratory children. 


(2) *Needs assessment.* The plan must include an identification and assessment of— 


(i) The unique educational needs of migratory children that result from the children's migratory lifestyle; and 


(ii) Other needs of migratory students that must be met in order for migratory children to participate effectively in school. 


(3) *Measurable program outcomes.* The plan must include the measurable program outcomes (i.e., objectives) that a State's migrant education program will produce to meet the identified unique needs of migratory children and help migratory children achieve the State's performance targets identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(4) *Service delivery.* The plan must describe the strategies that the SEA will pursue on a statewide basis to achieve the measurable program outcomes in paragraph (a)(3) of this section by addressing—


(i) The unique educational needs of migratory children consistent with paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section; and 


(ii) Other needs of migratory children consistent with paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section. 


(5) *Evaluation.* The plan must describe how the State will evaluate the effectiveness of its program. 


(b) The SEA must develop its comprehensive State plan for service delivery in consultation with the State parent advisory council or, for SEAs not operating programs for one school year in duration, in consultation with the parents of migratory children. This consultation must be in a format and language that the parents understand.


(c) Each SEA receiving MEP funds must ensure that its local operating agencies comply with the comprehensive State plan for service delivery.



---

[N] [67 FR 71736, Dec. 2, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 19152, Apr. 18, 2003; 73 FR 44124, July 29, 2008; 84 FR 31677, July 2, 2019]




