# § 1942.8   Actions subsequent to loan closing.

(a) *Mortgages.* Real estate or chattel mortages or security instruments will be delivered to the recording office for recordation or filing, as appropriate. A copy of such instruments will be delivered to the borrower. The original instrument, if returnable after recording or filing, will be retained in the borrower's case folder.


(b) *Notes and bonds.* When the debt instrument is a promissory note or single instrument bond fully registered as to principal and interest, a conformed copy will be sent to the Finance Office immediately after loan closing and the original instrument will be stored in the District Office. When other types of bonds are used, the original bond(s) will be forwarded to the Finance Office immediately after loan closing.


(c) *Multiple advances—bond(s).* When temporary paper, such as bond anticipation notes or interim receipts, is used to conform with the multiple advance requirement, the original temporary paper will be forwarded to the Finance Office after each advance is made to the borrower. The borrower's case number will be entered in the upper righthand corner of such paper by the District Office. The permanent debt instrument(s) should be forwarded to the Finance Office as soon as possible after the last advance is made except that for promissory notes and single instrument bonds fully registered as to principal and interest, the original will be retained in the District Office and a copy will be forwarded to the Finance Office.


(d) *Bond registration record.* Form RD 442-28, “Bond Registration Book,” may be used as a guide to assist borrowers in the preparation of a bond registration book in those cases where a registration book is required and a book is not provided in connection with the printing of the bonds.


(e) *Disposition of title evidence.* All title evidence other than the opinion of title, mortgage title insurance policy, and water stock certificates will be returned to the borrower when the loan has been closed.


(f) *Material for State Office.* When the loan has been closed, the District Director will submit to the State Director:


(1) The complete docket; and


(2) A statement covering information other than the completion of legal documents showing what was done in carrying out loan closing instructions.


(g) *State Office review of loan closing.* The State Director will review the District Director's statement concerning loan closing, the security instruments, and other documents used in closing to determine whether the transaction was closed properly. All material submitted by the District Director, including the executed contract documents (if required by OGC) with the certification of the borrower's attorney, along with a statement by the State Director that all administrative requirements have been met, will be referred to OGC for post-closing review. OGC will review the submitted material to determine whether all legal requirements have been met. OGC's review of Rural Development's standard forms will be only for proper execution thereof, unless the State Director brings specific questions or deviations to the attention of OGC. It is not expected that facility development including construction will be held up pending receipt of the opinion from OGC. When the opinion from OGC is received, the State Director will advise the District Director of any deficiencies that must be corrected and return all material that was submitted for review.


(h) *Safeguarding bond shipments.* Rural Development's personnel will follow the procedures for safeguarding mailings and deliveries of bonds and coupons outlined in FmHA Instruction 2018-E (available in any FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 office), whenever they mail or deliver these items.


(i) *Water stock certificates.* Water stock certificates will be filed in the loan docket in the District Office.



---

[N] [50 FR 7296, Feb. 22, 1985, as amended at 53 FR 6787, Mar. 3, 1988]


