# ยง 10.23   340B ADR Panel decision process.

(a) The 340B ADR Panel will conduct a review of the claims. The 340B ADR Panel will review all documents gathered during the 340B ADR process to determine if a violation as described in ยง 10.21(a)(1) or (2) has occurred.


(b) The 340B ADR Panel will prepare a decision letter based on its review. The 340B ADR Panel's decision letter will be completed within one year of receiving a complete claim for review, except to the extent that there are situations beyond the control of the 340B ADR Panel that may affect the ability to issue a decision on a claim within one year. If the issuance of a 340B ADR Panel decision will exceed one year, the 340B ADR Panel must provide notice to the parties involved. The 340B ADR Panel decision letter will represent the determination of a majority of the 340B ADR Panel members' findings regarding the claim and include an explanation regarding each finding. The 340B ADR Panel will transmit its decision letter to all parties and to the OPA Director.


(c) The 340B ADR Panel decision letter will inform the parties involved of their rights for reconsideration as described in ยง 10.24. Either party may request reconsideration of the 340B ADR Panel decision or the Health Resources and Service Administration (HRSA) Administrator may decide to initiate a reconsideration without such a request. The final agency decision will be binding upon the parties involved in the dispute unless invalidated by an order of a Federal court. The 340B ADR Panel's decision letter will be effective 30 business days from issuance and serve as the final agency decision unless:


(1) Within 30 business days of issuance, reconsideration occurs under ยง 10.24; or


(2) Within 30 business days of issuance, the Secretary makes a determination that the Secretary will review the decision.


(d) The OPA Director will determine any necessary corrective action or consider whether to take enforcement action, and the form of any such action, based on the final agency decision.






