# § 308.164   Hearings.

(a) *Hearing dates.* The Administrative Officer shall order a hearing to be commenced within 30 days after receipt of a request for hearing filed pursuant to § 308.163. Upon the request of the institution-affiliated party, the presiding officer or the Administrative Officer may order a later hearing date.


(b) *Hearing procedure.* (1) The hearing shall be held in Washington, DC, or at another designated place, before a presiding officer designated by the Administrative Officer.


(2) The provisions of §§ 308.6 through 308.12, 308.16, and 308.21 of the Uniform Rules and §§ 308.101 through 308.102 and 308.104 through 308.106 of subpart B of the Local Rules shall apply to hearings held pursuant to this subpart.


(3) The institution-affiliated party may appear at the hearing and shall have the right to introduce relevant and material documents. Members of the FDIC enforcement staff may attend the hearing and participate as representatives of the FDIC enforcement staff. Following the introduction of all evidence, the applicant and the representative of the FDIC enforcement staff shall have an opportunity for oral argument; however, the parties may jointly waive the right to oral argument, and, in lieu thereof, elect to submit written argument.


(4) There shall be no discovery in proceedings under this subpart.


(5) At the discretion of the presiding officer, witnesses may be presented within specified time limits, provided that a list of witnesses is furnished to the presiding officer and to all other parties prior to the hearing. Witnesses shall be sworn, unless otherwise directed by the presiding officer. The presiding officer may ask questions of any witness. Each party shall have the opportunity to cross-examine any witness presented by an opposing party. The transcript of the proceedings shall be furnished, upon request and payment of the cost thereof, to the institution-affiliated party afforded the hearing. A copy of the transcript shall be sent directly to the presiding officer, who shall have authority to correct the record sua sponte or upon the motion of any party.


(6) In the course of or in connection with any hearing under paragraph (b) of this section, the presiding officer shall have the power to administer oaths and affirmations, to take or cause to be taken depositions of unavailable witnesses, and to issue, revoke, quash, or modify subpoenas and subpoenas duces tecum. Where the presentation of witnesses is permitted, the presiding officer may require the attendance of witnesses from any state, territory, or other place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States at any location where the proceeding is being conducted. Witness fees shall be paid in accordance with § 308.14 of the Uniform Rules.


(7) Upon the request of the institution-affiliated party afforded the hearing, or the members of the FDIC enforcement staff, the record shall remain open for five business days following the hearing for the parties to make additional submissions to the record.


(8) The presiding officer shall make recommendations to the Board of Directors, where possible, within 10 days after the last day for the parties to submit additions to the record.


(9) The presiding officer shall forward his or her recommendation to the Administrative Officer who shall promptly certify the entire record, including the recommendation to the Board of Directors. The Administrative Officer's certification shall close the record.


(10) The institution-affiliated party has the burden of showing, by a preponderance of the evidence, that his or her continued service to or participation in the conduct of the affairs of a depository institution does not, or is not likely to, pose a threat to the interests of the depository institution's depositors or threaten to impair public confidence in the depository institution.


(c) *Written submissions in lieu of hearing.* The institution-affiliated party may in writing waive a hearing and elect to have the matter determined on the basis of written submissions.


(d) *Failure to request or appear at hearing.* Failure to request a hearing shall constitute a waiver of the opportunity for a hearing. Failure to appear at a hearing in person or through an authorized representative shall constitute a waiver of hearing. If a hearing is waived, the order shall be final and unappealable, and shall remain in full force and effect pursuant to § 308.163.


(e) *Decision by Board of Directors or its designee.* Within 60 days following the Administrative Officer's certification of the record to the Board of Directors or its designee, the Board of Directors or its designee shall notify the institution-affiliated party whether the notice of suspension or prohibition or the order of removal or prohibition will be continued, terminated, or otherwise modified. The notification shall state the basis for any decision of the Board of Directors or its designee that is adverse to the institution-affiliated party. The Board of Directors or its designee shall promptly rescind or modify a notice of suspension or prohibition or an order of removal or prohibition where the decision is favorable to the institution-affiliated party.



---

[N] [72 FR 67235, Nov. 28, 2007, as amended at 80 FR 5014, Jan. 30, 2015; 86 FR 2250, Jan. 12, 2021]




