# § 905.608   Site acquisition proposal.

(a) *Submission.* When a PHA determines that it is necessary to acquire vacant land for development of public housing through new construction, using public housing funds, prior to submission and approval of a development proposal under § 905.606 of this part, the PHA must submit an acquisition proposal to HUD for review and approval prior to acquisition. The acquisition proposal shall include the following:


(b) *Justification.* A justification for acquiring property prior to development proposal submission and approval.


(c) *Description.* A description of the property (*i.e.*, the proposed site and/or project) to be acquired.


(d) *Project description; site and neighborhood standards.* An identification and description of the proposed project, site plan, and neighborhood, together with information sufficient to enable HUD to determine that the proposed site meets the site and neighborhood standards at § 905.602(d) of this part.


(e) *Zoning.* Documentation that the proposed project is permitted by current zoning ordinances or regulations, or evidence to indicate that needed rezoning is likely and will not delay the project.


(f) *Appraisal.* Documentation attesting that an appraisal of the proposed property by an independent, state certified appraiser has been conducted and that the acquisition is in compliance with § 905.308(b)(9) of this part. The purchase price of the site/property may not exceed the appraised value without HUD approval.


(g) *Schedule.* A schedule of the activities to be carried out by the PHA.


(h) *Environmental assessment.* An environmental review or request for HUD to perform the environmental review pursuant to § 905.308(b)(2) of this part.




