# § 324.207   Specific risk.

(a) *General requirement.* An FDIC-supervised institution must use one of the methods in this section to measure the specific risk for each of its debt, equity, and securitization positions with specific risk.


(b) *Modeled specific risk.* An FDIC-supervised institution may use models to measure the specific risk of covered positions as provided in § 324.205(a) (therefore, excluding securitization positions that are not modeled under § 324.209). An FDIC-supervised institution must use models to measure the specific risk of correlation trading positions that are modeled under § 324.209.


(1) *Requirements for specific risk modeling.* (i) If an FDIC-supervised institution uses internal models to measure the specific risk of a portfolio, the internal models must:


(A) Explain the historical price variation in the portfolio;


(B) Be responsive to changes in market conditions;


(C) Be robust to an adverse environment, including signaling rising risk in an adverse environment; and


(D) Capture all material components of specific risk for the debt and equity positions in the portfolio. Specifically, the internal models must:


(*1*) Capture event risk and idiosyncratic risk; and


(*2*) Capture and demonstrate sensitivity to material differences between positions that are similar but not identical and to changes in portfolio composition and concentrations.


(ii) If an FDIC-supervised institution calculates an incremental risk measure for a portfolio of debt or equity positions under § 324.208, the FDIC-supervised institution is not required to capture default and credit migration risks in its internal models used to measure the specific risk of those portfolios.


(2) *Specific risk fully modeled for one or more portfolios.* If the FDIC-supervised institution's VaR-based measure captures all material aspects of specific risk for one or more of its portfolios of debt, equity, or correlation trading positions, the FDIC-supervised institution has no specific risk add-on for those portfolios for purposes of § 324.204(a)(2)(iii).


(c) *Specific risk not modeled.* (1) If the FDIC-supervised institution's VaR-based measure does not capture all material aspects of specific risk for a portfolio of debt, equity, or correlation trading positions, the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate a specific-risk add-on for the portfolio under the standardized measurement method as described in § 324.210.


(2) An FDIC-supervised institution must calculate a specific risk add-on under the standardized measurement method as described in § 324.210 for all of its securitization positions that are not modeled under § 324.209.




