# § 1.36B-1   Premium tax credit definitions.

(a) *In general.* Section 36B allows a refundable premium tax credit for taxable years ending after December 31, 2013. The definitions in this section apply to this section and §§ 1.36B-2 through 1.36B-5.


(b) *Affordable Care Act.* The term *Affordable Care Act* refers to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, Public Law 111-148 (124 Stat. 119 (2010)), and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, Public Law 111-152 (124 Stat. 1029 (2010)), as amended by the Medicare and Medicaid Extenders Act of 2010, Public Law 111-309 (124 Stat. 3285 (2010)), the Comprehensive 1099 Taxpayer Protection and Repayment of Exchange Subsidy Overpayments Act of 2011, Public Law 112-9 (125 Stat. 36 (2011)), the Department of Defense and Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act, 2011, Public Law 112-10 (125 Stat. 38 (2011)), and the 3% Withholding Repeal and Job Creation Act, Public Law 112-56 (125 Stat. 711 (2011)).


(c) *Qualified health plan.* The term *qualified health plan* has the same meaning as in section 1301(a) of the Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18021(a)) but does not include a catastrophic plan described in section 1302(e) of the Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18022(e)).


(d) Family and family size—(1) *In general.* A taxpayer's family means the individuals for whom a taxpayer properly claims a deduction for a personal exemption under section 151 for the taxable year. Family size means the number of individuals in the family. Family and family size may include individuals who are not subject to or are exempt from the penalty under section 5000A for failing to maintain minimum essential coverage.


(2) *Special rule for tax years to which section 151(d)(5) applies.* For taxable years to which section 151(d)(5) applies, a taxpayer's family means the taxpayer, including both spouses in the case of a joint return, except for individuals who qualify as a dependent of another taxpayer under section 152, and any other individual for whom the taxpayer is allowed a personal exemption deduction and whom the taxpayer properly reports on the taxpayer's income tax return for the taxable year. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(2), an individual is reported on the taxpayer's income tax return if the individual's name and taxpayer identification number (TIN) are listed on the taxpayer's Form 1040 series return. *See* § 601.602 of this chapter.




(e) *Household income*—(1) *In general.* Household income means the sum of—


(i) A taxpayer's modified adjusted gross income (including the modified adjusted gross income of a child for whom an election under section 1(g)(7) is made for the taxable year);


(ii) The aggregate modified adjusted gross income of all other individuals who—


(A) Are included in the taxpayer's family under paragraph (d) of this section; and


(B) Are required to file a return of tax imposed by section 1 for the taxable year.


(2) *Modified adjusted gross income.* Modified adjusted gross income means adjusted gross income (within the meaning of section 62) increased by—


(i) Amounts excluded from gross income under section 911;


(ii) Tax-exempt interest the taxpayer receives or accrues during the taxable year; and


(iii) Social security benefits (within the meaning of section 86(d)) not included in gross income under section 86.


(f) *Dependent.* Dependent has the same meaning as in section 152.


(g) *Lawfully present.* Lawfully present has the same meaning as in 45 CFR 155.20.


(h) *Federal poverty line.* The Federal poverty line means the most recently published poverty guidelines (updated periodically in the _Federal Register_ by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under the authority of 42 U.S.C. 9902(2)) as of the first day of the regular enrollment period for coverage by a qualified health plan offered through an Exchange for a calendar year. Thus, the Federal poverty line for computing the premium tax credit for a taxable year is the Federal poverty line in effect on the first day of the initial or annual open enrollment period preceding that taxable year. See 45 CFR 155.410. If a taxpayer's primary residence changes during a taxable year from one state to a state with different Federal poverty guidelines or married taxpayers reside in separate states with different Federal poverty guidelines (for example, Alaska or Hawaii and another state), the Federal poverty line that applies for purposes of section 36B and the associated regulations is the higher Federal poverty guideline (resulting in a lower percentage of the Federal poverty line for the taxpayers' household income and family size).


(i) [Reserved]


(j) *Advance credit payment.* Advance credit payment means an advance payment of the premium tax credit as provided in section 1412 of the Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18082).


(k) *Exchange.* Exchange has the same meaning as in 45 CFR 155.20.


(l) *Self-only coverage.* Self-only coverage means health insurance that covers one individual and provides coverage for the essential health benefits as defined in section 1302(b)(1) of the Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18022).


(m) *Family coverage.* Family coverage means health insurance that covers more than one individual and provides coverage for the essential health benefits as defined in section 1302(b)(1) of the Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18022).


(n) *Rating area.* The term *rating area* has the same meaning as used in section 2701(a)(2) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300gg(a)(2)) and 45 CFR 147.102(b).


(o) *Applicability dates.* (1) Except for paragraphs (d)(2), (l), and (m) of this section, this section applies to taxable years ending after December 31, 2013.


(2) Paragraph (d)(2) of this section applies to taxable years ending on or after December 31, 2020.


(3) Paragraphs (l) and (m) of this section apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2018. Paragraphs (l) and (m) of § 1.36B-1 as contained in 26 CFR part 1 edition revised as of April 1, 2016, apply to taxable years ending after December 31, 2013, and beginning before January 1, 2019.





---

[N] [T.D. 9590, 77 FR 30385, May 23, 2012, as amended by T.D. 9745, 80 FR 78974, Dec. 18, 2015; T.D. 9804, 81 FR 91763, Dec. 19, 2016; T.D. 9912, 85 FR 76978, Dec. 1, 2020]










