# ยง 200.447   Insurance and indemnification.

(a) Costs of insurance required or approved and maintained by the terms and conditions of the Federal award are allowable.


(b) Costs of other insurance in connection with the general conduct of activities are allowable subject to the following limitations:


(1) The types, extent, and cost of coverage are in accordance with the recipient's or subrecipient's established written policy and sound business practices.


(2) Costs of insurance or contributions to any reserve covering the risk of loss of, or damage to, Federal Government property are unallowable except to the extent that the Federal agency has approved the costs.


(3) Costs allowed for business interruption or other similar insurance must exclude coverage of management fees.


(4) Insurance costs on the lives of trustees, officers, or other employees holding positions of similar responsibilities are allowable only when the insurance represents additional compensation (see ยง 200.431). This insurance is unallowable when the recipient or subrecipient is identified as the beneficiary.


(5) Insurance costs to correct defects in the recipient's or subrecipient's materials or workmanship are unallowable.


(6) Medical liability (malpractice) insurance is an allowable cost of a Federal research program only when the program involves human subjects or training of participants in research techniques. Medical liability insurance costs must be treated as a direct cost and assigned to individual projects based on how the insurer allocates the risk to the population covered by the insurance.


(c) Actual losses which could have been covered by permissible insurance (through a self-insurance program or otherwise) are unallowable unless expressly authorized in the Federal award. However, costs incurred because of losses not covered under nominal deductible insurance coverage provided in keeping with sound management practice, and minor losses not covered by insurance, such as spoilage, breakage, and disappearance of small hand tools, which occur in the ordinary course of operations, are allowable.


(d) Contributions to a reserve for a self-insurance program, including workers' compensation, unemployment compensation, and severance pay, are allowable subject to the following requirements:


(1) The type, extent, and cost of coverage and the rates and premiums would have been allowed had insurance (including reinsurance) been purchased to cover the risks. However, a provision for known or reasonably estimated self-insured liabilities, which do not become payable for more than one year after the provision is made, must not exceed the discounted present value of the liability. The rate used for discounting the liability must be determined by considering factors such as the recipient's or subrecipient's settlement rate for those liabilities and its investment rate of return.


(2) Earnings or investment income on reserves must be credited to those reserves.


(3)(i) Contributions to reserves must be based on sound actuarial principles using historical experience and reasonable assumptions. Reserve levels must be analyzed and updated at least biennially for each major risk being insured and take into account any reinsurance, coinsurance, and other relevant factors or information. Reserve levels related to employee-related coverages must normally be limited to the value of claims:


(A) Submitted and adjudicated but not paid;


(B) Submitted but not adjudicated; and


(C) Incurred but not submitted.


(ii) Reserve exceeding the levels described in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section must be identified and justified in the cost allocation plan or indirect cost rate proposal.


(4) Accounting records, actuarial studies, and cost allocations (or billings) must recognize any significant differences due to the types of insured risk and losses generated by the various insured activities or agencies of the recipient or subrecipient. If individual departments or agencies of the recipient or subrecipient experience significantly different levels of claims for a particular risk, those differences must be recognized by using separate allocations or other techniques resulting in an equitable allocation.


(5) Whenever funds are transferred from a self-insurance reserve to other accounts (for example, general fund or unrestricted account), refunds must be made to the Federal Government for its share of funds transferred, including earned or imputed interest from the date of transfer and debt interest, if applicable, chargeable in accordance with the claims collection regulations of the cognizant agency for indirect cost.


(e) Insurance refunds must be credited against insurance costs in the year the refund is received.


(f) Indemnification includes securing the recipient or subrecipient against liabilities to third persons and other losses not compensated by insurance or otherwise. The Federal Government is obligated to indemnify the recipient or subrecipient only to the extent expressly provided for in the Federal award, except as provided in paragraph (c).






