# § 721.10663   Functionalized multi-walled carbon nanotubes (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as functionalized multi-walled carbon nanotubes (PMN P-12-44; SNUN S-18-4; and SNUN S-19-5) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance that have been completely reacted (cured); incorporated or embedded into a polymer matrix that itself has been completely reacted (cured); embedded in a permanent solid polymer form that is not intended to undergo further processing except for mechanical process; or incorporated into an article.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1) and (3) through (6), (b), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor of at least 50. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(6), the airborne form of the substance includes particulate. For purposes of § 721.63(b), concentration is set at 1.0%.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1). It is a significant new use to use the substance other than as a chemical additive for use in epoxy compounds for transportation, marine and industrial coatings, paints and manufactured goods, for the confidential use described in PMN P-12-44, or for the confidential use described in SNUN S-19-5.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (f), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [78 FR 27056, July 8, 2013, as amended at 85 FR 68001, Oct. 27, 2020]




