# § 24.208   Aliens not lawfully present in the United States.

(a) Each person seeking relocation payments or relocation advisory assistance shall, as a condition of eligibility, certify:


(1) In the case of an individual, that they are a citizen, or an alien who is lawfully present in the United States.


(2) In the case of a family, that each family member is a citizen or an alien who is lawfully present in the United States. The certification may be made by the head of the household on behalf of other family members.


(3) In the case of an unincorporated business, farm, or nonprofit organization, that each owner is a citizen or an alien who is lawfully present in the United States. The certification may be made by the principal owner, manager, or operating officer on behalf of other persons with an ownership interest.


(4) In the case of an incorporated business, farm, or nonprofit organization, that the corporation is authorized to conduct business within the United States.


(b) The certification provided pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section shall specify the person's status as a citizen or an alien who is lawfully present in the United States. Requirements concerning the certification in addition to those contained in this section shall be within the discretion of the Federal funding agency and, within those parameters, that of the agency carrying out such displacements.


(c) In computing relocation payments under the Uniform Act, if any member(s) of a household or owner(s) of an unincorporated business, farm, or nonprofit organization is (are) determined to be ineligible because of a failure to be lawfully present in the United States, no relocation payments may be made to him or her. Any payment(s) for which such household, unincorporated business, farm, or nonprofit organization would otherwise be eligible shall be computed for the household, based on the number of eligible household members and for the unincorporated business, farm, or nonprofit organization, based on the ratio of ownership between eligible and ineligible owners. (*See* appendix A to this part, section 24.208(c).)


(d) The agency shall consider the certification provided pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section to be valid, unless the agency determines in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section that it is invalid based on a review of documentation or other information that the agency considers reliable and appropriate.


(e) Any review by the agency of the certifications provided pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be conducted in a nondiscriminatory fashion. Each agency will apply the same standard of review to all such certifications it receives, except that such standard may be revised periodically.


(f) If, based on a review of a person's documentation or other credible evidence, an agency has reason to believe that a person's certification is invalid (for example a document reviewed does not on its face reasonably appear to be genuine), and that, as a result, such person may be an alien not lawfully present in the United States, it shall obtain the following information before making a final determination:


(1) For a person who has certified that they are an alien lawfully present in the United States, the agency shall obtain verification of the person's status by using the Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements (SAVE) program administered by USCIS to verify immigration status.


(2) For a person who has certified that they are a citizen or national, if the agency has reason to believe that the certification is invalid, the agency shall request evidence of United States citizenship or nationality and, if considered necessary, verify the accuracy of such evidence with the issuer or other appropriate source.


(g) No relocation payments or relocation advisory assistance shall be provided to a person who has not provided the certification described in this section or who has been determined to be not lawfully present in the United States, unless such person can demonstrate to the agency's satisfaction that the denial of relocation assistance will result in an exceptional and extremely unusual hardship to such person's spouse, parent, or child who is a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States.


(h) For purposes of paragraph (g) of this section, “exceptional and extremely unusual hardship” to such spouse, parent, or child of the person not lawfully present in the United States means that the denial of relocation payments and advisory assistance to such person will directly result in (*see* appendix A to this part, section 24.208(h)):


(1) A significant and demonstrable adverse impact on the health or safety of such spouse, parent, or child;


(2) A significant and demonstrable adverse impact on the continued existence of the family unit of which such spouse, parent, or child is a member; or


(3) Any other impact that the agency determines will have a significant and demonstrable adverse impact on such spouse, parent, or child.


(i) The certification referred to in paragraph (a) of this section may be included as part of the claim for relocation payments described in § 24.207.


(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2105-0508.)






