# § 6801.102   Definitions.

For purposes of this part: 


(a) *Affiliate* means any company that controls, is controlled by, or is under common corporate control with another company. 


(b) (1) *Debt or equity interest* includes secured and unsecured bonds, debentures, notes, securitized assets, commercial paper, and preferred and common stock. The term encompasses both current and contingent ownership interests therein; any such beneficial or legal interest derived from a trust; any right to acquire or dispose of any long or short position in debt or equity interests; any interests convertible into debt or equity interests; and any options, rights, warrants, puts, calls, straddles, and derivatives with respect thereto. 


(2) *Debt or equity interest* does not include deposits; credit union shares; any future interest created by someone other than the employee, his or her spouse, or dependent; or any right as a beneficiary of an estate that has not been settled. 


(c) *Dependent child* means an employee's son, daughter, stepson, or stepdaughter if: 


(1) Unmarried, under the age of 21, and living in the employee's household; or 


(2) Claimed as a “dependent” on the employee's income tax return. 


(d) *Depository institution* means a bank, trust company, thrift institution, or any institution that accepts deposits, including a bank chartered under the laws of a foreign country. 


(e) *Employee* means an officer or employee of the Board, including a Board member. It does not include a special Government employee. 


(f) *Primary government securities dealer* means a firm with which the Federal Reserve conducts its open market operations. 


(g) *Supervisory employee* means an employee who is a member of the professional staff at the Board with responsibilities in the area of banking supervision and regulation. 




