# ยง 104.9   Uniform reporting of disbursements.

(a) Political committees shall report the full name and mailing address of each person to whom an expenditure in an aggregate amount or value in excess of $200 within the calendar year (or within the election cycle, in the case of an authorized committee) is made from the reporting political committee's federal account(s), together with the date, amount and purpose of such expenditure, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. As used in this section, *purpose* means a brief statement or description as to the reasons for the expenditure. *See* 11 CFR 104.3(b)(3)(i)(A). 


(b) In each case when an expenditure made to a recipient in a reporting period is added to previously unitemized expenditures to the same recipient and the total exceeds $200 for the calendar year (or for the election cycle, in the case of an authorized committee), the reporting political committee shall disclose the recipient's full name and mailing address on the prescribed reporting forms, together with the date, amount and purpose of such expenditure. As used in this section, *purpose* means a brief statement or description as to the reason for the disbursement as defined at 11 CFR 104.3(b)(3)(i)(A). 


(c) For reports covering activity on or before March 31, 2003, national party committees shall report in a memo Schedule B the full name and mailing address of each person to whom a disbursement in an aggregate amount or value in excess of $200 within the calendar year is made from the committee's non-Federal account(s), together with the date, amount, and purpose of such disbursement, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. As used in this section, *purpose* means a brief statement or description as to the reasons for the disbursement. *See* 11 CFR 104.3(b)(3)(i)(A). 


(d) For reports covering activity on or before March 31, 2003, national party committees shall report in a memo Schedule B the full name and mailing address of each person to whom a disbursement in an aggregate amount or value in excess of $200 within the calendar year is made from the committee's building fund account(s), together with the date, amount, and purpose of such disbursement, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. As used in this section, *purpose* means a brief statement or description as to the reasons for the disbursement. *See* 11 CFR 104.3(b)(3)(i)(A). 


(e) For reports covering activity on or before December 31, 2002, national party committees shall report in a memo Schedule B each transfer from their non-Federal account(s) to the non-Federal accounts of a State or local party committee.


(f) The principal campaign committee of the candidate shall report its repayment to the candidate or lending institution of any bank loan obtained by the candidate or loan of money derived from an advance on a candidate's brokerage account, credit card, home equity line of credit, or other lines of credit described in 11 CFR 100.83 and 100.143 as an itemized entry on Schedule B.



---

[N] [45 FR 15108, Mar. 7, 1980, as amended at 55 FR 26067, June 26, 1990; 65 FR 42624, July 11, 2000; 67 FR 38361, June 4, 2002; 67 FR 49113, July 29, 2002; 79 FR 16663, Mar. 26, 2014]




