# § 301.6404-4   Suspension of interest and certain penalties when the Internal Revenue Service does not timely contact the taxpayer.

(a) *Suspension*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, if an individual taxpayer files a return of tax imposed by subtitle A on or before the due date for the return (including extensions) and the Internal Revenue Service does not timely provide the taxpayer with a notice specifically stating the amount of any increased liability and the basis for that liability, then the IRS must suspend the imposition of any interest, penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount, with respect to any failure relating to the return that is computed by reference to the period of time the failure continues to exist and that is properly allocable to the suspension period. The notice described in this paragraph (a) is timely if provided before the close of the 18-month period (36-month period in the case of notices provided after November 25, 2007, subject to the provisions of paragraph (a)(5)) beginning on the later of the date on which the return is filed or the due date of the return without regard to extensions.


(2) *Treatment of amended returns and other documents*—(i) *Amended returns filed on or after December 21, 2005, that show an increase in tax liability.* If a taxpayer, on or after December 21, 2005, provides to the IRS an amended return or one or more other signed written documents showing an increase in tax liability, the date on which the return was filed will, for purposes of this paragraph (a), be the date on which the last of the documents was provided. Documents described in this paragraph (a)(2)(i) are provided on the date that they are received by the IRS.


(ii) *Amended returns that show a decrease in tax liability.* If a taxpayer provides to the IRS an amended return or other signed written document that shows a decrease in tax liability, any interest, penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount will not be suspended if the IRS at any time proposes to adjust the changed item or items on the amended return or other signed written document.


(iii) *Amended returns and other documents as notice.* (A) As to the items reported, an amended return or one or more other signed written documents showing that the taxpayer owes an additional amount of tax for the taxable year serves as the notice described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section with respect to the items reported on the amended return.


(B) *Example.* An individual taxpayer timely files a Federal income tax return for taxable year 2008 on April 15, 2009. On January 19, 2010, the taxpayer mails to the IRS an amended return reporting an additional item of income and an increased tax liability for taxable year 2008. The IRS receives the amended return on January 21, 2010. The amended return will be treated for purposes of this paragraph (a) as filed on January 21, 2010, the date the IRS received it. Pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, the amended return serves as the notice described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section with respect to the item reported on the amended return. Accordingly, because the filing of the amended return and the provision of notice occur simultaneously, no suspension of any interest, penalty, addition to tax or additional amount will occur under this paragraph (a) with respect to the item reported on the amended return.


(iv) *Joint return after filing separate return.* A joint return filed under section 6013(b) is subject to the rules for amended returns described in this paragraph (a)(2). The IRS will not suspend any interest, penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount on a joint return filed under section 6013(b) after the filing of a separate return unless each spouse's separate return, if required to be filed, was timely.


(3) *Separate application.* This paragraph (a) shall be applied separately with respect to each item or adjustment.


(4) *Duration of suspension period.* The suspension period described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section begins the day after the close of the 18-month period (36-month period, in the case of notices provided after November 25, 2007, subject to the provisions of paragraph (a)(5)) beginning on the later of the date on which the return is filed or the due date of the return without regard to extensions. The suspension period ends 21 days after the earlier of the date on which the IRS mails the required notice to the taxpayer's last known address, the date on which the required notice is hand-delivered to the taxpayer, or the date on which the IRS receives an amended return or other signed written document showing an increased tax liability.


(5) *Certain notices provided on or after November 26, 2007.* If the IRS provides the notice described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section to a taxpayer on or after November 26, 2007, and the notice relates to an individual Federal income tax return that was timely filed before that date, the following rules will apply:


(i) *Eighteen-month period has closed.* If, as of November 25, 2007, the 18-month period described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section has closed and the IRS has not provided the taxpayer with the notice described in that paragraph (a)(1), the suspension described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section will begin on the day after the close of the 18-month period. The suspension will end on the date that is 21 days after the notice is provided.


(ii) *All other cases.* In all other cases, the suspension described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section will begin on the day after the close of the 36-month period described in that paragraph (a)(1) and end on the date that is 21 days after the notice described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is provided.


(6) *Examples.* The following examples, which assume that no exceptions in section 6404(g)(2) to the general rule of suspension apply, illustrate the rules of this paragraph (a).


(7) *Notice of liability and the basis for the liability*—(i) *In general.* Notice to the taxpayer must be in writing and specifically state the amount of the liability and the basis for the liability. The notice must provide the taxpayer with sufficient information to identify which items of income, deduction, loss, or credit the IRS has adjusted or proposes to adjust, and the reason for that adjustment. Notice of the reason for the adjustment does not require a detailed explanation or a citation to any Internal Revenue Code section or other legal authority. The IRS need not incorporate all of the information necessary to satisfy the notice requirement within a single document or provide all of the information at the same time. Documents that may contain information sufficient to constitute notice, either alone or in conjunction with other documents, include, but are not limited to, statutory notices of deficiency; examination reports (for example, Form 4549, *Income Tax Examination Changes* or Form 886-A, *Explanation of Items);* Form 870, *Waiver of Restriction on Assessments and Collection of Deficiency in Tax and Acceptance of Overassessment;* notices of proposed deficiency that allow the taxpayer an opportunity for review in the Office of Appeals (30-day letters); notices pursuant to section 6213(b) (mathematical or clerical errors); and notice and demand for payment of a jeopardy assessment under section 6861.


(ii) *Tax attributable to TEFRA partnership items.* Notice to the partner or the tax matters partner (TMP) of a partnership subject to the unified audit and litigation procedures of subchapter C of chapter 63 of subtitle F of the Internal Revenue Code (TEFRA partnership procedures) that provides specific information about the basis for the adjustments to partnership items is sufficient notice if a partner could reasonably compute the specific tax attributable to the partnership item based on the proposed adjustments as applied to the partner's individual tax situation. Documents provided by the IRS during a TEFRA partnership proceeding that may contain information sufficient to satisfy the notice requirements include, but are not limited to, a Notice of Final Partnership Administrative Adjustment (FPAA); examination reports (for example, Form 4605-A or Form 886-A); or a letter that allows the partners an opportunity for review in the Office of Appeals (60-day letter).


(iii) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (a)(7).


(8) *Providing notice*—(i) *In general.* The IRS may provide notice by mail or in person to the taxpayer or the taxpayer's representative. If the IRS mails the notice, it must be sent to the taxpayer's last known address under rules similar to section 6212(b), except that certified or registered mail is not required. Notice is considered provided as of the date of mailing or delivery in person.


(ii) *Providing notice in TEFRA partnership proceedings.* In the case of TEFRA partnership proceedings, the IRS must provide notice of final partnership administrative adjustments (FPAA) by mail to those partners specified in section 6223. Within 60 days of an FPAA being mailed, the TMP is required to forward notice of the FPAA to those partners not entitled to direct notice from the IRS under section 6223. Certain partners with small interests in partnerships with more than 100 partners may form a Notice Group and designate a partner to receive the FPAA on their behalf. The IRS may provide other information after the beginning of the partnership administrative proceeding to the TMP who, in turn, must provide that information to the partners specified in § 301.6223(g)-1 within 30 days of receipt. Pass-thru partners who receive notices and other information from the IRS or the TMP must forward that notice or information within 30 days to those holding an interest through the pass-thru partner. Information provided by the IRS to the TMP is deemed to be notice for purposes of this section to those partners specified in § 301.6223(g)-1 as of the date the IRS provides that notice to the TMP. A similar rule applies to notice provided to the designated partner of a Notice Group, and to notice provided to a pass-thru partner. In the foregoing situations, the TMP, designated partner, and pass-thru partner are agents for direct and indirect partners. Consequently, notice to these agents is deemed to be notice to the partners for whom they act.


(b) *Exceptions*—(1) *Failure to file tax return or to pay tax.* Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to any penalty imposed by section 6651.


(2) *Fraud.* Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to any interest, penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount for a year involving a false or fraudulent return. If a taxpayer files a fraudulent return for a particular year, paragraph (a) of this section may apply to any other tax year of the taxpayer that does not involve fraud. Fraud affecting a particular item on a return precludes paragraph (a) of this section from applying to any other items on that return.


(3) *Tax shown on return.* Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to any interest, penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount with respect to any tax liability shown on a return.


(4) *Gross misstatement*—(i) *Description.* Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to any interest, penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount with respect to a gross misstatement. A *gross misstatement* for purposes of this paragraph (b) means:


(A) a substantial omission of income as described in section 6501(e)(1) or section 6229(c)(2);


(B) a gross valuation misstatement within the meaning of section 6662(h)(2)(A) and (B); or


(C) a misstatement to which the penalty under section 6702(a) applies.


(ii) *Effect of gross misstatement.* If a gross misstatement occurs, then paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to any interest, penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount with respect to any items of income omitted from the return and with respect to overstated deductions, even though one or more of the omitted items would not constitute a substantial omission, gross valuation misstatement, or misstatement to which section 6702(a) applies.


(5) *Listed transactions and undisclosed reportable transactions*—(i) *In general.* The general rule of suspension under section 6404(g)(1) does not apply to any interest, penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount with respect to any listed transaction as defined in section 6707A(c) or any undisclosed reportable transaction. For purposes of this section, an *undisclosed reportable transaction* is a reportable transaction described in the regulations under section 6011 that is not adequately disclosed under those regulations and that is not a listed transaction. The date that the IRS provides notice to the taxpayer specifically stating the taxpayer's liability regarding a listed transaction or an undisclosed reportable transaction and the basis for that liability is the controlling date for determining whether the transaction is a listed transaction or an undisclosed reportable transaction for purposes of the suspension rules under section 6404(g).


(ii) *Special rule for certain listed or undisclosed reportable transactions.* With respect to interest relating to listed transactions and undisclosed reportable transactions accruing on or before October 3, 2004, the exception to the general rule of interest suspension will not apply to a taxpayer who is a participant in a settlement initiative with respect to that transaction, to any transaction in which the taxpayer has acted reasonably and in good faith, or to a closed transaction. For purposes of this special rule, a “participant in a settlement initiative,” a “taxpayer acting in good faith,” and a “closed transaction” have the following meanings:


(A) *Participant in a settlement initiative*—(*1*) *Participant in a settlement initiative who, as of January 23, 2006, had not reached agreement with the IRS.* A *participant in a settlement initiative* includes a taxpayer who, as of January 23, 2006, was participating in a settlement initiative described in Internal Revenue Service Announcement 2005-80, 2005-2 C.B. 967. See § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(b) of this chapter. A taxpayer participates in the initiative by complying with Section 5 of the Announcement. A taxpayer is not a participant in a settlement initiative if, after January 23, 2006, the taxpayer withdraws from or terminates participation in the initiative, or the IRS determines that a settlement agreement will not be reached under the initiative within a reasonable period of time.


(*2*) *Participant in a settlement initiative who, as of January 23, 2006, had reached agreement with the IRS.* A *participant in a settlement initiative* is a taxpayer who, as of January 23, 2006, had entered into a settlement agreement under Announcement 2005-80 or any other prior or contemporaneous settlement initiative either offered through published guidance or, if the initiative was not formally published, direct contact with taxpayers known to have participated in a tax shelter promotion.


(B) *Taxpayer acting in good faith*—(*1*) *In general.* The IRS may suspend interest relating to a listed transaction or an undisclosed reportable transaction accruing on or before October 3, 2004, if the taxpayer has acted reasonably and in good faith. The IRS's determination of whether a taxpayer has acted reasonably and in good faith will take into account all the facts and circumstances surrounding the transaction. The facts and circumstances include, but are not limited to, whether the taxpayer disclosed the transaction and the taxpayer's course of conduct after being identified as participating in the transaction, including the taxpayer's response to opportunities afforded to the taxpayer to settle the transaction, and whether the taxpayer engaged in unreasonable delay at any stage of the matter.


(*2*) *Presumption.* If a taxpayer and the IRS promptly enter into a settlement agreement with respect to a transaction on terms proposed by the IRS or, in the event of atypical facts and circumstances, on terms more favorable to the taxpayer, and the taxpayer has complied with the terms of that agreement without unreasonable delay, the taxpayer will be presumed to have acted reasonably and in good faith except in rare and unusual circumstances. Rare and unusual circumstances must involve specific actions involving harm to tax administration. Even if a taxpayer does not qualify for the presumption described in this paragraph (b)(5)(iii)(B)(*2*), the taxpayer may still be granted interest suspension under the general facts and circumstances test set forth in paragraph (b)(5)(iii)(B)(*1*) of this section.


(*3*) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules the IRS uses in determining whether a taxpayer has acted reasonably and in good faith.


(C) *Closed transactions.* A transaction is considered closed for purposes of this clause if, as of December 14, 2005, the assessment of all federal income taxes for the taxable year in which the tax liability to which the interest relates is prevented by the operation of any law or rule of law, or a closing agreement under section 7121 has been entered into with respect to the tax liability arising in connection with the transaction.


(c) *Special rules*—(1) *Tentative carryback and refund adjustments.* If an amount applied, credited or refunded under section 6411 exceeds the overassessment properly attributable to a tentative carryback or refund adjustment, any interest, penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount with respect to the excess will not be suspended.


(2) *Election under section 183(e)*—(i) *In general.* If a taxpayer elects under section 183(e) to defer the determination of whether the presumption that an activity is engaged in for profit applies, the 18-month (or 36-month) notification period described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section will be tolled for the period to which the election applies. If the 18-month (or 36-month) notification period has passed as of the date the section 183(e) election is made, the suspension period described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section will be tolled for the period to which the election applies and will resume the day after the tolling period ends. Tolling will begin on the date the election is made and end on the later of the date the return for the last taxable year to which the election applies is filed or is due without regard to extensions.


(ii) *Example.* In taxable year 2007, taxpayer begins training and showing horses. On January 4, 2011, the taxpayer elects under section 183(e) to defer the determination of whether the horse-related activity will be presumed (under section 183(d)) to be engaged in for profit. Accordingly, under section 183(e)(1), a determination of whether the section 183(d) presumption applies will not occur before the close of the 2013 taxable year. Assume that in 2014, the IRS is considering issuing a notice of deficiency for taxable year 2009 regarding tax deductions claimed for the horse-related activity. Pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, the 36-month notification period under paragraph (a)(1) of this section will be tolled with respect to taxable year 2009 for the period to which the section 183(e) election applies. This tolling of the notification period begins on January 4, 2011 (the date the taxpayer made the section 183(e) election) and ends on the later of April 15, 2014, or the date the taxpayer's return for taxable year 2013 is filed.


(d) *Effective/Applicability date.* Paragraph (b)(5) of these regulations applies to interest relating to listed transactions and undisclosed reportable transactions accruing before, on, or after October 3, 2004. Paragraphs (a), (b)(1) through (b)(4), and (c) are effective on August 22, 2011.



---

[N] [T.D. 9488, 75 FR 33993, June 16, 2010, as amended by T.D. 9545, 76 FR 52261, Aug. 22, 2011; 76 FR 60373, Sept. 29, 2011]




