# § 1.807-1   Computation of life insurance reserves.

(a) *Tax reserve method.* For purposes of determining the amount of life insurance reserves for a contract under section 807(d)(1), section 807(d)(2) requires the determination of the amount of the reserve for a contract using the tax reserve method applicable to the contract. Under section 807(d)(3), the tax reserve method applicable to the contract is the Commissioners' Reserve Valuation Method (CRVM), the Commissioners' Annuities Reserve Valuation Method (CARVM), or other reserve method prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) that applies to the contract as of the date the reserve is determined. If the NAIC has not prescribed a reserve method that covers the contract, a reserve method that is consistent with the CRVM, the CARVM, or other NAIC-prescribed method as of the date the reserve is determined (whichever is most appropriate) must be used.


(b) *No asset adequacy reserve.* The life insurance reserve determined under section 807(d)(1) does not include any asset adequacy reserve.


(1) An asset adequacy reserve is—


(i) Any reserve that is established as an additional reserve based upon an analysis of the adequacy of reserves that would otherwise be established in accordance with the requirements set forth in the NAIC Valuation Manual, such as the CRVM or CARVM as applicable, or


(ii) Any similar reserve.


(2) In determining whether a reserve is a life insurance reserve, the label placed on such reserve is not determinative, provided, however, any reserve or portion of a reserve that would have been established pursuant to an asset adequacy analysis required by the NAIC's Valuation Manual 30 as it existed on December 22, 2017, the date of enactment of Public Law 115-97, is an asset adequacy reserve.


(c) *Applicability date.* The rules of this section apply to taxable years beginning after *October 13, 2020.*


---

[N] [T.D. 9911, 85 FR 64392, Oct. 13, 2020]




