# ยง 201.23   Borrower's initial payment.

(a) *General requirement.* The borrower shall be responsible for the payment in cash of any costs that will not be paid, or are not eligible to be paid, from the proceeds of the loan. Such costs payable by the borrower may include any required downpayment, any discount points to be paid by the borrower to the lender, any other fees and charges that may not be financed, and any other costs in excess of the loan amount. No part of such costs payable by the borrower may be loaned, advanced, or paid to or for the benefit of the borrower by the dealer, the manufacturer, or any other party to the loan transaction. If the borrower obtains all or any part of such costs through a gift or a loan from some other source, the borrower must disclose the source of such gift or loan on the credit application. Any such loan must be secured by property or collateral owned by the borrower independently of the property securing repayment of the Title I loan, unless the prior approval of the Secretary is obtained for an exception to this requirement. The lender shall consider any such loan obligation in performing the credit investigation. Documentation of any initial payment shall be retained by the lender in the loan file. 


(b) *Manufactured home purchase loans.* In the case of a manufactured home purchase loan, the borrower shall make a minimum cash downpayment of at least five percent of the purchase price of the home. The borrower's equity in an existing manufactured home and any movable appurtenances may be traded-in on a new home and accepted in lieu of full or partial cash downpayment, but without any cash payment to the borrower. The existing manufactured home being traded-in shall be clearly identified, and the borrower's equity in the home shall be based upon the retail value of the home and appurtenances (as determined by a HUD-approved appraisal), less the total of all loans outstanding on the home and appurtenances. 


(c) *Manufactured home lot loans.* In the case of a manufactured home lot loan, the borrower shall make a minimum cash downpayment of at least five percent of the total of the purchase price and development costs for the lot. 


(d) *Combination loans.* In the case of a combination loan, the borrower shall make a minimum cash downpayment of at least five percent of the purchase price of the manufactured home and lot. If the borrower already owns a manufactured home or a lot on which a manufactured home is to be placed, the borrower's equity in such home or lot may be accepted in lieu of full or partial cash downpayment on a combination loan, but without any cash payment to the borrower. 



---

[N] [61 FR 19798, May 2, 1996]




