# ยง 4022.2   Definitions.

The following terms are defined in ยง 4001.2 of this chapter: annuity, bankruptcy filing date, Code, employer, ERISA, guaranteed benefit, majority owner, mandatory employee contributions, nonforfeitable benefit, non-PPA 2006 bankruptcy termination, normal retirement age, notice of intent to terminate, PBGC, person, plan, plan administrator, plan year, PPA 2006 bankruptcy termination, proposed termination date, statutory hybrid plan, and title IV benefit. 


In addition, for purposes of this part (unless otherwise required by the context): 


*Accumulated mandatory employee contributions* means mandatory employee contributions plus interest credited on those contributions under the plan, or, if greater, interest required by section 204(c) of ERISA. 


*Benefit in pay status* means that one or more benefit payments have been made or would have been made except for administrative delay.


*Benefit increase* means any benefit arising from the adoption of a new plan or an increase in the value of benefits payable arising from an amendment to an existing plan. Such increases include, but are not limited to, a scheduled increase in benefits under a plan or plan amendment, such as a cost-of-living increase, and any change in plan provisions which advances a participant's or beneficiary's entitlement to a benefit, such as liberalized participation requirements or vesting schedules, reductions in the normal or early retirement age under a plan, an unpredictable contingent event benefit, and changes in the form of benefit payments. In the case of a plan under which the amount of benefits depends on the participant's salary and the participant receives a salary increase the resulting increase in benefits to which the participant becomes entitled will not, for the purpose of this part, be treated as a benefit increase. Similarly, in the case of a plan under which the amount of benefits depends on the participant's age or service, and the participant becomes entitled to increased benefits solely because of advancement in age or service, the increased benefits to which the participant becomes entitled will not, for the purpose of this part, be treated as a benefit increase. 


*Covered employment* means employment with respect to which benefits accrue under a plan. 


*Pension benefit* means a benefit payable as an annuity, or one or more payments related thereto, to a participant who permanently leaves or has permanently left covered employment, or to a surviving beneficiary, which payments by themselves or in combination with Social Security, Railroad Retirement, or workmen's compensation benefits provide a substantially level income to the recipient. An annuity benefit resulting from a rollover amount is a pension benefit.


*Straight life annuity* means a series of level periodic payments payable for the life of the recipient, but does not include any combined annuity form, including an annuity payable for a term certain and life.


*Unpredictable contingent event (UCE)* has the same meaning as unpredictable contingent event in section 206(g)(1)(C) of ERISA and Treas. Reg. ยง 1.436-1(j)(9) (26 CFR 1.436-1(j)(9)). It includes a plant shutdown (full or partial) or a similar event (such as a full or partial closing of another type of facility, or a layoff or other workforce reduction), or any event other than the attainment of any age, performance of any service, receipt or derivation of any compensation, or occurrence of death or disability.


*Unpredictable contingent event benefit (UCEB)* has the same meaning as unpredictable contingent event benefit in section 206(g)(1)(C) of ERISA and Treas. Reg. ยง 1.436-1(j)(9) (26 CFR 1.436-1(j)(9)). Thus, a UCEB is any benefit or benefit increase to the extent that it would not be payable but for the occurrence of a UCE. A benefit or benefit increase that is conditioned upon the occurrence of a UCE does not cease to be a UCEB as a result of the contingent event having occurred or its occurrence having become reasonably predictable.



---

[N] [61 FR 34028, July 1, 1996, as amended at 74 FR 59096, Nov. 17, 2009; 76 FR 34601, June 14, 2011; 79 FR 25672, May 6, 2014; 79 FR 70094, Nov. 25, 2014; 83 FR 49803, Oct. 3, 2018]




