# ยง 171.13   Responses to requests.

(a) *In general.* The Department will, to the extent practicable, communicate with requesters having access to the internet using electronic means, such as email or a web portal.


(b) *Acknowledgment of requests.* The Department must acknowledge the request in writing and assign it an individualized tracking number if it will take longer than 10 working days to process. The Department must include in the acknowledgment a brief description of the records sought to allow requesters to more easily keep track of their requests. The Department may in its discretion divide a multi-part request into multiple requests in order to facilitate processing.


(c) *Estimated dates of completion and interim responses.* Upon request, the Department will provide an estimated date by which the Department expects to provide a response to the requester. If a request involves a voluminous amount of material, or searches in multiple locations, the agency may provide interim responses, releasing the records on a rolling basis.


(d) *Grants of requests.* Once the Department makes a determination to grant a request in full or in part, it must notify the requester in writing. The Department also must inform the requester of any fees charged under ยง 171.16 and must disclose the requested records to the requester promptly upon payment of any applicable fees. The Department must inform the requester of the availability of the FOIA Public Liaison to offer assistance.


(e) *Adverse determinations of requests.* If the Department makes an adverse determination denying a request in any respect, it must notify the requester of that determination in writing. Adverse determinations, or denials of requests, include decisions that: the requested record is exempt from disclosure, in whole or in part; the request does not reasonably describe the records sought; the information requested is not a record subject to the FOIA; the requested record does not exist, cannot be located, or has been destroyed; or the requested record is not readily reproducible in the form or format sought by the requester. Adverse determinations also include denials involving fees or fee waiver matters or denials of requests for expedited processing.


(f) *Content of denial.* The denial must be signed by the head of the component processing the request, or designee, and must include:


(1) The name and title or position of the person responsible for the denial;


(2) A brief statement of the reasons for the denial, including any FOIA exemptions applied in denying the request;


(3) An estimate of the volume of any records or information withheld, such as the number of pages or some other reasonable form of estimation, although such an estimate is not required if the volume is otherwise indicated by deletions marked on records that are disclosed in part or if providing an estimate would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption;


(4) A statement that the denial may be appealed under ยง 171.15 and a description of the requirements set forth therein; and


(5) A statement notifying the requester of the assistance available from the Department's FOIA Public Liaison and the dispute resolution services offered by the Office of Government Information Services of the National Archives and Records Administration.


(g) *Markings on released documents.* Markings on released documents must be clearly visible to the requester. Records disclosed in part must be marked to show the amount of information deleted and the exemption under which the deletion was made unless doing so would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption. The location of the information deleted must also be indicated on the record, if technically feasible.


(h) *Use of record exclusions.* (1) In the event that the Department identifies records that may be subject to exclusion from the requirements of the FOIA pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(c), A/GIS/IPS or OIG must confer with the Department of Justice, Office of Information Policy to obtain approval to apply the exclusion.


(2) Any time the Department invokes an exclusion, it must maintain an administrative record of the process of invocation and approval of the exclusion by OIP.






