# ยง 1807.150   Program accessibility: existing facilities.

(a) *General.* The NACIC shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities. This program does not:


(1) Necessarily require the NACIC to make each of its existing facilities accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities;


(2)(i) Require the NACIC to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens.


(ii) The NACIC has the burden of proving that compliance with ยง 1807.150(a) would result in that alteration or those burdens.


(iii) The decision that compliance would result in that alteration of those burdens must be made by the Director after considering all of the NACIC's resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion.


(iv) If an action would result in that alteration or those burdens, the NACIC shall take any other action that would not result in the alteration of burdens but would nevertheless ensure that individuals with disabilities receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.


(b) *Methods.* (1) The NACIC may comply with the requirements of this section through such means as redesign of equipment, delivery of services at alternate accessible sites, alteration of existing facilities, or any other methods that result in making its programs or activities readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities.


(2) The NACIC is not required to make structural changes in existing facilities if other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this section.


(3) In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirements of this section, the NACIC shall give priority to those methods that offer programs and activities to qualified individuals with disabilities in the most integrated setting appropriate.




