# § 460.2   Definitions.

Adapted from section R202 of the 2021 IECC and as used in this part—


*2021 IECC* means the 2021 version of the International Energy Conservation Code, issued by the International Code Council.


*Access (to)* means that which enables a device, appliance or equipment to be reached by ready access or by a means that first requires the removal or movement of a panel or similar obstruction.


*Air barrier* means one or more materials joined together in a continuous manner to restrict or prevent the passage of air through the building thermal envelope and its assemblies.


*Automatic* means self-acting or operating by its own mechanism when actuated by some impersonal influence.


*Building thermal envelope* means exterior walls, exterior floors, exterior ceiling, or roofs, and any other building element assemblies that enclose conditioned space or provide a boundary between conditioned space and unconditioned space.


*Ceiling* means an assembly that supports and forms the overhead interior surface of a building or room that covers its upper limit and is horizontal or tilted at an angle less than 60 degrees (1.05 rad) from horizontal.


*Climate zone* means a geographical region identified in § 460.101.


*Conditioned space* means an area, room, or space that is enclosed within the building thermal envelope and that is directly or indirectly heated or cooled. Spaces are indirectly heated or cooled where they communicate through openings with conditioned space, where they are separated from conditioned spaces by uninsulated walls, floors or ceilings, or where they contain uninsulated ducts, piping, or other sources of heating or cooling.


*Continuous air barrier* means a combination of materials and assemblies that restrict or prevent the passage of air from conditioned space to unconditioned space.


*Door* means an operable barrier used to block or allow access to an entrance of a manufactured home.


*Dropped ceiling* means a secondary nonstructural ceiling, hung below the exterior ceiling.


*Dropped soffit* means a secondary nonstructural ceiling that is hung below the exterior ceiling and that covers only a portion of the ceiling.


*Duct* means a tube or conduit, except an air passage within a self-contained system, utilized for conveying air to or from heating, cooling, or ventilating equipment.


*Duct system* means a continuous passageway for the transmission of air that, in addition to ducts, includes duct fittings, dampers, plenums, fans, and accessory air-handling equipment and appliances.


*Eave* means the edge of the roof that overhangs the face of an exterior wall and normally projects beyond the side of the manufactured home.


*Equipment* includes material, devices, fixtures, fittings, or accessories both in the construction of, and in the plumbing, heating, cooling, and electrical systems of a manufactured home.


*Exterior ceiling* means a ceiling that separates conditioned space from unconditioned space.


*Exterior floor* means a floor that separates conditioned space from unconditioned space.


*Exterior wall* means a wall, including a skylight well, that separates conditioned space from unconditioned space.


*Fenestration* means vertical fenestration and skylights.


*Floor* means a horizontal assembly that supports and forms the lower interior surface of a building or room upon which occupants can walk.


*Glazed or glazing* means an infill material, including glass, plastic, or other transparent or translucent material used in fenestration.


*Heated water circulation system* means a water distribution system in which one or more pumps are operated in the service hot water piping to circulate heated water from the water heating equipment to fixtures and back to the water heating equipment.


*Insulation* means material deemed to be insulation under 16 CFR 460.2.


*Manual* means capable of being operated by personal intervention.


*Manufactured home* means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which in the traveling mode is 8 body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or which when erected onsite is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained in the structure. This term includes all structures that meet the above requirements except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification pursuant to 24 CFR 3282.13 and complies with the construction and safety standards set forth in 24 CFR part 3280. The term does not include any self-propelled recreational vehicle. Calculations used to determine the number of square feet in a structure will be based on the structure's exterior dimensions, measured at the largest horizontal projections when erected on site. These dimensions will include all expandable rooms, cabinets, and other projections containing interior space, but do not include bay windows. Nothing in this definition should be interpreted to mean that a manufactured home necessarily meets the requirements of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Minimum Property Standards (HUD Handbook 4900.1) or that it is automatically eligible for financing under 12 U.S.C. 1709(b).


*Manufacturer* means any person engaged in the factory construction or assembly of a manufactured home, including any person engaged in importing manufactured homes for resale.


*Opaque door* means a door that is not less than 50 percent opaque in surface area.


*R-value (thermal resistance)* means the inverse of the time rate of heat flow through a body from one of its bounding surfaces to the other surface for a unit temperature difference between the two surfaces, under steady state conditions, per unit area (h × ft
2 × °F/Btu).


*Rough opening* means an opening in the exterior wall or roof, sized for installation of fenestration.


*Service hot water* means supply of hot water for purposes other than comfort heating.


*Skylight* means glass or other transparent or translucent glazing material, including framing materials, installed at an angle less than 60 degrees (1.05 rad) from horizontal, including unit skylights, tubular daylighting devices, and glazing materials in solariums, sunrooms, roofs and sloped walls.


*Skylight well* means the exterior walls underneath a skylight that extend from the interior finished surface of the exterior ceiling to the exterior surface of the location to which the skylight is attached.


*Solar heat gain coefficient (SHGC)* means the ratio of the solar heat gain entering a space through a fenestration assembly to the incident solar radiation. Solar heat gain includes directly transmitted solar heat and absorbed solar radiation that is then reradiated, conducted, or convected into the space.


*State* means each of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and American Samoa.


*Thermostat* means an automatic control device used to maintain temperature at a fixed or adjustable set point.


*U-factor (thermal transmittance)* means the coefficient of heat transmission (air to air) through a building component or assembly, equal to the time rate of heat flow per unit area and unit temperature difference between the warm side and cold side air films (Btu/h × ft
2 × °F).


*U*_o_* (overall thermal transmittance)* means the coefficient of heat transmission (air to air) through the building thermal envelope, equal to the time rate of heat flow per unit area and unit temperature difference between the warm side and cold side air films (Btu/h × ft
2 × °F).


*Ventilation* means the natural or mechanical process of supplying conditioned or unconditioned air to, or removing such air from, any space.


*Vertical fenestration* means windows (fixed or moveable), opaque doors, glazed doors, glazed block and combination opaque and glazed doors composed of glass or other transparent or translucent glazing materials and installed at a slope of greater than or equal to 60 degrees (1.05 rad) from horizontal.


*Wall* means an assembly that is vertical or tilted at an angle equal to greater than 60 degrees (1.05 rad) from horizontal that encloses or divides an area of a building or room.


*Whole-house mechanical ventilation system* means an exhaust system, supply system, or combination thereof that is designed to mechanically exchange indoor air with outdoor air when operating continuously or through a programmed intermittent schedule to satisfy the whole house ventilation rates.


*Window* means glass or other transparent or translucent glazing material, including framing materials, installed at an angle greater than 60 degrees (1.05 rad) from horizontal.


*Zone* means a space or group of spaces within a manufactured home with heating or cooling requirements that are sufficiently similar so that desired conditions can be maintained using a single controlling device.






