# ยง 525.4   Entry authorization (policy).

(a) *Personnel.* (1) Persons in the following categories may enter Kwajalein Missile Range without obtaining specific entry authorization provided the Commander, Kwajalein Missile Range, is notified of impending entry 14 days prior to entry date: 


(i) Personnel being assigned to Kwajalein Missile Range as permanent-party and traveling on official orders. 


(ii) Personnel being temporarily assigned to Kwajalein Missile Range and who are traveling on official orders. 


(iii) Dependents of permanent-party personnel who are *accompanying* their sponsors and are traveling on official orders. 


(iv) Crew members on ships and aircraft authorized to enter Kwajalein Missile Range. 


(2) Persons in the following categories will submit request for entry authorization to the Commander, Kwajalein Missile Range, ATTN: BMDSC-RKE-S: 


(i) Dependents of KMR-based permanent-party personnel for the purpose of *joining* their sponsors (already stationed at KMR) on either a permanent or temporary basis. 


(ii) Citizens, nationals and permanent resident aliens of the Republic of the Marshall Islands except those who deplaned for the purpose of transiting Kwajalein Defense Site. 


(iii) Citizens of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands. 


(iv) U.S. citizen employees and officials of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands. 


(3) All other personnel, except news media representatives, will submit request for entry authorization to the National Range Commander, BMDSCOM, ATTN: BMDSC-R (electrical address: CDRBMDSCOM HUNTSVILLE AL //BMDSC-RA//). 


(4) All requests and notifications will include the following data (as applicable): 


(i) Full name(s). 


(ii) Citizenship. 


(iii) Organization. 


(iv) Purpose of entry. 


(v) Point of contact at Kwajalein Missile Range. 


(vi) Inclusive dates of stay. 


(vii) Return address. 


(viii) Proof of security clearance (if access to classified information is required). 


(5) News media representatives require authority from the National Range Commander to visit Kwajalein Missile Range (news media representatives wishing to transit Kwajalein Island to visit any island not within the Kwajalein Missile Range must obtain entry authorization from the Republic of the Marshall Islands and present same to the air carrier at the point of departure to Kwajalein Island). Requests should be addressed to the National Range Commander, BMDSCOM, ATTN: BMDSC-S (electrical address: CDRBMDSCOM HUNTSVILLE AL//BMDSC-S//) and contain the following information: 


(i) Name. 


(ii) Date and place of birth. 


(iii) Citizenship. 


(iv) Organization(s) represented. 


(v) Objective(s) of visit. 


(vi) Desired and alternative arrival and departure dates. 


(vii) Address(es) and telephone number(s) for additional information and/or reply. 


(b) *Ship.* (1) Ships or other marine vessels in the following categories, except those which have been denied entry or have had a prior entry authorization revoked, may enter the Kwajalein Missile Range territorial waters upon request to and approval of the Commander, Kwajalein Missile Range: 


(i) U.S. private ships which are: 


(A) Under charter to the Military Sealift Command, or 


(B) Employed exclusively in support of and in connection with a Department of Defense construction, maintenance, or repair contract.


(ii) Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands/RMI ships which have been approved by the resident representative on Kwajalein. 


(iii) Any ship in distress.


(iv) U.S. public ships which are providing a service to the Kwajalein Atoll in accordance with their agency responsibilities.


(2) All other ships or marine vessels must obtain an entry authorization from the National Range Commander before entering the Kwajalein Atoll territorial sea. The entry authorization application should reach the National Range Commander at least 14 days prior to the desired entry date and should include the following information:


(i) Name of ship.


(ii) Place of registry and registry number.


(iii) Name, nationality, and address of operator.


(iv) Name, nationality, and address of owner.


(v) Gross tonnage of ship.


(vi) Nationality and numbers of officers and crew (include crew list when practicable).


(vii) Number of passengers (include list when practicable).


(viii) Last port of call prior to entry into area for which clearance is requested.


(ix) Purpose of visit.


(x) Proposed date of entry and estimated duration of stay.


(xi) Whether ship is equipped with firearms or photographic equipment.


(xii) Whether crew or passengers have in their possession firearms or cameras.


(3) Entry authorizations may be granted for either single or multiple entries.


(4) Captains of ships and/or marine vessels planning to enter Kwajalein Missile Range shall not knowingly permit excluded persons to board their vessels.


(5) U.S. public ships which are authorized to enter defense areas by the controlling Defense Department agency may enter the Kwajalein Atoll territorial sea without the specific approval of either the National Range Commander or the Commander, KMR, provided that the Commander, KMR, is notified as far in advance of the impending entry as is consistent with the security requirements pertaining to such movement.


(c) *Aircraft.* (1) Aircraft in the following categories, except those aircraft which have been denied entry or have had a prior entry authorization revoked, may enter Kwajalein Atoll airspace upon request to and approval of the Commander, KMR:


(i) U.S. private aircraft which are under charter to the Military Airlift Command.


(ii) Public aircraft of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands/RMI which have been approved by the resident representative on Kwajalein.


(iii) Private aircraft registered with and approved by the Commander, KMR, which are based on Kwajalein Island.


(iv) Any aircraft in distress.


(v) Private aircraft operated by a common carrier which is providing scheduled air service to or through the Kwajalein Atoll under a current license issued by the Department of the Army.


(vi) U.S. public aircraft which are providing a service to the Kwajalein Atoll in accordance with their agency responsibilities.


(2) All aircraft, except those categorized in paragraph 4-3.a., must obtain an entry authorization from the National Range Commander before entering Kwajalein Atoll airspace. The entry authorization application should reach the National Range Commander at least 14 days prior to the desired entry date and should include the following information:


(i) Type and serial number of aircraft.


(ii) Nationality and name of registered owner.


(iii) Name and rank of senior pilot.


(iv) Nationality and number of crew (include crew list when practicable).


(v) Number of passengers (include list when practicable).


(vi) Purpose of flight.


(vii) Plan of flight route, including the point of origin of flight and its designation and estimated date and times of arrival and departure of airspace covered by this procedure.


(viii) Radio call signs of aircraft and radio frequencies available.


(ix) Whether aircraft is equipped with firearms or photographic equipment.


(x) Whether crew or passengers have in their possession firearms or cameras.


(3) Entry authorizations may be granted for either single or multiple entries.


(4) Captains of aircraft planning to enter Kwajalein Missile Range airspace shall not knowingly permit excluded persons to board their aircraft.


(5) U.S. public aircraft which are authorized to enter defense areas by the controlling Defense Department agency may enter the Kwajalein Atoll airspace with the specific approval of either the National Range Commander or the Commander, KMR, provided that the Commander, KMR, is notified as far in advance of the impending entry as is consistent with the security requirement pertaining to such movements.




