# § 1.6002   Definitions.

Terms not specifically defined in this section or elsewhere in this subpart have the meanings defined in this part and the Communications Act of 1934, 47 U.S.C. 151 *et seq.* Terms used in this subpart have the following meanings:


(a) *Action* or *to act* on a siting application means a siting authority's grant of a siting application or issuance of a written decision denying a siting application.


(b) *Antenna,* consistent with § 1.1320(d), means an apparatus designed for the purpose of emitting radiofrequency (RF) radiation, to be operated or operating from a fixed location pursuant to Commission authorization, for the provision of personal wireless service and any commingled information services. For purposes of this definition, the term antenna does not include an unintentional radiator, mobile station, or device authorized under part 15 of this chapter.


(c) *Antenna equipment,* consistent with § 1.1320(d), means equipment, switches, wiring, cabling, power sources, shelters or cabinets associated with an antenna, located at the same fixed location as the antenna, and, when collocated on a structure, is mounted or installed at the same time as such antenna.


(d) *Antenna facility* means an antenna and associated antenna equipment.


(e) *Applicant* means a person or entity that submits a siting application and the agents, employees, and contractors of such person or entity.


(f) *Authorization* means any approval that a siting authority must issue under applicable law prior to the deployment of personal wireless service facilities, including, but not limited to, zoning approval and building permit.


(g) *Collocation,* consistent with § 1.1320(d) and the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement (NPA) for the Collocation of Wireless Antennas, appendix B of this part, section I.B, means—


(1) Mounting or installing an antenna facility on a pre-existing structure; and/or


(2) Modifying a structure for the purpose of mounting or installing an antenna facility on that structure.


(3) The definition of “collocation” in § 1.6100(b)(2) applies to the term as used in that section.


(h) *Deployment* means placement, construction, or modification of a personal wireless service facility.


(i) *Facility* or *personal wireless service facility* means an antenna facility or a structure that is used for the provision of personal wireless service, whether such service is provided on a stand-alone basis or commingled with other wireless communications services.


(j) *Siting application* or *application* means a written submission to a siting authority requesting authorization for the deployment of a personal wireless service facility at a specified location.


(k) *Siting authority* means a State government, local government, or instrumentality of a State government or local government, including any official or organizational unit thereof, whose authorization is necessary prior to the deployment of personal wireless service facilities.


(l) *Small wireless facilities* are facilities that meet each of the following conditions:


(1) The facilities—


(i) Are mounted on structures 50 feet or less in height including their antennas as defined in § 1.1320(d); or


(ii) Are mounted on structures no more than 10 percent taller than other adjacent structures; or


(iii) Do not extend existing structures on which they are located to a height of more than 50 feet or by more than 10 percent, whichever is greater;


(2) Each antenna associated with the deployment, excluding associated antenna equipment (as defined in the definition of antenna in § 1.1320(d)), is no more than three cubic feet in volume;


(3) All other wireless equipment associated with the structure, including the wireless equipment associated with the antenna and any pre-existing associated equipment on the structure, is no more than 28 cubic feet in volume;


(4) The facilities do not require antenna structure registration under part 17 of this chapter;


(5) The facilities are not located on Tribal lands, as defined under 36 CFR 800.16(x); and


(6) The facilities do not result in human exposure to radiofrequency radiation in excess of the applicable safety standards specified in § 1.1307(b).


(m) *Structure* means a pole, tower, base station, or other building, whether or not it has an existing antenna facility, that is used or to be used for the provision of personal wireless service (whether on its own or comingled with other types of services).



---

[N] [83 FR 51884, Oct. 15, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 59567, Nov. 5, 2019]




