# § 122.3   Registration fees.

(a) *Registration fee.* A person who is required to register must submit payment of a fee following the payment guidelines available on the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls website at *www.pmddtc.state.gov.* The fee to be paid shall be one of the following:


(1) *Tier 1.* The first tier is a set fee of $3,000 per year. This applies to new registrants. It also applies to those who are renewing their registrations and for whom the Department did not issue a favorable determination on a license application or other request for authorization during the 12-month period ending 90 days prior to the expiration of the current registration.


(2) *Tier 2.* The second tier is a set fee of $4,000 for registrants renewing their registrations who have submitted license applications or other requests for authorization and received five or fewer favorable determinations during the 12-month period ending 90 days prior to the expiration of their current registration.


(3) *Tier 3.* The third tier is a calculated fee for registrants who have submitted license applications or other requests for authorization and received more than five favorable determinations during the 12-month period ending 90 days prior to the expiration of their current registration. For these registrants, the fee calculation is $4,000 plus $1,100 times the total number of favorable determinations over five.


(b) *Website, discounts, and further guidance.* Information on certain discounts for registrants who are wholly exempt from income tax pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3), and for Tier 3 registrants who are low-value exporters or temporary importers are available on the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls website at *www.pmddtc.state.gov* by selecting “Conduct Business” on the top heading bar, then selecting “Registration” from the left menu bar, and finally selecting “Payment of Registration” from the subsequent left menu bar. Other guidance and information relevant to the payment of registration fees is also available on the website.





---

[N] [89 FR 99085, Dec. 10, 2024]




