# § 43.10   Disposition of life-limited aircraft parts.

(a) *Definitions used in this section.* For the purposes of this section the following definitions apply.


*Life-limited part* means any part for which a mandatory replacement limit is specified in the type design, the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness, or the maintenance manual.


*Life status* means the accumulated cycles, hours, or any other mandatory replacement limit of a life-limited part.


(b) *Temporary removal of parts from type-certificated products.* When a life-limited part is temporarily removed and reinstalled for the purpose of performing maintenance, no disposition under paragraph (c) of this section is required if—


(1) The life status of the part has not changed;


(2) The removal and reinstallation is performed on the same serial numbered product; and


(3) That product does not accumulate time in service while the part is removed.


(c) *Disposition of parts removed from type-certificated products.* Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, after April 15, 2002 each person who removes a life-limited part from a type-certificated product must ensure that the part is controlled using one of the methods in this paragraph. The method must deter the installation of the part after it has reached its life limit. Acceptable methods include:


(1) *Record keeping system.* The part may be controlled using a record keeping system that substantiates the part number, serial number, and current life status of the part. Each time the part is removed from a type certificated product, the record must be updated with the current life status. This system may include electronic, paper, or other means of record keeping.


(2) *Tag or record attached to part.* A tag or other record may be attached to the part. The tag or record must include the part number, serial number, and current life status of the part. Each time the part is removed from a type certificated product, either a new tag or record must be created, or the existing tag or record must be updated with the current life status.


(3) *Non-permanent marking.* The part may be legibly marked using a non-permanent method showing its current life status. The life status must be updated each time the part is removed from a type certificated product, or if the mark is removed, another method in this section may be used. The mark must be accomplished in accordance with the instructions under § 45.16 of this chapter in order to maintain the integrity of the part.


(4) *Permanent marking.* The part may be legibly marked using a permanent method showing its current life status. The life status must be updated each time the part is removed from a type certificated product. Unless the part is permanently removed from use on type certificated products, this permanent mark must be accomplished in accordance with the instructions under § 45.16 of this chapter in order to maintain the integrity of the part.


(5) *Segregation.* The part may be segregated using methods that deter its installation on a type-certificated product. These methods must include, at least—


(i) Maintaining a record of the part number, serial number, and current life status, and


(ii) Ensuring the part is physically stored separately from parts that are currently eligible for installation.


(6) *Mutilation.* The part may be mutilated to deter its installation in a type certificated product. The mutilation must render the part beyond repair and incapable of being reworked to appear to be airworthy.


(7) *Other methods.* Any other method approved or accepted by the FAA.


(d) *Transfer of life-limited parts.* Each person who removes a life-limited part from a type certificated product and later sells or otherwise transfers that part must transfer with the part the mark, tag, or other record used to comply with this section, unless the part is mutilated before it is sold or transferred.



---

[N] [Doc. No. FAA-2000-8017, 67 FR 2110, Jan. 15, 2002, as amended by Amdt. 43-38A, 79 FR 67055, Nov. 12, 2014]




