# ยง 12.310   Summary disposition.

(a) *Filing of motions, answers.* Any parties who believe that there is no genuine issue of material fact to be determined and that they are entitled to a decision as a matter of law concerning all issues of liability in the proceeding may file a motion for summary disposition at any time before a determination is made by the Administrative Law Judge to order an oral hearing in the proceeding. Any adverse party, within ten (10) days after service of the motion, may file and serve opposing papers or may countermove for summary disposition.


(b) *Supporting papers.* A motion for summary disposition shall include a statement of all material facts as to which the moving party contends that there is no genuine issue, supported by the pleadings, and by affidavits, other verified statements, admissions, stipulations, and interrogatories. The motion may also be supported by briefs containing points and authorities in support of the contention of the party making the motion. When a motion is made and supported as provided in this section, unless otherwise ordered by the Administrative Law Judge, an adverse party may not rest upon the mere allegations, but shall serve and file in response a statement setting forth those material facts as to which the adverse party contends a genuine issue exists, supported by affidavits and other verified material. The adverse party may also submit a brief of points and authorities.


(c) *Oral argument.* Oral argument may be heard at the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge and shall be heard in Washington, DC, or by telephonic conference call. Such argument shall be recorded, and written transcripts shall be made in the event that a grant or denial of summary disposition is reviewed by the Commission.


(d) *Summary disposition upon motion of the Administrative Law Judge.* If the Administrative Law Judge believes that there may be no genuine issue of material fact to be determined and that one of the parties may be entitled to a decision as a matter of law, the Administrative Law Judge may direct the parties to submit papers in support of and in opposition to summary disposition, and may hear oral argument, substantially as provided in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section.


(e) *Ruling on summary disposition.* The Administrative Law Judge shall grant summary disposition if the undisputed pleaded facts, affidavits, other verified statements, admissions, stipulations, and matters of official notice, show that (1) there is no genuine issue as to any material fact; (2) there is no necessity that further facts be developed in the record; and (3) a party is entitled to a decision as a matter of law.


(f) *Review of ruling; appeal.* An application for interlocutory review of an order denying a motion for summary disposition shall not be allowed. Interlocutory review of an order granting summary disposition which disposes of less than all of the issues in the proceeding may be sought only in accordance with ยง 12.309 of these rules. An order granting summary disposition which is dispositive of all issues, and as to all parties, in the proceeding may be appealed to the Commission in accordance with the requirements set forth in ยง 12.401 of these rules.



---

[N] [49 FR 6621, Feb. 22, 1984, as amended at 86 FR 64359, Nov. 18, 2021]




