# § 132.11a   Time of presentation.

(a) *General rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the time of presentation of an entry/entry summary for quota purposes shall be the time of delivery in proper form of:


(1) An entry summary for consumption, or its electronic equivalent, which serves as both the entry and the entry summary, with estimated duties attached; or


(2) An entry summary for consumption, or its electronic equivalent, which shall serve as both the entry and the entry summary without estimated duties attached, if the entry/entry summary information and a valid scheduled statement date have been successfully received by Customs via the Automated Broker Interface (see § 132.1(d)(2); payment must be subsequently made by the statement processing method as set forth in § 24.25 of this chapter); or


(3) A withdrawal for consumption with estimated duties attached.


(b) *Before arrival of merchandise.* The entry summary for consumption, without estimated duties attached, may be submitted for preliminary review before the merchandise arrives within the limits of the port where entry is to be made. In that case, the time of presentation of the entry summary for consumption shall be the time estimated duties are deposited after the importing carrier arrives within the port limits.


(c) *Failure to use statement processing method.* If presentation is chosen to be made pursuant to § 132.11a(a)(2) and payment is not made as required through the statement processing method, the Center director may require filing of an entry summary for consumption with estimated duties attached as described in § 132.11(a)(1) for future filings.



---

[N] [T.D. 79-221, 44 FR 46814, Aug. 9, 1979, as amended by T.D. 89-104, 54 FR 50498, Dec. 7, 1989; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61287, Oct. 13, 2015; CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93017, Dec. 20, 2016]




