# § 63.9637   What other requirements must I meet to demonstrate continuous compliance?

(a) *Deviations.* You must report each instance in which you did not meet each emission limitation in tables 1 through 3 to this subpart that applies to you. You also must report each instance in which you did not meet the work practice standards in § 63.9591 and each instance in which you did not meet each operation and maintenance requirement in § 63.9600 that applies to you. These instances are deviations from the emission limitations, work practice standards, and operation and maintenance requirements in this subpart. These deviations must be reported in accordance with the requirements in § 63.9641.




(b) *Startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions.* For existing sources and for new or reconstructed sources which commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, on or before January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, consistent with §§ 63.6(e) and 63.7(e)(1), deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction are not violations if you demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that you were operating in accordance with § 63.6(e)(1). The Administrator will determine whether deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction are violations, according to the provisions in § 63.6(e). After January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, and after July 28, 2020, or upon start-up, which ever date is later, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 25, 2019, the exemptions for periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction in § 63.6(e) no longer apply.



---

[N] [85 FR 45497, July 28, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 16435, Mar. 6, 2024]




