# § 98.253   Calculating GHG emissions.

(a) Calculate GHG emissions required to be reported in § 98.252(b) through (i) using the applicable methods in paragraphs (b) through (n) of this section.


(b) For flares, calculate GHG emissions according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section. All gas discharged through the flare stack must be included in the flare GHG emissions calculations with the exception of the following, which may be excluded as applicable: gas used for the flare pilots, and if using the calculation method in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, the gas released during start-up, shutdown, or malfunction events of 500,000 scf/day or less.








(1) Calculate the CO_2_ emissions according to the applicable requirements in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(iii) of this section.


(i) *Flow measurement.* If you have a continuous flow monitor on the flare, you must use the measured flow rates when the monitor is operational and the flow rate is within the calibrated range of the measurement device to calculate the flare gas flow. If you do not have a continuous flow monitor on the flare and for periods when the monitor is not operational or the flow rate is outside the calibrated range of the measurement device, you must use engineering calculations, company records, or similar estimates of volumetric flare gas flow.


(ii) *Heat value or carbon content measurement.* If you have a continuous higher heating value monitor or gas composition monitor on the flare or if you monitor these parameters at least weekly, you must use the measured heat value or carbon content value in calculating the CO_2_ emissions from the flare using the applicable methods in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(A) and (b)(1)(ii)(B).


(A) If you monitor gas composition, calculate the CO_2_ emissions from the flare using either Equation Y-1a or Equation Y-1b of this section. If daily or more frequent measurement data are available, you must use daily values when using Equation Y-1a or Equation Y-1b of this section; otherwise, use weekly values.


(B) If you monitor heat content but do not monitor gas composition, calculate the CO_2_ emissions from the flare using Equation Y-2 of this section. If daily or more frequent measurement data are available, you must use daily values when using Equation Y-2 of this section; otherwise, use weekly values.


(iii) *Alternative to heat value or carbon content measurements.* If you do not measure the higher heating value or carbon content of the flare gas at least weekly, determine the quantity of gas discharged to the flare separately for periods of routine flare operation and for periods of start-up, shutdown, or malfunction, and calculate the CO_2_ emissions as specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(A) through (b)(1)(iii)(C) of this section.


(A) For periods of start-up, shutdown, or malfunction, use engineering calculations and process knowledge to estimate the carbon content of the flared gas for each start-up, shutdown, or malfunction event exceeding 500,000 scf/day.


(B) For periods of normal operation, use the average higher heating value measured for the fuel gas used as flare sweep or purge gas for the higher heating value of the flare gas. If higher heating value of the fuel gas is not measured, the higher heating value of the flare gas under normal operations may be estimated from historic data or engineering calculations.


(C) Calculate the CO_2_ emissions using Equation Y-3 of this section.


(2) Calculate CH_4_ using Equation Y-4 of this section.


(3) Calculate N_2_O emissions using Equation Y-5 of this section.


(c) For catalytic cracking units and traditional fluid coking units, calculate the GHG emissions from coke burn-off using the applicable methods described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.








(1) If you operate and maintain a CEMS that measures CO_2_ emissions according to subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources), you must calculate and report CO_2_ emissions as provided in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this section. Other catalytic cracking units and traditional fluid coking units must either install a CEMS that complies with the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Combustion Sources), or follow the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) or (3) of this section.


(i) Calculate CO_2_ emissions by following the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology specified in § 98.33(a)(4) and all associated requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources).


(ii) For catalytic cracking units whose process emissions are discharged through a combined stack with other CO_2_ emissions (*e.g.,* co-mingled with emissions from a CO boiler) you must also calculate the other CO_2_ emissions using the applicable methods for the applicable subpart (*e.g.,* subpart C of this part in the case of a CO boiler). Calculate the process emissions from the catalytic cracking unit or fluid coking unit as the difference in the CO_2_ CEMS emissions and the calculated emissions associated with the additional units discharging through the combined stack.


(2) For catalytic cracking units and fluid coking units with rated capacities greater than 10,000 barrels per stream day (bbls/sd) that do not use a continuous CO_2_ CEMS for the final exhaust stack, you must continuously or no less frequently than hourly monitor the O_2_, CO_2_, and (if necessary) CO concentrations in the exhaust stack from the catalytic cracking unit regenerator or fluid coking unit burner prior to the combustion of other fossil fuels and calculate the CO_2_ emissions according to the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(iii) of this section:


(i) Calculate the CO_2_ emissions from each catalytic cracking unit and fluid coking unit using Equation Y-6 of this section.


(ii) Either continuously monitor the volumetric flow rate of exhaust gas from the fluid catalytic cracking unit regenerator or fluid coking unit burner prior to the combustion of other fossil fuels or calculate the volumetric flow rate of this exhaust gas stream using either Equation Y-7a or Equation Y-7b of this section.


(iii) If you have a CO boiler that uses auxiliary fuels or combusts materials other than catalytic cracking unit or fluid coking unit exhaust gas, you must determine the CO_2_ emissions resulting from the combustion of these fuels or other materials following the requirements in subpart C and report those emissions by following the requirements of subpart C of this part.


(3) For catalytic cracking units and fluid coking units with rated capacities of 10,000 barrels per stream day (bbls/sd) or less that do not use a continuous CO_2_ CEMS for the final exhaust stack, comply with the requirements in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section or paragraphs (c)(3)(ii) and (c)(3)(iii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) If you continuously or no less frequently than daily monitor the O_2_, CO_2_, and (if necessary) CO concentrations in the exhaust stack from the catalytic cracking unit regenerator or fluid coking unit burner prior to the combustion of other fossil fuels, you must calculate the CO_2_ emissions according to the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(iii) of this section, except that daily averages are allowed and the summation can be performed on a daily basis.


(ii) If you do not monitor at least daily the O_2_, CO_2_, and (if necessary) CO concentrations in the exhaust stack from the catalytic cracking unit regenerator or fluid coking unit burner prior to the combustion of other fossil fuels, calculate the CO_2_ emissions from each catalytic cracking unit and fluid coking unit using Equation Y-8 of this section.


(iii) If you have a CO boiler that uses auxiliary fuels or combusts materials other than catalytic cracking unit or fluid coking unit exhaust gas, you must determine the CO_2_ emissions resulting from the combustion of these fuels or other materials following the requirements in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources) and report those emissions by following the requirements of subpart C of this part.


(4) Calculate CH_4_ emissions using either unit specific measurement data, a unit-specific emission factor based on a source test of the unit, or equation Y-9 to this section.


(5) Calculate N_2_O emissions using either unit specific measurement data, a unit-specific emission factor based on a source test of the unit, or equation Y-10 to this section.


(d) For fluid coking units that use the flexicoking design, the GHG emissions from the resulting use of the low value fuel gas must be accounted for only once. Typically, these emissions will be accounted for using the methods described in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources). Alternatively, you may use the methods in paragraph (c) of this section provided that you do not otherwise account for the subsequent combustion of this low value fuel gas.


(e) For catalytic reforming units, calculate the CO_2_ emissions from coke burn-off using the applicable methods described in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section and calculate the CH_4_ and N_2_O emissions using the methods described in paragraphs (c)(4) and (5) of this section, respectively.




(1) If you operate and maintain a CEMS that measures CO_2_ emissions according to subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources), you must calculate CO_2_ emissions as provided in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this section. Other catalytic reforming units must either install a CEMS that complies with the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in subpart C of this part, or follow the requirements of paragraph (e)(2) or (e)(3) of this section.


(2) If you continuously or no less frequently than daily monitor the O_2_, CO_2_, and (if necessary) CO concentrations in the exhaust stack from the catalytic reforming unit catalyst regenerator prior to the combustion of other fossil fuels, you must calculate the CO_2_ emissions according to the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(iii) of this section.


(3) Calculate CO_2_ emissions from the catalytic reforming unit catalyst regenerator using Equation Y-11 of this section.


(f) For on-site sulfur recovery plants and for sour gas sent off site for sulfur recovery, calculate and report CO_2_ process emissions from sulfur recovery plants according to the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(5) of this section, or, for non-Claus sulfur recovery plants, according to the requirements in paragraph (j) of this section regardless of the concentration of CO_2_ in the vented gas stream. Combustion emissions from the sulfur recovery plant (e.g., from fuel combustion in the Claus burner or the tail gas treatment incinerator) must be reported under subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources). For the purposes of this subpart, the sour gas stream for which monitoring is required according to paragraphs (f)(2) through (f)(5) of this section is not considered a fuel.


(1) If you operate and maintain a CEMS that measures CO_2_ emissions according to subpart C of this part, you must calculate CO_2_ emissions under this subpart by following the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology specified in § 98.33(a)(4) and all associated requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources). You must monitor fuel use in the Claus burner, tail gas incinerator, or other combustion sources that discharge via the final exhaust stack from the sulfur recovery plant and calculate the combustion emissions from the fuel use according to subpart C of this part. Calculate the process emissions from the sulfur recovery plant as the difference in the CO_2_ CEMS emissions and the calculated combustion emissions associated with the sulfur recovery plant final exhaust stack. Other sulfur recovery plants must either install a CEMS that complies with the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in subpart C, or follow the requirements of paragraphs (f)(2) through (f)(5) of this section, or (for non-Claus sulfur recovery plants only) follow the requirements in paragraph (j) of this section to determine CO_2_ emissions for the sulfur recovery plant.


(2) Flow measurement. If you have a continuous flow monitor on the sour gas feed to the sulfur recovery plant or the sour gas feed sent for off-site sulfur recovery, you must use the measured flow rates when the monitor is operational to calculate the sour gas flow rate. If you do not have a continuous flow monitor on the sour gas feed to the sulfur recovery plant or the sour gas feed sent for off-site sulfur recovery, you must use engineering calculations, company records, or similar estimates of volumetric sour gas flow.


(3) Carbon content. If you have a continuous gas composition monitor capable of measuring carbon content on the sour gas feed to the sulfur recovery plant or the sour gas feed sent for off-site for sulfur recovery, or if you monitor gas composition for carbon content on a routine basis, you must use the measured carbon content value. Alternatively, you may develop a site-specific carbon content factor using limited measurement data or engineering estimates or use the default factor of 0.20.


(4) Calculate the CO_2_ emissions from each on-site sulfur recovery plant and for sour gas sent off-site for sulfur recovery using Equation Y-12 of this section.


(5) If tail gas is recycled to the front of the sulfur recovery plant and the recycled flow rate and carbon content is included in the measured data under paragraphs (f)(2) and (f)(3) of this section, respectively, then the annual CO_2_ emissions calculated in paragraph (f)(4) of this section must be corrected to avoid double counting these emissions. You may use engineering estimates to perform this correction or assume that the corrected CO_2_ emissions are 95 percent of the uncorrected value calculated using Equation Y-12 of this section.


(g) [Reserved]








(h) For asphalt blowing operations, calculate CO_2_ and CH_4_ emissions according to the requirements in paragraph (j) of this section regardless of the CO_2_ and CH_4_ concentrations or according to the applicable provisions in paragraphs (h)(1) and (h)(2) of this section.


(1) For uncontrolled asphalt blowing operations or asphalt blowing operations controlled either by vapor scrubbing or by another non-combustion control device, calculate CO_2_ and CH_4_ emissions using Equations Y-14 and Y-15 of this section, respectively.


(2) For asphalt blowing operations controlled by either a thermal oxidizer, a flare, or other vapor combustion control device, calculate CO_2_ using either Equation Y-16a or Y-16b of this section and calculate CH_4_ emissions using Equation Y-17 of this section, provided these emissions are not already included in the flare emissions calculated in paragraph (b) of this section or in the stationary combustion unit emissions required under subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources).


(i) For each delayed coking unit, calculate the CH_4_ emissions from delayed decoking operations (venting, draining, deheading, and coke-cutting) according to the requirements in paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) Determine the typical dry mass of coke produced per cycle from company records of the mass of coke produced by the delayed coking unit. Alternatively, you may estimate the typical dry mass of coke produced per cycle based on the delayed coking unit vessel (coke drum) dimensions and typical coke drum outage at the end of the coking cycle using Equation Y-18a of this section.


(2) Determine the typical mass of water in the delayed coking unit vessel at the end of the cooling cycle prior to venting to the atmosphere using equation Y-18b to this section.


(3) Determine the average temperature of the delayed coking unit vessel when the drum is first vented to the atmosphere using either Equation Y-18c or Y-18d of this section, as appropriate, based on the measurement system available.


(4) Determine the typical mass of steam generated and released per decoking cycle using Equation Y-18e of this section.


(5) Calculate the CH_4_ emissions from decoking operations at each delayed coking unit using equation Y-18f to this section.


(j) For each process vent not covered in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section that can reasonably be expected to contain greater than 2 percent by volume CO_2_ or greater than 0.5 percent by volume of CH_4_ or greater than 0.01 percent by volume (100 parts per million) of N_2_O, calculate GHG emissions using Equation Y-19 of this section. You must also use Equation Y-19 of this section to calculate CH_4_ emissions for catalytic reforming unit depressurization and purge vents when methane is used as the purge gas, and CO_2_ and/or CH_4_ emissions, as applicable, if you elected this method as an alternative to the methods in paragraph (f), (h), or (k) of this section.


(k) For uncontrolled blowdown systems, you must calculate CH_4_ emissions either using the methods for process vents in paragraph (j) of this section regardless of the CH_4_ concentration or using Equation Y-20 of this section. Blowdown systems where the uncondensed gas stream is routed to a flare or similar control device are considered to be controlled and are not required to estimate emissions under this paragraph (k).


(l) For equipment leaks, calculate CH_4_ emissions using the method specified in either paragraph (l)(1) or (l)(2) of this section.


(1) Use process-specific methane composition data (from measurement data or process knowledge) and any of the emission estimation procedures provided in the Protocol for Equipment Leak Emissions Estimates (EPA-453/R-95-017, NTIS PB96-175401).


(2) Use Equation Y-21 of this section.


(m) For storage tanks, except as provided in paragraph (m)(3) of this section, calculate CH_4_ emissions using the applicable methods in paragraphs (m)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) For storage tanks other than those processing unstabilized crude oil, you must either calculate CH_4_ emissions from storage tanks that have a vapor-phase methane concentration of 0.5 volume percent or more using tank-specific methane composition data (from measurement data or product knowledge) and the emission estimation methods provided in AP 42, Section 7.1 (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7) or estimate CH_4_ emissions from storage tanks using Equation Y-22 of this section.


(2) For storage tanks that process unstabilized crude oil, calculate CH_4_ emissions from the storage of unstabilized crude oil using either tank-specific methane composition data (from measurement data or product knowledge) and direct measurement of the gas generation rate or by using Equation Y-23 of this section.


(3) You do not need to calculate CH_4_ emissions from storage tanks that meet any of the following descriptions:


(i) Units permanently attached to conveyances such as trucks, trailers, rail cars, barges, or ships;


(ii) Pressure vessels designed to operate in excess of 204.9 kilopascals and without emissions to the atmosphere;


(iii) Bottoms receivers or sumps;


(iv) Vessels storing wastewater; or


(v) Reactor vessels associated with a manufacturing process unit.


(n) For crude oil, intermediate, or product loading operations for which the vapor-phase concentration of methane is 0.5 volume percent or more, calculate CH_4_ emissions from loading operations using vapor-phase methane composition data (from measurement data or process knowledge) and the emission estimation procedures provided in AP 42, Section 5.2 (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7). For loading operations in which the vapor-phase concentration of methane is less than 0.5 volume percent, you may assume zero methane emissions.



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 79160, Dec. 17, 2010; 78 FR 71963, Nov. 29, 2013; 81 FR 89261, Dec. 9, 2016; 89 FR 31929, Apr. 25, 2024]










