# § 45.3   Definitions.

As used in this part: 


(a) *Length* (*L*) means 96 percent of the total length on a waterline at 85 percent of the least moulded depth measured from the top of the keel or the length from the foreside of the stem to the axis of the rudder stock on that waterline, if that is greater. In ships designed with a rake of keel the waterline on which this length is measured must be parallel to the designed waterline. 


(b) *Perpendiculars* means the forward and after perpendiculars at the forward and after ends of the length (L). The forward perpendicular coincides with the foreside of the stem on the waterline on which the length is measured. 


(c) *Amidships* means the middle of the length (L). 


(d) *Breadth* unless expressly provided otherwise, means the maximum breadth of the ship, measured amidships to the moulded line of the frame in a ship with a metal shell and to the outer surface of the hull in a ship with a shell of any other material. 


(e) *Moulded Depth* means the vertical distance measured amidships from the top of the keel to the top of the freeboard deck beam at side except that—


(1) In vessels of other than metal construction, the distance is measured from the lower edge of the keel rabbet; 


(2) Where the form at the lower part of the midship section is of a hollow character, or where thick garboards are fitted, the distance is measured from the point where the line of the flat of the bottom continued inwards cuts the side of the keel; 


(3) In ships having rounded gunwales, this distance is measured to the point of intersection of the moulded lines of the deck and side, the lines extending as though the gunwale were of angular design; and 


(4) Where the freeboard deck is stepped and the raised part of the deck extends over the point at which the moulded depth is to be determined, the distance is measured to a line of reference extending from the lower part of the deck along a line parallel with the raised part. 


(f) *Depth for Freeboard* (*D*) means—


(1) Moulded depth amidships plus the thickness of the stringer plate with no allowance for sheathing; and 


(2) In a vessel having a rounded gunwale with a radius greater than 4 percent of the breadth (B) or having topsides of unusual form, the depth for freeboard (D) of a vessel having a midship section with vertical topsides and with the same round of beam and area of topside section equal to that provided by the actual midship section. 


(g) *Freeboard* means the distance measured vertically downwards amidships from the upper edge of the deck line to the upper edge of the related load line. 


(h) *Freeboard Deck* means, normally, the uppermost complete deck exposed to weather and sea that has permanent means of closing all openings in the weather part thereof and below which all openings in the sides of the ship are fitted with permanent means of watertight closings except that—


(1) In a ship having a discontinuous freeboard deck, the lowest line of the exposed deck and the continuation of that line parallel to the upper part of the deck is the freeboard deck. 


(2) At the option of the owner and subject to the approval of the Commandant a lower deck may be designated as the freeboard deck, if it is a complete and permanent deck continuous in a fore and aft direction at least between the machinery space and peak bulkheads and continuous athwartships; 


(3) When this lower deck is stepped the lowest line of the deck and the continuation of that line parallel to the upper part of the deck is taken as the freeboard deck. 


(i) *Superstructure* means a deck structure on the freeboard deck, extending from side to side of the ship or with the side plating not being inboard of the shell plating more than 4 percent of the breadth (B). A raised quarterdeck is a superstructure. 


(j) *Enclosed superstructure* means a superstructure with enclosing bulkheads. 


(k) *Height* of a superstructure means the least vertical height measured at side from the top of the superstructure deck beams to the top of the freeboard deck beams. 


(l) *Length of a superstructure* (*S*) means the mean length of the part of the superstructure which extends to the sides of the vessel and lies within the length (L). 


(m) *Flush deck ship* means a ship that has no superstructure on the freeboard deck. 


(n) *Weathertight* means that in any sea conditions water will not penetrate into the ship. 


(o) *Watertight* means designed to withstand a static head of water. 


(p) *Exposed positions* means exposed to weather and sea. 


(q) *Intact bulkhead* with respect to superstructure means a bulkhead with no openings. 


(r) *Steel* means steel and materials with which structures can be made equivalent to steel with respect to such parameters as yield strength, total deflection, flexural life, or resistance to galvanic or stress corrosion. 



---

[N] [CGD 73-49R, 38 FR 12290, May 10, 1973, as amended by USCG-2014-0688, 79 FR 58280, Sept. 29, 2014]




