# § 203.43i   Eligibility of mortgages on Hawaiian Home Lands insured pursuant to section 247 of the National Housing Act.

(a) *Eligibility.* A mortgage on a homestead lease granted by the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands covering a one- to four-family residence located on Hawaiian home lands is eligible for insurance pursuant to section 247 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-12) if the mortgagor is a native Hawaiian who will occupy it as a principal residence, and if the mortgage meets the requirements of this subpart as modified by this section. Mortgage insurance on cooperative shares under § 203.43c on homes in federally impacted areas under § 203.43e is not authorized under this section. 


(b) *Exemptions from other regulations.* The provisions of subparts I, J, and M of part 200, and § 203.30, to the extent that these provisions would otherwise prohibit preferences in favor of Native Hawaiians in the leasing, sale or other disposition of Hawaiian home lands, do not apply to mortgages insured pursuant to section 247 of the National Housing Act. The first lien requirement contained in § 203.17 also does not apply to mortgages insured pursuant to section 247 of the National Housing Act.


(c) *Definitions.* (1) *Department of Hawaiian Home Lands* (DHHL) is a Department of the State of Hawaii responsible for management of Hawaiian home lands for the benefit of native Hawaiians. 


(2) Hawaiian home lands means all lands given the status of Hawaiian home lands under section 204 of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act of 1920 (42 Stat. 110), or under the corresponding provision of the Constitution of the State of Hawaii adopted under section 4 of the Act entitled “An Act to provide for the admission of the State of Hawaii into the Union,” approved March 18, 1959 (73 Stat. 5).


(3) Native Hawaiian means any descendant of not less than one-half part of the blood of the races inhabiting the Hawaiian islands before January 1, 1778, or, in the case of an individual who is awarded an interest in a lease of Hawaiian home lands through transfer or succession, such lower percentage as may be established for such transfer or succession under section 208 or 209 of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act of 1920 (42 Stat.111), or under the corresponding provision of the Constitution of the State of Hawaii adopted under section 4 of the Act entitled “An Act to provide for the admission of the State of Hawaii into the Union,” approved March 18, 1959 (73 Stat. 5).


(d) *Conditions for insurance.* Mortgages will be eligible for insurance under this section, according to the procedures in §§ 203.5, 203.6, or 203.7 (as applicable), only where the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands: 


(1) Will be a comortgagor; 


(2) Guarantees or reimburse the Secretary for any mortgage insurance claim paid in connection with a property on Hawaiian home lands; or 


(3) Offers other security acceptable to the Secretary. 


(e) *Acceptable security.* Any agreement by the Secretary to accept alternative security under paragraph (d)(3) of this section must contain provisions designed to ensure that the insurance of mortgages under this section has a neutral impact on the appropriate insurance funds. These provisions may require the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands to make an initial deposit of funds with HUD and to maintain additional funds in reserve for subsequent deposits with HUD. The initial and subsequent deposits shall be used to pay obligations incurred by HUD in connection with the insurance of mortgages under this section and any associated costs, including refunds of insurance premiums to mortgagors. If the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands agrees to make deposits in amounts acceptable to HUD, then the Secretary may agree to use a portion of the premiums received for insurance of mortgages under this section solely for payment of such obligations and associated costs. 


(f) *Recordation.* The mortgagee must certify that the mortgage has been recorded with the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands. 


(g) *Construction advances.* Advances made by the mortgagee during construction are eligible for insurance, according to the procedures in §§ 203.5, 203.6, or 203.7 (as applicable), if the Secretary determines that no feasible financing alternative is available and if: 


(1) The mortgagor and the mortgagee execute a building loan agreement, approved by the Secretary, setting forth the terms and conditions under which advances will be made; 


(2) The advances are made only as provided in the commitment or the approval by the Direct Endorsement or Lender Insurance underwriter; 


(3) The principal amount of the mortgage is held by the mortgagee in an interest bearing account, trust, or escrow for the benefit of the mortgagor, pending advancement to the mortgagor or to his or her creditors as provided in the loan agreement; and 


(4) The mortgage bears interest on the amount advanced to the mortgagor or to his or her creditors and on the amount held in an account or trust for the benefit of the mortgagor.


(h) *Form of lease.* The form of lease must be approved by both HUD and the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands (DHHL). The lease may not be terminated by DHHL without the approval of the Secretary while the mortgage is insured or held by the Secretary.


(i) *Eligibility of mortgagor.* In addition to the eligibility requirements contained in this subpart, possession of a lease of Hawaiian home lands issued under section 207(a) of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act of 1920 (42 Stat.110) that has been certified by the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands as being valid, current, and not in default, shall be sufficient to certify eligibility to receive a mortgage to be insured under this section.



---

[N] [52 FR 8067, Mar. 16, 1987, and 52 FR 28470, July 30, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 8881, Mar. 18, 1988; 53 FR 34282, Sept. 6, 1988; 57 FR 58347, Dec. 9, 1992; 61 FR 36264, July 9, 1996; 62 FR 30226, June 2, 1997; 69 FR 33525, June 15, 2004]




