# § 65.164   Performance test and flare compliance determination notifications and reports.

(a) *Performance test and flare compliance determination reports.* Performance test reports and flare compliance determination reports shall be submitted as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section. 


(1) For performance tests or flare compliance determinations, the Initial Compliance Status Report or report required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall include one complete test report as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section for each test method used for a particular kind of emission point, and other applicable information specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. For additional tests performed for the same kind of emission point using the same method, the results and any other information required in applicable sections of this subpart or in other subparts of this part shall be submitted, but a complete test report is not required. 


(2) A complete test report shall include a brief process description, sampling site description, description of sampling and analysis procedures and any modifications to standard procedures, quality assurance procedures, record of operating conditions during the test, record of preparation of standards, record of calibrations, raw data sheets for field sampling, raw data sheets for field and laboratory analyses, documentation of calculations, and any other information required by the test method. 


(3) The performance test or flare compliance determination report shall also include the following information, as applicable: 


(i) For flare compliance determinations, the owner or operator shall submit the records specified in § 65.159(b). 


(ii) For nonflare combustion device and halogen reduction device performance tests as required under § 65.148(b), § 65.149(b), § 65.150(b), § 65.151(b), § 65.152(b), § 65.154(b), or § 65.155(b), the owner or operator shall submit the applicable records specified in § 65.160(b). 


(iii) For Group 2A process vents, the owner or operator shall submit the records specified in § 65.160(c), as applicable. 


(b) *Other notifications and reports.* (1) The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator of the intention to conduct a performance test at least 30 calendar days before the performance test is scheduled to allow the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present. If after 30 days notice for an initially scheduled performance test, there is a delay (due to operational problems, etc.) in conducting the scheduled performance test, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall notify the Administrator as soon as possible of any delay in the original test date. The owner or operator shall provide at least 7 days prior notice of the rescheduled date of the performance test or arrange a rescheduled date with the Administrator by mutual agreement. 


(2) Unless specified differently in this subpart or another subpart of this part, performance test and flare compliance determination reports not submitted as part of an Initial Compliance Status Report shall be submitted to the Administrator within 60 days of completing the test or determination. 


(3) Any application for a waiver of an initial performance test or flare compliance determination as allowed by § 65.157(b)(2), shall be submitted no later than 90 calendar days before the performance test or flare compliance determination is required. The application for a waiver shall include information justifying the owner or operator's request for a waiver, such as the technical or economic infeasibility, or the impracticality, of the source performing the test. 




