# § 228.11   Hours of duty records.

(a) *In general.* Each railroad, or a contractor or a subcontractor of a railroad, shall keep a record of the hours of duty of each employee. Each contractor or subcontractor of a railroad shall also record the name of the railroad for whom its employee performed covered service during the duty tour covered by the record. Employees who perform covered service assignments in a single duty tour that are subject to the recordkeeping requirements of more than one paragraph of this section, must complete the record applicable to the covered service position for which they were called, and record other covered service as an activity constituting other service at the behest of the railroad.


(b) *For train employees.* Except as provided by paragraph (c) of this section, each hours of duty record for a train employee shall include the following information about the employee:


(1) Identification of the employee (initials and last name; or if last name is not the employee's surname, provide the employee's initials and surname).


(2) Each covered service position in a duty tour.


(3) Amount of time off duty before beginning a new covered service assignment or resuming a duty tour.


(4) Train ID for each assignment required to be reported by this part, except for the following employees, who may instead report the unique job or train ID identifying their assignment:


(i) Utility employees assigned to perform covered service, who are identified as such by a unique job or train ID;


(ii) Employees assigned to yard jobs, except that employees assigned to perform yard jobs on all or parts of consecutive shifts must at least report the yard assignment for each shift;


(iii) Assignments, either regular or extra, that are specifically established to shuttle trains into and out of a terminal during a single duty tour that are identified by a unique job or train symbol as such an assignment.


(5) Location, date, and beginning time of the first assignment in a duty tour, and, if the duty tour exceeds 12 hours and includes a qualifying period of interim release as provided by 49 U.S.C. 21103(b), the location, date, and beginning time of the assignment immediately following the interim release.


(6) Location, date, and time relieved for the last assignment in a duty tour, and, if the duty tour exceeds 12 hours and includes a qualifying period of interim release as provided by 49 U.S.C. 21103(b), the location, date, and time relieved for the assignment immediately preceding the interim release.


(7) Location, date, and time released from the last assignment in a duty tour, and, if the duty tour exceeds 12 hours and includes a qualifying period of interim release as provided by 49 U.S.C. 21103(b), the location, date, and time released from the assignment immediately preceding the interim release.


(8) Beginning and ending location, date, and time for periods spent in transportation, other than personal commuting, if any, to the first assignment in a duty tour, from an assignment to the location of a period of interim release, from a period of interim release to the next assignment, or from the last assignment in a duty tour to the point of final release, including the mode of transportation (train, track car, railroad-provided motor vehicle, personal automobile, etc.).


(9) Beginning and ending location, date, and time of any other service performed at the behest of the railroad.


(10) Identification (code) of service type for any other service performed at the behest of the railroad.


(11) Total time on duty for the duty tour.


(12) Reason for any service that exceeds 12 hours total time on duty for the duty tour.


(13) The total amount of time by which the sum of total time on duty and time spent awaiting or in deadhead transportation to the point of final release exceeds 12 hours.


(14) The cumulative total for the calendar month of—


(i) Time spent in covered service;


(ii) Time spent awaiting or in deadhead transportation from a duty assignment to the place of final release; and


(iii) Time spent in any other service at the behest of the railroad.


(15) The cumulative total for the calendar month of time spent awaiting or in deadhead transportation from a duty assignment to the place of final release following a period of 12 consecutive hours on duty.


(16) Number of consecutive days in which a period of time on duty was initiated.


(c) *Exceptions to requirements for train employees.* Paragraphs (b)(13) through (b)(16) of this section do not apply to the hours of duty records of train employees providing commuter rail passenger transportation or intercity rail passenger transportation. In addition to the information required by paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(12) of this section, each hours of duty record for a train employee providing commuter rail passenger transportation or intercity rail passenger transportation shall include the following information:


(1) For train employees providing commuter rail passenger transportation or intercity rail passenger transportation, the date on which the series of at most 14 consecutive calendar days began for the duty tour.


(2) For train employees providing commuter rail passenger transportation or intercity rail passenger transportation, any date prior to the duty tour and during the series of at most 14 consecutive calendar days on which the employee did not initiate an on-duty period, if any.


(d) *For dispatching service employees.* Each hours of duty record for a dispatching service employee shall include the following information about the employee:


(1) Identification of the employee (initials and last name; or if last name is not the employee's surname, provide the employee's initials and surname).


(2) Each covered service position in a duty tour.


(3) Amount of time off duty before going on duty or returning to duty in a duty tour.


(4) Location, date, and beginning time of each assignment in a duty tour.


(5) Location, date, and time released from each assignment in a duty tour.


(6) Beginning and ending location, date, and time of any other service performed at the behest of the railroad.


(7) Total time on duty for the duty tour.


(e) *For signal employees.* Each hours of duty record for a signal employee shall include the following information about the employee:


(1) Identification of the employee (initials and last name; or if last name is not the employee's surname, provide the employee's initials and surname).


(2) Each covered service position in a duty tour.


(3) Headquarters location for the employee.


(4) Amount of time off duty before going on duty or resuming a duty tour.


(5) Location, date, and beginning time of each covered service assignment in a duty tour.


(6) Location, date, and time relieved for each covered service assignment in a duty tour.


(7) Location, date, and time released from each covered service assignment in a duty tour.


(8) Beginning and ending location, date, and time for periods spent in transportation, other than personal commuting, to or from a duty assignment, and mode of transportation (train, track car, railroad-provided motor vehicle, personal automobile, etc.).


(9) Beginning and ending location, date, and time of any other service performed at the behest of the railroad.


(10) Total time on duty for the duty tour.


(11) Reason for any service that exceeds 12 hours total time on duty for the duty tour.



---

[N] [74 FR 25348, May 27, 2009, as amended at 76 FR 50397, Aug. 12, 2011; 83 FR 43998, Aug. 29, 2018]




