# ยง 423.2122   What evidence may be submitted to the Council.

(a) *Appeal before the Council on request for review of ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's decision.* (1) If the Council is reviewing an ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's decision, the Council will consider the evidence contained in the record of the proceedings before the ALJ or attorney adjudicator, and any new evidence that relates to the period before the coverage determination or at-risk determination. If the ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's decision decides a new issue that the enrollee was not afforded an opportunity to address at the OMHA level, the Council considers any evidence related to that issue that is submitted with the request for review.


(2) If the Council determines that additional evidence is needed to resolve the issues in the case and the administrative record indicates that the previous decision-makers have not attempted to obtain the evidence, the Council may remand the case to an ALJ or attorney adjudicator to obtain the evidence and issue a new decision.


(3) The Council will not consider any new evidence submitted regarding a change in condition of an enrollee after a coverage determination or at-risk determination is made. The Council will remand a case to the Part D IRE if the Council determines that the enrollee wishes to have evidence on his or her change in condition after the coverage determination or at-risk determination considered.


(b) *Subpoenas.* When it is reasonably necessary for the full presentation of a case, the Council may, on its own initiative, issue subpoenas requiring an enrollee or Part D plan sponsor to make books, records, correspondence, papers, or other documents that are material to an issue at the hearing available for inspection and copying. The Council may not issue a subpoena to CMS, or the IRE to compel the production of evidence.


(1) To the extent a subpoena compels disclosure of a matter for which an objection based on privilege, or other protection from disclosure such as case preparation, confidentiality or undue burden, was made before the Council, the Secretary may review immediately that subpoena or a portion of the subpoena.


(2) Upon notice to the Council that an enrollee or Part D plan sponsor intends to seek the Secretary review of the subpoena, the Council must stay all proceedings affected by the subpoena, tolling the time period for the Council to issue a final action or remand a case in response to a request for review for 15 calendar days or until the Secretary makes a decision with respect to the review request, whichever occurs first.


(3) If the Secretary does not grant review within the time allotted for the stay, the stay is lifted and the subpoena stands.


(c) *Enforcement.* (1) If the CouncilC determines that an enrollee or other person or entity subject to a subpoena issued under this section has refused to comply with the subpoena, the Council may request the Secretary to seek enforcement of the subpoena in accordance with section 205(e) of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 405(e).


(2) After submitting the enforcement request, the time period for the Council to issue a final action or remand a case in response to a request for review is stayed for 15 calendar days or until the Secretary makes a decision with respect to the enforcement request, whichever occurs first.


(3) Any enforcement request by the Council must consist of a written notice to the Secretary describing in detail the Council's findings of noncompliance and its specific request for enforcement, and providing a copy of the subpoena and evidence of its receipt by certified mail by the enrollee or other person or entity subject to the subpoena.


(4) The Council must promptly mail a copy of the notice and related documents to the enrollee or other person or entity subject to the subpoena, and to any other affected person.



---

[N] [74 FR 65363, Dec. 9, 2009, as amended at 82 FR 5138, Jan. 17, 2017; 83 FR 16754, Apr. 16, 2018]




