# § 2412.5   Individual access requests.

(a) You may make a request for access to a record about yourself that is contained in a system of records maintained by the Authority, the General Counsel, the IG, or the Panel by submitting a written request reasonably identifying the records sought to be inspected or copied by mail to the FLRA's Solicitor or the IG at the Authority's offices in Washington, DC, or by email to *privacy@flra.gov*. You must describe the records that you want in enough detail to enable Authority, General Counsel, IG, or Panel personnel to locate the system of records containing them with a reasonable amount of effort. Whenever possible, your request should describe the time periods in which you believe the records were compiled and the name or identifying number of each system of records in which you believe the records are kept. The Authority, the General Counsel, the IG, and the Panel have published descriptions of the systems of records they maintain in the _Federal Register_.


(b) Your written request should be clearly and prominently identified as a Privacy Act request. If you submit the request by mail, it should bear the mark “Privacy Act Request” on the envelope or other cover, as well as your return address. If you submit the request by email, the subject line of the email should include the phrase “Privacy Act Request.” If your request does not comply with the provisions of this paragraph, it will not be deemed received until the time it is actually received by the FLRA's Solicitor or IG.


(c) If you desire, you may be accompanied by another person during your review of the records. If you desire to be accompanied by another person during the inspection, you must notify the Solicitor or IG at least twenty-four hours in advance of the agreed-upon inspection date. Additionally, you must sign a statement and provide it to the representative of the Authority, the General Counsel, the IG, or the Panel, as appropriate, at the time of the inspection, authorizing that person to accompany you. The agency may require a written statement from you authorizing discussion of your record in the accompanying person's presence.


(d) When you make a request for access to records about yourself, you must verify your identity. You must state your full name, current address, and date and place of birth. You must sign your request and your signature must either be notarized or submitted by you under 28 U.S.C. 1746, a law that permits statements to be made under penalty of perjury as a substitute for notarization. In order to help the identification and location of requested records, you may also, at your option, include your social security number.


(e) When making a request as the parent or guardian of a minor or as the guardian of someone determined by a court to be incompetent, for access to records about that individual, you must establish:


(1) The identity of the individual who is the subject of the record, by stating the name, current address, date and place of birth, and, at your option, the social security number of the individual;


(2) Your own identity, following the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section;


(3) That you are the parent or guardian of that individual, which you may prove by providing a copy of the individual's birth certificate showing your parentage or by providing a court order establishing your guardianship; and


(4) That you are acting on behalf of that individual in making the request.






