# § 206.201   Definitions used in this subpart.

(a) *Applicant* means a State agency, local government, or eligible private nonprofit organization, as identified in Subpart H of this regulation, submitting an application to the recipient for assistance under the State's grant.


(b) *Emergency work* means that work which must be done immediately to save lives and to protect improved property and public health and safety, or to avert or lessen the threat of a major disaster.


(c) *Facility* means any publicly or privately owned building, works, system, or equipment, built or manufactured, or an improved and maintained natural feature. Land used for agricultural purposes is not a facility.


(d) *Grant* means an award of financial assistance. The grant award shall be based on the total eligible Federal share of all approved projects.


(e) *Hazard mitigation* means any cost effective measure which will reduce the potential for damage to a facility from a disaster event.


(f) *Host-State.* A State or Indian Tribal government that by agreement with FEMA provides sheltering and/or evacuation support to evacuees from an impact-State. An Indian Tribal government may also be referred to as a “Host-Tribe.”


(g) *Impact-State.* The State for which the President has declared an emergency or major disaster and that, due to a need to evacuate and/or shelter affected individuals outside the State, requests such assistance from FEMA pursuant to § 206.208.


(h) *Indian Tribal government* means any federally recognized governing body of an Indian or Alaska Native Tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community that the Secretary of the Interior acknowledges to exist as an Indian Tribe under the Federally Recognized Tribe List Act of 1994, 25 U.S.C. 479a. This does not include Alaska Native corporations, the ownership of which is vested in private individuals.


(i) *Permanent work* means that restorative work that must be performed through repairs or replacement, to restore an eligible facility on the basis of its predisaster design and current applicable standards.


(j) *Predisaster design* means the size or capacity of a facility as originally designed and constructed or subsequently modified by changes or additions to the original design. It does not mean the capacity at which the facility was being used at the time the major disaster occurred if different from the most recent designed capacity.


(k) A *project* is a logical grouping of work required as a result of the declared major disaster or emergency. The scope of work and cost estimate for a project are documented on a Project Worksheet (FEMA Form 90-91).


(1) We must approve a scope of eligible work and an itemized cost estimate before funding a project.


(2) A project may include eligible work at several sites.


(l) *Project approval* means the process in which the Regional Administrator, or designee, reviews and signs an approval of work and costs on a Project Worksheet or on a batch of Project Worksheets. Such approval is also an obligation of funds to the recipient.


(m) *Recipient.* Recipient means the government to which a grant is awarded, and which is accountable for the use of the funds provided. The recipient is the entire legal entity even if only a particular component of the entity is designated in the grant award document. Generally, except as provided in § 206.202(f), the State for which the emergency or major disaster is declared is the recipient. However, an Indian Tribal government may choose to be a recipient, or it may act as a subrecipient under the State. If an Indian Tribal government is the recipient, it will assume the responsibilities of the “recipient” or “State” as described in this part with respect to administration of the Public Assistance program.


(n) *Subgrant* means an award of financial assistance under a grant by a recipient to an eligible subrecipient.


(o) *Subrecipient* means the government or other legal entity to which a subgrant is awarded and which is accountable to the recipient for the use of the funds provided.



---

[N] [55 FR 2304, Jan. 23, 1990, as amended at 63 FR 64425, Nov. 20, 1998; 64 FR 55160, Oct. 12, 1999; 74 FR 60213, Nov. 20, 2009; 82 FR 43, Jan. 3, 2017]




