# ยง 600.120   Certification of a BHP Blueprint.

(a) *Effective date of certification.* The effective date of either interim or full certification is the date of signature by the Secretary.


(b) *Payments for periods prior to certification.* No payment may be made under this part for periods of BHP operation prior to the date of full certification.


(c) *Period in which a certified Blueprint remains in effect.* The certified Blueprint remains in effect until:


(1) The Blueprint is replaced by Secretarial certification of updated Blueprint containing revisions submitted by the State.


(2) The State terminates the program consistent with ยง 600.140.


(3) The Secretary makes a finding that the BHP Blueprint no longer meets the standards for certification based on findings in the annual review, or reports significant evidence of beneficiary harm, financial malfeasance, fraud, waste or abuse by the BHP agency or the State consistent with ยง 600.142.


(d) *Blueprint approval standards for certification.* The Secretary will certify a BHP Blueprint provided it meets all of the following standards:


(1) The Blueprint contains sufficient information for the Secretary to determine that the BHP will comply with the requirements of section 1331 of the Affordable Care Act and this part.


(2) The BHP Blueprint demonstrates adequate planning for the integration of BHP with other insurance affordability programs in a manner that will permit a seamless, coordinated experience for a potentially eligible individual.


(3) The Blueprint is a complete and comprehensive description of the BHP and its operations, demonstrating thorough planning and a concrete program design, without reserved decisions on operational features.




