# § 301.6316-4   Return requirements.

(a) *Place for filing.* A return of income which includes amounts received in foreign currency on which the tax is paid in accordance with § 301.6316-1 shall be filed with the Director of International Operations, Internal Revenue Service, Washington, D.C. 20225. For the time for filing income tax returns, see sections 6072 and 6081 and §§ 1.6072-1, 1.6081-1, and 1.6081-2 of this chapter (Income Tax Regulations).


(b) *Statements required.* (1) A statement, prepared by the taxpayer, and certified by the foundation, commission, or other person having control of the payments made to the taxpayer in nonconvertible foreign currency, shall be attached to the return showing that for the taxable year involved the taxpayer is entitled to pay tax in foreign currency in accordance with section 6316 and the regulations thereunder. This statement shall disclose the total amount of grants or compensation received by the taxpayer during the taxable year under the authority of section 32(b) of the Surplus Property Act of 1944, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 1641(b)(2)), or of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2451), or section 104 (h), (j), (k), (o), or (p) of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1704 (h), (j), (k), (o), (p)), and the amount thereof paid in nonconvertible foreign currency. It shall also state that with respect to the grant or compensation the applicable percentage requirement of § 301.6316-1 is satisfied.


(2) The taxpayer shall also attach to the return a detailed statement showing (i) the computation, in the manner prescribed by § 301.6316-3, of the portion of the tax attributable to amounts received in nonconvertible foreign currency and (ii) the rates of exchange used in determining the tax liability in U.S. dollars. See paragraph (c) of § 301.6316-5.




