# ยง 765.155   Final loan payments.

(a) *General.* (1) Unless the Agency has reservations regarding the validity of the payment, the Agency may release the borrower's security instruments at the time payment is made, if the borrower makes a final payment by one of the following methods:


(i) U.S. Treasury check;


(ii) Cashier's check; or


(iii) Certified check.


(2) Security instruments will only be released when all loans secured by the instruments have been paid in full or otherwise satisfied.


(3) The Agency will return the paid note and satisfied security instruments to the borrower after the Agency processes the final payment and determines that the total indebtedness is paid in full.


(b) *Borrower refunds.* If the borrower refunds the entire loan after the loan is closed, the borrower must pay interest from the date of the note to the date the Agency received the funds.


(c) *Overpayments.* If an Agency miscalculation of a final payment results in an overpayment by the borrower of less than $10, the borrower must request a refund from the Agency in writing. Overpayments of $10 or more automatically will be refunded by the Agency.


(d) *Underpayments.* If an Agency miscalculation of a final payment amount results in an underpayment, the Agency may collect all account balances resulting from its error. If the Agency cannot collect an underpayment from the borrower, the Agency will service the debt in accordance with part 761, subpart F of this chapter.



---

[N] [72 FR 63309, Nov. 8, 2007, as amended at 85 FR 36693, June 17, 2020; 87 FR 13124, Mar. 9, 2022]




