# § 69.801   Definitions.

(a) *Business data services.* The dedicated point-to-point transmission of data at certain guaranteed speeds and service levels using high-capacity connections.


(b) *Competitive market test.* The competitive market test is defined in § 69.803.


(c) *County.* A county or county equivalent as defined in § 10.10 of this chapter. County-equivalents include parishes, boroughs, independent cities, census areas, the District of Columbia, and various entities in the territories.


(d) *End user channel termination.* A dedicated channel connecting a local exchange carrier end office and a customer premises, offered for purposes of carrying special access traffic.


(e) *Grandfathered market.* A county that does not satisfy the competitive market test set forth in § 69.803 for which a price cap local exchange carrier obtained Phase II relief pursuant to § 69.711(c).


(f) *Market deemed competitive.* A county that satisfies the competitive market test set forth in § 69.803.


(g) *Market deemed non-competitive.* A county that does not satisfy the competitive market test set forth in § 69.803.


(h) *Non-disclosure agreement.* A non-disclosure agreement is a contract, contractual provision, or tariff provision wherein a party agrees not to disclose certain information shared by the other party.


(i) *Special access data collection.* The special access data collection refers to the data and other information the Commission collected from business data services providers and purchasers pursuant to its December 18, 2012 Report and Order in WC Docket 05-25.


(j) *Transport* includes interoffice facilities, channel terminations between the serving wire center and point of presence, and all special access services that are described in § 69.114 other than end user channel terminations.




