# § 1926.155   Definitions applicable to this subpart.

(a) *Approved,* for the purpose of this subpart, means equipment that has been listed or approved by a nationally recognized testing laboratory such as Factory Mutual Engineering Corp., or Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., or Federal agencies such as Bureau of Mines, or U.S. Coast Guard, which issue approvals for such equipment.


(b) *Closed container* means a container so sealed by means of a lid or other device that neither liquid nor vapor will escape from it at ordinary temperatures.


(c) [Reserved]


(d) *Combustion* means any chemical process that involves oxidation sufficient to produce light or heat.


(e) *Fire brigade* means an organized group of employees that are knowledgeable, trained, and skilled in the safe evacuation of employees during emergency situations and in assisting in fire fighting operations.


(f) *Fire resistance* means so resistant to fire that, for specified time and under conditions of a standard heat intensity, it will not fail structurally and will not permit the side away from the fire to become hotter than a specified temperature. For purposes of this part, fire resistance shall be determined by the Standard Methods of Fire Tests of Building Construction and Materials, NFPA 251-1969.


(g) *Flammable* means capable of being easily ignited, burning intensely, or having a rapid rate of flame spread.


(h) *Flammable liquid* means any liquid having a vapor pressure not exceeding 40 pounds per square inch (absolute) at 100 °F (37.8 °C) and having a flashpoint at or below 199.4 °F (93 °C). Flammable liquids are divided into four categories as follows:


(1) Category 1 shall include liquids having flashpoints below 73.4 °F (23 °C) and having a boiling point at or below 95 °F (35 °C).


(2) Category 2 shall include liquids having flashpoints below 73.4 °F (23 °C) and having a boiling point above 95 °F (35 °C).


(3) Category 3 shall include liquids having flashpoints at or above 73.4 °F (23 °C) and at or below 140 °F (60 °C).


(4) Category 4 shall include liquids having flashpoints above 140 °F (60 °C) and at or below 199.4 °F (93 °C).


(i) *Flash point* of the liquid means the temperature at which it gives off vapor sufficient to form an ignitable mixture with the air near the surface of the liquid or within the vessel used as determined by appropriate test procedure and apparatus as specified below.


(1) The flashpoint of liquids having a viscosity less than 45 Saybolt Universal Second(s) at 100 °F (37.8 °C) and a flashpoint below 175 °F (79.4 °C) shall be determined in accordance with the Standard Method of Test for Flash Point by the Tag Closed Tester, ASTM D-56-69 (incorporated by reference; *See* § 1926.6), or an equivalent method as defined by § 1910.1200 appendix B.


(2) The flashpoints of liquids having a viscosity of 45 Saybolt Universal Second(s) or more at 175 °F (79.4 °C) or higher shall be determined in accordance with the Standard Method of Test for Flash Point by the Pensky Martens Closed Tester, ASTM D-93-69 (incorporated by reference; *See* § 1926.6), or an equivalent method as defined by § 1910.1200 appendix B.


(j) *Liquefied petroleum gases, LPG* and *LP Gas* mean and include any material which is composed predominantly of any of the following hydrocarbons, or mixtures of them, such as propane, propylene, butane (normal butane or iso-butane), and butylenes.


(k) *Portable tank* means a closed container having a liquid capacity more than 60 U.S. gallons, and not intended for fixed installation.


(l) *Safety can* means an approved closed container, of not more than 5 gallons capacity, having a flash-arresting screen, spring-closing lid and spout cover and so designed that it will safely relieve internal pressure when subjected to fire exposure.


(m) *Vapor pressure* means the pressure, measured in pounds per square inch (absolute), exerted by a volatile liquid as determined by the “Standard Method of Test for Vapor Pressure of Petroleum Products (Reid Method).” (ASTM D-323-58).



---

[N] [44 FR 8577, Feb. 9, 1979; 44 FR 20940, Apr. 6, 1979, as amended at 77 FR 17894, Mar. 26, 2012]




