# § 98.456   Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by § 98.3(c), each annual report must contain the following information for each chemical at the facility level:


(a) Pounds of each reportable insulating gas stored in containers at the beginning of the year.


(b) Pounds of each reportable insulating gas stored in containers at the end of the year.


(c) Pounds of each reportable insulating gas purchased in bulk.


(d) Pounds of each reportable insulating gas returned by equipment users with or inside equipment.


(e) Pounds of each reportable insulating gas returned to site from off site after recycling.


(f) Pounds of each insulating gas inside new equipment delivered to customers.


(g) Pounds of each insulating gas delivered to equipment users in containers.


(h) Pounds of each reportable insulating gas returned to suppliers.


(i) Pounds of each reportable insulating gas sent off site for destruction.


(j) Pounds of each reportable insulating gas sent off site to be recycled.


(k) The nameplate capacity of the equipment, in pounds, delivered to customers with each insulating gas inside, if different from the quantity in paragraph (f) of this section.


(l) A description of the engineering methods and calculations used to determine emissions from hoses or other flow lines that connect the container to the equipment that is being filled.


(m) The values for EF_ci_ of equation SS-7 to § 98.453 for each hose and valve combination and the associated valve fitting sizes and hose diameters.


(n) The total number of fill operations for each hose and valve combination, or, FC_i_ of equation SS-7 to § 98.453.


(o) If the mass of each reportable insulating gas disbursed to customers in new equipment over the period p is determined according to the methods required in § 98.453(h), report the mean value of nameplate capacity in pounds for each make, model, and group of conditions.


(p) If the mass of each reportable insulating gas disbursed to customers in new equipment over the period p is determined according to the methods required in § 98.453(h), report the number of samples and the upper and lower bounds on the 95-percent confidence interval for each make, model, and group of conditions.


(q) Pounds of each insulating gas used to fill equipment at off-site electric power transmission or distribution locations, or MF, of equation SS-8 to § 98.453.


(r) Pounds of each insulating gas used to charge the equipment prior to leaving the electrical equipment manufacturer or refurbishment facility, or MC, of equation SS-8 to § 98.453.


(s) The nameplate capacity of the equipment, in pounds, installed at off-site electric power transmission or distribution locations used to determine emissions from installation, or N_I_, of equation SS-8 to § 98.453.


(t) For any missing data, you must report the reason the data were missing, the parameters for which the data were missing, the substitute parameters used to estimate emissions in their absence, and the quantity of emissions thereby estimated.


(u) For each insulating gas reported in paragraphs (a) through (j) and (o) through (r) of this section, an ID number or other appropriate descriptor unique to that insulating gas.


(v) For each ID number or descriptor reported in paragraph (u) of this section for each unique insulating gas, the name (as required in § 98.3(c)(4)(iii)(G)(*1*)) and weight percent of each fluorinated gas in the insulating gas.






