# ยง 581.7   Test procedures.

(a) *Longitudinal impact test procedures.* (1) Impact the vehicle's front surface and its rear surface two times each with the impact line at any height from 16 to 20 inches, inclusive, in accordance with the following procedure.


(2) For impacts at a height of 20 inches, place the test device shown in Figure 1 so that Plane A is vertical and the impact line is horizontal at the specified height.


(3) For impacts at a height between 20 inches and 16 inches, place the test device shown in Figure 2 so that Plane A is vertical and the impact line is horizontal at a height within the range.


(4) For each impact, position the test device so that the impact line is at least 2 inches apart in vertical direction from its position in any prior impact, unless the midpoint of the impact line with respect to the vehicle is to be more than 12 inches apart laterally from its position in any prior impact.


(5) For each impact, align the vehicle so that it touches, but does not move, the test device, with the vehicle's longitudinal centerline perpendicular to the plane that includes Plane A of the test device and with the test device inboard of the vehicle corner test positions specified in ยง 581.7(b).


(6) Move the test device away from the vehicle, then release it to impact the vehicle.


(7) Perform the impacts at intervals of not less than 30 minutes.


(b) *Corner impact test procedure.* (1) Impact a front corner and a rear corner of the vehicle once each with the impact line at a height of 20 inches and impact the other front corner and the other rear corner once each with the impact line at any height from 16 to 20 inches, inclusive, in accordance with the following procedure.


(2) For an impact at a height of 20 inches, place the test device shown in Figure 1 so that Plane A is vertical and the impact line is horizontal at the specified height.


(3) For an impact at a height between 16 inches and 20 inches, place the test device shown in Figure 2 so that Plane A is vertical and the impact line is horizontal at a height within the range.


(4) Align the vehicle so that a vehicle corner touches, but does not move, the lateral center of the test device with Plane A of the test device forming an angle of 60 degrees with a vertical longitudinal plane.


(5) Move the test device away from the vehicle, then release it to impact the vehicle.


(6) Perform the impact at intervals of not less than 30 minutes.



---

[N] [42 FR 24059, May 12, 1977, as amended at 42 FR 38909, Aug. 1, 1977]





