# ยง 19.2   Why did the Commerce Department issue these regulations and what do they cover?

(a) *Scope.* This part provides procedures for the collection of Commerce Department debts. This part also provides procedures for collection of other debts owed to the United States when a request for offset of a payment for which Commerce Department is the payment agency is received by Commerce Department from another agency (for example, when a Commerce Department employee owes a debt to the United States Department of Education).


(b) *Applicability.* (1) This part applies to Commerce Department when collecting a Commerce Department debt, to persons who owe Commerce Department debts, to persons controlled by or controlling persons who owe Federal agency debts, and to Federal agencies requesting offset of a payment issued by Commerce Department as a payment agency (including salary payments to Commerce Department employees).


(2) This part does not apply to tax debts nor to any debt for which there is an indication of fraud or misrepresentation, as described in section 900.3 of the FCCS, unless the debt is returned by the Department of Justice to Commerce Department for handling.


(3) Nothing in this part precludes collection or disposition of any debt under statutes and regulations other than those described in this part. *See,* for example, 5 U.S.C. 5705, Advancements and Deductions, which authorizes Commerce entities to recover travel advances by offset of up to 100 percent of a Federal employee's accrued pay. *See,* also, 5 U.S.C. 4108, governing the collection of training expenses. To the extent that the provisions of laws, other regulations, and Commerce Department enforcement policies differ from the provisions of this part, those provisions of law, other regulations, and Commerce Department enforcement policies apply to the remission or mitigation of fines, penalties, and forfeitures, and to debts arising under the tariff laws of the United States, rather than the provisions of this part.


(c) *Additional policies and procedures.* Commerce entities may, but are not required to, promulgate additional policies and procedures consistent with this part, the FCCS, and other applicable Federal law, policies, and procedures, subject to the approval of Deputy Chief Financial Officer.


(d) *Duplication not required.* Nothing in this part requires a Commerce entity to duplicate notices or administrative proceedings required by contract, this part, or other laws or regulations, including but not limited to those required by financial assistance awards such as grants, cooperative agreements, loans or loan guarantees.


(e) *Use of multiple collection remedies allowed.* Commerce entities and other Federal agencies may simultaneously use multiple collection remedies to collect a debt, except as prohibited by law. This part is intended to promote aggressive debt collection, using for each debt all available and appropriate collection remedies. These remedies are not listed in any prescribed order to provide Commerce entities with flexibility in determining which remedies will be most efficient in collecting the particular debt.




