# ยง 98.449   Definitions.

Except as provided below, all terms used in this subpart have the same meaning given in the Clean Air Act and subpart A of this part.


*Active monitoring area* is the area that will be monitored over a specific time interval from the first year of the period (n) to the last year in the period (t). The boundary of the active monitoring area is established by superimposing two areas:


(1) The area projected to contain the free phase CO_2_ plume at the end of year t, plus an all around buffer zone of one-half mile or greater if known leakage pathways extend laterally more than one-half mile.


(2) The area projected to contain the free phase CO_2_ plume at the end of year t + 5.


*CO*_2_*received* means the CO_2_ stream that you receive to be injected for the first time into a well on your facility that is covered by this subpart. CO_2_ received includes, but is not limited to, a CO_2_ stream from a production process unit inside your facility and a CO_2_ stream that was injected into a well on another facility, removed from a discontinued enhanced oil or natural gas or other production well, and transferred to your facility.


*Equipment leak* means those emissions that could not reasonably pass through a stack, chimney, vent, or other functionally-equivalent opening.


*Expected baseline* is the anticipated value of a monitored parameter that is compared to the measured monitored parameter.


*Maximum monitoring area* means the area that must be monitored under this regulation and is defined as equal to or greater than the area expected to contain the free phase CO_2_ plume until the CO_2_ plume has stabilized plus an all-around buffer zone of at least one-half mile.


*Offshore* means seaward of the terrestrial borders of the United States, including waters subject to the ebb and flow of the tide, as well as adjacent bays, lakes or other normally standing waters, and extending to the outer boundaries of the jurisdiction and control of the United States under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act.




*Research and development project* means a project for the purpose of investigating practices, monitoring techniques, or injection verification, or engaging in other applied research, that will enable safe and effective long-term containment of a CO_2_ stream in subsurface geologic formations, including research and short duration CO_2_ injection tests conducted as a precursor to long-term storage.


*Separator* means a vessel in which streams of multiple phases are gravity separated into individual streams of single phase.


*Surface leakage* means the movement of the injected CO_2_ stream from the injection zone to the surface, and into the atmosphere, indoor air, oceans, or surface water.


*Underground Injection Control permit* means a permit issued under the authority of Part C of the Safe Drinking Water Act at 42 U.S.C. 300h *et seq.*

*Underground Injection Control program* means the program responsible for regulating the construction, operation, permitting, and closure of injection wells that place fluids underground for storage or disposal for purposes of protecting underground sources of drinking water from endangerment pursuant to Part C of the Safe Drinking Water Act at 42 U.S.C. 300h *et seq.*

*Vented emissions* means intentional or designed releases of CH_4_ or CO_2_ containing natural gas or hydrocarbon gas (not including stationary combustion flue gas), including process designed flow to the atmosphere through seals or vent pipes, equipment blowdown for maintenance, and direct venting of gas used to power equipment (such as pneumatic devices).



---

[N] [75 FR 75078, Dec. 1, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 73907, Nov. 29, 2011; 89 FR 31944, Apr. 25, 2024]








