# ยง 45.191   Pre-departure requirements.

Before beginning each voyage, the towing vessel master must conduct the following: 


(a) *Weather forecast.* Determine the marine weather forecast along the planned route, and contact the dock operator at the destination port to get an update on local weather conditions.


(b) *Inspection.* Inspect each barge of the tow to ensure that they meet the following requirements: 


(1) A valid load line certificate, if required, is on board; 


(2) The barge is not loaded deeper than permitted; 


(3) The deck and side shell plating are free of visible holes, fractures, or serious indentations, as well as damage that would be considered in excess of normal wear; 


(4) The cargo box side and end coamings are watertight; 


(5) All hatch and manhole dogs are in working condition, and all covers are closed and secured watertight;


(6) All voids are free of excess water; and 


(7) Precautions have been taken to prevent shifting of cargo. 


(c) *Verifications.* On voyages north of St. Joseph, the towing vessel master must contact a mooring/docking facility in St. Joseph, Holland, Grand Haven, and Muskegon to verify that sufficient space is available to accommodate the tow. The tow cannot venture onto Lake Michigan without confirmed space available. 


(d) *Log entries.* Before getting underway, the towing vessel master must note in the logbook that the pre-departure barge inspections, verification of mooring/docking space availability, and weather forecast checks were performed, and record the freeboards of each barge. 



---

[N] [USCG-1998-4623, 67 FR 19690, Apr. 23, 2002, as amended at 75 FR 70604, Nov. 18, 2010; 75 FR 78928, Dec. 17, 2010; 76 FR 32327, June 6, 2011]




