# § 200.101   Applicability.

(a) *General applicability to Federal agencies.* (1) Subparts A through F apply to Federal agencies that make Federal awards to non-Federal entities. As provided in paragraph (a)(2), subparts A through E may also apply to Federal agencies that make Federal awards to other entities.


(2) Federal agencies must apply subparts A though F of this part to non-Federal entities unless a particular section of this part or Federal statute provides otherwise. Federal agencies may apply subparts A through E of this part to Federal agencies, for-profit organizations, foreign public entities, or foreign organizations as permitted in agency regulations or program statutes, except when a Federal agency determines that the application of these subparts would be inconsistent with the international responsibilities of the United States or the laws of a foreign government. Subpart F only applies to non-Federal entities as defined in the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Federal agencies should apply the requirements to all recipients in a consistent and equitable manner to the extent permitted within applicable statutes, regulations, and policies.


(3) Throughout subparts A through F, the word “must” indicates a requirement. The words “should” or “may” indicate a recommended approach and permit discretion.


(4) Throughout subparts A through E, when the word “or” is used between the terms “recipient” and “subrecipient,” any requirements or recommendations in the relevant provisions of this part apply to the recipient, the subrecipient, or both, as applicable. The use of “or” between recipient and subrecipient does not mean that applicable requirements or recommendations only apply to one of these entities unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.


(b) *Applicability to Federal financial assistance.* (1) Paragraphs (b)(2) through (b)(5) of this section describe what portions of this part apply to specific types of Federal financial assistance. Paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section explain additional exceptions related to governing provisions and Federal program applicability. The terms and conditions of Federal awards (including this part) flow down to subawards to subrecipients unless a particular section of this part or the terms and conditions of the Federal award specifically indicate otherwise. Pass-through entities must comply with the requirements described in subpart D, §§ 200.331 through 200.333, and any other sections of this part addressing pass-through entities.


(2) Subpart A (Acronyms and Definitions) and subpart B (General Provisions) apply to all Federal financial assistance, except that §§ 200.111 (English language), 200.112 (Conflict of interest), and 200.113 (Mandatory disclosures) do not apply to agreements for loans, loan guarantees, interest subsidies, and insurance.


(3) Subpart C (Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards) and subpart D (Post Federal Award Requirements) only apply to grants and cooperative agreements with the following exceptions:


(i) Section 200.203 (Requirement to provide public notice of Federal financial assistance programs) also applies to agreements for loans, loan guarantees, interest subsidies, and insurance;


(ii) Section 200.216 (Prohibition on certain telecommunications and video surveillance equipment or services) applies to loans and grants (see Pub. L. 115-232, Div. A, Title VIII, § 889, as amended); and


(iii) Sections 200.303 (Internal controls) and 200.331 through 200.333 (Subrecipient monitoring and management) also apply to all types of Federal financial assistance.


(4) Subpart E (Cost Principles) applies to grants and cooperative agreements, but does not apply to the following:


(i) Food commodities provided through grants and cooperative agreements;


(ii) Fixed amount awards, except for §§ 200.400(g), 200.402 through 200.405, and 200.407(d), which do apply;


(iii) Agreements for loans, loan guarantees, interest subsidies, and insurance; and


(iv) Federal awards to hospitals (see Appendix IX—Hospital Cost Principles).


(5) Subpart F (Audit Requirements) only applies to the following items when awarded to a non-Federal entity:


(i) Grants and cooperative agreements (including fixed amount awards);


(ii) Contracts and subcontracts awarded under the FAR (except for fixed price contracts and subcontracts);


(iii) Agreements for loans, loan guarantees, interest subsidies, and insurance; and


(iv) Any other form of Federal financial assistance as defined by the Single Audit Act Amendment of 1996 (codified at 31 U.S.C. 7501-7507).


(c) *Applicability to different types of contracts and subcontracts awarded by a Federal agency to a non-Federal entity under the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR).* (1) Paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section describe what portions of this part apply to specific types of contracts and subcontracts awarded by a Federal agency to a non-Federal entity. See also paragraph (b)(5)(ii) on audit requirements. For both paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3):


(i) In cases of conflict between the requirements of applicable portions of this part and the terms and conditions of the contract, the terms and conditions of the contract and the FAR prevail.


(ii) When the Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) are applicable to the contract or subcontract, they also take precedence over this part.


(iii) In addition, costs that are identified as unallowable under 41 U.S.C. 4304(a) and as stated in the FAR (48 CFR part 31, subpart 31.2, and 48 CFR 31.603) are always unallowable.


(2) *Cost-reimbursement contract under the FAR awarded to a non-Federal entity.* When a non-Federal entity is awarded a cost-reimbursement contract under the FAR, only subpart D, §§ 200.331 through 200.333, and subparts E and F are applicable.


(3) *Fixed-price contract or subcontract under the FAR awarded to a non-Federal entity.* When a non-Federal entity is awarded a fixed-price contract or subcontract under the FAR, only subpart A, subpart B (except for §§ 200.111, 200.112, and 200.113), subpart D (only at § 200.303 and §§ 200.331 through 200.333), and subpart E are applicable to the contract, except that subpart E is not applicable to fixed-price contracts and subcontracts that are not negotiated.


(d) *Governing provisions.* With the exception of subpart F, which is required by the Single Audit Act, Federal statutes or regulations govern in any circumstances where they conflict with the provisions of this part. For agreements with Indian Tribes, this includes the provisions of the Indian Self-Determination and Education and Assistance Act (ISDEAA), as amended (see 25 U.S.C. 5301-5423).


(e) *Program applicability.* Except for §§ 200.203, 200.216, and 200.331 through 200.333, the requirements in subparts C, D, and E do not apply to the following programs:


(1) The block grant awards authorized by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981 (including Community Services), except to the extent that subpart E apply to subrecipients of Community Services Block Grant funds pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 9916(a)(1)(B);


(2) Federal awards to local education agencies under 20 U.S.C. 7702-7703b, (portions of the Impact Aid program);


(3) Payments under the Department of Veterans Affairs' State Home Per Diem Program (38 U.S.C. 1741); and


(4) Federal awards authorized under the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990, as amended:


(i) Child Care and Development Block Grant (42 U.S.C. 9858).


(ii) Child Care Mandatory and Matching Funds of the Child Care and Development Fund (42 U.S.C. 9858).


(f) *Additional program applicability.* Except for §§ 200.203 and 200.216, the guidance in subpart C does not apply to the following programs:


(1) Entitlement Federal awards to carry out the following programs of the Social Security Act:


(i) Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (Title IV-A of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 601-619);


(ii) Child Support Enforcement and Establishment of Paternity (Title IV-D of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 651-669b);


(iii) Federal Payments for Foster Care, Prevention, and Permanency (Title IV-E of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 670-679c);


(iv) Aid to the Aged, Blind, and Disabled (Titles I, X, XIV, and XVI-AABD of the Act, as amended);


(v) Medical Assistance (Medicaid) (Title XIX of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 1396-1396w-5) not including the State Medicaid Fraud Control program authorized by Section 1903(a)(6)(B) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396b(a)(6)(B)); and


(vi) Children's Health Insurance Program (Title XXI of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 1397aa-1397mm).


(2) A Federal award for an experimental, pilot, or demonstration project that is also supported by a Federal award listed in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.


(3) Federal awards under subsection 412(e) of the Immigration and Nationality Act and subsection 501(a) of the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-422, 94 Stat. 1809), for cash assistance, medical assistance, and supplemental security income benefits to refugees and entrants and the administrative costs of providing the assistance and benefits (8 U.S.C. 1522(e)).


(4) Entitlement awards under the following programs of The National School Lunch Act:


(i) National School Lunch Program (Section 4 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 1753);


(ii) Commodity Assistance (Section 6 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 1755);


(iii) Special Meal Assistance (Section 11 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 1759a);


(iv) Summer Food Service Program for Children (Section 13 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 1761); and


(v) Child and Adult Care Food Program (Section 17 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 1766).


(5) Entitlement awards under the following programs of The Child Nutrition Act of 1966:


(i) Special Milk Program (Section 3 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 1772);


(ii) School Breakfast Program (Section 4 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 1773); and


(iii) State Administrative Expenses (Section 7 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 1776).


(6) Entitlement awards for State Administrative Expenses under The Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (Section 16 of the Act, 7 U.S.C. 2025).


(7) Non-discretionary Federal awards under the following non-entitlement programs:


(i) Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (Section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966) 42 U.S.C. 1786;


(ii) The Emergency Food Assistance Programs (Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983) 7 U.S.C. 7501 note; and


(iii) Commodity Supplemental Food Program (Section 5 of the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 1973) 7 U.S.C. 612c note.






