# § 424.62   Payment after beneficiary's death: Bill has been paid.

(a) *Scope.* This section specifies the persons whom Medicare pays, and the conditions for payments, when the beneficiary has died and the bill has been paid. 


(b) *Situation.* (1) The beneficiary has received covered services for which he could receive direct payment under § 424.53. 


(2) The beneficiary died without receiving Medicare payment. 


(3) The bill has been paid. 


(c) *Persons whom Medicare pays.* In the situation described in paragraph (b) of this section, Medicare pays the following persons in the specified circumstances: 


(1) The person or persons who, without a legal obligation to do so, paid for the services with their own funds, before or after the beneficiary's death. 


(2) The legal representative of the beneficiary's estate if the services were paid for by the beneficiary before he or she died, or with funds from the estate. 


(3) If the deceased beneficiary or his or her estate paid for the services and no legal representative of the estate has been appointed, the survivors, in the following order of priority: 


(i) The person found by SSA to be the surviving spouse, if he or she was either living in the same household with the deceased at the time of death, or was, for the month of death, entitled to monthly social security or railroad retirement benefits on the basis of the same earnings record as the deceased beneficiary; 


(ii) The child or children, who were, for the month of death, entitled to monthly social security or railroad retirement benefits on the basis of the same earnings record as the deceased (and, if there is more than one child, in equal parts to each child); 


(iii) The parent or parents, who were, for the month of death, entitled to monthly social security or railroad retirement benefits on the basis of the same earnings record as the deceased (and, if there is more than one parent, in equal parts to each parent); 


(iv) The person found by SSA to be the surviving spouse who was not living in the same household with the deceased at the time of death and was not, for the month of death, entitled to monthly social security or railroad retirement benefits on the basis of the same earnings record as the deceased beneficiary; 


(v) The child or children who were not entitled to monthly social security or railroad retirement benefits on the basis of the same earnings record as the deceased (and, if there is more than one child, in equal parts to each child); 


(vi) The parent or parents who were not entitled to monthly social security or railroad retirement benefits on the basis of the same earnings record as the deceased (and, if there is more than one parent, in equal parts to each parent).


(4) If none of the listed relatives survive, no payment is made. 


(5) If the services were paid for by a person other than the deceased beneficiary, and that person died before payment was completed, Medicare does not pay that person's estate. Medicare pays a surviving relative of the deceased beneficiary in accordance with the priorities in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. If none of those relatives survive. Medicare pays the legal representative of the deceased beneficiary's estate. If there is no legal representative of the estate, no payment is made. 


(d) *Amount of payment.* The amount of payment is the amount due, including unnegotiated checks issued for the purpose of making direct payment to the beneficiary. 


(e) *Conditions for payment.* For payment to be made under this section— 


(1) The person who claims payment must meet the following requirements: 


(i) Submit a claim on a CMS-prescribed form and an itemized bill in accordance with the requirements of this subpart. (See paragraph (g) of this section for an exception.) 


(ii) Provide evidence that the services were furnished if the intermediary or carrier requests it. 


(iii) Provide evidence of payment of the bill and of the identity of the person who paid it. 


(2) If a person claims payment as the legal representative of the deceased beneficiary's estate, he or she must also submit a copy of the papers showing appointment as legal representative. 


(3) If a person claims payment as a survivor of the beneficiary, he or she must also submit evidence, if the intermediary or carrier requests it, that he or she is highest on the priority list of paragraph (c)(3) of this section. 


(f) *Evidence of payment.* Evidence of payment may be— 


(1) A receipted bill, or a properly completed “Report of Services” section of a claim form, showing who paid the bill; 


(2) A cancelled check; 


(3) A written statement from the provider or supplier or an authorized staff member; or 


(4) Other probative evidence.


(g) *Exception: Claim submitted before beneficiary died.* If a claim and itemized bill has been submitted by or on behalf of the beneficiary before he or she died, submission of another claim form and itemized bill is not required; any written request by the person seeking payment is sufficient. 




