# ยง 98.5   Health certificate.

(a) Except as provided in subpart B of this part, an animal embryo shall not be imported into the United States unless it is accompanied by a certificate issued by a full-time salaried veterinary officer of the national government of the region of origin, or issued by a veterinarian designated or accredited by the national government of the region of origin and endorsed by a full-time salaried veterinary officer of the national government of the region of origin, representing that the veterinarian issuing the certificate was authorized to do so. The certificate shall state: 


(1) The dates, places, types, and results of all examinations and tests performed on the donor sire and donor dam as a condition for importation of the embryo, and the names and addresses of persons or laboratories conducting the examinations or tests, and a statement that any other requirements established by ยง 98.3 have been complied with, 


(2) The name and address of the consignor and consignee, 


(3) The name and address of the approved artificial insemination center where the semen for the embryo was collected, if applicable, 


(4) The name and address of the approved embryo transfer unit where the donor dam was inseminated or bred and the embryo was collected, and 


(5) The measures taken to ensure that the embryo was collected and maintained under conditions adequate to protect against contamination of the embryo with infectious animal disease organisms. 


(b) [Reserved] 



---

[N] [50 FR 43563, Oct. 25, 1985, as amended at 56 FR 55809, Oct. 30, 1991; 61 FR 15183, Apr. 5, 1996; 61 FR 17241, Apr. 19, 1996; 62 FR 56025, Oct. 28, 1997; 86 FR 68863, Dec. 3, 2021]




