# § 457.1260   Grievance system.

(a) *Statutory basis and definitions*—(1) *Statutory basis.* This section implements section 2103(f)(3) of the Act, which provides that the State CHIP must provide for the application of section 1932(a)(4), (a)(5), (b), (c), (d), and (e) of the Act (relating to requirements for managed care) to coverage, State agencies, enrollment brokers, managed care entities, and managed care organizations. Section 1932(b)(4) of the Act requires managed care plans to establish an internal grievance procedure under which an enrollee, or a provider on behalf of such an enrollee, may challenge the denial of coverage of or payment for covered benefits.


(2) *Definitions.* The following definitions from § 438.400(b) of this chapter apply to this section—


(i) Paragraphs (1) through (5) and (7) of the definition of “adverse benefit determination”; and


(ii) The definitions of “appeal”, “grievance”, and “grievance and appeal system”.


(b) *General requirements.* (1) The State must ensure that its contracted MCOs, PIHPs, and PAHPs comply with the provisions of § 438.402(a), (b), and (c)(2) and (3) of this chapter with regard to the establishment and operation of a grievances and appeals system.


(2) An enrollee may file a grievance and request an appeal with the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP. An enrollee may request a State external review in accordance with the terms of subpart K of this part after receiving notice under paragraph (e) of this section that the adverse benefit decision is upheld by the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP.


(3) If State law permits and with the written consent of the enrollee, a provider or an authorized representative may request an appeal or file a grievance, or request a State external review in accordance with the terms of subpart K of this part, on behalf of an enrollee. When the term “enrollee” is used throughout this section, it includes providers and authorized representatives consistent with this paragraph (b).


(c) *Timely and adequate notice of adverse benefit determination.* (1) The State must ensure that its contracted MCOs, PIHPs, and PAHPs comply with the provisions at § 438.404(a) and (b)(1), (2), and (5) of this chapter (regarding the content of the notice of an adverse benefit determination).


(2) In addition to the requirements referenced in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the notice must explain:


(i) The enrollee's right to request an appeal of the MCO's, PIHP's, or PAHP's adverse benefit determination, including information on exhausting the MCO's, PIHP's, or PAHP's one level of appeal described at § 438.402(b) of this chapter referenced in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and the right to request a State external review in accordance with the terms of subpart K of this part; and


(ii) The procedures for the enrollee to exercise his or her rights provided under this paragraph (c).


(3) The MCO, PIHP, or PAHP must provide timely written notice to the enrollee of the adverse benefit determination. The terms of §§ 438.404(c)(6) and 438.210(d)(2) of this chapter apply in the circumstances of expedited service authorization decisions.


(d) *Handling of grievances and appeals.* The State must ensure that its contracted MCOs, PIHPs, and PAHPs comply with the provisions at § 438.406 of this chapter.


(e) *Resolution and notification: Grievances and appeals.* (1) The State must ensure that its contracted MCOs, PIHPs, and PAHPs comply with the provisions at § 438.408(b) (relating to the timeframe for resolution of grievances and appeals), (c)(1) and (2) (the extension of timeframes for resolution of grievances and appeals), (d) (relating to the format of the notice of resolution for grievances and appeals), and (e)(1) (relating to the content of the notice of resolution for grievances and appeals) of this chapter.


(2) Each MCO, PIHP, or PAHP must resolve each grievance and appeal, and provide notice, as expeditiously as the enrollee's health condition requires, within State-established timeframes that may not exceed the timeframes specified in this paragraph (e).


(3) In the case of an MCO, PIHP, or PAHP that fails to adhere to the notice and timing requirements in this section, the enrollee is deemed to have exhausted the MCO's, PIHP's, or PAHP's appeals process. The enrollee may initiate a State external review in accordance with the terms of subpart K of this part.


(4) For appeals not resolved wholly in favor of an enrollee, in addition to the information required under paragraph (e)(1) of this section and § 438.408(e)(1) of this chapter, the content of the notice of appeal resolution must include the enrollee's right to request a State external review in accordance with the terms of subpart K of this part, and how to do so.


(5) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, an enrollee may request a State external review only after receiving notice that the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP is upholding the adverse benefit determination. The State must provide enrollees no less than 90 calendar days and no more than 120 calendar days from the date of the MCO's, PIHP's, or PAHP's notice of resolution to request a State external review. The parties to the State external review include the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP, as well as the enrollee and his or her representative or the representative of a deceased enrollee's estate.


(f) *Expedited resolution of appeals.* The State must ensure that its contracted MCOs, PIHPs, and PAHPs comply with the provisions at § 438.410 of this chapter.


(g) *Information about the grievance and appeal system to providers and subcontractors.* The State must ensure that its contracted MCOs, PIHPs, and PAHPs comply with the provisions at § 438.414 of this chapter.


(h) *Recordkeeping requirements.* The State must ensure that its contracted MCOs, PIHPs, and PAHPs comply with the provisions at § 438.416 of this chapter.


(i) *Effectuation of reversed appeal resolutions.* If the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP, or the result of a State external review, in accordance with the terms of subpart K of this part, reverses a decision to deny, limit, or delay services, the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP must authorize or provide the disputed services promptly and as expeditiously as the enrollee's health condition requires but no later than 72 hours from the date it receives notice reversing the determination.



---

[N] [85 FR 72842, Nov. 13, 2020]




