# § 112.1   Definitions.

When used in this part, the following terms shall have the meaning indicated:


*Carrier.* A “carrier” is one who undertakes to transport goods, merchandise or people.


*Cartman.* A “cartman” is one who undertakes to transport goods or merchandise within the limits of the port.


*Common carrier.* A “common carrier” is a carrier owning or operating a railroad, steamship, or other transportation line or route which undertakes to transport goods or merchandise for all of the general public who choose to employ him.


*Contract carrier.* A “contract carrier” is a carrier which undertakes to transport specific goods or merchandise for a specific person or group of persons, and is authorized to operate as such by any agency of the United States.


*District.* “District” means the geographic area in which the parties excepted by the last sentence of § 112.2(b)(2) may operate under their bonds without obtaining a cartage or lighterage license issued under this part. A listing of each district, and the ports thereunder, will be published on or before October 1, 1995, and whenever updated.


*Freight forwarder.* A “freight forwarder” is one who engages in the business of dispatching shipments on behalf of other persons, for a consideration, in foreign or domestic commerce between the United States, its territories or possessions, and foreign countries, and of handling the formalities incident to such shipments, and is authorized to operate as such by any agency of the United States.


*Lighterman.* A “lighterman” is one who transports goods or merchandise on a barge, scow, or other small vessel to or from a vessel within the port, or from place to place within a port.


*Private carrier.* A “private carrier” is a carrier of his own goods or merchandise.



---

[N] [T.D. 73-140, 38 FR 13551, May 23, 1973, as amended by T.D. 95-77, 60 FR 50019, Sept. 27, 1995]




