# ยง 51-9.601   Office of Inspector General exemptions.

(a) Pursuant to section (j) of the Privacy Act of 1974, the Committee has deemed it necessary to adopt the following exemptions to specified provisions of the Privacy Act:


(1) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), the AbilityOne/OIG-001 Case Management System, System of Records is exempt from the following provisions of the Privacy Act: 5 U.S.C. 552a (c)(3)-(4); (d); (e)(1)-(3); (e)(4)(G)-(I); (e)(5); (e)(8); and (f)-(g) and from 41 CFR 51-9.1, 51-9.2, 51-9.3, 51-9.4, and 51-9.7.


(2) [Reserved]


(b) Pursuant to section (k) of the Privacy Act of 1974, the Committee has deemed it necessary to adopt the following exemptions to specified provisions of the Privacy Act:


(1) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), AbilityOne/OIG-001 Case Management System, System of Records is exempt from the following provisions of the Privacy Act, subject to the limitations set forth in those subsections: 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(4)(G)-(I), and (f) and from 41 CFR 51-9.1, 51-9.2, 51-9.3, 51-9.4, and 51-9.7.


(2) [Reserved]


(c) Exemptions from the subsections are justified because application of these provisions would present a serious impediment to law enforcement. Access to the records contained in this system of records could inform the subject of an investigation of an actual or potential criminal, civil, or regulatory violation, of the existence of that investigation; of the nature and scope of the information and evidence obtained as to his activities; of the identity of confidential sources, witnesses, and law enforcement personnel, and of information that may enable the subject to avoid detection or apprehension. These factors would present a serious impediment to effective law enforcement where they prevent the successful completion of the investigation, endanger the physical safety of confidential sources, witnesses, and law enforcement personnel, and/or lead to the improper influencing of witnesses, the destruction of evidence, or the fabrication of testimony. In addition, granting access to such information could disclose security-sensitive or confidential business information or information that would constitute an unwarranted invasion of the personal privacy of third parties. Finally, access to the records could result in the release of properly classified information which would compromise the national defense or disrupt foreign policy. Amendment of the records would interfere with ongoing investigations and law enforcement activities and impose an impossible administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continuously reinvestigated. It is not possible to detect relevance or necessity of specific information in the early stages of a civil, criminal or other law enforcement investigation, case, or matter, including investigations in which use is made of properly classified information. Relevance and necessity are questions of judgment and timing, and it is only after the information is evaluated that the relevance and necessity of such information can be established.



---

[N] [89 FR 83789, Oct. 18, 2024]






