# § 148.66   Exemptions for nonresident crewmembers.

(a) *Status as arriving nonresident.* A nonresident crewmember will be treated as an arriving nonresident for purposes of claiming the exemptions allowable under Chapter 98, Subchapter IV, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) (19 U.S.C. 1202), and subpart E of this part when he permanently leaves his employment with a vessel, vehicle, or aircraft at a port in the United States without intention of resuming employment on the same or another carrier in international traffic. However, a nonresident crewmember shall not be treated as an arriving nonresident for this purpose when he departs a carrier for temporary leave but retains his employment with the carrier so that he will be going foreign again in the course of his continuing employment (see § 148.63). 


(b) *Articles carried through the United States.* A nonresident crewmember, permanently leaving a carrier in a U.S. port to travel as a passenger on another carrier which will take him to a place outside the United States, who desires to take with him articles not exceeding $200 in aggregate value (including not more than 4 liters of alcoholic beverages) without the payment of duty or internal revenue tax as provided in item 812.40 (see § 148.41), may be accorded free entry of the articles under the following procedure: 


(1) *Declaration and supporting statement.* The nonresident crewmember shall itemize the articles on his declaration and entry, Customs Form 5129, required by § 148.62(b)(2), and shall state in writing in support of his declaration that: 


(i) He has been finally discharged from the carrier, with the date of discharge; 


(ii) He intends to depart from the same or another U.S. port as a passenger on another carrier for a place outside U.S. Customs territory; and 


(iii) The articles will be taken with him on such carrier and will not remain in the United States. 


(2) *Allowance by port director.* The port director may require verification of the crewmember's discharge and a statement as to the accuracy of the second and third supporting statements of the crewmember from the person in charge of the carrier, the vessel agent, or the port captain. If the port director is satisfied that the crewmember's statements are correct, the articles may be passed free of duty and internal revenue tax under subheading 9808.00.40, HTSUS (19 U.S.C. 1202). 


(c) *Articles to be disposed of as gifts.* A nonresident crewmember shall itemize on his baggage declaration and entry, Customs Form 5123 or 5129, required by § 148.62, all articles in his possession for which he seeks entry under subheading 9804.00.30, HTSUS (19 U.S.C. 1202), as bona fide gifts. The crewmember must be permanently leaving his employment on the international carrier for a stay in the United States of at least 72 hours before departing for a place outside the United States as a passenger.



---

[N] [T.D. 73-27, 38 FR 2449, Jan. 26, 1973, as amended by T.D. 78-99, 43 FR 13061, Mar. 29, 1978; T.D. 78-394, 43 FR 49789, Oct. 25, 1978; T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51265, Dec. 21, 1988]




