# § 60.5423b   What are my additional recordkeeping and reporting requirements for sweetening unit affected facilities?

(a) You must retain records of the calculations and measurements required in §§ 60.5405b(a) and (b) and 60.5407b(a) through (g) for at least 2 years following the date of the measurements. This requirement is included under § 60.7(f) of the General Provisions.


(b) In your initial annual report submitted in accordance with the procedures and schedule in § 60.5420b(b), include the information in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) For each run of the initial performance test required by § 60.8(b):


(i) The average sulfur feed rate in Mg/D, determined according to § 60.5406b(b).


(ii) The average volumetric flow rate of acid gas from the sweetening unit, in dscm/day.


(iii) The H_2_S concentration in the acid gas feed from the sweetening unit, percent by volume.


(iv) The emission rate of sulfur in kg/hr.


(v) The sulfur production rate in kg/hr.


(vi) The emission reduction efficiency achieved by the sulfur recovery technology, determined according to § 60.5406b(c).


(vii) The required initial SO_2_ emission reduction efficiency, as determined from table 3 to this subpart based on the sulfur feed rate and the sulfur content of the acid gas of the affected facility.


(2) The required minimum SO_2_ emission reduction efficiency you must achieve on a continuous basis, as determined from table 4 to this subpart based on the sulfur feed rate and the sulfur content of the acid gas of the affected facility.


(c) You must submit the performance test report in accordance with the requirements of § 60.5420b(b)(12).


(d) You must submit a report of excess emissions to the Administrator in your annual report if you had excess emissions during the reporting period. The procedures and schedule for submitting annual reports are located in § 60.5420b(b). For the purpose of these reports, excess emissions are defined as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section. The report must contain the information specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.


(1) Any 24-hour period (at consistent intervals) during which the average sulfur emission reduction efficiency (R) is less than the minimum required efficiency (Z).


(2) For any affected facility electing to comply with the provisions of § 60.5407b(b)(2), any 24-hour period during which the average temperature of the gases leaving the combustion zone of an incinerator is less than the appropriate operating temperature as determined during the most recent performance test in accordance with the provisions of § 60.5407b(b)(3). Each 24-hour period must consist of at least 96 temperature measurements equally spaced over the 24 hours.


(3) For each period of excess emissions during the reporting period, include the following information in your report:


(i) The date and time of commencement and completion of each period of excess emissions;


(ii) The required minimum efficiency (Z) and the actual average sulfur emissions reduction (R) for periods defined in paragraph (d)(1) of this section; and


(iii) The appropriate operating temperature and the actual average temperature of the gases leaving the combustion zone for periods defined in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(e) To certify that a facility is exempt from the control requirements of these standards, for each facility with a design capacity less than 2 LT/D of H_2_S in the acid gas (expressed as sulfur) you must keep, for the life of the facility, an analysis demonstrating that the facility's design capacity is less than 2 LT/D of H_2_S expressed as sulfur.


(f) If you elect to comply with § 60.5407b(e) you must keep, for the life of the facility, a record demonstrating that the facility's design capacity is less than 150 LT/D of H_2_S expressed as sulfur.


(g) The requirements of paragraph (d) of this section remain in force until and unless the EPA, in delegating enforcement authority to a state under section 111(c) of the Act, approves reporting requirements or an alternative means of compliance surveillance adopted by such state. In that event, affected sources within the state will be relieved of obligation to comply with paragraph (d) of this section, provided they comply with the requirements established by the state. Electronic reporting to the EPA cannot be waived, and as such, the provisions of this paragraph do not relieve owners or operators of affected facilities of the requirement to submit the electronic reports required in this section to the EPA.






