# § 239.10   Management controls.

(a) *Management systems.* Headquarters, USACE has an existing information management system that manages all information related to the HAP program.


(1) *HAPMIS.* The Homeowners Assistance Program Management Information System (HAPMIS) provides program management assistance to field offices and indicators to managers at field offices, regional headquarters and HQUSACE at the Service Member level of detail. The Privacy Act applies to this program and the management information system to protect the privacy of Expanded HAP applicant information.


(2) *CEFMS.* The Corps of Engineers Financial Management System (CEFMS) provides detailed funds execution and tracking, to include:


(i) Funds issued to field offices for execution accountability.


(ii) Funds committed and obligated by applicant category, installation, state and county.


(b) *System of Records Notice (SORN).* The Privacy Act limits agencies to maintaining “only such information about an individual as is relevant and necessary to accomplish a purpose of the agency required to be accomplished by statute or Executive order of the President.” 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1). The SORN for the Homeowners Assistance Program can be found at *http://www.defenselink.mil/privacy/notices/army/A0405-10q_CE.shtml.* The Privacy Impact Assessment for the system can be reviewed at: *http://www.army.mil/ciog6/privacy.html.* Individuals seeking to determine whether information about them is contained in this system should address written inquiries to the Chief of Engineers, Headquarters U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, *Attn:* CERE-R, 441 G Street, NW., Washington, DC 20314-1000.




