# § 278.3   Criteria for use of chat in Federally funded transportation projects.

Chat can be used in transportation construction projects carried out, in whole or in part, using Federal funds if:


(a) The chat is used in hot, warm or cold mix asphalt, in slurry seal, microsurfacing, or in epoxy seal; or


(b) The chat is used in Portland cement concrete, granular road base, flowable fill, stabilized road base or chip seal if, on a case by case basis either:


(1) Synthetic Precipitation Leaching Procedure (SPLP) tests are conducted on the proposed material using EPA SW-846 Method 1312, and the leachate testing results show that concentrations in the leachate do not exceed the National Primary Drinking Water Standards for lead and cadmium and the fresh water chronic National Recommended Water Quality Criterion for zinc of 120 µg/l; or


(2) EPA (or a State environmental Agency, if it chooses to do so) has determined, based on a site-specific risk assessment and after notice and opportunity for public comment, that the releases from the chat mixture in its proposed use will not cause an exceedance of the National Primary Drinking Water Standards for lead and cadmium in potential drinking water sources and the fresh water chronic National Recommended Water Quality Criterion for zinc of 120 µg/l in surface water; or


(c) The use of chat has been authorized pursuant to a State or Federal response action.


(d) EPA SW-846 Method 1312, “Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods,” Third Edition, September 1994, is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. It is available at *www.epa.gov/hw-sw846*/. All approved material is available for inspection at the OLEM Docket in the Environmental Protection Agency Docket Center (EPA/DC), West William Jefferson Clinton Bldg., Rm. 3334, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW, Washington, DC. The EPA/DC Public Reading Room hours of operation are 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding legal holidays. The telephone number of the EPA/DC Public Reading room is (202) 566-1744, and the telephone number for the OLEM Docket is (202) 566-0270. It is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email *fedreg.legal@nara.gov* or go to *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.*


---

[N] [72 FR 39352, July 18, 2007, as amended at 85 FR 40608, July 7, 2020]




