# § 63.8232   What test methods and other procedures must I use to demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limits?

You must conduct a performance test for each by-product hydrogen stream, end box ventilation system vent, and mercury thermal recovery unit vent according to the conditions detailed in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.


(a) You must conduct each performance test under conditions representative of normal operations. You may not conduct performance tests during periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, you shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.








(b) For each performance test, you must develop a site-specific test plan in accordance with § 63.7(c)(2).


(c) You must conduct at least three test runs to comprise a performance test, as specified in § 63.7(e)(3) and in either paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section.


(1) The sampling time and sampling volume for each run must be at least 2 hours and 1.70 dry standard cubic meters (dscm). Mercury results below the analytical laboratory's detection limit must be reported using the reported analytical detection limit to calculate the sample concentration value and, in turn, the emission rate in the units of the standard; or


(2) The sampling time for each test run must be at least 2 hours and the mercury concentration in each field sample analyzed must be at least two times the reported analytical detection limit.


(d) You must use the test methods specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section and the applicable test methods in paragraphs (d)(5) through (7) of this section.


(1) Method 1 or 1A in appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 to determine the sampling port locations and the location and required number of sampling traverse points. 


(2) Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D in appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 to determine the stack gas velocity and volumetric flow rate. 


(3) Method 3, 3A, or 3B in appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 to determine the stack gas molecular weight. 


(4) Method 4 in appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 to determine the stack gas moisture content. 


(5) For each by-product hydrogen stream, Method 102 in appendix A of 40 CFR part 61 to measure the mercury emission rate after the last control device. 


(6) For each end box ventilation system vent, Method 101 or 101A in appendix A of 40 CFR part 61 to measure the mercury emission rate after the last control device. 


(7) For each mercury thermal recovery unit vent, Method 101 or 101A in appendix A of 40 CFR part 61 to measure the mercury emission rate after the last control device. 


(e) During each test run for a by-product hydrogen stream and each test run for an end box ventilation system vent, you must continuously measure the electric current through the operating mercury cells and record a measurement at least once every 15 minutes. 


(f) If the final control device is not a nonregenerable carbon adsorber and if you are demonstrating compliance using periodic monitoring under § 63.8240(b), you must continuously monitor the parameters listed in paragraph (f)(1) of this section and establish your maximum or minimum monitoring value (as appropriate for your control device) using the requirements in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. 


(1) During the performance test specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, you must continuously monitor the control device parameters in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section and record a measurement at least once every 15 minutes. 


(i) The exit gas temperature from uncontrolled streams; 


(ii) The outlet temperature of the gas stream for the final (*i.e.,* the farthest downstream) cooling system when no control devices other than coolers or demisters are used; 


(iii) The outlet temperature of the gas stream from the final cooling system when the cooling system is followed by a molecular sieve or regenerative carbon adsorber; 


(iv) Outlet concentration of available chlorine, pH, liquid flow rate, and inlet gas temperature of chlorinated brine scrubbers and hypochlorite scrubbers; 


(v) The liquid flow rate and exit gas temperature for water scrubbers; 


(vi) The inlet gas temperature of regenerative carbon adsorption systems; and 


(vii) The temperature during the heating phase of the regeneration cycle for carbon adsorbers or molecular sieves. 


(2) To establish a maximum monitoring value or minimum monitoring value, as appropriate for your final control device, you must average the recorded parameters in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section over the test period. If your final control device is a regenerative carbon adsorber, you must use the highest temperature reading measured in paragraph (f)(1)(vii) as the reference temperature in § 63.8244(b)(2)(v). 




(g) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test specified in this section, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) *Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert) at the time of the test.* Submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*). The data must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.


(2) *Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test.* The results of the performance test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Submit the ERT generated package or alternative file to the EPA via CEDRI.


(3) *Confidential business information (CBI).* Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim for some of the information submitted under paragraph (g)(1) or (2) of this section, you must submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA. The file must be generated using the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Submit the file on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Mail the electronic medium to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available.









---

[N] [68 FR 70928, Dec. 19, 2003, as amended at 87 FR 27020, May 6, 2022]






