# § 233.2   Definitions.

The definitions in parts 230 and 232 as well as the following definitions apply to this part.


*Act* means the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 *et seq.*).


*Corps* means the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.


*Federal Indian reservation* means all land within the limits of any Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the United States Government, notwithstanding the issuance of any patent, and including rights-of-way running through the reservation.


*FWS* means the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.


*Indian lands* means “Indian country” as defined under 18 U.S.C. 1151. That section defines Indian country as:


(1) All land within the limits of any Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the United States Government, notwithstanding the issuance of any patent, and, including rights-of-way running through the reservation,


(2) All dependent Indian communities within the borders of the United States whether within the original or subsequently acquired territory thereof, and whether within or without the limits of a State, and


(3) All Indian allotments, the Indian titles to which have not been extinguished, including rights-of-way running through the same.


*Indian Tribe* means any Indian Tribe, band, group, or community recognized by the Secretary of the Interior and exercising governmental authority over a Federal Indian reservation.


*Interstate agency* means an agency of two or more States established by or under an agreement or compact approved by the Congress, or any other agency of two or more States having substantial powers or duties pertaining to the control of pollution.


*NMFS* means the National Marine Fisheries Service.


*Retained waters description:* The subset of waters of the United States over which the Corps retains administrative authority upon program assumption by a State as identified through the process at § 233.11(i). The description shall address, in the case of State assumption, the extent to which waters on Indian lands are retained.


*RHA section 10 list:* The list of waters determined to be navigable waters of the United States pursuant to section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act and 33 CFR part 329 and that are maintained in Corps district offices pursuant to 33 CFR 329.16.


*State* means any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, or an Indian Tribe, as defined in this part, which meet the requirements of § 233.60. For purposes of this part, the word State also includes any interstate agency requesting program approval or administering an approved program.


*State Director* (*Director*) means the chief administrative officer of any State or interstate agency operating an approved program, or the delegated representative of the Director. If responsibility is divided among two or more State or interstate agencies, Director means the chief administrative officer of the State or interstate agency authorized to perform the particular procedure or function to which reference is made.


*State 404 program* or *State program* means a program which has been approved by EPA under section 404 of the Act to regulate the discharge of dredged or fill material into all waters of the United States except those identified in the *retained waters description* as defined in § 233.2.





---

[N] [53 FR 20776, June 1, 1988, as amended at 58 FR 8183, Feb. 11, 1993; 89 FR 103501, Dec. 18, 2024]




