# § 184.1372   Insoluble glucose isomerase enzyme preparations.

(a) Insoluble glucose isomerase enzyme preparations are used in the production of high fructose corn syrup described in § 184.1866. They are derived from recognized species of precisely classified nonpathogenic and nontoxicogenic microorganisms, including *Streptomyces rubiginosus, Actinoplanes missouriensis, Streptomyces olivaceus, Streptomyces olivochromogenes,* and *Bacillus coagulans,* that have been grown in a pure culture fermentation that produces no antibiotics. They are fixed (rendered insoluble) for batch production with GRAS ingredients or may be fixed for further immobilization with either GRAS ingredients or materials approved under § 173.357 of this chapter.


(b) The ingredient meets the general and additional requirements for enzyme preparations in the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), p. 107, which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) In accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) as a direct human food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:


(1) The ingredient is used as an enzyme, as defined in § 170.3(o)(9) of this chapter, to convert glucose to fructose.


(2) The ingredient is used in high fructose corn syrup, at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice.



---

[N] [48 FR 5720, Feb. 8, 1983, as amended at 61 FR 43450, Aug. 23, 1996]




