# § 8.208   Application requirements.

(a) An application to certify the consumer IoT product as being compliant with the labeling program shall be submitted in writing to a Cybersecurity Labeling Administrator (CLA) in the form and format prescribed by the Commission. Each application shall be accompanied by all information required by this subpart.


(b) The applicant shall provide to the CLA in the application all information that the CLA requires to determine compliance with the program requirements of the labeling program.


(c) The applicant will provide a declaration under penalty of perjury that all of the following are true and correct:


(1) The product for which the applicant seeks to use the FCC IoT Label through cybersecurity certification meets all the requirements of the IoT labeling program.


(2) The applicant is not identified as an entity producing covered communications equipment on the Covered List, established pursuant to 47 CFR 1.50002.


(3) The product is not comprised of “covered” equipment on the Covered List.


(4) The product is not produced by any entity, its affiliates, or subsidiaries identified on the Department of Commerce's Entity List, 15 CFR part 744, supplement no. 4, and/or the Department of Defense's List of Chinese Military Companies, U.S. Department of Defense, Entities Identified as Chinese Military Companies Operating in the United States in Accordance with Section 1260H of the William M. (“Mac”) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Pub. L. 116-283), Tranche 2 (2022), *https://media.defense.gov/2022/Oct/05/2003091659/-1/-1/0/1260H%20COMPANIES.PDF;* and


(5) The product is not owned or controlled by or affiliated with any person or entity that has been suspended or debarred from receiving Federal procurements or financial awards, to include all entities and individuals published as ineligible for award on the General Service Administration's System for Award Management as described in § 8.204.


(6) The applicant has taken every reasonable measure to create a securable product.


(7) The applicant will, until the support period end date disclosed in the registry, diligently identify critical vulnerabilities in our products and promptly issue software updates correcting them, unless such updates are not reasonably needed to protect against security failures.


(8) The applicant will not elsewhere disclaim or otherwise attempt to limit the substantive or procedural enforceability of this declaration or of any other representations and commitments made on the FCC IoT Label or made for purposes of acquiring or maintaining authorization to use it.


(d) The applicant shall provide a written and signed declaration to the CLA that all statements it makes in the application are true and correct to the best of its knowledge and belief.


(e) Each application, including amendments thereto, and related statements of fact and authorizations required by the Commission, shall be signed by the applicant or their authorized agent.


(f) The applicant declares the product is reasonably secure and will be updated through minimum support period for the product and the end date of the support period must be disclosed.


(g) The applicant shall declare under penalty of perjury that the consumer IoT product for which the applicant is applying for participation in the labeling program is not prohibited pursuant to § 8.204.


(h) If the identified listed sources under § 8.204 are modified after the date of the declaration required by paragraph (c) of this section but prior to grant of authorization to use the FCC IoT Label, then the applicant shall provide a new declaration as required by paragraph (c).


(i) The applicant shall designate an agent located in the United States for the purpose of accepting service of process on behalf of the applicant.


(1) The applicant shall provide a written attestation:


(i) Signed by both the applicant and its designated agent for service of process, if different from the applicant;


(ii) Acknowledging the applicant's consent and the designated agent's obligation to accept service of process in the United States for matters related to the applicable product, and at the physical U.S. address and email address of its designated agent; and


(iii) Acknowledging the applicant's acceptance of its obligation to maintain an agent for service of process in the United States for no less than one year after either the grantee has permanently terminated all marketing and importation of the applicable equipment within the U.S., or the conclusion of any Commission-related administrative or judicial proceeding involving the product, whichever is later.


(2) An applicant located in the United States may designate itself as the agent for service of process.


(j) Technical test data submitted to the CLA shall be signed by the person who performed or supervised the tests. The person signing the test data shall attest to the accuracy of such data. The CLA may require the person signing the test data to submit a statement showing that they are qualified to make or supervise the required measurements.


(k) *Signed,* as used in this section, means an original handwritten signature or any symbol executed or adopted by the applicant or CLA with the intent that such symbol be a signature, including symbols formed by computer-generated electronic impulses.






