# ยง 7.115   Postaward compliance.

(a) *Periodic review.* The OCR may periodically conduct compliance reviews of any recipient's programs or activities receiving EPA assistance, including the request of data and information, and may conduct on-site reviews when it has reason to believe that discrimination may be occurring in such programs or activities.


(b) *Notice of review.* After selecting a recipient for review or initiating a complaint investigation in accordance with ยง 7.120, the OCR will inform the recipient of:


(1) The nature of and schedule for review, or investigation; and


(2) Its opportunity, before the determination in paragraph (d) of this section is made, to make a written submission responding to, rebutting, or denying the allegations raised in the review or complaint.


(c) *Postreview notice.* (1) Within 180 calendar days from the start of the compliance review or complaint investigation, the OCR will notify the recipient in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, of:


(i) Preliminary findings;


(ii) Recommendations, if any, for achieving voluntary compliance; and


(iii) Recipient's right to engage in voluntary compliance negotiations where appropriate.


(2) The OCR will notify the Award Official and the Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights of the preliminary findings of noncompliance.


(d) *Formal determination of noncompliance.* After receiving the notice of the preliminary finding of noncompliance in paragraph (c) of this section, the recipient may:


(1) Agree to the OCR's recommendations, or


(2) Submit a written response sufficient to demonstrate that the preliminary findings are incorrect, or that compliance may be achieved through steps other than those recommended by OCR.


(e) *Voluntary compliance time limits.* The recipient will have ten (10) calendar days from receipt of the formal determination of noncompliance in which to come into voluntary compliance. If the recipient fails to meet this deadline, the OCR must start proceedings under paragraph (b) of ยง 7.130.


(f) *Form of voluntary compliance agreements.* All agreements to come into voluntary compliance must:


(1) Be in writing;


(2) Set forth the specific steps the recipient has agreed to take, and


(3) Be signed by the Director, OCR or his/her designee and an official with authority to legally bind the recipient.




