# Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 210—Commentary


The Commentary provides background material to explain the intent of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) in adopting a particular provision in the subpart and to help readers interpret that provision. In some comments, examples are offered. The Commentary constitutes an official Board interpretation of subpart C of this part. Commentary is not provided for every provision of subpart C of this part, as some provisions are self-explanatory.


(a) *Authority and purpose.* Section 210.40(a) states that the purpose of subpart C of this part is to provide rules to govern funds transfers through the FedNow Service and recites the Board's rulemaking authority for this subpart. Subpart C of this part is Federal law and is not a “funds-transfer system rule,” as defined in section 4A-501(b) of Article 4A, Funds Transfers, of the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC), as set forth in appendix A of this part. Certain provisions of Article 4A may not be varied by a funds-transfer system rule, but under section 4A-107, regulations of the Board and Operating Circulars of the Federal Reserve Banks supersede inconsistent provisions of Article 4A to the extent of the inconsistency. In addition, regulations of the Board may preempt inconsistent provisions of state law. Accordingly, subpart C of this part supersedes or preempts inconsistent provisions of state law. It does not affect state law governing funds transfers that does not conflict with the provisions of subpart C of this part, such as Article 4A, as enacted in any state, as such state law may apply to parties to funds transfers through the FedNow Service whose rights and obligations are not governed by subpart C of this part.


(b) *Scope.* (1) Subpart C of this part incorporates the provisions of Article 4A set forth in appendix A of this part. The provisions set forth expressly in the sections of subpart C of this part supersede or preempt any inconsistent provisions of Article 4A as set forth in appendix A of this part or as enacted in any state. The official comments to Article 4A are not incorporated in subpart C of this part or this commentary to subpart C of this part, but the official comments may be useful in interpreting Article 4A as set forth in appendix A of this part. Because section 4A-105 refers to other provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code (*e.g.,* definitions in article 1 of the UCC), these other provisions of the UCC, as approved by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, which is now also known as the Uniform Law Commission, and the American Law Institute, from time to time, are also incorporated into subpart C of this part. Subpart C of this part applies to any party to a funds transfer sent through the FedNow Service that is in privity with a Federal Reserve Bank. These parties include a sender (bank or nonbank) that sends a payment order to a Federal Reserve Bank through the FedNow Service, a receiving bank that receives a payment order from a Federal Reserve Bank, and a beneficiary that receives credit to an account that it uses or maintains at a Federal Reserve Bank as payment for a payment order accepted by a Federal Reserve Bank. Subpart C of this part also applies to Federal Reserve Banks that send or receive payment orders over the FedNow Service. For example, if a sender settles its activity over the FedNow Service in the account of a correspondent bank, the sender's Federal Reserve Bank would be a bank in the funds transfer chain, but the Federal Reserve Bank of the correspondent bank would not be a sender or receiving bank with respect to the payment order and would not be a party to the funds transfer. Other parties to a funds transfer sent through the FedNow Service are covered by this subpart to the same extent that this subpart would apply to them if this subpart were a “funds-transfer system rule” under Article 4A that selected subpart C of this part as the governing law.


(2) The scope of the applicability of a funds-transfer system rule under Article 4A is specified in section 4A-501(b), and the scope of the choice of law provision is specified in section 4A-507(c). Under section 4A-507(c), a choice of law provision is binding on the participants in a funds-transfer system and certain other parties having notice that the funds-transfer system might be used for the funds transfer and of the choice of law provision. The Uniform Commercial Code provides that a person has notice of a fact when the person has actual knowledge of it, receives a notice or notification of it, or has reason to know that it exists from all the facts and circumstances known to the person at the time in question. (*See* UCC sec. 1-202.) However, under sections 4A-507(b) and 4A-507(d), a choice of law by agreement of the parties takes precedence over a choice of law made by funds-transfer system rule.


(3) With respect to funds transfers sent through the FedNow Service, if originators and beneficiaries that are not in privity with a Federal Reserve Bank have the notice contemplated by Section 4A-507(c) or if those parties agree to be bound by subpart C of this part, subpart C of this part generally would apply to those remote parties. If remote parties to a funds transfer, a portion of which is sent through the FedNow Service, have expressly selected by agreement a law other than subpart C of this part under section 4A-507(b), subpart C of this part would not take precedence over the choice of law made by the agreement even though the remote parties had notice that the FedNow Service may be used and of the governing law. (*See* 4A-507(d).) In addition, subpart C of this part would not apply to a funds transfer sent through a funds-transfer system other than the FedNow Service, even though settlement for the funds transfer is made by means of a separate funds transfer through the FedNow Service.


(4) Under section 4A-108, Article 4A does not apply to a funds transfer, any part of which is governed by the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (EFTA) (15 U.S.C. 1693 *et seq.*). A funds transfer from a consumer originator or a funds transfer to a consumer beneficiary could be carried out through the FedNow Service and could potentially be subject to the EFTA and Regulation E (12 CFR part 1005) implementing it. If so, the funds transfer continues to also be governed by subpart C, except that, in the event of an inconsistency between the provisions of subpart C and the EFTA, the EFTA shall prevail to the extent of the inconsistency. (See also the commentary to section 210.41 in this appendix, “Payment Order.”) For example, a funds transfer may be initiated from a consumer's account at a depository institution, and the depository institution may execute that payment order by sending a conforming payment order to a Reserve Bank through the FedNow Service. If that transfer is subject to the EFTA, then examples of how the provisions of subpart C may govern the transfer include, but are not limited to, the following:


(i) Where the consumer subsequently gives timely notice that the transfer was an unauthorized electronic fund transfer to its depository institution and exercises the right to obtain a refund under the EFTA, the depository institution would be required to comply with the EFTA and the applicable provisions of the EFTA would govern the institution's obligations to its customer, even if under subpart C the institution does not have a right to receive a refund or reverse the payment order sent to the Reserve Bank through the FedNow Service.


(ii) Where the customer properly asserts an error under the EFTA with respect to the transfer and exercises the right to obtain a refund to correct the error under the EFTA, the depository institution would be required to comply with the EFTA and the applicable provisions of the EFTA would govern the institution's obligations to its customer, even if under subpart C the institution is obliged to pay its payment order sent to the Reserve Bank through the FedNow Service.


(c) *Operating Circulars.* The Federal Reserve Banks issue Operating Circulars consistent with this subpart that contain additional provisions applicable to payment orders and other messages sent through the FedNow Service. Under section 4A-107, this Operating Circular supersedes inconsistent provisions of Article 4A, both as set forth in appendix A of this part and as enacted in any state. These Operating Circulars are not funds-transfer system rules, but, by their terms, they are binding on all parties covered by this subpart.


(d) *Government senders, receiving banks, and beneficiaries.* This section clarifies that unless a statute of the United States provides otherwise, subpart C of this part applies to governmental entities.


(e) *Financial messaging standards.* This paragraph makes clear that financial messaging standards, including the financial messaging components, elements, technical documentation, tags, and terminology used to implement those standards, do not confer or connote legal status or responsibilities. Instead, subpart C of this part and Federal Reserve Bank operating circulars govern the rights and obligations of parties to funds transfers sent through the FedNow Service as provided in § 210.40(b). Thus, to the extent there is any inconsistency between a financial messaging standard adopted by the FedNow Service and subpart C of this part, subpart C of this part, including Article 4A as set forth in appendix A of this part, will prevail. In the ISO 20022 financial messaging standard, for example, the term agent is used to refer to a variety of bank parties to a funds transfer (*e.g., debtor agent, creditor agent, intermediary agent*). Notwithstanding use of that term in the standard and in message tags, such banks are not the agents of any party to a funds transfer and owe no duty to any other party to such a funds transfer except as provided in subpart C of this part (including Article 4A) or by express agreement. The ISO 20022 financial messaging standard also permits information to be carried in a funds-transfer message regarding persons that are not parties to that funds transfer (*e.g., ultimate debtor, ultimate creditor, initiating party*) for regulatory, compliance, remittance, or other purposes. An “ultimate debtor” is not an “originator” as defined in Article 4A. The relationship between the ultimate debtor and the originator (what the ISO 20022 standard calls the “debtor”) is determined by law other than Article 4A.


Article 4A defines many terms (*e.g., beneficiary, intermediary bank, receiving bank, security procedure*) used in this subpart. These terms are defined or listed in sections 4A-103 through 4A-105. These terms, such as the term bank (defined in section 4A-105(d)(2)), may differ from comparable terms in subpart A and subpart B of this part. As subpart C of this part incorporates consistent provisions of Article 4A, it incorporates these definitions unless these terms are expressly defined otherwise in subpart C of this part. This subpart modifies the definitions of five Article 4A terms: *beneficiary, beneficiary's bank, payment order, receiving bank,* and *sender*. This subpart also defines terms not defined in Article 4A.


*Article 4A. Article 4A* means the version of that article of the Uniform Commercial Code set forth in appendix A of this part. It does not refer to the law of any particular state unless the context indicates otherwise. Subject to the express provisions of this Subpart, this version of Article 4A is incorporated into this subpart and made Federal law for transactions covered by this subpart. (*See* § 210.40(b)(1) and accompanying commentary.) Because section 4A-105 refers to other provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code (*e.g.,* definitions in article 1 of the UCC) these other provisions of the UCC, as approved by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, which is now also known as the Uniform Law Commission, and the American Law Institute, from time to time, are also incorporated in subpart C of this part.


*Beneficiary, beneficiary's bank, receiving bank,* and *sender.* The definitions of “beneficiary,” “beneficiary's bank,” “receiving bank,” and “sender” in subpart C of this part differ from the definitions in sections 4A-103(a)(2)-(4). The subpart C definition clarifies that, for the purposes of subpart C of this part, these terms are limited to parties in a funds transfer that is sent through the FedNow Service. For example, the parties to a funds transfer that is sent through the Fedwire Funds Service would be governed by subpart B of this part, and would not be a “beneficiary,” “beneficiary's bank,” “receiving bank,” or “sender” governed by subpart C. The definition of “beneficiary's bank” in subpart C further clarifies that where a Federal Reserve Bank functions as the beneficiary's bank, it need not be identified in the payment order as the beneficiary's bank and that a Federal Reserve Bank that receives a payment order as beneficiary is also the beneficiary's bank with respect to that payment order.


*The FedNow Service.* The FedNow Service refers to the funds-transfer system owned and operated by the Federal Reserve Banks to support instant payments that is governed by this Subpart. The term does not refer to any particular computer, telecommunications facility, or funds transfer, but rather to the system as a whole. The FedNow Service does not include the Fedwire Funds Service or the system used for automated clearing house transfers.


*Payment Order.* (1) The definition of “payment order” in subpart C of this part differs from the section 4A-103(a)(1) definition. The subpart C definition clarifies that, for the purposes of subpart C of this part, the term includes only instructions transmitted through the FedNow Service. For example, instructions transmitted through the Fedwire Funds Service would be governed by subpart B of this part, and not subpart C.


Additionally, the subpart C definition provides that certain messages that are transmitted through the FedNow Service are not payment orders. Federal Reserve Banks and banks participating in the FedNow Service send various types of messages relating to payment orders or to other matters, through the FedNow Service, that are not intended to be payment orders. In some cases, messages sent through the FedNow Service, such as certain requests for payment, may be payment orders under Article 4A, but are not treated as payment orders under subpart C because they are not an instruction to a Federal Reserve Bank to pay or cause another bank to pay money. Under the subpart C definition, these messages are not “payment orders” governed by this subpart. The operating circulars of the Federal Reserve Banks may specify those messages that may be transmitted through the FedNow Service but that are not payment orders.


(2) Subpart C, including its incorporation of Article 4A, governs a payment order even though the originator's or beneficiary's account may be a consumer account established primarily for personal, family, or household purposes. Under section 4A-108, Article 4A does not apply to a funds transfer any part of which is governed by the Electronic Fund Transfer Act. That Act, and Regulation E (12 CFR part 1005) implementing it, may govern a transfer through the FedNow Service that is from a consumer originator or to a consumer beneficiary. In the event that a transfer through the FedNow Service is subject to the EFTA, the transfer continues to also be governed by this subpart, except that, in the event of an inconsistency between the provisions of subpart C and the EFTA, the EFTA shall prevail to the extent of the inconsistency. (See also § 210.40(b) and accompanying commentary.) Thus, this subpart applies to all funds transfers through the FedNow Service even though some such transfers involve originators or beneficiaries that are consumers.


*Sender's settlement account, receiving bank's settlement acc*ount, and *beneficiary's settlement account.* A FedNow participant must designate an account on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank that the Federal Reserve Banks may use to settle the participant's activity over the FedNow Service. A FedNow participant may settle its activity over the FedNow Service in its master account. Alternatively, it may designate the account of a correspondent bank that the Federal Reserve Banks may use to settle activity through the service, subject to the correspondent bank's agreement to any such designation.


(a) *Reliance by a Federal Reserve Bank on number to identify intermediary bank or beneficiary's bank.* Section 4A-208 provides that a receiving bank, such as a Federal Reserve Bank, may rely on the routing number of an intermediary bank or the beneficiary's bank specified in a payment order as identifying the appropriate intermediary bank or beneficiary's bank, even if the payment order identifies another bank by name, provided that the receiving bank does not know of the inconsistency. Under section 4A-208(b)(2), if the sender of the payment order is not a bank, a receiving bank may rely on the number only if the sender had notice before the receiving bank accepted the sender's order that the receiving bank might rely on the number. This section provides this notice to entities that are not banks, such as the Department of the Treasury, that send payment orders directly to a Federal Reserve Bank through the FedNow Service.


(b) *Reliance by a Federal Reserve Bank on number to identify beneficiary.* Section 4A-207 provides that a beneficiary's bank, such as a Federal Reserve Bank, may rely on the number identifying a beneficiary, such as the beneficiary's account number, specified in a payment order as identifying the appropriate beneficiary, even if the payment order identifies another beneficiary by name, provided that the beneficiary's bank does not know of the inconsistency. Under section 4A-207(c)(2), if the originator is not a bank, an originator is not obliged to pay for a payment order if the originator did not have notice that the beneficiary's bank might rely on the identifying number and the person paid on the basis of the identifying number was not entitled to receive payment. This section of subpart C provides this notice to entities that are not banks, such as the Department of the Treasury, that are originators of payment orders sent directly by the originators to a Federal Reserve Bank through the FedNow Service, where that Federal Reserve Bank or another Federal Reserve Bank is the beneficiary's bank (see also section 4A-402(b), providing that a sender must pay a beneficiary's bank for a payment order accepted by the beneficiary's bank).


(a) *Payment of sender's obligation to a Federal Reserve Bank.* When a sender sends a payment order to a Federal Reserve Bank and the Federal Reserve Bank accepts the payment order by issuing a conforming order executing the sender's payment order, under section 4A-402, the sender is indebted to the Federal Reserve Bank for the amount of the payment order. Section 4A-403 specifies the various methods by which a sender may settle the obligation under section 4A-402. With respect to a payment order sent through the FedNow Service, the obligation of a sender (other than a Federal Reserve Bank) is settled by a debit to the account of the sender at a Federal Reserve Bank. Section 210.43(a) provides that a sender, other than a Federal Reserve Bank, that maintains or uses a settlement account at a Federal Reserve Bank authorizes its Federal Reserve Bank to debit, or cause any other Federal Reserve Bank on whose books the settlement account is maintained to debit, that account, so that the Federal Reserve Bank can obtain payment for the payment order.


(b) *Overdrafts.* (1) In some cases, debits to a sender's settlement account will create an overdraft in the settlement account. The Board and the Federal Reserve Banks have established policies concerning when a Federal Reserve Bank will permit a bank to incur an overdraft in its account at a Federal Reserve Bank. These policies do not give a bank or other sender a right to an overdraft in its account. Subpart C clarifies that a sender does not have a right to such an overdraft. If an overdraft arises, it becomes immediately due and payable at the earliest of the following times: The end of the FedNow funds-transfer business day; the time the Federal Reserve Bank in its sole discretion, deems itself insecure and gives notice to the sender; or the time that the sender suspends payments or is closed by governmental action, such as the appointment of a receiver. In some cases, a Federal Reserve Bank extends its FedNow operations beyond the standard cut-off time for that FedNow funds-transfer business day. For the purposes of this section, unless otherwise specified by the Federal Reserve Bank making such an extension, an overdraft becomes due and payable at the end of the extended operating hours. An overdraft becomes due and payable prior to a Federal Reserve Bank's cut-off time if the Federal Reserve Bank deems itself insecure and gives notice to the sender. A Federal Reserve Bank that deems itself insecure may give such notice in accordance with the provisions on notice in section 1-202(d) of the UCC, in accordance with any other applicable law or agreement, or by any other reasonable means. An overdraft also becomes due and payable at the time that a bank is closed or suspends payments. For example, an overdraft becomes due and payable if a receiver is appointed for the bank or the bank is prevented from making payments by governmental order. The Federal Reserve Bank need not make demand on the sender for the overdraft to become due and payable.


(2) A sender must cover any overdraft and any other obligation of the sender to the Federal Reserve Bank by the time the overdraft becomes due and payable. By sending a payment order to a Federal Reserve Bank, the sender grants a security interest to the Federal Reserve Bank in all of the assets of the sender possessed or controlled by, or held for the account of, the Federal Reserve Bank in order to secure all obligations due or to become due to the Federal Reserve Bank. The security interest attaches when the overdraft, or other obligation of the sender to the Federal Reserve Bank, becomes due and payable. The security interest does not apply to assets held by the sender as custodian or trustee for the sender's customers or third parties. Once an overdraft is due and payable, a Federal Reserve Bank may exercise its right of set off, liquidate collateral, or take other similar action to satisfy the obligation the sender owes to the Federal Reserve Bank.


(c) *Review of payment orders.* (1) Under section 4A-204, a receiving bank is required to refund the principal amount of an unauthorized payment order that the sender was not obliged to pay, together with interest on the refundable amount calculated from the date that the receiving bank received payment to the date of the refund. The sender is not entitled to compensation in the form of interest if the sender fails to exercise ordinary care to determine that the order was not authorized and to notify the receiving bank within a reasonable time after the sender receives a notice that the payment order was accepted or that the sender's account was debited with respect to the order. Similarly, under section 4A-304, if a sender of a payment order that was erroneously executed does not notify the bank receiving the payment order within a reasonable time, the bank is not liable to the sender for compensation in the form of interest on any amount refundable to the sender. Section 210.43(c) establishes 60 calendar days as the reasonable period of time for the purposes of these provisions of Article 4A.


(2) Section 4A-505 provides that in order for a customer to assert a claim objecting to a debit to its account by a receiving bank, the customer must notify the receiving bank of its objection within one year after the customer received notification reasonably identifying the payment order. Subpart C of this part does not vary this one-year claim preclusion period.


(b) *Funds availability.* (1) Section 4A-209(b) provides that a beneficiary's bank accepts a payment order at the earliest of certain specified events, including when the bank receives payment for the entire amount of the order from the sender (*see* section 4A-209(b)(2)). Section 4A-404(a) provides that if a beneficiary's bank accepts a payment order, it is obliged to pay the amount of a payment order to the beneficiary on the payment date unless acceptance of the payment order occurs on the payment date after the close of the funds-transfer business day of the bank. Section 4A-405(a) provides that if a beneficiary's bank pays the beneficiary by crediting an account of the beneficiary on its own books, payment of the bank's obligation under Section 4A-404(a) occurs when and to the extent (i) the bank notifies the beneficiary that it may withdraw the amount of the credit, (ii) the bank lawfully applies the credit to a debt of the beneficiary, or (iii) funds with respect to the payment order are otherwise made available to the beneficiary by the bank.


(2) Section 210.44(b)(1) provides that if a FedNow participant that is the beneficiary's bank accepts a payment order, it must pay the beneficiary by credit to the beneficiary's account in accordance with section 4A-405(a) of Article 4A, and it must do so immediately after its acceptance of the payment order. This section further clarifies that the provisions of the Expedited Funds Availability Act (12 U.S.C. 4002(a)) and its implementing regulation, Regulation CC (12 CFR part 229), also govern. Regulation CC provides that funds received by a bank by an electronic payment shall be available for withdrawal not later than the business day after the banking day on which such funds are received. (12 CFR 229.10(b).) Because Subpart C of this part requires funds to be made available on a more prompt basis than the availability requirements of the Expedited Funds Availability Act and Regulation CC, that act and Regulation CC do not preempt or invalidate subpart C. For example, if a beneficiary's bank accepts a payment order through the FedNow Service at 10 a.m. but does not make funds available to the beneficiary until 5 p.m., the bank has failed to satisfy its obligations under subpart C of this part even if it has satisfied its obligations under Regulation CC.


(3) Section 210.44(b)(2) clarifies that the obligation for the beneficiary's bank to provide immediate funds availability to the beneficiary under § 210.44(b)(1), and any Operating Circular issued in accordance with subpart C, should not be construed as creating any rights that the beneficiary or any party other than a Federal Reserve Bank may assert against the beneficiary's bank, or affect any liability of the beneficiary's bank to the beneficiary or any party other than a Federal Reserve Bank under Article 4A or other law. In the example above, where the beneficiary's bank accepts a payment order through the FedNow Service at 10 a.m. but does not make funds available to the beneficiary until 5 p.m., the bank has failed to satisfy its obligations under § 210.44(b)(1) but the beneficiary would not have a claim or right to assert against the bank under that provision.


(4) Section 210.46(a) provides that payment by a Federal Reserve Bank to a receiving bank occurs when the receiving bank's settlement account is credited or when the payment order is sent by the Federal Reserve Bank to the receiving bank, whichever is earlier, and would ordinarily be considered acceptance of the payment order by the beneficiary's bank under section 4A-209(b). Section 210.44(b)(3) provides that notwithstanding section 4A-209(b), in certain circumstances a beneficiary's bank is not deemed to accept a payment order at such time as it receives payment from its Federal Reserve Bank. Specifically, where the beneficiary's bank has reasonable cause to believe that the beneficiary is not entitled or permitted to receive payment and the beneficiary's bank notifies its Federal Reserve Bank that it requires additional time to determine whether to accept the payment order, this section provides that for purposes of subpart C and Article 4A, the beneficiary's bank does not accept the payment order even if it has received payment for the entire amount of the order from its Federal Reserve Bank as provided in § 210.46.


For example, if the beneficiary's bank has reasonable cause to believe that making funds available to the beneficiary may violate applicable U.S. sanctions, the beneficiary's bank may notify its Federal Reserve Bank that it requires additional time to determine whether to accept the payment order, including to investigate if the beneficiary is subject to applicable sanctions. As an additional example, if the beneficiary's bank has reasonable cause to believe that a particular payment order may be related to fraudulent activity, the beneficiary's bank may notify its Federal Reserve Bank that it requires additional time to determine whether to accept the payment order, including to investigate the suspected fraudulent activity. In both examples, in the event the beneficiary's bank gives such notice, the beneficiary's bank would not be deemed to have accepted the payment order at the time it receives payment from its Federal Reserve Bank.


(a) *Rejection.* (1) A sender must make arrangements with its Federal Reserve Bank before it can send payment orders to the Federal Reserve Bank. Federal Reserve Banks reserve the right to reject or impose conditions on the acceptance of payment orders for any reason. For example, a Federal Reserve Bank might reject or impose conditions on accepting a payment order where a sender does not have sufficient funds in its settlement account with the Federal Reserve Bank to cover the amount of the sender's payment order and other obligations of the sender due or to become due to the Federal Reserve Bank. As a further example, a Federal Reserve Bank may reject a payment order that is not successfully processed within time limits established by the Federal Reserve Banks. A Federal Reserve Bank may require a sender to execute a written agreement concerning security procedures or other matters before the sender may send payment orders to the Federal Reserve Bank.


(b) *Selection of an intermediary bank.* (1) Under section 4A-302, if a receiving bank (other than a beneficiary's bank), such as a Federal Reserve Bank, accepts a payment order, it must issue a payment order that complies with the sender's order. The sender's order may include instructions concerning an intermediary bank to be used that must be followed by a receiving bank (see section 4A-302(a)(1)). If the sender does not designate any intermediary bank in its payment order, the receiving bank may select an intermediary bank through which the sender's payment order can be expeditiously issued to the beneficiary's bank so long as the receiving bank exercises ordinary care in selecting the intermediary bank (see section 4A-302(b)).


(2) This section provides that in an interdistrict transfer, a Federal Reserve Bank is authorized and directed to select another Federal Reserve Bank as an intermediary bank. A sender may not instruct a Federal Reserve Bank to use a particular intermediary bank or to use its discretion to select an intermediary bank other than a Federal Reserve Bank. In addition, a sender may not send a payment order through the FedNow Service that instructs a Federal Reserve Bank to use a funds-transfer system or means of transmission other than the FedNow Service, unless the sender and the Federal Reserve Bank agree in writing to the use of that funds-transfer system or means of transmission.


(c) *Execution date and payment date.* (1) Under 4A-301(b), the “execution date” of a payment order means the day on which the receiving bank may properly issue a payment order in execution of the sender's order. Under section 4A-401, the “payment date” of a payment order is the day on which the amount of the order is payable to the beneficiary by the beneficiary's bank. The execution date and the payment date may be determined by instruction of the sender but cannot be earlier than the day the order is received and, unless otherwise determined, is the day the order is received (see sections 4A-301(b) and 4A-401). Section 4A-106, provides for the time that a payment order is received, including in the event that a receiving bank fixes a cut-off time for the receipt and processing of payment orders. If the bank receives a payment order after its cut-off time, the bank may treat the payment order as received at the opening of the next funds-transfer business day (see section 4A-106(a)).


(2) The FedNow Service is designed to be an instant value transfer system through which funds may be transferred from the originator to the beneficiary on the same funds-transfer business day. This section provides that a sender may not send a payment order to a Federal Reserve Bank that specifies an execution date or payment date later than the day on which the payment order is issued, unless the sender of the order and the Federal Reserve Bank agree in writing to the arrangement.


(a) *Payment to a receiving bank.* (1) Under section 4A-402, when a Federal Reserve Bank executes a sender's payment order by issuing a conforming order to a receiving bank that accepts the payment order, the Federal Reserve Bank must pay the receiving bank the amount of the payment order. Section 210.44(a) authorizes a Federal Reserve Bank to make the payment by crediting, or causing any other Federal Reserve Bank on whose books the settlement account is maintained to credit, the settlement account of the receiving bank. Section 210.46(a) provides that the payment occurs when the receiving bank's settlement account is credited or when the payment order is sent by the Federal Reserve Bank to the receiving bank, whichever is earlier. Ordinarily, payment will occur during the FedNow funds-transfer business day a short time after the payment order is received. This credit is final and irrevocable when made and constitutes final settlement under section 4A-403. Payment does not waive a Federal Reserve Bank's right of recovery under the applicable law of mistake and restitution (*see* § 210.47(c)), affect a Federal Reserve Bank's right to apply the funds to any obligation due or to become due to the Federal Reserve Bank, or affect legal process or claims by third parties on the funds.


(2) This section on final payment does not apply to settlement for payment orders between Federal Reserve Banks. These payment orders are settled by other means.


(b) *Payment to a beneficiary.* Section 210.46(b) specifies when a Federal Reserve Bank makes payment to a beneficiary for which it is the beneficiary's bank. As in the case of payment to a receiving bank, this payment occurs at the earlier of the time that the Federal Reserve Bank credits the beneficiary's settlement account or sends notice of the credit to the beneficiary, and is final and irrevocable when made.


(a) *Damages.* (1) Under section 4A-305(d), damages for failure of a receiving bank to execute a payment order that it was obligated to execute by express agreement are limited to expenses in the transaction and incidental expenses and interest and do not include additional damages, including consequential damages, unless they are provided for in an express written agreement of the receiving bank. This section clarifies that in connection with the handling of payment orders, Federal Reserve Banks may not agree to be liable for consequential damages under this provision and shall not be liable for damages other than those that may be due under Article 4A to parties governed by this subpart. Any agreement in conflict with these provisions would not be effective, because it would be in violation of subpart C.


(2) This section does not affect the ability of other parties to a funds transfer to agree to be liable for consequential damages, the liability of a Federal Reserve Bank under section 4A-404 (relating to obligation of beneficiary's bank to pay and give notice to beneficiary), or the liability to parties governed by subpart C for claims not based on the handling of a payment order under subpart C.


(b) *Payment of compensation.* (1) Under Article 4A, a Federal Reserve Bank may be required to pay compensation in the form of interest to another party in connection with its handling of a funds transfer. For example, payment of compensation in the form of interest is required in certain situations pursuant to sections 4A-204 (relating to refund of payment and duty of customer to report with respect to unauthorized payment order), 4A-209 (relating to acceptance of payment order), 4A-210 (relating to rejection of payment order), 4A-304 (relating to duty of sender to report erroneously executed payment order), 4A-305 (relating to liability for late or improper execution or failure to execute a payment order), 4A-402 (relating to obligation of sender to pay receiving bank), and 4A-404 (relating to obligation of beneficiary's bank to pay and give notice to beneficiary).


(2) Section 210.47(b) requires Federal Reserve Banks to provide compensation through payment in the form of interest. Under section 4A-506(a), the amount of such interest may be determined by agreement between the sender and receiving bank or by funds-transfer system rule. If there is no such agreement, under section 4A-506(b), the amount of interest is based on the Federal funds rate. Similarly, compensation in the form of interest will be paid to government senders, receiving banks, or beneficiaries described in § 210.40(d) if they are entitled to interest under subpart C. A Federal Reserve Bank may also, in its discretion, pay compensation in the form of interest directly to a remote party to a transfer through the FedNow Service that is entitled to interest, rather than providing compensation to its sender or receiving bank.


(3) If a sender or receiving bank that received a payment of compensation is not the party entitled to compensation under Article 4A, the sender or receiving bank must pass the benefit of the compensation payment made to it to the party that is entitled to compensation. The benefit may be passed on either in the form of a direct payment of interest or in the form of a compensating balance, if the party entitled to interest agrees to accept the other form of compensation. In the latter case, the value of the compensating balance must be at least equivalent to the value of the interest payment that otherwise would have been provided.


(c) *Nonwaiver of right of recovery.* Several sections of Article 4A allow a party to a funds transfer to make a claim pursuant to the applicable law of mistake and restitution. Nothing in subpart C of this part or any Operating Circular issued in accordance with subpart C of this part waives any such claim by a Federal Reserve Bank. A Federal Reserve Bank, however, may waive such a claim by express written agreement in order to settle litigation or for other purposes.








