# ยง 25.222   Notice of brewer.

(a) *Beer to be destroyed.* When a brewer possesses beer which has been taxpaid or tax determined and which the brewer wishes to destroy at a location other than at any of the brewer's breweries, the brewer shall give written notice of intention to destroy the beer. The brewer must submit this notice to the appropriate TTB officer.


(b) *Execution of notice.* The brewer shall serially number each notice and execute each notice under penalties of perjury as defined in ยง 25.11. The brewer shall specify the date on which the beer is to be destroyed; this date may not be less than 12 days from the date the notice is mailed or delivered to the appropriate TTB officer.


(c) *Information to be furnished.* The notice will contain the following information:


(1) The number and sizes of kegs and the actual quantity of beer, in barrels; or the number of cases and the number and sizes of bottles within the cases, and the actual quantity of beer in barrels. When kegs containing less than the actual contents are to be destroyed, the brewer shall determine the actual content of beer by weight or by other accurate means.


(2) The date on which the beer was received for destruction.


(3) A statement that the tax on the beer has been fully paid or determined and the rate at which the tax on the beer was paid or determined.


(4) If the title of the beer has passed, the name and address of the person returning the beer.


(5) The location at which the brewer desires to destroy the beer and the reason for not returning the beer to the brewery.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-224, 51 FR 7673, Mar. 5, 1986, as amended by T.D. ATF-437, 66 FR 5479, Jan. 19, 2001]




