# ยง 1240.70   Decision by the Service.

(a) *Service of decision.* Unless the asylum officer has granted the application for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal at the time of the interview or as otherwise provided by an Asylum Office, the applicant will be required to return to the Asylum Office to receive service of the decision on the applicant's application. If the applicant does not speak English fluently, the applicant shall bring an interpreter when returning to the office to receive service of the decision.


(b) *Grant of suspension of deportation.* An asylum officer may grant suspension of deportation to an applicant eligible to apply for this relief with the Service who qualifies for suspension of deportation under former section 244(a)(1) of the Act, as in effect prior to April 1, 1997, who is not an alien described in former section 241(a)(4)(D) of the Act, as in effect prior to April 1, 1997, and who admits deportability under any law of the United States, excluding former section 241(a)(2), (3), or (4) of the Act, as in effect prior to April 1, 1997. If the Service has made a preliminary decision to grant the applicant suspension of deportation under this subpart, the applicant shall be notified of that decision and will be asked to sign an admission of deportability or inadmissibility. The applicant must sign the admission before the Service may grant the relief sought. If suspension of deportation is granted, the Service shall adjust the status of the alien to lawful permanent resident, effective as of the date that suspension of deportation is granted.


(c) *Grant of cancellation of removal.* An asylum officer may grant cancellation of removal to an applicant who is eligible to apply for this relief with the Service, and who qualifies for cancellation of removal under section 309(f)(1)(A) of IIRIRA, as amended by section 203 of NACARA, and who admits deportability under section 237(a), excluding paragraphs (2), (3), and (4), of the Act, or inadmissibility under section 212(a), excluding paragraphs (2) or (3), of the Act. If the Service has made a preliminary decision to grant the applicant cancellation of removal under this subpart, the applicant shall be notified of that decision and asked to sign an admission of deportability or inadmissibility. The applicant must sign the concession before the Service may grant the relief sought. If the Service grants cancellation of removal, the Service shall adjust the status of the alien to lawful permanent resident, effective as of the date that cancellation of removal is granted.


(d) *Referral of the application.* Except as provided in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, and unless the applicant is granted asylum or is in lawful immigrant or non-immigrant status, an asylum officer shall refer the application for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal to the Immigration Court for adjudication in deportation or removal proceedings, and will provide the applicant with written notice of the statutory or regulatory basis for the referral, if:


(1) The applicant is not clearly eligible for suspension of deportation under former section 244(a)(1) of the Act as in effect prior to April 1, 1997, or for cancellation of removal under section 309(f)(1)(A) of IIRIRA, as amended by NACARA;


(2) The applicant does not appear to merit relief as a matter of discretion;


(3) The applicant appears to be eligible for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal under this subpart, but does not admit deportability or inadmissibility; or


(4) The applicant failed to appear for a scheduled interview with an asylum officer or failed to comply with fingerprinting processing requirements and such failure was not excused by the Service, unless the application is dismissed.


(e) *Dismissal of the application.* An asylum officer shall dismiss without prejudice an application for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal submitted by an applicant who has been granted asylum, or who is in lawful immigrant or non-immigrant status. An asylum officer may also dismiss an application for failure to appear, pursuant to ยง 1240.68. The asylum officer will provide the applicant written notice of the statutory or regulatory basis for the dismissal.


(f) *Special provisions for certain ABC class members whose proceedings before EOIR were administratively closed or continued.* The following provisions shall apply with respect to an *ABC* class member who was in proceedings before the Immigration Court or the Board, and those proceedings were closed or continued pursuant to the *ABC* settlement agreement:


(1) *Suspension of deportation or asylum granted.* If an asylum officer grants asylum or suspension of deportation, the previous proceedings before the Immigration Court or Board shall be terminated as a matter of law on the date relief is granted.


(2) *Asylum denied and application for suspension of deportation not approved.* If an asylum officer denies asylum and does not grant the applicant suspension of deportation, the Service shall move to recalendar proceedings before the Immigration Court or resume proceedings before the Board, whichever is appropriate. The Service shall refer to the Immigration Court or the Board the application for suspension of deportation. In the case where jurisdiction rests with the Board, an application for suspension of deportation that is referred to the Board will be remanded to the Immigration Court for adjudication.


(g) *Special provisions for dependents whose proceedings before EOIR were administratively closed or continued.* If an asylum officer grants suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal to an applicant described in ยง 1240.61(a)(4) or (a)(5), whose proceedings before EOIR were administratively closed or continued, those proceedings shall terminate as of the date the relief is granted. If suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal is not granted, the Service shall move to recalendar proceedings before the Immigration Court or resume proceedings before the Board, whichever is appropriate. The Service shall refer to the Immigration Court or the Board the application for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal. In the case where jurisdiction rests with the Board, an application for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal that is referred to the Board will be remanded to the Immigration Court for adjudication.


(h) *Special provisions for applicants who depart the United States and return under a grant of advance parole while in deportation proceedings.* Notwithstanding paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, for purposes of adjudicating an application for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal under this subpart, if an applicant departs and returns to the United States pursuant to a grant of advance parole while in deportation proceedings, including deportation proceedings administratively closed or continued pursuant to the *ABC* settlement agreement, the deportation proceedings will be considered terminated as of the date of applicant's departure from the United States. A decision on the NACARA application shall be issued in accordance with paragraph (a), and paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section.




