# ยง 64.7   Operation of approved monitoring.

(a) *Commencement of operation.* The owner or operator shall conduct the monitoring required under this part upon issuance of a part 70 or 71 permit that includes such monitoring, or by such later date specified in the permit pursuant to ยง 64.6(d).


(b) *Proper maintenance.* At all times, the owner or operator shall maintain the monitoring, including but not limited to, maintaining necessary parts for routine repairs of the monitoring equipment.


(c) *Continued operation.* Except for, as applicable, monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, and required quality assurance or control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments), the owner or operator shall conduct all monitoring in continuous operation (or shall collect data at all required intervals) at all times that the pollutant-specific emissions unit is operating. Data recorded during monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, and required quality assurance or control activities shall not be used for purposes of this part, including data averages and calculations, or fulfilling a minimum data availability requirement, if applicable. The owner or operator shall use all the data collected during all other periods in assessing the operation of the control device and associated control system. A monitoring malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the monitoring to provide valid data. Monitoring failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions.


(d) *Response to excursions or exceedances.* (1) Upon detecting an excursion or exceedance, the owner or operator shall restore operation of the pollutant-specific emissions unit (including the control device and associated capture system) to its normal or usual manner of operation as expeditiously as practicable in accordance with good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The response shall include minimizing the period of any startup, shutdown or malfunction and taking any necessary corrective actions to restore normal operation and prevent the likely recurrence of the cause of an excursion or exceedance (other than those caused by excused startup or shutdown conditions). Such actions may include initial inspection and evaluation, recording that operations returned to normal without operator action (such as through response by a computerized distribution control system), or any necessary follow-up actions to return operation to within the indicator range, designated condition, or below the applicable emission limitation or standard, as applicable.


(2) Determination of whether the owner or operator has used acceptable procedures in response to an excursion or exceedance will be based on information available, which may include but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures and records, and inspection of the control device, associated capture system, and the process.


(e) *Documentation of need for improved monitoring.* After approval of monitoring under this part, if the owner or operator identifies a failure to achieve compliance with an emission limitation or standard for which the approved monitoring did not provide an indication of an excursion or exceedance while providing valid data, or the results of compliance or performance testing document a need to modify the existing indicator ranges or designated conditions, the owner or operator shall promptly notify the permitting authority and, if necessary, submit a proposed modification to the part 70 or 71 permit to address the necessary monitoring changes. Such a modification may include, but is not limited to, reestablishing indicator ranges or designated conditions, modifying the frequency of conducting monitoring and collecting data, or the monitoring of additional parameters.




