# ยง 17.530   Agreement and obligated service.

(a) *General.* In addition to any requirements under section 5379(c) of title 5, a participant in the SELRP must agree, in writing, to the following:


(1) Obtain a license to practice medicine in a State;


(2) Successfully complete postgraduate training leading to eligibility for board certification in a medical specialty;


(3) Serve as a full-time clinical practice employee of VA for 12 months for every $40,000.00 that the participant receives payment through the SELRP, however, the participant must serve for a period of no fewer than 24 months; and


(4) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, begin obligated service as a full-time VA employee no later than 60 days after completing residency in the medical specialty described in ยง 17.527(a)(1).


(b) *Obligated service.* (1) *General provision.* A participant's obligated service will begin on the date on which the participant begins full-time permanent employment with VA in the qualifying field of medicine in a location determined by VA. Obligated service must be full-time permanent employment and does not include any period of temporary or contractual employment.


(2) *Location and position of obligated service.* VA will provide SELRP participants a list of qualifying medical facility locations. A participant may select a service location from that list. However, VA reserves the right to make final decisions on the location and position of the obligated service.


(c) *Exception to commencement of obligated service.* If a participant receives an accredited fellowship in a medical specialty other than the specialty described in ยง 17.27(a)(1), the participant may request, in writing, a delayed commencement of the period of obligated service until after the participant completes the fellowship. However, the period of obligated service will begin no later than 60 days after completion of such fellowship in the medical specialty described in ยง 17.527(a)(1).




