# ยง 751.307   Phase-out of processing trichloroethylene to manufacture of HFC-134a.

(a) Baseline. Before June 16, 2025, each manufacturer of HFC-134a who processes TCE as an intermediate must establish a baseline annual volume of TCE processed as an intermediate.


(1) The manufacturer must use the average annual volume of any 12 consecutive months in the 3 years preceding December 17, 2024 to calculate the baseline.


(2) The manufacturer must retain records that demonstrate how the baseline annual volume was calculated, in accordance with ยง 751.323(d)(1).


(b) Phase-out. (1) Beginning June 7, 2027, each manufacturer of HFC-134a who processes TCE as an intermediate is not permitted to process TCE as an intermediate at an annual volume greater than 75 percent of the baseline.


(2) Beginning June 18, 2029, each manufacturer of HFC-134a who processes TCE as an intermediate is not permitted to process TCE as an intermediate at an annual volume greater than 50 percent of the baseline.


(3) Beginning June 18, 2031, each manufacturer of HFC-134a who processes TCE as an intermediate is not permitted to process TCE as an intermediate at an annual volume greater than 25 percent of the baseline so established.


(4) Beginning June 18, 2033, each manufacturer of HFC-134a who processes TCE as an intermediate is prohibited from processing TCE as an intermediate.


(c) Workplace chemical protection program. The owner or operator of the location where TCE is processed as an intermediate in accordance with this section, and manufacturers (including importers) and processors of TCE for such use, must comply with ยง 751.315.


(d) *Recordkeeping.* The owner or operator of the location where TCE is processed as an intermediate in accordance with this section must comply with the recordkeeping requirements in ยง 751.323.






