# ยง 98.336   Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by ยง 98.3(c), each annual report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, as applicable, for each Waelz kiln or electrothermic furnace.


(a) If a CEMS is used to measure CO_2_ emissions, then you must report under this subpart the relevant information required for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in ยง 98.36 and the information listed in this paragraph (a):


(1) Annual zinc product production capacity (tons).


(2) Annual production quantity for each zinc product (tons).


(3) Annual facility production quantity for each zinc product (tons).


(4) Number of Waelz kilns at each facility used for zinc production.


(5) Number of electrothermic furnaces at each facility used for zinc production.


(6) Total amount of electric arc furnace dust annually consumed by all Waelz kilns at the facility (tons).








(b) If a CEMS is not used to measure CO_2_ emissions, then you must report the information listed in this paragraph (b):


(1) Identification number and annual process CO_2_ emissions from each individual Waelz kiln or electrothermic furnace (metric tons).


(2) Annual zinc product production capacity (tons).


(3) Annual production quantity for each zinc product (tons).


(4) Number of Waelz kilns at each facility used for zinc production.


(5) Number of electrothermic furnaces at each facility used for zinc production.


(6) Total amount of electric arc furnace dust annually consumed by all Waelz kilns at the facility (tons).








(7) [Reserved]


(8) Whether carbon content of each carbon-containing input material charged to each kiln or furnace is based on reports from the supplier or through self measurement using applicable ASTM standard method.


(9) If carbon content of each carbon-containing input material charged to each kiln or furnace is based on self measurement, the ASTM Standard Test Method used.


(10) [Reserved]


(11) Whether carbon content of the carbon electrode used in each furnace is based on reports from the supplier or through self measurement using applicable ASTM standard method.


(12) If carbon content of carbon electrode used in each furnace is based on self measurement, the ASTM standard method used.


(13) If you use the missing data procedures in ยง 98.335(b), you must report how the monthly mass of carbon-containing materials with missing data was determined and the number of months the missing data procedures were used.



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 66470, Oct. 28, 2010; 79 FR 63799, Oct. 24, 2014; 89 FR 31938, Apr. 25, 2024]




