# ยง 1048.120   What emission-related warranty requirements apply to me?

(a) *General requirements.* You must warrant to the ultimate purchaser and each subsequent purchaser that the new nonroad engine, including all parts of its emission-control system, meets two conditions:


(1) It is designed, built, and equipped so it conforms at the time of sale to the ultimate purchaser with the requirements of this part.


(2) It is free from defects in materials and workmanship that may keep it from meeting these requirements.


(b) *Warranty period.* Your emission-related warranty for evaporative emission controls must be valid for at least two years. Your emission-related warranty for exhaust emission controls must be valid for at least 50 percent of the engine's useful life in hours of operation or at least three years, whichever comes first. In the case of a high-cost warranted part, the warranty must be valid for at least 70 percent of the engine's useful life in hours of operation or at least five years, whichever comes first. You may offer an emission-related warranty more generous than we require. The emission-related warranty for the engine may not be shorter than any published warranty you offer without charge for the engine. Similarly, the emission-related warranty for any component may not be shorter than any published warranty you offer without charge for that component. If an engine has no hour meter, we base the warranty periods in this paragraph (b) only on the engine's age (in years). The warranty period begins when the engine is placed into service.


(c) *Components covered.* The emission-related warranty covers all your components whose failure would increase an engine's emissions of any regulated pollutant, including components listed in 40 CFR part 1068, Appendix I, and components from any other system you develop to control emissions. The emission-related warranty covers these components even if another company produces the component for you. Your emission-related warranty does not cover components whose failure would not increase an engine's emissions of any regulated pollutant.


(d) *Limited applicability.* You may deny warranty claims under this section if the operator caused the problem through improper maintenance or use, as described in 40 CFR 1068.115.


(e) *Owners manual.* Describe in the owners manual the emission-related warranty provisions from this section that apply to the engine.



---

[N] [70 FR 40467, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59233, Oct. 8, 2008; 75 FR 23021, Apr. 30, 2010]




