# § 513.105   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this part: 


*Adequate evidence.* Information sufficient to support the reasonable belief that a particular act or omission has occurred. 


*Affiliate.* Persons are affiliates of each other if, directly or indirectly, either one controls or has the power to control the other, *or*, a third person controls or has the power to control both. Indicia of control include, but are not limited to: interlocking management or ownership, identity of interests among family members, shared facilities and equipment, common use of employees, or a business entity organized following the suspension or debarment of a person which has the same or similar management, ownership, or principal employees as the suspended, debarred, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded person. 


*Agency.* Any executive department, military department or defense agency or other agency of the executive branch, excluding the independent regulatory agencies. 


*Civil judgment.* The disposition of a civil action by any court of competent jurisdiction, whether entered by verdict, decision, settlement, stipulation, or otherwise creating a civil liability for the wrongful acts complained of; or a final determination of liability under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1988 (31 U.S.C. 3801-12). 


*Conviction.* A judgment or conviction of a criminal offense by any court of competent jurisdiction, whether entered upon a verdict or a plea, including a plea of nolo contendere. 


*Debarment.* An action taken by a debarring official in accordance with these regulations to exclude a person from participating in covered transactions. A person so excluded is “debarred.” 


*Debarring official.* An official authorized to impose debarment. The debarring official is either: 


(1) The agency head, or 


(2) An official designated by the agency head. 


*Indictment.* Indictment for a criminal offense. An information or other filing by competent authority charging a criminal offense shall be given the same effect as an indictment. 


*Ineligible.* Excluded from participation in Federal nonprocurement programs pursuant to a determination of ineligibility under statutory, executive order, or regulatory authority, other than Executive Order 12549 and its agency implementing regulations; for exemple, excluded pursuant to the Davis-Bacon Act and its implementing regulations, the equal employment opportunity acts and executive orders, or the environmental protection acts and executive orders. A person is ineligible where the determination of ineligibility affects such person's eligibility to participate in more than one covered transaction. 


*Legal proceedings.* Any criminal proceeding or any civil judicial proceeding to which the Federal Government or a State or local government or quasi-governmental authority is a party. The term includes appeals from such proceedings. 


*List of Parties Excluded from Federal Procurement and Nonprocurement Programs.* A list compiled, maintained and distributed by the General Services Administration (GSA) containing the names and other information about persons who have been debarred, suspended, or voluntarily excluded under Executive Orders 12549 and 12689 and these regulations or 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, persons who have been proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, and those persons who have been determined to be ineligible. 


*Notice.* A written communication served in person or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, or its equivalent, to the last known address of a party, its identified counsel, its agent for service of process, or any partner, officer, director, owner, or joint venturer of the party. Notice, if undeliverable, shall be considered to have been received by the addressee five days after being properly sent to the last address known by the Board. 


*Participant.* Any person who submits a proposal for, enters into, or reasonably may be expected to enter into a covered transaction. This term also includes any person who acts on behalf of or is authorized to commit a participant in a covered transaction as an agent or representative of another participant. 


*Person.* Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, unit of government or legal entity, however organized, except: foreign governments or foreign governmental entities, public international organizations, foreign government owned (in whole or in part) or controlled entities, and entities consisting wholly or partially of foreign governments or foreign governmental entities. 


*Preponderance of the evidence.* Proof by information that, compared with that opposing it, leads to the conclusion that the fact at issue is more probably true than not. 


*Principal.* Officer, director, owner, partner, key employee, or other person within a participant with primary management or supervisory responsibilities; or a person who has a critical influence on or substantive control over a covered transaction, whether or not employed by the participant. Persons who have a critical influence on or substantive control over a covered transaction are: 


(1) Principal investigators. 


*Proposal.* A solicited or unsolicited bid, application, request, invitation to consider or similar communication by or on behalf of a person seeking to participate or to receive a benefit, directly or indirectly, in or under a covered transaction. 


*Respondent.* A person against whom a debarment or suspension action has been initiated. 


*State.* Any of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any agency of a State, exclusive of institutions of higher education, hospitals, and units of local government. A State instrumentality will be considered part of the State government if it has a written determination from a State government that such State considers that instrumentality to be an agency of the State government. 


*Suspending official.* An official authorized to impose suspension. The suspending official is either: 


(1) The agency head, or 


(2) An official designated by the agency head. 


*Suspension.* An action taken by a suspending official in accordance with these regulations that immediately excludes a person from participating in covered transactions for a temporary period, pending completion of an investigation and such legal, debarment, or Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act proceedings as may ensue. A person so excluded is “suspended.”


*Voluntary exclusion or voluntarily excluded.* A status of nonparticipation or limited participation in covered transactions assumed by a person pursuant to the terms of a settlement.


*Broadcasting Board of Governors.*


---

[N] [53 FR 19204, 19179, May 26, 1988, as amended at 60 FR 33041, 33045, June 26, 1995]




