# § 286.9   Fee for processing applications and issuing documentation at land border Ports-of-Entry.

(a) *General.* A fee may be charged and collected by the Commissioner for the processing and issuance of specified Service documents at land border Ports-of-Entry. These fees, as specified in 8 CFR 103.7(d), shall be dedicated to funding the cost of providing application-processing services at land border ports.


(b) *Forms for which a fee may be charged.* (1) A nonimmigrant alien who is required to be issued, or requests to be issued, Form I-94 (see § 1.4), Arrival/Departure Record, for admission at a land border Port-of-Entry must remit the required fee for issuance of Form I-94 upon determination of admissibility.


(2) A nonimmigrant alien applying for admission at a land border Port-of-Entry as a Visa Waiver Program applicant pursuant to § 217.2(c) or § 217.3(c) of this chapter must remit the required fee for issuance of Form I-94W, as prescribed in § 103.7(d)(5) of this chapter, upon determination of admissibility.


(3) A Mexican national in possession of a valid Form DSP-150, B-1/B-2 Visa and Border Crossing Card, issued by the DOS, or a passport and combined B-1/B-2 visa and non-biometric BCC (or similar stamp in a passport) issued by the DOS, who is required to be issued Form I-94, Arrival/Departure Record, pursuant to § 235.1(f) of this chapter, must remit the required fee for issuance of Form I-94 upon determination of admissibility. 


(4) A citizen or lawful permanent resident alien of the United States or a Canadian citizen or permanent resident of Canada who is a national of a designated Visa Waiver Program country listed in § 217.2(a) of this chapter who requests Form I-68, Canadian Border Boat Landing Permit, pursuant to § 235.1(e) of this chapter, for entry to the United States from Canada as an eligible pleasure boater on a designated body of water, must remit the required fee at the time of application for Form I-68.



---

[N] [60 FR 40069, Aug. 7, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 10390, Mar. 6, 1997; 67 FR 71450, Dec. 2, 2002; 68 FR 5194, Jan. 31, 2003; 78 FR 18472, Mar. 27, 2013; 85 FR 46928, Aug. 3, 2020; 85 FR 53645, Aug. 31, 2020; 87 FR 18981, Apr. 1, 2022]




