# § 382.717   Procedures for correcting certain information in the database.

(a) *Petitions limited to incorrectly reported information.* (1) Under this section, petitioners may request only that administrative errors be corrected (*e.g.,* errors in data entry or a duplicate report of a positive test result); petitioners may not contest the accuracy of test results, test refusals, or other violation information, under this section.


(2) *Exceptions.* (i) Petitioners may request that FMCSA add documentary evidence of a non-conviction to an employer's report of actual knowledge that the driver received a traffic citation for driving a commercial motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol or controlled substances if the citation did not result in a conviction. For the purposes of this section, conviction has the same meaning as used in 49 CFR part 383.


(ii) Petitioners may request that FMCSA remove from the Clearinghouse an employer's report of actual knowledge (other than as provided for in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section) if that report does not comply with the reporting requirements in § 382.705(b)(5).


(iii) Petitioners may request that FMCSA remove from the Clearinghouse an employer's report of a violation under 49 CFR 40.261(a)(1) or 40.191(a)(1) if that report does not comply with the reporting requirements in § 382.705(b)(3).


(b) *Petition.* Any driver or authorized representative of the driver may submit a petition to the FMCSA contesting the accuracy of information in the Clearinghouse. The petition must include:


(1) The petitioner's name, address, telephone number, and CDL number and State of issuance;


(2) Detailed description of the basis for the allegation that the information is not accurate; and


(3) Evidence supporting the allegation that the information is not accurate. Failure to submit evidence is cause for dismissing the petition.


(c) *Submission of petition.* The petitioner may submit his/her petition electronically through the Clearinghouse or in writing to: Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, ATTN: Drug and Alcohol Clearinghouse Petition for Review, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20590.


(d) *Notice of decision.* Within 45 days of receiving a complete petition, FMCSA will inform the driver in writing of its decision to remove, retain, or correct the information in the database and provide the basis for the decision.


(e) *Request for expedited treatment.* (1) A driver may request expedited treatment to correct inaccurate information in his or her Clearinghouse record under paragraph (a)(1) of this section if the inaccuracy is currently preventing him or her from performing safety-sensitive functions, or to remove employer reports under paragraph (a)(2) of this section if such reports are currently preventing him or her from performing safety-sensitive functions. This request may be included in the original petition or as a separate document.


(2) If FMCSA grants expedited treatment, it will subsequently inform the driver of its decision in writing within 14 days of receipt of a complete petition.


(f) *Administrative review.* (1) A driver may request FMCSA to conduct an administrative review if he or she believes that a decision made in accordance with paragraph (d) or (e) of this section was in error.


(2) The request must prominently state at the top of the document: “Administrative Review of Drug and Alcohol Clearinghouse Decision” and the driver may submit his/her request electronically through the Clearinghouse or in writing to FMCSA, ATTN: Drug and Alcohol Clearinghouse Administrative Review, Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE., Washington, DC 20590.


(3) The driver's request must explain the error he or she believes FMCSA committed and provide information and/or documents to support his or her argument.


(4) FMCSA will complete its administrative review no later than 30 days after receiving the driver's request for review. FMCSA's decision will constitute the final Agency action.


(g) *Subsequent notification to employers.* When information is corrected or removed in accordance with this section, or in accordance with 49 CFR part 10, FMCSA will notify any employer that accessed the incorrect information that a correction or removal was made.



---

[N] [81 FR 87725, Dec. 5, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 35640, July 7, 2021; 86 FR 55742, Oct. 7, 2021; 86 FR 57069, Oct. 14, 2021]




