# § 98.194   Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.

(a) You must determine the total quantity of each type of lime product that is produced and each calcined byproduct or waste (such as lime kiln dust) that is sold. The quantities of each should be directly measured monthly with the same plant instruments used for accounting purposes, including but not limited to, calibrated weigh feeders, rail or truck scales, and barge measurements. The direct measurements of each lime product shall be reconciled annually with the difference in the beginning of and end of year inventories for these products, when measurements represent lime sold.


(b) You must determine the annual quantity of each calcined byproduct or waste generated that is not sold by either direct measurement using the same instruments identified in paragraph (a) of this section or by using a calcined byproduct or waste generation rate.


(c) You must determine the chemical composition (percent total CaO and percent total MgO) of each type of lime product that is produced and each type of calcined byproduct or waste sold according to paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section. You must determine the chemical composition of each type of lime product that is produced and each type of calcined byproduct or waste sold on a monthly basis. You must determine the chemical composition for each type of calcined byproduct or waste that is not sold on an annual basis.


(1) ASTM C25-06 Standard Test Methods for Chemical Analysis of Limestone, Quicklime, and Hydrated Lime (incorporated by reference—*see* § 98.7).


(2) The National Lime Association's CO_2_ Emissions Calculation Protocol for the Lime Industry English Units Version, February 5, 2008 Revision-National Lime Association (incorporated by reference—see § 98.7).


(d) You must use the analysis of calcium oxide and magnesium oxide content of each lime product that is produced and that is collected during the same month as the production data in monthly calculations.


(e) You must follow the quality assurance/quality control procedures (including documentation) in National Lime Association's CO_2_ Emissions Calculation Protocol for the Lime Industry English Units Version, February 5, 2008 Revision—National Lime Association (incorporated by reference—*see* § 98.7).



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 66465, Oct. 28, 2010; 78 FR 71958, Nov. 29, 2013]




