# § 6401.102   Prohibited financial interests.

(a) The following employees are prohibited from holding the types of financial interests described in this section: 


(1) Employees in the Office of Mobile Sources are prohibited from having outside employment with or holding stock or any other financial interest in manufacturers of automobiles and mobile source pollution control equipment. 


(2) Employees in the Office of Pesticide Programs are prohibited from having outside employment with or holding stock or any other financial interest in companies that manufacture or provide wholesale distribution of pesticide products registered by the EPA. These restrictions apply to companies with subsidiaries in these areas but do not include retail distributors to the general public. 


(3) Employees in the Office of Information Resources Management involved with data management contracting or computer contracting are prohibited from having outside employment with or holding stock or any other financial interest in data management, computer, or information processing firms. 


(4) Employees who perform functions or duties under the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act (such as reviewing Environmental Impact Statements of the Office of Surface Mining in the Department of Interior) are prohibited by 30 U.S.C. 1211(f) from holding direct or indirect interests in underground or surface coal mining operations. 


(i) Implementing regulations of the Office of Surface Mining at 30 CFR 706.3 define the terms “direct financial interest” and “indirect financial interest” as follows: 


(A) *Direct financial interest* means ownership or part ownership by an employee of land, stocks, bonds, debentures, warrants, a partnership, shares, or other holding and also means any other arrangement where the employee may benefit from his or her holding in or salary from coal mining operations. Direct financial interests include employment, pensions, creditor, real property and other financial relationships. 


(B) *Indirect financial interest* means the same financial relationships as for direct ownership but where the employee reaps the benefits of such interests, including interests held by the employee's spouse, minor child or other relatives, including in-laws, residing in the employee's home. The employee will not be deemed to have an indirect financial interest if there is no relationship between the employee's functions or duties and the coal mining operation in which the spouse, minor child or other resident relative holds a financial interest. 


(ii) Violation of the restrictions in this section is punishable by a fine of up to $2,500 or imprisonment for not more that one year, or both. 


(iii) Employees who perform functions or duties under the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act are not prohibited thereunder from holding interests in excepted investment funds as defined at 5 CFR 2634.310(c)(2) provided that such funds are widely diversified, that is, hold no more than 5% of the value of their portfolios in the securities of any one issuer (other than the United States Government) and no more than 20% in any particular economic or geographic sector. 


(5) Members of the Interagency Testing Committee established under section 4(e) of the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2603(e)) are prohibited thereunder from holding any stocks or bonds, or having any substantial pecuniary interest, in any person engaged in the manufacture, processing, or distribution in commerce of any substance or mixture subject to any requirement of the Act or any rule or order issued under the Act and, for a period of twelve months after their committee service has ceased, are prohibited thereunder from accepting employment or compensation from any person subject to any requirement of the Act or to any rule or order issued under the Act. 


(i) The statutory prohibitions in this section are enforceable by an action for a court order to restrain violations. 


(ii) Members of the Interagency Testing Committee are not prohibited thereunder from holding interests in excepted investment funds as defined at 5 CFR 2634.310(c)(2) provided that such fund are widely diversified, that is, hold no more than 5% of the value of their portfolios in the securities of any one issuer (other than the United States Government) and no more than 20% in any particular economic sector. 


(b) The Designated Agency Ethics Official or the cognizant Deputy Ethics Official may grant a written waiver from the prohibitions in paragraph (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section based on a determination that the waiver is not inconsistent with part 2635 of this title or otherwise prohibited by law and that, under the particular circumstances, application of the prohibition is not necessary to avoid the appearance of misuse of position or loss of impartiality, or otherwise to ensure confidence in the impartiality and objectivity with which agency programs are administered. A waiver under this paragraph may impose appropriate conditions, such as requiring execution of a written disqualification. 




