# ยง 6.44   Decision of the Administrative Law Judge.

(a) *Proposed findings of fact, conclusions, and order.* Within 30 days of filing of the transcript of the testimony, each party may file with the Administrative Law Judge proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order, together with a supporting brief expressing the reasons for such proposals. Such proposals and brief shall be served on all parties, and shall refer to all portions of the record and to all authorities relied upon in support of each proposal. 


(b) *Decision of the Administrative Law Judge.* Within 60 days after the time allowed for filing of proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order, or within 30 days after receipt of an agreement containing consent findings and order disposing of the disputed matter in whole, the Administrative Law Judge shall make his/her decision. If any aggrieved party desires review of the decision a petition for review thereof shall be filed as provided in ยง 6.45 of this title, and such decision and order shall be inoperative unless and until the Administrative Review Board issues an order affirming the decision. The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall include findings of fact and conclusions of law, with reasons and bases therefor, upon each material issue of fact, law, or discretion presented on the record. Such decision shall be in accordance with the regulations and rulings contained in parts 4 and 5 and other pertinent parts of this title. The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall be based upon a consideration of the whole record, including any admissions made in the respondents' answer (response) and ยง 6.43 of this title. 




