# § 1560.3   Terms used in this part.

In addition to the terms in §§ 1500.3 and 1540.5 of this chapter, the following terms apply to this part:


*Aircraft Operator Implementation Plan* or *AOIP* means a written procedure describing how and when a covered aircraft operator or airport operator transmits passenger and flight information and non-traveler information to TSA, as well as other related matters.


*Airport code* means the official code, designated by the International Air Transport Association (IATA), for an airport.


*Consolidated User Guide* means a document developed by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to provide guidance to aircraft operators that must transmit passenger information to one or more components of DHS on operational processing and transmission of passenger information to all required components in a unified manner. The Consolidated User Guide is part of the covered aircraft operator's security program.


*Covered aircraft operator* means each aircraft operator required to carry out a full program under 49 CFR 1544.101(a) or a security program under 49 CFR 1546.101(a) or (b).


*Covered airport operator* means each airport operator that seeks to authorize non-traveling individuals to enter a sterile area for a purpose permitted by TSA.


*Covered flight* means any operation of an aircraft that is subject to or operates under a full program under 49 CFR 1544.101(a). *Covered flight* also means any operation of an aircraft that is subject to or operates under a security program under 49 CFR 1546.101(a) or (b) arriving in or departing from the United States, or overflying the continental United States. *Covered flight* does not include any flight for which TSA has determined that the Federal government is conducting passenger matching comparable to the matching conducted pursuant to this part.


*Date of birth* means the day, month, and year of an individual's birth.


*Department of Homeland Security Traveler Redress Inquiry Program* or *DHS TRIP* means the voluntary program through which individuals may request redress if they believe they have been:


(1) Denied or delayed boarding transportation due to DHS screening programs;


(2) Denied or delayed entry into or departure from the United States at a port of entry; or


(3) Identified for additional (secondary) screening at U.S. transportation facilities, including airports, and seaports.


*Full name* means an individual's full name as it appears on a verifying identity document held by the individual.


*Inhibited status* means the status of a passenger or non-traveling individual to whom TSA has instructed a covered aircraft operator or a covered airport operator not to issue a boarding pass or to provide access to the sterile area.


*Itinerary information* means information reflecting a passenger's or non-traveling individual's itinerary specified in the covered aircraft operator's AOIP. For non-traveling individuals, itinerary information is the airport code for the sterile area to which the non-traveler seeks access. For passengers, itinerary information includes the following:


(1) Departure airport code.


(2) Aircraft operator.


(3) Scheduled departure date.


(4) Scheduled departure time.


(5) Scheduled arrival date.


(6) Scheduled arrival time.


(7) Arrival airport code.


(8) Flight number.


(9) Operating carrier (if available).


*Known Traveler Number* means a unique number assigned to an individual for whom the Federal government has conducted a security threat assessment and determined does not pose a security threat.


*Non-traveling individual* or *non-traveler* means an individual to whom a covered aircraft operator or covered airport operator seeks to issue an authorization to enter the sterile area of an airport in order to escort a minor or a passenger with disabilities or for some other purpose permitted by TSA. The term *non-traveling individual* or *non-traveler* does not include employees or agents of airport or aircraft operators or other individuals whose access to a sterile area is governed by another TSA requirement.


*Overflying the continental United States* means departing from an airport or location outside the United States and transiting the airspace of the continental United States en route to another airport or location outside the United States. Airspace of the continental United States includes the airspace over the lower 48 states of the United States, not including Alaska or Hawaii, and the airspace overlying the territorial waters between the U.S. coast of the lower 48 states and 12 nautical miles from the continental U.S. coast. *Overflying the continental United States* does not apply to:


(1) Flights that transit the airspace of the continental United States between two airports or locations in the same country, where that country is Canada or Mexico; or


(2) Any other category of flights that the Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security (Transportation Security Administration) designates in a notice in the _Federal Register._

*Passenger* means an individual who is traveling on a covered flight. The term *passenger* does not include:


(1) A crew member who is listed as a crew member on the flight manifest; or


(2) An individual with flight deck privileges under 49 CFR 1544.237 traveling on the flight deck.


*Passenger Resolution Information* or *PRI* means the information that a covered aircraft operator or covered airport operator transmits to TSA for an individual who TSA places in an inhibited status and from whom the covered aircraft operator or covered airport operator is required to request additional information and a Verifying Identity Document. *Passenger Resolution Information* includes, but is not limited to, the following:


(1) Covered aircraft operator's agent identification number or agent sine.


(2) Type of Verifying Identity Document presented by the passenger.


(3) The identification number on the Verifying Identity Document.


(4) Issue date of the Verifying Identity Document.


(5) Name of the governmental authority that issued the Verifying Identity Document.


(6) Physical attributes of the passenger such as height, eye color, or scars, if requested by TSA.


*Passport information* means the following information from an individual's passport:


(1) Passport number.


(2) Country of issuance.


(3) Expiration date.


(4) Gender.


(5) Full name.


*Redress Number* means the number assigned by DHS to an individual processed through the redress procedures described in 49 CFR part 1560, subpart C.


*Secure Flight Passenger Data* or (*SFPD*) means information regarding a passenger or non-traveling individual that a covered aircraft operator or covered airport operator transmits to TSA, to the extent available, pursuant to § 1560.101. *SFPD* is the following information regarding a passenger or non-traveling individual:


(1) Full name.


(2) Date of birth.


(3) Gender.


(4) Redress number or Known Traveler Number (once implemented).


(5) Passport information.


(6) Reservation control number.


(7) Record sequence number.


(8) Record type.


(9) Passenger update indicator.


(10) Traveler reference number.


(11) Itinerary information.


*Self-service kiosk* means a kiosk operated by a covered aircraft operator that is capable of accepting a passenger reservation or a request for authorization to enter a sterile area from a non-traveling individual.


*Sterile area* means “sterile area” as defined in 49 CFR 1540.5.


*Terrorist Screening Center* or *TSC* means the entity established by the Attorney General to carry out Homeland Security Presidential Directive 6 (HSPD-6), dated September 16, 2003, to consolidate the Federal government's approach to terrorism screening and provide for the appropriate and lawful use of terrorist information in screening processes.


*Verifying Identity Document* means one of the following documents:


(1) An unexpired passport issued by a foreign government.


(2) An unexpired document issued by a U.S. Federal, State, or tribal government that includes the following information for the individual:


(i) Full name.


(ii) Date of birth.


(iii) Photograph.


(3) Such other documents that TSA may designate as valid verifying identity documents.


*Watch list* refers to the No Fly and Selectee List components of the Terrorist Screening Database maintained by the Terrorist Screening Center. For certain flights, the “watch list” may include the larger set of watch lists maintained by the Federal government as warranted by security considerations. 




