# § 932.151   Incoming regulations.

(a) *Inspection stations.* Natural condition olives shall be weighed only at inspection stations which shall be a plant of a handler or other place having facilities for weighing such olives: *Provided,* That such location and facilities are satisfactory to the committee: *Provided further,* That upon prior application to, and approval by, the committee, a handler may receive olives at an inspection station other than the one where the lot was weighed.


(b) *Lot identification.* (1) Immediately upon receipt of each lot of natural condition olives, the handler shall complete Form COC 3A or 3C, weight and grade report or such other lot identification form as may be approved by the committee, which shall contain at least the following:


(i) Lot number;


(ii) Date;


(iii) Variety; and


(iv) Number and type containers.


(2) The handler shall maintain identity of such lot of olives with its corresponding lot weight and grade report.


(c) *Weighing.* Each lot of natural condition olives shall be separately weighed to determine the net weight of olives.


(d) *Handler incoming responsibility*—(1) *General.* The handler is responsible for the proper performance of all actions connected with the identification of lots of olives, the weighing of boxes or bins, the taking of samples, and the furnishing of necessary personnel for the carrying out of such actions.


(2) *Certification.* (i) For each lot of olives that are weighed, the handler shall complete Form COC-3A or 3C, weight and grade report, which shall contain at least the following:


(A) Name of handler;


(B) Name of producer;


(C) County of production;


(D) Applicable lot number;


(E) Weight certificate number;


(F) Net weight;


(G) Number and type of containers;


(H) Date received;


(I) Time received; and


(J) Weight of sample.


(ii) The completed Form COC-3A or 3C shall be furnished to the committee, which shall certify thereon that the lot was weighed as required by § 932.51 if in accordance with the facts.


(e) *Disposition of noncanning olives*—(1)(i) *Notification and inspection of noncanning olives.* Prior to disposition of noncanning olives the handler shall complete Form COC-5, report of limited and undersize and cull olives inspection and disposition, which shall contain the following:


(A) Type and number of containers;


(B) Type of olives (undersize or culls);


(C) Net weight;


(D) Variety;


(E) Outlet (green olives, olive oil, etc.); and


(F) Consignee.


(ii) Before disposition of such olives, the completed Form COC-5 shall be furnished to the committee.


(2) *Control and surveillance.* Noncanning olives that have been reported on Form COC-5 shall, unless such olives are disposed of immediately after receipt, be identified by fixing to each bin or pallet of boxes a COC control card which may be obtained from the committee. Such olives shall be kept separate and apart from other olives in the handler's possession and shall be disposed of only in the outlet shown on Form COC-5.


(3) *Time period for disposition.* All required disposition of noncanning olives shall be completed not later than September 30 of the crop year following the one in which the obligation is incurred or such later date that a handler may specify in a notice filed with the committee at least 15 days prior to September 15 of such subsequent crop year: *Provided,* That such notice shows that such handler has a sufficient quantity of olives held in storage to meet his obligation and such later date is not later than the date when he will have completed his disposition of olives of the crop year of obligation.


(4) *Olives not subject to incoming regulation requirements.* Except as otherwise prescribed in § 932.51(b), any lot of olives to be used solely in the production of green olives or canned ripe olives of the “tree ripened” type shall not be subject to incoming regulation: *Provided,* That the applicable requirements of § 932.51(b) are met and the handler notifies the committee, in writing, that such lot is to be so used. Notice may be given by writing on the weight certificate “Lot to be used solely for use in the production of green olives or tree ripened olives” and a copy of such weight certificate given to the committee.


(f) *Partially exempted lots.* (1) Pursuant to § 932.55, any handler may process any lot of natural condition olives for use in the production of packaged olives which has not first been weighed as an individual lot as required by § 932.51(a)(1)(i) but was combined with any other lot or lots of natural condition olives, only if:


(i) All the olives in the combined lot are delivered to the handler in the same day;


(ii) The total net weight of the olives delivered to the handler by any person in such day does not exceed 500 pounds;


(iii) Each such person had authorized combination of his lot with other lots; and


(iv) The combined lot of the natural condition olives is weighed as required by § 932.51(a)(1)(i) prior to processing the olives.


(2) Whenever the natural condition olives in partially exempt individual lots are combined with other such olives as provided in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the provision of the section applicable on individual lots shall apply instead to a combined lot.


(3) Each such handler shall file with the committee a weekly report showing for each day of the week the respective quantity in combined lots together with each person's authorization for combining lots. The report shall be filed upon a form supplied by the committee.


(g) *Additional Marketing Order Size Designations.* Pursuant to the authority in § 932.51(a)(1)(ii), the following additional size designations are established:



---

[N] [31 FR 12635, Sept. 27, 1966, as amended at 33 FR 15631, Oct. 23, 1968; 34 FR 15389, Oct. 2, 1969; 49 FR 34440, Aug. 31, 1984; 49 FR 44448, Nov. 7, 1984; 52 FR 38224, Oct. 15, 1987; 52 FR 49346, Dec. 31, 1987; 81 FR 46569, July 18, 2016]




