# § 271.12   Requirements for hazardous waste management facilities.

The State shall have standards for hazardous waste management facilities which are equivalent to 40 CFR parts 264 and 266. These standards shall include:


(a) Technical standards for tanks, containers, waste piles, incineration, chemical, physical and biological treatment facilities, surface impoundments, landfills, and land treatment facilities;


(b) Financial responsibility during facility operation;


(c) Preparedness for and prevention of discharges or releases of hazardous waste; contingency plans and emergency procedures to be followed in the event of a discharge or release of hazardous waste;


(d) Closure and post-closure requirements including financial requirements to ensure that money will be available for closure and post-closure monitoring and maintenance;


(e) Groundwater monitoring;


(f) Security to prevent unauthorized access to the facility;


(g) Facility personnel training;


(h) Inspections, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting. States that choose to receive electronic documents must include the requirements of 40 CFR Part 3—(Electronic reporting) in their Program (except that states that choose to receive electronic manifests and/or permit the use of electronic manifests must comply with paragraph (i) of this section); 


(i) Compliance with the manifest system including the requirement that facility owners or operators return a signed copy of the manifest:


(1) To the generator to certify delivery of the hazardous waste shipment or to identify discrepancies;


(2) To the EPA's e-Manifest system, in lieu of submitting a signed facility copy directly to either the origination state or the destination state; and


(3) After listing the relevant consent number from consent documentation supplied by EPA to the facility for each waste listed on the manifest, matched to the relevant list number for the waste from Item 9b, to EPA using the allowable methods listed in 40 CFR 262.84(b)(1) until the facility can submit such a copy to the e-Manifest system per 40 CFR 264.71(a)(2)(v) and 265.71(a)(2)(v).


(j) Other requirements to the extent that they are included in 40 CFR parts 264 and 266.


(k) Requirements for owners or operators of facilities to pay user fees to EPA to recover EPA's costs related to the development and operation of an electronic hazardous waste manifest system, in the amounts specified by the user fee methodology included in subpart FF of 40 CFR parts 264 and 265, for all paper and electronic manifests submitted to the e-Manifest system.


(l) Beginning on December 1, 2025, requirements for owners and operators of facilities to submit electronic Discrepancy Reports to the EPA e-Manifest system; and


(m) Beginning on December 1, 2025, requirements for owners and operators to submit electronic Unmanifested Waste Reports to the EPA e-Manifest system.



---

[N] [48 FR 14248, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 70 FR 10825, Mar. 4, 2005; 70 FR 59889, Oct. 13, 2005; 81 FR 85729, Nov. 28, 2016; 83 FR 462, Jan. 3, 2018; 89 FR 60736, July 26, 2024]




