# ยง  361.102   Online registration.

(a) *In general.* (1) Any importer, importing company, customs broker or importer's agent with a U.S. street address may register and obtain the username necessary to log on to the automatic aluminum import license issuance system. Foreign companies may obtain a username if they have a U.S. address through which they may be reached; P.O. boxes will not be accepted. A username will be issued within two business days. Companies will be able to register online through the AIM system website. However, should a company prefer to apply for a username non-electronically, a phone/email option will be available at Commerce during regular business hours.


(2) This username will be required in order to log on to the aluminum import license issuance system. A single username will be issued to an importer, customs broker or importer's agent. Operating units within the company (*e.g.,* individual branches, divisions or employees) will all use the same basic company username but can supply suffixes to identify the branches. The aluminum import license issuance system will be designed to allow multiple users of a single identification number from different locations within the company to enter information simultaneously.


(b) *Information required to obtain a username.* In order to obtain a username, the importer, importing company, customs broker or importer's agent will be required to provide general information. This information will include: The filer company name, employer identification number (EIN) or Customs ID number (the Customs-issued importer number) (where no EIN is available), U.S. street address, phone number, contact information and email address for both the company headquarters and any branch offices that will be applying for aluminum licenses. It is the responsibility of the applicant to keep the information up to date. This information will not be released by Commerce, except as required by U.S. law.




