# ยง 27.38   Terms defined for purposes of classification.

For the purposes of classification the following terms shall be construed, respectively, to mean:


(a) *Cotton of perished staple.* Cotton that has the strength of fiber as ordinarily found in cotton destroyed or unduly reduced through exposure to the weather either before picking or after baling, or through heating by fire, or on account of water packing, or by other causes.


(b) [Reserved]


(c) *Gin cut cotton.* Cotton that shows damage in ginning, through cutting by the saws, to an extent that reduces its value more than two grades.


(d) *Reginned cotton.* Cotton that has passed through the ginning process more than once, and cotton that, after having been ginned, has been subjected to a cleaning process and then baled.


(e) *Repacked cotton.* Cotton that is composed of factors', brokers', or other samples, or of loose or miscellaneous lots collected and rebaled, or cotton in a bale which is composed of cotton from two or more smaller bales or parts of bales that are combined after the cotton leaves the gin.


(f) *False packed cotton.* Cotton in a bale (1) containing substances entirely foreign to cotton, (2) containing damaged cotton in the interior with or without any indication of such damage upon the exterior, (3) composed of good cotton upon the exterior and decidedly inferior cotton in the interior, in such manner as not to be detected by customary examination, or (4) containing pickings or linters worked into the bale.


(g) *Mixed packed cotton.* Cotton in a bale which, in the sample taken therefrom, shows (1) a difference of three or more grades, or (2) a difference of three or more color groups, or (3) a difference in length of staple of one-eighth inch or more. For purposes of this paragraph, White Cotton (including the Plus grades), Light Gray Cotton, and Gray Cotton shall constitute one color group, and Light Spotted Cotton, Spotted Cotton, Tinged Cotton, and Yellow Stained Cotton shall each constitute a color group.


(h) *Water packed cotton.* Cotton in a bale that has been penetrated by water during the baling process, causing damage to the fiber, or a bale that through exposure to the weather or by other means, while apparently dry on the exterior, has been damaged by water in the interior.



---

[N] [22 FR 10926, Dec. 28, 1957, as amended at 26 FR 5945, July 1, 1961; 32 FR 7011, May 9, 1967; 35 FR 17935, Nov. 21, 1970]




