# § 59.101   Definitions.

*Adhesion promoter* means a coating designed to facilitate the bonding of a primer or topcoat on surfaces such as trim moldings, door locks, and door sills, where sanding is impracticable, and on plastic parts and the edges of sanded areas.


*Administrator* means the Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) or an authorized representative.


*Automobile* means passenger cars, vans, motorcycles, trucks, and all other mobile equipment.


*Automobile refinish coating component* means any portion of a coating, such as a reducer or thinner, hardener, additive, etc., recommended (by its manufacturer or importer) to distributors or end-users for automobile refinishing. The raw materials used to produce the components that are mixed by the end-user to prepare a coating for application are not considered automobile refinish coating components. Any reference to automobile refinishing made by a manufacturer or importer on a container or in product literature constitutes a recommendation for automobile refinishing.


*Automobile refinish coating or coating component importer, or importer,* means any company, group, or individual that brings automobile refinish coatings or coating components from a location outside the United States into the United States for sale or distribution in the United States.


*Automobile refinish coating or coating component manufacturer, or manufacturer,* means any company, group, or individual that produces or packages automobile refinish coatings or coating components for sale or distribution in the United States, including an entity which produces or packages such coatings or coating components under a private label for another party.


*Automobile refinishing* means the process of coating automobiles or their parts, including partial body collision repairs, that is subsequent to the original coating applied at an automobile original equipment manufacturing plant.


*Container* means the individual receptacle that holds a coating or coating component for storage and distribution.


*Cut-in, or jambing, clearcoat* means a fast-drying, ready-to-spray clearcoat applied to surfaces such as door jambs and trunk and hood edges to allow for quick closure.


*Elastomeric coating* means a coating designed for application over flexible parts, such as elastomeric bumpers.


*Exempt compounds* means specific organic compounds that are not considered volatile organic compounds due to negligible photochemical reactivity. The exempt compounds are specified in § 51.100(s) of this chapter.


*Hardener* means a coating component specifically designed to promote a faster cure of an enamel finish.


*Impact-resistant coating* means a coating designed to resist chipping caused by road debris.


*Label* means any written, printed, or graphic matter affixed to or appearing upon any automobile refinish coating or coating component container or package for purposes of identifying or giving information on the product, use of the product, or contents of the container or package.


*Lacquer* means a thermoplastic coating which dries primarily by solvent evaporation, and which is resoluble in its original solvent.


*Low-gloss coating* means a coating which exhibits a gloss reading less than or equal to 25 on a 60° glossmeter.


*Mixing instructions* means the coating or coating component manufacturer's or importer's specification of the quantities of coating components for mixing a coating.


*Mobile equipment* means any equipment that is physically capable of being driven or drawn upon a highway including, but not limited to, the following types of equipment: construction vehicles (such as mobile cranes, bulldozers, concrete mixers); farming equipment (wheel tractor, plow, pesticide sprayer); hauling equipment (truck trailers, utility bodies, camper shells); and miscellaneous equipment (street cleaners, golf carts).


*Multi-colored topcoat* means a topcoat that exhibits more than one color, is packaged in a single container, and camouflages surface defects on areas of heavy use, such as cargo beds and other surfaces of trucks and other utility vehicles.


*Pretreatment wash primer* means a primer that contains a minimum of 0.5 percent acid, by weight, that is applied directly to bare metal surfaces to provide corrosion resistance and to promote adhesion of subsequent coatings.


*Primer* means any coating applied prior to the application of a topcoat for the purpose of corrosion resistance and/or adhesion.


*Primer-sealer* means any coating applied prior to the application of a topcoat for the purpose of corrosion resistance, adhesion of the topcoat, and/or color uniformity and to promote the ability of an undercoat to resist penetration by the topcoat.


*Primer-surfacer* means any coating applied prior to the application of a topcoat for the purpose of filling surface imperfections in the substrate, corrosion resistance, and/or adhesion of the topcoat.


*Reducer* means any solvent used to thin enamels.


*Underbody coating* means a coating designed for protection and sound deadening that is typically applied to the wheel wells and underbody of an automobile.


*Single-stage topcoat* means a topcoat consisting of only one coating.


*Specialty coatings* means adhesion promoters, low-gloss coatings, bright metal trim repair coatings, jambing (cut-in) clearcoats, elastomeric coatings, impact resistant coatings, underbody coatings, uniform finish blenders, and weld-through primers.


*Thinner* means any solvent used to reduce the viscosity or solids content of a coating.


*Three-stage topcoat* means a topcoat composed of a pigmented basecoat, a midcoat, and a transparent clearcoat.


*Topcoat* means any coating or series of coatings applied over a primer or an existing finish for the purpose of protection or beautification.


*Touch-up coating* means a coating applied by brush, air-brush, or nonrefillable aerosol can to cover minor surface damage.


*Two-stage topcoat* means a topcoat consisting of a pigmented basecoat and a transparent clearcoat.


*Uniform finish blender* means a coating designed to blend a repaired topcoat into an existing topcoat.


*United States* means the United States of America, including the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.


*Volatile organic compounds* or *VOC* means any compound of carbon, other than those organic compounds that the Administrator has excluded in 40 CFR part 51, § 51.100 from this definition.


*VOC content* means the weight of VOC per volume of coating, calculated according to the procedures in § 59.104(a) of this subpart.


*Water hold-out coating* means a coating applied to the interior cavity areas of doors, quarter panels and rocker panels for the purpose of corrosion resistance to prolonged water exposure.


*Weld-through primer* means a primer that is applied to an area before welding is performed, and that provides corrosion resistance to the surface after welding has been performed.




