# ยง 45.2   Swap recordkeeping.

(a) *Recordkeeping by swap execution facilities, designated contract markets, derivatives clearing organizations, swap dealers, and major swap participants.* Each swap execution facility, designated contract market, derivatives clearing organization, swap dealer, and major swap participant shall keep full, complete, and systematic records, together with all pertinent data and memoranda, of all activities relating to the business of such entity or person with respect to swaps, as prescribed by the Commission. Such records shall include, without limitation, the following:


(1) For swap execution facilities, all records required by part 37 of this chapter.


(2) For designated contract markets, all records required by part 38 of this chapter.


(3) For derivatives clearing organizations, all records required by part 39 of this chapter.


(4) For swap dealers and major swap participants, all records required by part 23 of this chapter, and all records demonstrating that they are entitled, with respect to any swap, to elect the clearing requirement exception pursuant to CEA section 2(h)(7).


(b) *Recordkeeping by non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparties.* All non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparties shall keep full, complete, and systematic records, together with all pertinent data and memoranda, with respect to each swap in which they are a counterparty, including, without limitation, all records demonstrating that they are entitled, with respect to any swap, to electany clearing requirement exception or exemption pursuant to section 2(h)(7) of the Act or part 50 of this chapter. 


(c) *Record retention.* All records required to be kept pursuant to this section shall be retained with respect to each swap throughout the life of the swap and for a period of at least five years following the final termination of the swap.


(d) *Retention form.* Records required to be kept pursuant to this section must be kept as required by paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable.


(1) Records required to be kept by swap execution facilities, designated contract markets, derivatives clearing organizations, swap dealers, or major swap participants may be kept in electronic form, or kept in paper form if originally created and exclusively maintained in paper form, so long as they are retrievable, and information in them is reportable, as required by this section.


(2) Records required to be kept by non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparties may be kept in either electronic or paper form, so long as they are retrievable, and information in them is reportable, as required by this section.


(e) *Record retrievability.* Records required to be kept by swap execution facilities, designated contract markets, derivatives clearing organizations, or swap counterparties pursuant to this section shall be retrievable as provided in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section, as applicable.


(1) Each record required by this section or any other section of the CEA to be kept by a swap execution facility, designated contract market, derivatives clearing organization, swap dealer, or major swap participant shall be readily accessible via real time electronic access by the registrant throughout the life of the swap and for two years following the final termination of the swap, and shall be retrievable by the registrant within three business days through the remainder of the period following final termination of the swap during which it is required to be kept.


(2) Each record required by this section or any other section of the CEA to be kept by a non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparty shall be retrievable by that counterparty within five business days throughout the period during which it is required to be kept.


(f)-(g) [Reserved] 


(h) *Record inspection.* All records required to be kept pursuant to this section by any registrant or its affiliates or by any non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparty shall be open to inspection upon request by any representative of the Commission, the United States Department of Justice, or the Securities and Exchange Commission, or by any representative of a prudential regulator as authorized by the Commission. Copies of all such records shall be provided, at the expense of the entity or person required to keep the record, to any representative of the Commission upon request. Copies of records required to be kept by any registrant shall be provided either by electronic means, in hard copy, or both, as requested by the Commission, with the sole exception that copies of records originally created and exclusively maintained in paper form may be provided in hard copy only. Copies of records required to be kept by any non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparty that is not a Commission registrant shall be provided in the form, whether electronic or paper, in which the records are kept.



---

[N] [77 FR 2197, Jan. 13, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 75560, 75654, Nov. 25, 2020]




