# ยง 1717.1201   Definitions.

Terms used in this subpart that are not defined in this section have the meanings set forth in 7 CFR part 1710. In addition, for the purposes of this subpart:


*Application for debt settlement* means a written application containing all of the information required by ยง 1717.1204(b)(2), in form and substance satisfactory to RUS.


*Attorney General* means the Attorney General of the United States of America.


*Claim* means any claim of the government arising from loans made or guaranteed under the RE Act to a rural electric borrower.


*Con Act* means the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921 *et seq.*).


*Debt* means outstanding debt of a rural electric borrower (including, but not necessarily limited to, principal, accrued interest, penalties, and the government's costs of debt collection) arising from loans made or guaranteed under the RE Act.


*Enforced collection procedures* means any procedures available to the Administrator for the collection of debt that are authorized by law, in equity, or under the borrower's loan documents or other agreements with RUS.


*Loan documents* means the mortgage (or other security instrument acceptable to RUS), the loan contract, and the promissory note entered into between the borrower and RUS.


*RE Act* means the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901-950b).


*Restructure* means to settle a debt or claim.


*Settle* means to reamortize, adjust, compromise, reduce, or charge-off a debt or claim.




