# § 1234.4   What definitions are used in this part?

The following definitions apply to this part:


*Auxiliary spaces* mean non-records storage areas such as offices, research rooms, other work and general storage areas but excluding boiler rooms or rooms containing equipment operating with a fuel supply such as generator rooms.


*Commercial records storage facility* has the meaning specified in § 1220.18 of this chapter.


*Existing records storage facility* means any records center or commercial records storage facility used to store records on September 27, 2005, and that has stored records continuously since that date.


*Fire barrier wall* means a wall, other than a fire wall, having a fire resistance rating, constructed in accordance with NFPA 221 (incorporated by reference, see § 1234.3).


*Licensed fire protection engineer* means a licensed or registered professional engineer with a recognized specialization in fire protection engineering. For those States that do not separately license or register fire protection engineers, a licensed or registered professional engineer with training and experience in fire protection engineering, operating within the scope of that licensing or registration, who is also a professional member of the Society of Fire Protection Engineers.


*Must and provide* means that a provision is mandatory.


*New records storage facility* means any records center or commercial records storage facility established or converted for use as a records center or commercial records storage facility on or after September 28, 2005.


*Permanent record* has the meaning specified in § 1220.18 of this subchapter.


*Records center* has the meaning specified in § 1220.18 of this subchapter.


*Records storage area* means the area intended for long-term storage of records that is enclosed by four fire barrier walls, the floor, and the ceiling.


*Records storage facility* has the meaning specified in § 1220.18 of this subchapter.


*Sample/Select records* means records whose final disposition requires an analytical or statistical sampling prior to final disposition authorization, in which some percentage of the original accession will be retained as permanent records.


*Should or may* means that a provision is recommended or advised but not required.


*Temporary record* has the meaning specified in § 1220.18 of this subchapter.


*Unscheduled records* has the meaning specified in § 1220.18 of this subchapter.




