# § 173.63   Packaging exceptions.

(a) Cord, detonating (UN 0065), having an explosive content not exceeding 6.5 g (0.23 ounces) per 30 centimeter length (one linear foot) may be offered for transportation domestically and transported as Cord, detonating (UN 0289), Division 1.4 Compatibility Group D (1.4D) explosives, if the gross weight of all packages containing Cord, detonating (UN 0065), does not exceed 45 kg (99 pounds) per:


(1) Transport vehicle, freight container, or cargo-only aircraft;


(2) Off-shore down-hole tool pallet carried on an off-shore supply vessel;


(3) Cargo compartment of a cargo vessel; or


(4) Passenger-carrying aircraft used to transport personnel to remote work sites, such as offshore drilling units.




(b) *Limited quantities of Cartridges, small arms, Cartridges, power device, Cartridges for tools, blank, and Cases, cartridge, empty with primer.* (1)(i) Cartridges, small arms, Cartridges, power device (used to project fastening devices), Cartridges for tools, blank, and Cases, cartridge, empty with primer that have been classed as Division 1.4S explosive may be offered for transportation and transported as limited quantities when packaged in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Packages containing such articles may be marked with either the marking prescribed in § 172.315(a) or (b) of this subchapter and offered for transportation and transported by any mode. For transportation by aircraft, the package must conform to the applicable requirements of § 173.27 of this part. In addition, packages containing such articles offered for transportation by aircraft must be marked with the proper shipping name as prescribed in the § 172.101 Hazardous Materials Table of this subchapter. Packages containing such articles are not subject to the shipping paper requirements of subpart C of part 172 of this subchapter unless the material meets the definition of a hazardous substance, hazardous waste, marine pollutant, or is offered for transportation and transported by aircraft or vessel. Additionally, packages containing such articles are excepted from the requirements of subparts E (Labeling) and F (Placarding) of part 172 of this subchapter.


(ii) Cartridges, small arms, Cartridges, power device (*used to project fastening devices*), Cartridges for tools, blank, and Cases, cartridge empty with primer that may be shipped as a limited quantity are as follows:


(A) Ammunition for rifle, pistol or shotgun;


(B) Ammunition with inert projectiles or blank ammunition;


(C) Ammunition having no tear gas, incendiary, or detonating explosive projectiles;


(D) Ammunition not exceeding 12.7 mm (50 caliber or 0.5 inch) for rifle or pistol, cartridges or 8 gauge for shotshells;


(E) Cartridges for tools, blank; and


(F) Cases, cartridge, empty with primer.


(G) Cartridges, power device (*used to project fastening devices*).


(2) Packaging for Cartridges, small arms, Cartridges for tools, blank, Cases, cartridge empty with primer, and eligible Cartridges, power device as limited quantity must be as follows:


(i) Ammunition must be packed in inside boxes, or in partitions that fit snugly in the outside packaging, or in metal clips;


(ii) Primers must be protected from accidental initiation;


(iii) Inside boxes, partitions or metal clips must be packed in securely-closed strong outside packagings;


(iv) Maximum gross weight is limited to 30 kg (66 pounds) per package; and


(v) Cartridges for tools, blank, Cartridges, power devices which are used to project fastening devices, Cases, cartridge, empty with primer, and 22 caliber rim-fire cartridges may be packaged loose in strong outside packagings.






(c) [Reserved]


(d) *Reverse logistics.* Hazardous materials meeting the definition of “reverse logistics” under § 171.8 of this subchapter and in compliance with paragraph (b) of this section may be offered for transport and transported in highway transportation in accordance with § 173.157.


(e) [Reserved]


(f) Detonators containing no more than 1 g explosive (excluding ignition and delay charges) that are electric blasting caps with leg wires 4 feet long or longer, delay connectors in plastic sheaths, or blasting caps with empty plastic tubing 12 feet long or longer may be packed as follows in which case they are excepted from the packaging requirements of § 173.62:


(1) No more than 50 detonators in one inner packaging;


(2) IME Standard 22 container (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter) or compartment is used as the outer packaging; 


(3) No more than 1000 detonators in one outer packaging; and


(4) No material may be loaded on top of the IME Standard 22 container and no material may be loaded against the outside door of the IME Standard 22 compartment.


(g) Detonators that are classed as 1.4B or 1.4S and contain no more than 1 g of explosive (excluding ignition and delay charges) may be packed as follows in which case they are excepted from the packaging requirements of § 173.62:


(1) No more than 50 detonators in one inner packaging;


(2) IME Standard 22 container is used as the outer packaging;


(3) No more than 1000 detonators in one outer packaging; and


(4) Each inner packaging is marked “l.4B Detonators” or “1.4S Detonators”, as appropriate.



---

[N] [Amdt. 173-224, 55 FR 52617, Dec. 21, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 66268, Dec. 20, 1991; Amdt. 173-236, 58 FR 50536, Sept. 24, 1993; Amdt. 173-253, 61 FR 27175, May 30, 1996; 68 FR 75743, Dec. 31, 2003; 71 FR 14602, Mar. 22, 2006; 76 FR 3371, Jan. 19, 2011; 78 FR 1084, 1113, Jan. 7, 2013; 78 FR 65480, Oct. 31, 2013; 81 FR 18539, Mar. 31, 2016; 87 FR 79776, Dec. 27, 2022]




