# § 721.10278   4,4′-Bipyridinium, 1-(phosphonoalkyl)-1′-substituted-, salt with anion (1:2) (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 4,4′-Bipyridinium, 1-(phosphonoalkyl)-1′-substituted-, salt with anion (1:2) (PMN P-10-224) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace:* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3)(applicable to gloves only), (a)(4), (a)(6), (b)(concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the minimum requirements for § 721.63(a)(4):


(A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters;


(B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters;


(C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a loose- fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filters;


(D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA filters; or


(E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (f), (j), (s)(1000 kilograms), (v)(1), and (v)(2).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.


The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [78 FR 38222, June 26, 2013]




