# ยง 117.848   Cleveland Harbor.

(a) The Norfolk Southern Railroad Bridge, mile 0.76, will open on signal.


(1) The bridge owner will maintain and monitor a VHF-FM Marine Radio, and telephone.


(2) The bridge will display a clock that counts down the estimated time of the next bridge opening that is visible to vessels approaching from the upriver or downriver side of the bridge.


(3) The bridge will also display a sign readable from vessels approaching the bridge from upriver or downriver and readable for 500 feet that states:


(i) the name of the bridge;


(ii) the river mile;


(iii) the opening signal of the bridge is one prolonged blast followed by one short blast of the horn or VHF-FM Marine Radio Channel 16, or by calling the number posted by the owner.


(b) All remaining moveable vehicle and railroad bridges on the Cuyahoga River will open on signal, except from December 15 through March 31 when the bridges will open if a 12-hour advance notice is provided. Said bridges include: Willow Avenue Bridge at Mile 1.02; Center Street Bridge, mile 1.28; the Columbus Road Bridge, mile 1.93; the Flats Industrial Railroad Bridge, mile 2.24; the City of Cleveland Railroad Bridge, mile 2.42; the Carter Road Bridge, mile 2.43; the Norfolk Southern Railroad Bridge the West 3rd Street Bridge, mile 3.42; the CSX Railroad Bridge, mile 4.75; the Cleveland Cliffs Railroad Bridge #1, mile 5.42; and the Wheeling & Lake Erie Railroad Bridge.


(c) The Voinovich Pedestrian Bridge, at the mouth of North Coast Harbor, will open on signal except from December 15 through March 31 when the bridge will open if a 12-hour advance notice is provided.



---

[N] [USCG-2023-0188, 89 FR 46023, May 28, 2024]






