# ยง 1001.101   Definitions of terms used in subpart.

*Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training (ASVET)* shall mean the official of the Department of Labor as described in ยง 1001.110 of this part.


*Assistant State Director for Veterans' Employment and Training Service (ASDVETS)* shall mean a Federal employee who is designated as an assistant to a State Director for Veterans' Employment and Training Service (SDVETS).


*Disabled Veteran* shall mean a veteran who is entitled to compensation (or who but for the receipt of military retired pay would be entitled to compensation) under laws administered by the Veterans Administration and whos not classified as a Special Disabled Veteran.


*Eligible person* shall mean:


(1) The spouse of any person who died of a service-connected disability; or


(2) The spouse of any member of the armed forces serving on active duty who at the time of application for assistance under this subpart, is listed, pursuant to 37 U.S.C. 556 and the regulations issued thereunder, by the Secretary concerned, in one or more of the following categories and has been so listed for a total of more than 90 days: (i) Missing in action, (ii) captured in line of duty by a hostile force, or (iii) forcibly detained or interned in line of duty by a foreign government or power; or


(3) The spouse of any person who has a total disability permanent in nature resulting from a service-connected disability or the spouse of a veteran who died while a disability so evaluated was in existence.


*Eligible veteran* shall mean a person who (1) served on active duty for a period of more than 180 days and was discharged or released therefrom with other than a dishonorable discharge, or (2) was discharged or released from active duty because of a service-connected disability.


*Local Veterans' Employment Representative (LVER)* shall mean a member of the State agency staff designated and assigned by the State agency administrator to serve veterans and eligible persons pursuant to this subpart.


*Regional Director for Veterans' Employment and Training Service (RDVETS)* is the representative of the ASVET on the staff of the Veterans' Employment and Training Service (VETS) at the regional level; supervises all other VETS staff within the region to which assigned; and shall report to, be responsible to, and be under the administrative direction of the ASVET.


*Service Delivery Point (SDP)* shall mean a designated local employment service office which serves an area that may also contain extended service locations.


*Special disabled veteran* shall mean (1) a veteran who is entitled to compensation (or who but for the receipt of military retired pay would be entitled to compensation) under laws administered by the Veterans Administration for a disability rated at 30 percent or more, or (2) a person who was discharged or released from active duty because of a service-connected disability.


*State agency* means the State governmental unit designated pursuant to section 4 of the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended, to cooperate with the United States Employment Service in the operation of the public employment service system. 


*State Director for Veterans' Employment and Training Service (SDVETS)* is the representative of ASVET on the staff of the Veterans' Employment and Training Service (VETS) at the State level.


*United States Employment Service (USES)* shall mean the component of the Employment and Training Administration of the Department of Labor, established under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended, to maintain and coordinate a national system of public employment service agencies. 


*Veteran of the Vietnam era* shall mean an eligible veteran who (1) served on active duty for a period of more than 180 days, any part of which occurred during the Vietnam era (August 5, 1964, through May 7, 1975) and was discharged or released therefrom with other than a dishonorable discharge; or (2) was discharged or released from active duty for a service-connected disability if any part of such active duty was performed during the Vietnam era. 


*Veterans' Employment and Training Service (VETS)* shall mean the organizational component of the Department of Labor administered by the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans' Employment and Training established to promulgate and administer policies and regulations to provide eligible veterans and eligible persons the maximum of employment and training opportunities according to 38 U.S.C. 2002. 



---

[N] [49 FR 12919, Mar. 30, 1984. Redesignated and amended at 54 FR 39353, Sept. 26, 1989]




