# § 35.30-5   Fires, matches, and smoking—TB/ALL.

(a) *General.* In making the determinations required under paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, the senior deck officer on duty, who must be a licensed officer or hold the proper tank vessel endorsements, must exercise skill and experience with due regard to attendant conditions and circumstances, including consideration for location of shoreside facilities, maintenance of mobility, provision for fire protection, state or change of winds, tides, sea, weather conditions, forces of nature and other circumstances generally beyond human control.


(b) *Boiler fires.* Boiler fires are permitted during cargo transfer operations if and only if prior to loading Grades A, B, and C cargoes, the senior deck officer on duty, who must be a licensed officer or hold the proper tank vessel endorsements, must make an inspection to determine whether, in their judgment, boiler fires may be maintained with reasonable safety during the loading operation.


(c) *Smoking.* Smoking is prohibited on the weather decks of tank vessels when they are not gas free or are alongside docks. At other times and places, the senior deck officer on duty, who must be a licensed officer or hold the proper tank vessel endorsements, must designate when and where the crew may smoke: *Provided,* That prior to loading Grade A, B, or C cargo the Master or senior deck officer on duty must make an inspection to determine if and where, in their judgment, smoking may be permitted with reasonable safety during the loading operation. 


(d) *Matches.* The use of other than safety matches is forbidden aboard tank vessels at all times. 



---

[N] [CGFR 65-50, 30 FR 16704, Dec. 30, 1965, as amended by CGD 95-012, 60 FR 48049, Sept. 18, 1995; USCG-2021-0097, 89 FR 93139, Nov. 25, 2024]




