# § 45.15   Marking requirements for PMA articles, TSO articles, and Critical parts.

(a) *PMA articles.* The manufacturer of a PMA article must permanently and legibly mark—


(1) Each PMA article, with the PMA holder's name, trademark, symbol, or other FAA approved identification and part number; and


(2) The letters “FAA-PMA”.


(b) *TSO articles.* The manufacturer of a TSO article must permanently and legibly mark —


(1) Each TSO article with the TSO holder's name, trademark, symbol, or other FAA approved identification and part number; and


(2) Each TSO article, unless otherwise specified in the applicable TSO, with the TSO number and letter of designation, all markings specifically required by the applicable TSO, and the serial number or the date of manufacture of the article or both.


(c) *Critical parts.* Each person who manufactures a part for which a replacement time, inspection interval, or related procedure is specified in the Airworthiness Limitations section of a manufacturer's maintenance manual or Instructions for Continued Airworthiness must permanently and legibly mark that part with a serial number (or equivalent) unique to that part in addition to the other applicable requirements of this section.


(d) If the FAA finds a part or article is too small or otherwise impractical to mark with any of the information required by this part, the manufacturer must attach that information to the part or its container.



---

[N] [Doc. No. FAA-2006-25877, 74 FR 53395, Oct. 16, 2009]




