# ยง 408.950   Will we accept a compromise settlement of an overpayment debt or suspend or terminate collection of an overpayment?

(a) *General.* If we find that you do not, or your estate does not, have the present or future ability to pay the full amount of the overpayment within a reasonable time or the cost of collection is likely to exceed the amount of recovery, we may take any of the following actions, as appropriate.


(1) We may accept a compromise settlement (payment of less than the full amount of the overpayment) to discharge the entire overpayment debt.


(2) We may suspend our efforts to collect the overpayment.


(3) We may terminate our efforts to collect the overpayment.


(b) *Rules we apply.* In deciding whether to take any of the actions described in paragraph (a) of this section, we will apply the rules in ยง 404.515(b), (c), (d), (e), and (f) of this chapter and other applicable rules, including the Federal Claims Collection Standards (31 CFR 900.3 and parts 902 and 903).


(c) *Effect of compromise, suspension or termination.* When we suspend or terminate collection of the overpayment debt, we may take collection action in the future in accordance with provisions of the Social Security Act, other laws, and the standards set forth in 31 CFR chapter IX. A compromise settlement satisfies the obligation to repay the overpayment if you or your estate comply with the terms of the settlement. Failure to make payment in the manner and within the time that we require in the settlement will result in reinstatement of our claim for the full amount of the overpayment less any amounts paid.




