# ยง 918.3   Eligibility, qualifications, and responsibility of a Sea Grant College.

(a) To be eligible for designation as a Sea Grant College, the institution of higher education or confederation of such institutions must have demonstrated a capability to maintain a high quality and balanced program of research, education, training, and advisory services in fields related to ocean, Great Lakes, and coastal resources for a minimum of three years, and have received financial assistance as an Institutional program under either section 205 of the National Sea Grant College Program Act or under section 204(c) of the earlier National Sea Grant College and Program Act of 1966. 


(b) To be eligible for designation as a Sea Grant College, the candidate institution or confederation of institutions must meet the qualifications set forth above as evaluated by a site review team composed of members of the Sea Grant Review Panel, NOAA's Office of Sea Grant, and other experts named by NOAA. As a result of this review, the candidate must be rated highly in all of the following qualifying areas: 


(1) *Leadership.* The Sea Grant College candidate must have achieved recognition as an intellectual and practical leader in marine science, engineering, education, and advisory service in its state and region. 


(2) *Organization.* The Sea Grant College candidate must have created the management organization to carry on a viable and productive Sea Grant Program, and must have the backing of its administration at a sufficiently high level to fulfill its multidisciplinary and multifaceted mandate. 


(3) *Relevance.* The Sea Grant College candidate's program must be relevant to local, State, regional, or National opportunities and problems in the marine environment. Important factors in evaluating relevance are the need for marine resource emphasis and the extent to which capabilities have been developed to be responsive to that need. 


(4) *Programmed team approach.* The Sea Grant College candidate must have a programmed team approach to the solution of marine problems which includes relevant, high quality, multidisciplinary research with associated educational and advisory services capable of producing identifiable results. 


(5) *Education and training.* Education and training must be clearly relevant to National, regional, State and local needs in fields related to ocean, Great Lakes, and coastal resources. As appropriate, education may include pre-college, college, post-graduate, public and adult levels. 


(6) *Advisory services.* The Sea Grant College candidate must have a strong program through which information, techniques,and research results from any reliable source, domestic or international, may be communicated to and utilized by user communities. In addition to the educational and information dissemination role, the advisory service program must aid in the identification and communication of user communities' research and educational needs. 


(7) *Relationships.* The Sea Grant College candidate must have close ties with Federal agencies. State agencies and administrations, local authorities, business and industry, and other educational institutions. These ties are: (i) To ensure the relevance of its programs, (ii) to give assistance to the broadest possible audience, (iii) to involve a broad pool of talent in providing this assistance (including universities and other administrative entities outside the Sea Grant College), and (iv) to assist others in developing research and management competence. The extent and quality of an institution's relationships are critical factors in evaluating the institutional program. 


(8) *Productivity.* The Sea Grant College candidate must have demonstrated the degree of productivity (of research results, reports, employed students, service to State agencies and industry, etc.) commensurate with the length of its Sea Grant operations and the level of funding under which it has worked. 


(9) *Support.* The Sea Grant College candidate must have the ability to obtain matching funds from non-Federal sources, such as state legislatures, university management, state agencies, business, and industry. A diversity of matching fund sources is encouraged as a sign of program vitality and the ability to meet the Sea Grant requirement that funds for the general programs be matched with at least one non-Federal dollar for every two Federal dollars. 


(c) Finally, it must be found that the Sea Grant College candidate will act in accordance with the following standards relating to its continuing responsibilities if it should be designated a Sea Grant College: 


(1) Continue pursuit of excellence and high performance in marine research, education, training, and advisory services. 


(2) Provide leadership in marine activities including coordinated planning and cooperative work with local, state, regional, and Federal agencies, other Sea Grant Programs, and non-Sea Grant universities. 


(3) Maintain an effective management framework and application of institutional resources to the achievement of Sea Grant objectives. 


(4) Develop and implement long-term plans for research, education, training, and advisory services consistent with Sea Grant goals and objectives. 


(5) Advocate and further the Sea Grant concept and the full development of its potential within the institution and the state. 


(6) Provide adequate and stable matching financial support for the program from non-Federal sources. 


(7) Establish and operate an effective system to control the quality of its Sea Grant programs. 




