# 9.405-1   Continuation of current contracts.

(a) *Contractors debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or voluntarily excluded.* (1) Notwithstanding the debarment, suspension, proposed debarment, or voluntary exclusion, of a contractor, agencies may continue contracts or subcontracts in existence at the time the contractor was debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or voluntarily excluded, unless unless the agency head directs otherwise. A decision as to the type of termination action, if any, to be taken should be made only after review by agency contracting and technical personnel and by counsel to ensure the propriety of the proposed action.


(2) For contractors debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or voluntarily excluded, unless the agency head makes a written determination of the compelling reasons for doing so, ordering activities shall not—


(i) Place orders exceeding the guaranteed minimum under indefinite quantity contracts;


(ii) Place orders under Federal Supply Schedule contracts, blanket purchase agreements, or basic ordering agreements; or


(iii) Add new work, exercise options, or otherwise extend the duration of current contracts or orders.


(b) *Ineligible contractors.* A covered agency, as defined in 9.110-1, shall terminate existing contracts and shall not place new orders or award new contracts with contractors that have been declared ineligible pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 983 (see 9.110), except for contracts at or below the simplified acquisition threshold or contracts for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services.



---

[N] [85 FR 67621, Oct. 23, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 61021, Nov. 4, 2021; 90 FR 512, Jan. 3, 2025]




