# ยง 761.7   Appraisals.

(a) *General.* This section describes Agency requirements for:


(1) Real estate and chattel appraisals made in connection with the making and servicing of direct FLP and Non-program loans; and


(2) Appraisal reviews conducted on appraisals made in connection with the making and servicing of direct and guaranteed FLP and Non-program loans.


(b) *Appraisal standards.* (1) Real estate appraisals, technical appraisal reviews and their respective forms must comply with the standards contained in USPAP, as well as applicable Agency regulations and procedures for the specific FLP activity involved. Applicable appraisal procedures and regulations are available for review in each Agency State Office.


(2) When a chattel appraisal is required, it must be completed on an applicable Agency form (available in each Agency State Office) or other format containing the same information.


(c) *Use of an existing real estate appraisal.* Except where specified elsewhere, when a real estate appraisal is required, the Agency will use the existing real estate appraisal to reach loan making or servicing decisions under either of the following conditions:


(1) The appraisal was completed within the previous 18 months and the Agency determines that:


(i) The appraisal meets the provisions of this section and the applicable Agency loan making or servicing requirements; and


(ii) Market values have remained stable since the appraisal was completed; or


(2) The appraisal was not completed in the previous 18 months, but has been updated by the appraiser or appraisal firm that completed the appraisal, and both the update and the original appraisal were completed in accordance with USPAP.


(d) *Appraisal reviews.* (1) With respect to a real estate appraisal, the Agency may conduct a technical appraisal review or an administrative appraisal review, or both.


(2) With respect to a chattel appraisal, the Agency may conduct an administrative appraisal review.


(e) *Appraisal appeals.* Challenges to an appraisal used by the Agency are limited as follows:


(1) When an applicant or borrower challenges a real estate appraisal used by the Agency for any loan making or loan servicing decision, except primary loan servicing decisions as specified in ยง 766.115 of this chapter, the issue for review is limited to whether the appraisal used by the Agency complies with USPAP. The applicant or borrower must submit a technical appraisal review prepared by a State Certified General Appraiser that will be used to determine whether the Agency's appraisal complies with USPAP. The applicant or borrower is responsible for obtaining and paying for the technical appraisal review.


(2) When an applicant or borrower challenges a chattel appraisal used by the Agency for any loan making or loan servicing decision, except for primary loan servicing decisions as specified in ยง 766.115 of this chapter, the issue for review is limited to whether the appraisal used by the Agency is consistent with present market values of similar items in the area. The applicant or borrower must submit an independent appraisal review that will be used to determine whether the appraisal is consistent with present market values of similar items in the area. The applicant or borrower is responsible for obtaining and paying for the independent appraisal.



---

[N] [72 FR 63285, Nov. 8, 2007, as amended at 78 FR 65529, Nov. 1, 2013; 79 FR 78693, Dec. 31, 2014; 81 FR 72690, Oct. 21, 2016; 86 FR 43390, Aug. 9, 2021]




