# ยง 73.3127   Vinyl alcohol/methyl methacrylate-dye reaction products.

(a) *Identity.* The color additives are formed by reacting the dyes, either alone or in combination, with a vinyl alcohol/methyl methacrylate copolymer, so that the sulfate groups of the dyes are replaced by ether linkages to the vinyl alcohol/methyl methacrylate copolymer. The dyes are:


(1) C.I. Reactive Red 180 [5-(benzoylamino)-4-hydroxy-3-((1-sulfo-6-((2-(sulfooxy)ethyl)sulfonyl)-2-naphthalenyl)azo)-2,7-naphthalenedisulfonic acid, tetrasodium salt] (CAS Reg. No. 98114-32-0).


(2) C.I. Reactive Black 5 [2,7-naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 4-amino-5-hydroxy-3,6-bis((4-((2-(sulfooxy)ethyl)sulfonyl)phenyl)azo)-, tetrasodium salt] (CAS Reg. No. 17095-24-8).


(3) C.I. Reactive Orange 78 [2-naphthalenesulfonic acid, 7-(acetylamino)-4-hydroxy-3-((4-((2-(sulfooxy)ethyl)sulfonyl)phenyl)azo)-] (CAS Reg. No. 68189-39-9).


(4) C.I. Reactive Yellow 15 [benzenesulfonic acid, 4-(4,5-dihydro-4-((2-methoxy-5-methyl-4-((2-(sulfooxy)ethyl)sulfonyl)phenyl)azo)-3-methyl-5-oxo-1*H*-pyrazol-1-yl)-] (CAS Reg. No. 60958-41-0).


(5) C.I. Reactive Blue No. 19 [2-anthracenesulfonic acid, 1-amino-9,10-dihydro-9,10-dioxo-4-((3-((2-(sulfooxy)ethyl)sulfonyl)phenyl)amino)-, disodium salt] (CAS Reg. No. 2580-78-1).


(6) C.I. Reactive Blue 21 [copper, (29*H*,31*H*-phthalocyaninato(2-)-*N*29, *N*30, *N*31, *N*32)-, sulfo((4-((2-(sulfooxy) ethyl)sulfonyl)phenyl)amino)sulfonyl derivatives] (CAS Reg. No. 73049-92-0).


(b) *Uses and restrictions.* (1) The substances listed in paragraph (a) of this section may be used to color contact lenses in amounts not to exceed the minimum reasonably required to accomplish the intended coloring effect.


(2) As part of the manufacturing process, the lenses containing the color additives are thoroughly washed to remove unbound reactive dye.


(3) Authorization and compliance with this use shall not be construed as waiving any of the requirements of sections 510(k), 515, and 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act). A person intending to introduce a device containing a vinyl alcohol/methyl methacrylate-dye reaction product listed under this section into commerce shall submit to the Food and Drug Administration either a premarket notification in accordance with subpart E of part 807 of this chapter, if the device is not subject to premarket approval, or submit and receive approval of an original or supplemental premarket approval application if the device is subject to premarket approval.


(c) *Labeling.* The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of ยง 70.25 of this chapter.


(d) *Exemption from certification.* Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore, this color additive is exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.



---

[N] [58 FR 3227, Jan. 8, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 17510, Apr. 5, 1993]




