# ยง 113.318   Pseudorabies Vaccine.

Pseudorabies Vaccine shall be prepared from virus-bearing cell culture fluids. Only Master Seed which has been established as pure, safe, and immunogenic shall be used for preparing seeds for vaccine production. All serials of vaccine shall be prepared from the first through the fifth passage from the Master Seed. 


(a) The Master Seed shall meet the applicable general requirements prescribed in ยง 113.300 and the requirements in this section. 


(b) Each lot of Master Seed shall be tested for immunogenicity. The selected virus dose shall be established as follows: 


(1) Twenty-five pseudorabies susceptible pigs (20 vaccinates and 5 controls) of the youngest age for which the vaccine is recommended, shall be used as test animals. Blood samples shall be taken from each pig and the serums inactivated and individually tested for neutralizing antibody against pseudorabies virus. Pigs shall be considered susceptible if there is no neutralization at a 1:2 final serum dilution in a constant virus-varying serum neutralization test using 50 to 300 TCID_50_ pseudorabies virus. 


(2) A geometric mean titer of the vaccine produced at the highest passage from the Master Seed shall be established before the immunogenicity test is conducted. The 20 pigs used as vaccinates shall be administered a predetermined quantity of vaccine virus by the method recommended on the label. To confirm the dosage administered, five replicate virus titrations shall be conducted on a sample of the vaccine virus dilution used. 


(3) Fourteen to 28 days postvaccination, the vaccinates and controls shall be challenged with virulent pseudorabies virus furnished or approved by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and observed each day for 14 days. 


(i) If at least four of the five controls do not develop severe central nervous system signs or die, the test is a No Test and may be repeated. 


(ii) If at least 19 of the 20 vaccinates in a valid test do not remain free of signs of pseudorabies, the Master Seed is unsatisfactory. 


(4) An Outline of Production change shall be made before authority for use of a new lot of Master Seed shall be granted by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.


(c) *Test requirements for release.* Each serial and subserial shall meet the applicable general requirements prescribed in ยง 113.300 and the requirements in this paragraph.


(2) *Virus titer requirements.* Final container samples of completed product shall be titrated by the method used in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. To be eligible for release, each serial and subserial shall have a virus titer sufficiently greater than the titer of the vaccine used in the immunogenicity test prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section to assure that, when tested at any time within the expiration period, each serial and subserial shall have a virus titer at least 10. 
0.7 greater than that used in the immunogenicity test, but not less than 10 
2.5 TCID_50_ per dose.



---

[N] [50 FR 437, Jan. 4, 1985. Redesignated at 55 FR 35562, Aug. 31, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 66784, 66786, Dec. 26, 1991; 72 FR 72564, Dec. 21, 2007]




