# ยง 915.22   Nomination.

(a) *Initial members.* Nominations for each of the five initial grower members and four initial handler members of the committee, together with nominations for the initial alternate members for each position, may be submitted to the Secretary by individual growers and handlers. Such nominations may be made by means of group meetings of the growers and handlers concerned in each district. Such nominations, if made, shall be filed with the Secretary no later than ten calendar days prior to the effective date hereof. In the event nominations for initial members and alternate members of the committee; or the filed pursuant to, and within the time specified in, this section, the Secretary may select such initial members and alternate members without regard to nominations, but selections shall be on the basis of the representation provided for in ยง 915.20.


(b) *Successor members.* (1) The committee shall hold or cause to be held a meeting or meetings of growers and handlers in each district to designate nominees for successor members and alternate members of the committee; or the committee may conduct nominations in Districts 1 and 2 by mail in a manner recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary. Such nominations shall be submitted to the Secretary by the committee not later than March 1 of each year. The committee shall prescribe procedural rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this section, for the conduct of nomination.


(2) Only growers may participate in the nomination and election of nominees for grower members and their alternates. Each grower shall be entitled to cast only one vote for each nominee to be elected in the district in which he produced avocados. No grower shall participate in the election of nominees in more than one district in any one fiscal year.


(3) Only handlers may participate in the nomination and election of nominees for handler members and their alternates. Each handler shall be entitled to cast only one vote for each nominee to be elected in the district in which such handler handles avocados. Each vote shall be weighted by the volume of avocados shipped by such handler during the immediately preceding twelve-month period, January through December.



---

[N] [19 FR 3439, June 11, 1954, as amended at 22 FR 3513, May 21, 1957. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 40 FR 52605, Nov. 11, 1975; 40 FR 59719, Dec. 30, 1975; 52 FR 7118, Mar. 9, 1987; 73 FR 6837, Feb. 6, 2008]




