# § 63.11607   What definitions apply to this subpart?

Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act, § 63.2, and in this section as follows:


*Construction* means the onsite fabrication, erection, or installation of an affected source. Addition of new equipment to an affected source does not constitute construction, but it may constitute reconstruction of the affected source if it satisfies the definition of reconstruction in § 63.2.


*Deviation* means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:


(1) Fails to meet any requirement or management practices established by this subpart;


(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement a requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or


(3) Fails to meet any emissions limitation or management practice in this subpart.


*Dry particulate control system* means an air pollution control device that uses filtration, impaction, or electrical forces to remove particulate matter in the exhaust stream.


*Fabric filter* means an air collection and control system that utilizes a bag filter to reduce the emissions of metal HAP and other particulate matter.


*Material containing HAP* means a material containing benzene, methylene chloride, or compounds of cadmium, chromium, lead, and/or nickel, in amounts greater than or equal to 0.1 percent by weight for carcinogens, as defined by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration at 29 CFR 1910.1200(d)(4), or 1.0 percent by weight for non-carcinogens, as shown in formulation data provided by the manufacturer or supplier, such as the Material Safety Data Sheet for the material. Benzene and methylene chloride are volatile HAP. Compounds of cadmium, chromium, lead and/or nickel are metal HAP.


*Paints and allied products* means materials such as paints, inks, adhesives, stains, varnishes, shellacs, putties, sealers, caulks, and other coatings from raw materials that are intended to be applied to a substrate and consists of a mixture of resins, pigments, solvents, and/or other additives.


*Paints and allied products manufacturing* means the production of paints and allied products, the intended use of which is to leave a dried film of solid material on a substrate. Typically, the manufacturing processes that produce these materials are described by Standard Industry Classification (SIC) codes 285 or 289 and North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) codes 3255 and 3259 and are produced by physical means, such as blending and mixing, as opposed to chemical synthesis means, such as reactions and distillation. Paints and allied products manufacturing does not include:


(1) The manufacture of products that do not leave a dried film of solid material on the substrate, such as thinners, paint removers, brush cleaners, and mold release agents;


(2) The manufacture of electroplated and electroless metal films;


(3) The manufacture of raw materials, such as resins, pigments, and solvents used in the production of paints and coatings; and


(4) Activities by end users of paints or allied products to ready those materials for application.


*Paints and allied products manufacturing process* means all the equipment which collectively function to produce a paint or allied product. A process may consist of one or more unit operations. For the purposes of this subpart, the manufacturing process includes any, all, or a combination of, weighing, blending, mixing, grinding, tinting, dilution or other formulation. Cleaning operations, material storage and transfer, and piping are considered part of the manufacturing process. This definition does not cover activities by end users of paints or allied products to ready those materials for application. Quality assurance and quality control laboratories are not considered part of a paints and allied products manufacturing process. Research and development facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the CAA are not considered part of a paints and allied products manufacturing process.


*Particulate matter control device* means any equipment, device, or other article that is designed and/or installed for the purpose of reducing or preventing the discharge of metal HAP emissions to the atmosphere.


*Process vessel* means any stationary or portable tank or other vessel of any capacity and in which mixing, blending, diluting, dissolving, temporary holding, and other processing steps occur in the manufacturing of a coating.


*Responsible official* means one of the following:


(1) For a corporation: A president, secretary, treasurer, or vice president of the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation, or a duly authorized representative of such person if the representative is responsible for the overall operation of one or more manufacturing, production, or operating facilities and either:


(i) The facilities employ more than 250 persons or have gross annual sales or expenditures exceeding $25 million (in second quarter 1980 dollars); or


(ii) The delegation of authority to such representative is approved in advance by the Administrator.


(2) For a partnership or sole proprietorship: A general partner or the proprietor, respectively.


(3) For a municipality, State, Federal, or other public agency: Either a principal executive officer or ranking elected official. For the purposes of this part, a principal executive officer of a Federal agency includes the chief executive officer having responsibility for the overall operations of a principal geographic unit of the agency (e.g., a Regional Administrator of the EPA).


(4) For affected sources (as defined in this part) applying for or subject to a title V permit: “Responsible official” shall have the same meaning as defined in part 70 or Federal title V regulations in this chapter (42 U.S.C. 7661), whichever is applicable.


*Storage vessel* means a tank, container or other vessel that is used to store volatile liquids that contain one or more of the listed volatile HAP, benzene or methylene chloride, as raw material feedstocks or products. It also includes objects, such as rags or other containers which are stored in the vessel. The following are not considered storage vessels for the purposes of this subpart:


(1) Vessels permanently attached to motor vehicles such as trucks, railcars, barges, or ships;


(2) Pressure vessels designed to operate in excess of 204.9 kilopascals and without emissions to the atmosphere;


(3) Vessels storing volatile liquids that contain HAP only as impurities;


(4) Wastewater storage tanks; and


(5) Process vessels.


*Wet particulate control device* means an air pollution control device that uses water or other liquid to contact and remove particulate matter in the exhaust stream.



---

[N] [74 FR 63525, Dec. 3, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 31320, June 3, 2010]




