# § 46.107   Penalty for failure to file return or to pay tax.

(a) *Failure to file return.* Any person required by this subpart to file a return on TTB Form 5630.5t who fails to file the return on or before the date for filing prescribed in § 46.103 must pay, in addition to the tax, a delinquency penalty, unless it is shown that such failure is due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect (see § 46.109). The delinquency penalty for failure to file the return on or before the last date prescribed will be 5 percent of the amount required to be shown as tax on the return if the failure to file is for not more than one month; with an additional 5 percent for each additional month or fraction thereof during which the delinquency continues, but not more than 25 percent in the aggregate.


(b) *Failure to pay tax.* Any person who files a return on TTB Form 5630.5t under this subpart and who fails to pay the amount shown as tax on the return on or before the date prescribed in § 46.103 for payment of such tax, must pay a penalty, in addition to the tax, unless it is shown that such failure is due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect (see § 46.109). The penalty for failure to pay the tax on or before the date prescribed for payment is 0.5 percent of the amount shown as tax on the return if the failure to pay is not for more than one month; with an additional 0.5 percent for each additional month or fraction thereof during which the failure continues, but not more than 25 percent in the aggregate. Any person required to pay the special tax who willfully fails to pay the tax shall be fined not more than $5,000, or imprisoned not more than 2 years, or both, for each such offense.


(c) *Limitations.* With respect to any return on Form 5630.5t, the amount of the addition under paragraph (a) of this section will be reduced by the amount of the addition under paragraph (b) of this section for any month to which an addition to tax applies under both paragraph (a) and paragraph (b) of this section. If the amount of tax required to be shown as tax on the return is less than the amount shown as tax on such return, the penalties prescribed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section will be applied by substituting that lower amount.


