# § 4280.112   Applicant eligibility.

To receive a RES or EEI grant under this subpart, an applicant must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section.


(a) *Type of applicant.* The applicant must be an agricultural producer or rural small business at the time of application.


(b) *Ownership and control.* The applicant must at the time of application and, if an award is made, for the useful life of the project as described in the Financial Assistance Agreement:


(1) Own the project; and


(2) Own or control the site for the project. If the grantee does not maintain ownership of the project and ownership or control of the site, then grant funds may be recovered from the grantee by the Agency in accordance with Departmental Regulations.


(c) *End Users.* If the controlling interest in the applicant entity is otherwise eligible and a legal transaction between two parties for the sale of energy in an open market is being proposed, the Agency will not consider the energy end-users as part of the analysis of the eligibility of the applicant. If the proposed end-user would be an ineligible applicant, such as an entity which is residential in nature or a non-profit entity, and the REAP applicant entity is a newly formed special-purpose entity with substantially the same ownership as the sole proposed end-user, then the REAP applicant entity is not eligible.


(d) *Revenues and expenses.* The applicant must have available at the time of application satisfactory sources of revenue in an amount sufficient to provide for the operation, management, maintenance, and any debt service of the project for the useful life of the project. In addition, the applicant must control the revenues and expenses of the project, including its operation and maintenance. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph, the applicant may employ a qualified consultant under contract to manage revenues and expenses of the project and its operation and/or maintenance.


(e) *Legal authority and responsibility.* Each applicant must have the legal authority necessary to apply for and carry out the purpose of the grant.


(f) *Unique Entity Identifier (UEI).* All applicants must register for a UEI as part of the registration process. Generally, the UEI number is included on Standard Form-424, “Application for Federal Assistance.”


(g) *System for Awards Management (SAM).* Unless exempt under 2 CFR 25.110, the applicant must:


(1) Be registered in the SAM prior to submitting an application;


(2) Maintain an active SAM registration with current information at all times while an application is pending and until final fund disbursement has been made.






