# § 1501.10   Deadlines and schedule for the NEPA process.

(a) To ensure that agencies conduct sound NEPA reviews as efficiently and expeditiously as practicable, Federal agencies shall set deadlines and schedules appropriate to individual actions or types of actions consistent with this section and the time intervals required by § 1506.10 of this subchapter. Where applicable, the lead agency shall establish the schedule for a proposed action and make any necessary updates to the schedule in consultation with and seek the concurrence of any joint lead, cooperating, and participating agencies, and in consultation with any applicants.


(b) To ensure timely decision making, agencies shall complete:


(1) Environmental assessments within 1 year, unless the lead agency extends the deadline in writing and, as applicable, in consultation with any applicant, and establishes a new deadline that provides only so much additional time as is necessary to complete the environmental assessment.


(2) Environmental impact statements within 2 years, unless the lead agency extends the deadline in writing and, as applicable, in consultation with any applicant and establishes a new deadline that provides only so much additional time as is necessary to complete the environmental impact statement.


(3) The deadlines in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section are measured from the sooner of, as applicable:


(i) the date on which the agency determines that NEPA requires an environmental impact statement or environmental assessment for the proposed action;


(ii) the date on which the agency notifies an applicant that the application to establish a right-of-way for the proposed action is complete; or


(iii) the date on which the agency issues a notice of intent for the proposed action.


(4) The deadlines in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section are measured to, as applicable:


(i) For environmental assessments, the date on which the agency:


(A) Publishes an environmental assessment;


(B) Where applicable, makes the environmental assessment available pursuant to an agency's pre-decisional administrative review process; or


(C) Issues a notice of intent to prepare an environmental impact statement; and


(ii) For environmental impact statements, the date on which the Environmental Protection Agency publishes a notice of availability of the final environmental impact statement or, where applicable, the date on which the agency makes the final environmental impact statement available pursuant to an agency's pre-decisional administrative review process, consistent with § 1506.10(c)(1) of this subchapter.


(5) Each lead agency shall annually submit the report to Congress on any missed deadlines for environmental assessments and environmental impact statements required by section 107(h) of NEPA.


(c) To facilitate predictability, the lead agency shall develop a schedule for completion of environmental impact statements and environmental assessments as well as any authorizations required to carry out the action. The lead agency shall set milestones for all environmental reviews, permits, and authorizations required for implementation of the action, in consultation with any applicant and in consultation with and seek the concurrence of all joint lead, cooperating, and participating agencies, as soon as practicable. Schedules may vary depending on the type of action and in consideration of other factors in paragraph (d) of this section. The lead agency should develop a schedule that is based on its expertise reviewing similar types of actions under NEPA. All agencies with milestones, including those for a review, permit, or authorization, in the schedule shall take appropriate measures to meet the schedule. If a participating agency anticipates that a milestone will be missed, the agency shall notify, as applicable, the agency responsible for the milestone and the lead agency, and request that they take appropriate measures to comply with the schedule. As soon as practicable, the lead and any other agency affected by a potentially missed milestone shall elevate any unresolved disputes contributing to the potentially missed milestone to the appropriate officials of the agencies responsible for the potentially missed milestone, to ensure timely resolution within the deadlines for the individual action.


(d) The lead agency may consider the following factors in determining the schedule and deadlines:


(1) Potential for environmental harm.


(2) Size of the proposed action.


(3) State of the art of analytic techniques.


(4) Degree of public need for the proposed action, including the consequences of delay.


(5) Number of persons and agencies affected.


(6) Availability of relevant information.


(7) Degree to which a substantial dispute exists as to the size, location, nature, or consequences of the proposed action and its effects.


(8) Time limits imposed on the agency by law, regulation, Executive order, or court ordered deadlines.


(9) Time necessary to conduct government-to-government Tribal consultation.


(e) The schedule for environmental impact statements shall include the following milestones:


(1) The publication of the notice of intent;


(2) The issuance of the draft environmental impact statement;


(3) The public comment period on the draft environmental impact statement, consistent with § 1506.10 of this subchapter;


(4) The issuance of the final environmental impact statement; and


(5) The issuance of the record of decision.


(f) The schedule for environmental assessments shall include the following milestones:


(1) Decision to prepare an environmental assessment;


(2) Issuance of the draft environmental assessment, where applicable;


(3) The public comment period on the draft environmental assessment, consistent with § 1501.5 of this subchapter, where applicable; and


(4) Issuance of the final environmental assessment and decision on whether to issue a finding of no significant impact or issue a notice of intent to prepare an environmental impact statement.


(g) An agency may designate a person (such as the project manager or a person in the agency's office with NEPA responsibilities) to expedite the NEPA process.


(h) For environmental impact statements, agencies shall make schedules for completing the NEPA process publicly available, such as on their website or another publicly accessible platform. If agencies make subsequent changes to the schedule, agencies shall publish revisions to the schedule and explain the basis for substantial changes.






