# § 5b.1   Definitions.

As used in this part: 


(a) *Access* means availability of a record to a subject individual. 


(b) *Agency* means the Department of Health and Human Services. 


(c) *Department* means the Department of Health and Human Services. 


(d) *Disclosure* means the availability or release of a record to anyone other than the subject individual. 


(e) *Individual* means a living person who is a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence. It does not include persons such as sole proprietorships, partnerships, or corporations. A business firm which is identified by the name of one or more persons is not an individual within the meaning of this part. 


(f) *Maintain* means to maintain, collect, use, or disseminate when used in connection with the term “record”; and, to have control over or responsibility for a system of records when used in connection with the term “system of records.” 


(g) *Notification* means communication to an individual whether he is a subject individual. 


(h) *Record* means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by the Department, including but not limited to the individual's education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history and that contains his name, or an identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as a finger or voice print or a photograph. When used in this part, record means only a record which is in a system of records. 


(i) *Responsible Department official* means that officer who is listed in a notice of a system of records as the system manager for a given system of records or another individual listed in the notice of a system of records to whom requests may be made, or the designee of either such officer or individual. 


(j) *Routine use* means the disclosure of a record outside the Department, without the consent of the subject individual, for a purpose which is compatible with the purpose for which the record was collected. It includes disclosures required to be made by statute other than the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552. It does not include disclosures which are permitted to be made without the consent of the subject individual which are not compatible with the purpose for which it was collected such as disclosures to the Bureau of the Census, the General Accounting Office, or to Congress. 


(k) *Secretary* means the Secretary of Health and Human Services, or his designee. 


(l) *Statistical record* means a record maintained for statistical research or reporting purposes only and not maintained to make determinations about a particular subject individual. 


(m) *Subject individual* means that individual to whom a record pertains. 


(n) *System of records* means any group of records under the control of the Department from which a record is retrieved by personal identifier such as the name of the individual, number, symbol or other unique retriever assigned to the individual. Single records or groups of records which are not retrieved by a personal identifier are not part of a system of records. Papers maintained by individual employees of the Department which are prepared, maintained, or discarded at the discretion of the employee and which are not subject to the Federal Records Act, 44 U.S.C. 2901, are not part of a system of records; *Provided,* That such personal papers are not used by the employee or the Department to determine any rights, benefits, or privileges of individuals. 




