# § 165.556   Regulated Navigation Area; Chesapeake and Delaware Canal, Chesapeake City Anchorage Basin, MD.

(a) *Location.* The following area is a regulated navigation area: All waters of the Chesapeake and Delaware (C & D) Canal within the anchorage basin at Chesapeake City, Maryland, bounded by a line drawn across the entrance to the basin from position latitude 39°31′39.6″ N, longitude 075°48′36.5″ W, to position latitude 39°31′40.6″ N, longitude 075°48′43.3″ W. All coordinates refer to NAD 1983.


(b) *Definitions.* For the purposes of this section:


*District Commander* means the Commander, Fifth Coast Guard District or any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer who has been authorized by the Commander, Fifth Coast Guard District, to act on his or her behalf, or his or her designated representative.


(c) *Regulations.* The general regulations governing regulated navigation areas, found in 33 CFR 165.13, apply to the regulated navigation area described in paragraph (a) of this section.


(1) All vessels and persons are prohibited from entering and accessing this regulated navigation area, except as authorized by the District Commander or his or her designated representative.


(2) Persons or vessels requiring entry into or passage within the regulated navigation area must request authorization from the District Commander or his or her designated representative, by telephone at (410) 576-2693 or by marine band radio on VHF-FM Channel 16 (156.8 MHz), from 12:01 a.m. until 11:59 p.m. on the last Saturday in June, annually. All Coast Guard vessels enforcing this regulated navigation area can be contacted on marine band radio VHF-FM Channel 16 (156.8 MHz).


(3) The operator of any vessel entering or located within this regulated navigation area shall:


(i) Travel at no-wake speed,


(ii) Stop the vessel immediately upon being directed to do so by any commissioned, warrant or petty officer on board a vessel displaying a Coast Guard Ensign, and


(iii) Proceed as directed by any commissioned, warrant or petty officer on board a vessel displaying a Coast Guard Ensign.


(4) All vessels and persons within this regulated navigation area must comply with any additional instructions of the District Commander or the designated representative.


(d) *Enforcement.* The U.S. Coast Guard may be assisted in the patrol and enforcement of the regulated navigation area by any Federal, State, and local agencies.


(e) *Enforcement period.* This section will be enforced from 12:01 a.m. until 11:59 p.m. on the last Saturday in June, annually.



---

[N] [USCG-2008-1119, 74 FR 28611, June 17, 2009]




