# § 232.4   Balance sheet accounts.

(a) *Accounts defined.* Each account is identified by an account number and an account title, followed by a text describing the accounting information to be included in that account. Where considered necessary, accounting procedures are also included to explain how the contractor shall disclose information for reporting purposes.


(b) *Purpose of balance sheet accounts.* The balance sheet accounts are intended to disclose the financial condition of the contractor as of a given date.


(*A*) *Asset Accounts.*

(*1*) *100 Cash.*

(i) This account shall include the amount of current funds available on demand in the hands of financial officers or deposited in banks or trust companies, including cash in transit for which agents or others have received credit. Cash appropriated or otherwise restricted for any purpose shall be included in Account 300, “Restricted Funds.”


(ii) Compensating balances included in this account shall be disclosed by appropriate footnote.


(*2*) *120 Marketable Securities.*

(i) This account shall include securities and other temporary investments which are available for general purposes of the business. In no case shall securities of the reporting contractor or of a related party be included in this account. Separate subaccounts may be used to account for discounts and premiums on marketable securities.


(ii) For financial reporting, the lower of aggregate cost or market value at the balance sheet date shall be used to value securities included in this account.


(*3*) *140 Notes Receivable.*

(i) This account shall include the amount of all obligations in the form of short-term notes receivable or other evidences (except interest coupons) of money receivable and due on demand or within one year from date of issue.


(ii) Separate subaccounts shall be used to segregate notes receivable from related parties.


(*4*) *150 Accounts Receivable.*

(i) This account shall include trade or traffic receivables and claims receivable from insurance underwriters and other miscellaneous receivables not otherwise provided for in other accounts. Accrued accounts receivable for interest, dividends, rents, royalties, charters and other unmatured receivables of a current nature shall be reported in this account, except those accrued amounts which are required to be deposited to a restricted fund.


(ii) Separate subaccounts shall be used to segregate trade or traffic receivables, claims receivables and miscellaneous receivables. Receivables arising from transactions with related parties shall also be segregated.


(iii) This account shall also be used to report construction-differential subsidy (CDS) and operating-differential subsidy (ODS) estimated to have accrued to the contractor and which remain unpaid as of the balance sheet date.


(iv) Separate subaccounts shall be maintained by contract number and, under each contract, identified by year of termination and by category of subsidy as applicable, e.g., for CDS categories may include design and inspection costs; and for ODS categories may include wages, maintenance and repair, and any other category for which the contractor receives an operating subsidy.


(*5*) *160 Allowance for Bad Debts.*

This account shall be credited at the close of each accounting period for estimated uncollectable notes and accounts.


(*6*) *170 Other Current Assets.*

(i) Inventories, prepaid expenses and other items that are expected to be used or consumed within 12 months of purchase or acquisition shall be reported in this account.


(ii) Acquisition of similar items that will not be used or consumed within one year should be reported as part of account 360, Other Assets.


(iii) For Financial Report purposes, this account shall be used to record the contra entries of accrued deposits in account 300 Restricted Funds.


(*7*) *300 Restricted Funds.*

(i) This account shall include the amount of cash and securities (at cost) deposited to any restricted fund, including but not limited to Title XI Reserve or Restricted Fund, Capital Construction Fund, Construction Reserve Fund, Title XI Escrow Fund, Title XI Construction Fund, Drilling Rig Reserve Fund, Insurance Fund, Debt Retirement Fund, special and guarantee deposits.


(ii) For each fund established, subsidiary accounts shall be used to separately account for cash or securities deposited to the fund. At the close of each accounting period accrual entries shall be made to account for earned but undeposited investment income.


(iii) Compensating balances under an agreement which legally restricts the use of such funds and constitutes support for borrowing arrangements shall be included in this account.


(iv) Deposits required to be made into any Restricted Fund are to be included in the column “Accrued for Deposit”—appearing in Schedule 211. The contra entry for the accrual shall be credited to account 170 Other Current Assets.


(*8*) *310 Investments.*

(i) This account shall include amounts of investment instruments intended to be held more than one year and includes securities of related parties, noncurrent notes receivable and noncurrent accounts receivable, both from related parties and others, cash value of life insurance policies and other investments. Noncurrent marketable securities shall be carried at the lower of aggregate cost or market value at the balance sheet date.


(ii) Separate subaccounts shall be maintained for the various investments, including those resulting from related party transactions.


(iii) For financial reporting purposes, the lower of cost or market value at the close of business on the balance sheet date will be used to value the securities included in the account except as noted below.


(iv) Investments in related parties must be reported using the equity or consolidated basis of accounting as adopted by the Financial Accounting Standards Board.


(*9*) *330 Property and Equipment.*

(i) This account shall include the cost of acquisition or construction and related capitalizable cost, including additions and betterments and all other associated cost necessary to place the respective property and equipment in acceptable condition for its intended use. This account shall also include the capitalized amount of financing leases, computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Financial Accounting Standard Board.


(ii) Subaccounts shall be maintained by type and category of property and equipment such as, but not limited to, the following: (A) Floating equipment, including self-propelled vessels for transporting cargo or passengers in U.S. foreign or worldwide foreign commerce, tugs and barges, drilling platforms used in offshore operations, fishing and associated service vessels, service vessels used in conjunction with off-shore drilling platforms and deep-water mining operations, lighters primarily used to transport cargo within port areas and river systems or carried aboard mother vessels—i.e., LASH and SEABEE lighters and barges, other floating equipment ancillary to the operator's primary vessel operations; (B) containers and flat racks; (C) chassis and trailer equipment; (D) terminal property and cargo handling equipment; (E) other property and equipment; (F) leaseholds, leasehold improvements and Capital Leases; and (G) construction work-in-progress (to provide information by project or by type of capitalized asset cost category). For each asset account within account 330 a separate depreciation or amortization accumulation account must be established except for work-in-progress accounts.


(*10*) *360 Deferred Charges.*

(i) This account shall be used to report expenses, the payment for which the contractor has become liable currently, but which will not be charged to income within one year of the balance sheet date.


(ii) Separate subaccounts shall be maintained to identify the different categories of expense included in this account. These subaccounts may include such items as prepaid insurance; the expense of issuing long-term debt and for absorption of discounts on the stated value of the debt instruments; organization expenses; deferred prepayments and other deferred charges.


(iii) Separate subaccounts shall be maintained for amortization of the various deferred charges included in this account.


(*11*) *380 Other Assets.*

All assets, not otherwise provided for above, shall be reported in this account. Separate subaccounts shall be maintained for the various types of assets, including notes and accounts receivable which are not due in the normal course of business within one year of the balance sheet date. Each type of asset shall be further segregated to disclose amounts due from officers and employees of the reporting contractor or operator, officers and employees of related parties, related parties themselves, allowance for the trade in of vessels to the Maritime Administration (where the allowance is to be applied by the agency on behalf of the contractor toward progress payments on new construction) and other assets not otherwise accounted for as miscellaneous assets.


(*12*) *390 Intangible Assets.*

(i) This account shall be used to report the amount of goodwill attributed to the cost of acquiring a business or segment of a business from an unrelated party, as well as the cost of acquiring by purchase, development or other means such intangible assets as patents, copyrights, trade names, operating rights, and similar assets.


(ii) The contractor shall maintain separate subaccounts for the identified intangible assets, including subaccounts to identify their respective amortization.


(*B*) *Liability Accounts.*

(*1*) *400 Notes Payable and Current Portion of Long-Term Debt.*

(i) The amount reported for this account shall include the face value of notes, drafts and other evidences of indebtedness issued by the contractor which are payable on demand or within one year of the balance sheet date.


(ii) Separate subaccounts shall be used to identify different groups of creditors, e.g., banks, insurance companies, officers and employees, related parties and all other creditors.


(iii) The amount of capitalized lease liability maturing during the twelve months following the balance sheet date shall also be reported in this account. A record shall be maintained for each lease agreement, with a description of the type of equipment under lease.


(iv) This account shall not include obligations due within one year which the contractor intends to refinance on a long-term basis or which are payable from restricted funds. Long-term refinancing of short-term obligations means replacement with long-term obligations or equity securities or renewal, extension, or replacement with short-term obligations for an uninterrupted period extending beyond one year from the balance sheet date. Such short-term obligations are to be recorded in account 510, Long-term Debt.


(*2*) *420 Accounts Payable.*

(i) The amount reported for this account shall include accounts payable—trade; accounts payable—traffic; pension and welfare funds; accounts payable—Maritime Administration; and other accounts payable.


(ii) Sufficient information shall be maintained to identify individual creditors and the general categories or classification of the liabilities.


(iii) Debts of individual creditors not incurred in the normal course of business shall be identified by group, e.g., officers and employees, affiliated companies, officers and employees of an affiliated company, and other appropriate groupings of creditors not otherwise affiliated in any way with the contractor.


(*3*) *440 Accrued Liabilities.*

(i) This account shall be used to report the amount of accrued taxes, accrued operating expenses and other accrued liabilities arising in the regular course of business.


(ii) Subaccounts shall be maintained for each category of liability.


(*4*) *450 Other Current Liabilities.*

(i) This account shall include all current liabilities for which no other account has been provided.


(ii) Subaccounts shall be maintained to account separately for each class of current liabilities that arise from transactions with officers or employees, affiliated companies and officers or employees of affiliated companies, and must be readily identifiable to facilitate financial reporting requirements.


(*5*) *470 Advance Payments and Deposits.*

(i) This account shall be used to report the balance of collections from customers for services not yet provided by the contractor.


(ii) Sufficient accounting information shall be maintained to readily disclose collections from related parties.


(*6*) *510 Long-Term Debt.*

(i) This account shall be used to report the noncurrent portion of long-term debt, including mortgage notes payable to the Maritime Administration, U.S. Government insured or guaranteed debt obligations issued under Title XI of the Act, and the face amount of bonds, debentures and other long-term debt not provided for in other accounts.


(ii) Subaccounts shall be maintained to disclose unsecured and secured debt by creditor and by secured asset.


(iii) This account shall also include the balance of the long-term portion of capitalized lease liabilities. Reporting shall be by lease agreement and type of asset leased.


(iv) This account shall also include obligations due within one year which are expected to be refinanced on a long-term basis in accordance with the discussion of Account 400.


(v) Separate subaccounts shall be maintained to record the premiums for each class of funded debt (which shall be amortized over the respective lives of the securities by credit to Account 670, Other Revenue).


(*7*) *530 Other Liabilities.*

(i) This account shall be used to report the balance of all other liabilities maturing after one year from the balance sheet date and for which no other account has been specifically provided.


(ii) Subsidiary accounts shall be maintained for each category or type of liability and accounted for by debtor.


(iii) Reporting of balances outstanding shall show separately amounts due to officers and employees, affiliated companies and officers and employees of affiliated companies.


(*8*) *560 Deferred Credits.*

This account shall be used to report the amount of accumulated deferred income taxes, income or credits for which no other account is specifically provided.


(*C*) *Equity Accounts.*

(*1*) *570 Invested Capital.*

This account shall be used to report the amount of capital contribution by an individual in a proprietary company, by partners of a partnership, and by stockholders of a corporation for the par or stated value of the capital stock outstanding and additional paid-in capital.


(*2*) *580 Treasury Stock.*

This account shall be used to report the cost to the contractor of its stock that has been reacquired.


(*3*) *590 Retained Earnings.*

(i) This account shall be used to report the balance of restricted and unrestricted retained earnings for an incorporated business entity. Subsidiary accounts shall be used for each class of restricted earnings.


(ii) Partnerships should make appropriate changes of titles to account for partners accounts.


(iii) For purposes of meeting the Maritime Administration's Dividend Policy for Operators Receiving ODS (46 CFR part 283), accounting information for unrestricted retained earnings shall be made available to show the income or loss taken into retained earnings, dividends and other distributions paid, and the current balance of unrestricted retained earnings available for distribution.



---

[N] [48 FR 30122, June 30, 1983, as amended at 58 FR 62044, Nov. 24, 1993; 58 FR 64798, Dec. 9, 1993]




