# ยง 903.5   When must a PHA submit the plans to HUD?

(a) *5-Year Plan.* (1) The first PHA fiscal year that is covered by the requirements of this part as amended on December 22, 2000, is the PHA fiscal year that begins October 2001. This 5-Year Plan submitted by a PHA must be submitted for the 5-year period beginning October 1, 2001.


(2) For all PHAs, the first 5-Year Plans are due 75 days before the commencement of their fiscal year. 


(3) For all PHAs, after submission of their first 5-Year Plan, all subsequent 5-Year Plans must be submitted once every 5 PHA fiscal years, no later than 75 days before the commencement of the PHA's fiscal year. However, HUD may require that half of all PHAs with less than 250 public housing units submit their 5-Year Plan one fiscal year in advance (in the fourth PHA fiscal year rather than the fifth PHA fiscal year).


(4) PHAs may choose to update their 5-Year Plans every year as good management practice and must update their 5-Year Plans that were submitted for PHA fiscal years beginning before October 1, 2001, to comply with the requirements of this part as amended on December 22, 2000, at the time they submit their next Annual Plan for fiscal years beginning on or after October 1, 2001. PHAs must explain any substantial deviation from their 5-Year Plans in their Annual Plans. (Substantial deviation is determined by the PHA in accordance with criteria provided by the PHA in its Annual Plan in accordance with ยง 903.7(r).)


(b) *The Annual Plan.* (1) The first PHA fiscal year that is covered by the requirements of this part as amended on December 22, 2000 is the PHA fiscal year that begins October 1, 2001.


(2) For all PHAs, the first Annual Plans are due 75 days before the commencement of their fiscal year. 


(3) For all PHAs, after submission of the first Annual Plan, all subsequent Annual Plans will be due no later than 75 days before the commencement of their fiscal year. 



---

[N] [64 FR 56862, Oct. 21, 1999, as amended at 66 FR 8898, Mar. 7, 2001; 68 FR 37671, June 24, 2003]






