# § 20.117   Reagent alcohol general-use formula.

(a) *General.* Reagent alcohol must be made in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section and labeled in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. Reagent alcohol is—


(1) Treated as an article if distributed and used in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section; or


(2) Treated as S.D.A. if distributed and used in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.


(b) *Formula.* Reagent alcohol shall be made with 95 parts (by volume) of S.D.A. 3-A, and 5 parts (by volume) of isopropyl alcohol. Water may be added at the time of manufacture. Reagent alcohol shall not contain any ingredient other than those specified in this paragraph.


(c) *Labeling.* Each container of reagent alcohol, regardless of size, shall have affixed to it a label containing the following words that are as conspicuous as any other words on the container labels: “Reagent Alcohol: Specially Denatured Alcohol Formula 3-A, 95 parts by vol.; and Isopropyl Alcohol, 5 parts by vol.” If water is added at the time of manufacture, the label shall specify the composition of the product as diluted.


(d) *Distribution and use of reagent alcohol as an article.* Reagent alcohol is treated as an article if distributed exclusively for the purpose of scientific use. Only the following distributions of reagent alcohol are permitted under this paragraph:


(1) *For scientific use.* (i) *In smaller containers.* The manufacturer or repackager of the reagent alcohol, or an S.D.S. dealer, may distribute reagent alcohol in containers not exceeding four liters to laboratories or other persons who require reagent alcohol for scientific use.


(ii) *In bulk containers.* The manufacturer of the reagent alcohol, or an S.D.S. dealer, may distribute reagent alcohol in containers larger than four liters to a laboratory or other person requiring reagent alcohol for scientific use if that laboratory or person is qualified to receive bulk shipments of reagent alcohol on October 31, 2016 or has received, from the appropriate TTB officer, approval of a letterhead application containing the following information:


(A) The applicant's name, address, and permit number, if any;


(B) An explanation of the applicant's need for bulk quantities of reagent alcohol;


(C) A description of the security measures that will be taken to segregate reagent alcohol from denatured spirits or other alcohol that may be on the same premises; and


(D) A statement that the applicant will allow any appropriate TTB officer to inspect the applicant's premises.


(2) *For repackaging.* The manufacturer of the reagent alcohol, or an S.D.S. dealer, may distribute reagent alcohol in containers larger than 4 liters to the persons specified in this paragraph. Those persons must repackage the reagent alcohol in containers not exceeding 4 liters, label the smaller packages in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, and redistribute them in accordance with paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section. The persons to whom reagent alcohol may be distributed in bulk for repackaging under this paragraph are:


(i) A proprietor of a bona fide laboratory supply house; and


(ii) Any other person who was qualified to receive bulk shipments of reagent alcohol on October 31, 2016, or who has received, from the appropriate TTB officer, approval of a letterhead application containing all of the information required by paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(A) through (D), in addition to the following:


(A) A statement that the applicant will comply with the labeling, packaging, and distribution requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d)(1) of this section; and


(B) A statement that the applicant will comply with the requirements of § 20.133.


(3) *For redistribution.* The manufacturer of the reagent alcohol, or an S.D.S. dealer, may distribute reagent alcohol in containers of any size to an S.D.S. dealer for redistribution in accordance with this section. An S.D.S. dealer distributing or redistributing reagent alcohol may repackage it in containers of any size permitted under this section that is necessary for the conduct of business.


(e) *Distribution and use of reagent alcohol in manufacturing.* Reagent alcohol is treated as S.D.A. if distributed for the purpose of manufacturing. The following requirements apply to reagent alcohol treated as S.D.A.:


(1) The manufacturer of the reagent alcohol, or an S.D.S. dealer, may distribute reagent alcohol in containers of any size to the persons specified in this paragraph for use in manufacturing.


(2) A person may receive reagent alcohol for use in manufacturing if the person:


(i) Holds a permit as an S.D.A. user;


(ii) Has received formula approval on TTB Form 5150.19 to use reagent alcohol in manufacturing; and


(iii) Treats the reagent alcohol as S.D.A., not an article.



---

[N] [T.D. TTB-140, 81 FR 59457, Aug. 30, 2016]




