# ยง 386.84   Sanction for failure to pay civil penalties or abide by payment plan; suspension or revocation of registration.

(a)(1) *General rule.* The registration of a broker, freight forwarder, for-hire motor carrier, foreign motor carrier or foreign motor private carrier that fails to pay a civil penalty in full within 90 days after the date specified for payment by the FMCSA's final agency order, will be suspended starting on the next (*i.e.*, the 91st) day. The suspension continues until the FMCSA has received full payment of the penalty.


(2) *Civil penalties paid in installments.* The FMCSA Service Center may allow a respondent broker, freight forwarder, for-hire motor carrier, foreign motor carrier or foreign motor private carrier to pay a civil penalty in installments. If the respondent fails to make an installment payment on schedule, the payment plan is void and the entire debt is payable immediately. The registration of a respondent that fails to pay the remainder of its civil penalty in full within 90 days after the date of the missed installment payment is suspended on the next (*i.e.*, the 91st) day. The suspension continues until the FMCSA has received full payment of the entire penalty.


(3) *Appeals to Federal Court.* If the respondent broker, freight forwarder, for-hire motor carrier, foreign motor carrier or foreign motor private carrier appeals the final agency order to a Federal Circuit Court of Appeals, the terms and payment due date of the final agency order are not stayed unless the Court so directs.


(b) *Show Cause Proceeding.* (1) The FMCSA will notify a broker, freight forwarder, for-hire motor carrier, foreign motor carrier or foreign motor private carrier in writing if it has not received payment within 45 days after the date specified for payment by the final agency order or the date of a missed installment payment. The notice will include a warning that failure to pay the entire penalty within 90 days after payment was due will result in the suspension of the respondent's registration.


(2) The notice will order the respondent to show cause why its registration should not be suspended on the 91st day after the date specified for payment. The prohibition may be avoided only by submitting to the Agency Decisionmaker: 


(i) Evidence that the respondent has paid the entire amount due; or 


(ii) Evidence that the respondent has filed for bankruptcy under chapter 11, title 11, United States Code. Respondents in bankruptcy must also submit the information required by paragraph (d) of this section. 


(3) The notice will be delivered by certified mail or commercial express service. If a respondent's principal place of business is in a foreign country, it will be delivered to the respondent's designated agent. 


(c) The registration of a broker, freight forwarder, for-hire motor carrier, foreign motor carrier or foreign motor private carrier that continues to operate in interstate commerce in violation of this section after its registration has been suspended may be revoked after an additional notice and opportunity for a proceeding in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 13905(c). Additional sanctions may be imposed under paragraph IV(i) of Appendix A to part 386.


(d) This section does not apply to any person who is unable to pay a civil penalty because the person is a debtor in a case under chapter 11, title 11, United States Code. Brokers, freight forwarders, for-hire motor carriers, foreign motor carriers or foreign motor private carriers in bankruptcy proceedings under chapter 11 must provide the following information in their response to the FMCSA:


(1) The chapter of the Bankruptcy Code under which the bankruptcy proceeding is filed (*i.e.,* chapter 7 or 11); 


(2) The bankruptcy case number; 


(3) The court in which the bankruptcy proceeding was filed; and 


(4) Any other information requested by the agency to determine a debtor's bankruptcy status.



---

[N] [65 FR 78428, Dec. 15, 2000, as amended at 78 FR 60232, Oct. 1, 2013; 86 FR 57071, Oct. 14, 2021]




