# ยง 351.9   Conduct of hearings.

(a)(1) *By panels.* Subject to paragraph (b) of this section, hearings will be conducted by Copyright Royalty Judges sitting *en banc*.


(2) *Location.* Hearings will be conducted in person at the Library of Congress or an alternative location, or virtually, at the Judges' discretion.


(b) *Role of Chief Judge.* The Chief Copyright Royalty Judge, or an individual Copyright Royalty Judge designated by the Chief Judge, may preside over such collateral and administrative proceedings, and over such proceedings under section 803(b)(1) through (5) of the Copyright Act, as the Chief Judge considers appropriate. The Chief Judge, or an individual Copyright Royalty Judge designated by the Chief Judge, shall have the responsibility for:


(1) Administering oaths and affirmations to all witnesses;


(2) Announcing the Copyright Royalty Judges' ruling on objections and motions and all rulings with respect to introducing or excluding documentary or other evidence. In all cases, with the exception of a hearing pursuant to 17 U.S.C. 803(a)(2), it takes a majority vote to grant a motion or sustain an objection. A tie vote will result in the denial of a motion or the overruling of the objection;


(c) *Opening statements.* In each distribution or rate proceeding, each party may present its opening statement summarizing its written direct statement.


(d) *Notice of witnesses and prior exchange of exhibits.* Each party must provide all other parties notice of the witnesses who are to be called to testify at least one week in advance of such testimony, unless modified by applicable trial order. Parties must exchange exhibits at least one day in advance of being offered into evidence at a hearing, unless modified by applicable trial order.


(e) *Subpoenas.* The parties may move the Copyright Royalty Judges to issue a subpoena. The object of the subpoena shall be served with the motion and may appear in response to the motion.


(f) *Witnesses sequestered.* Subject to applicable trial order, witnesses, other than party representatives, may not be permitted to listen to any testimony and may not be allowed to review a transcript of any prior testimony.



---

[N] [70 FR 30905, May 31, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 53329, Sept. 11, 2006; 86 FR 31172, June 11, 2021]




