# § 12.8   Elections with respect to net leases of real property.

(a) *In general.* The elections described in this section are available for determining whether real property held by the taxpayer is subject to a net lease for purposes of section 57 (relating to items of tax preference for purposes of the minimum tax for tax preferences) or 163(d) (relating to limitation on interest on investment indebtedness). Under sections 57(c)(1)(A) and 163(d)(4)(A)(i), property will be considered to be subject to a net lease for a taxable year where the sum of the deductions of the lessor with respect to the property for the taxable year allowable solely by reason of section 162 (other than rents and reimbursed amounts with respect to the property) is less than 15 percent of the gross income from rents produced by the property (hereinafter referred to as the “expense test”). Under sections 57(c)(2) and 163(d)(7)(A), where a parcel of real property of the taxpayer is leased under two or more leases, the taxpayer may elect to apply the expense test set forth in sections 57(c)(1)(A) and 163(d)(4)(A)(i) by treating all leased portions of such property as subject to a single lease. Under sections 57(c)(3) and 163(d)(7)(B), at the election of the taxpayer, the expense test set forth in sections 57(c)(1)(A) and 163(d)(4)(A)(i) shall not apply with respect to real property of the taxpayer which has been in use for more than 5 years.


(b) *Election with respect to multiple leases of single parcel of real property.* If a parcel of real property of the taxpayer is leased under two or more leases, the expense test referred to in paragraph (a) of this section shall, at the election of the taxpayer, be applied by treating all leased portions of such property as subject to a single lease. For purposes of this paragraph, the term “parcel of real property” includes adjacent properties each of which is subject to lease.


(c) *Election with respect to real property in use for more than 5 years.* At the election of the taxpayer, the expense test referred to in paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply with respect to real property of the taxpayer which has been in use for more than 5 years. For this purpose, real property is in use only during the period that such property is both owned and used for commercial purposes by the taxpayer. If an improvement to the property was made during the time such property was owned by the taxpayer, and if, as a result of such improvement, the adjusted basis of such property was increased by 50 percent or more, use of such property for commercial purposes shall be deemed to have commenced for purposes of this paragraph as of the date such improvement was completed. An election under this paragraph shall apply to all real property of the taxpayer which has been in use for more than 5 years.


(d) *Procedure for making election*—(1) *Time and scope of election.* An election under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section shall be made for each taxable year to which such election is to apply. The election must be made before the later of (i) the time prescribed by law for filing the taxpayer's return for the taxable year for which the election is made (determined with regard to any extension of time) or (ii) August 31, 1973, but the election may not be made after the expiration of the time prescribed by law for the filing of a claim for credit or refund of tax with respect to the taxable year for which the election is to apply.


(2) *Manner of making election.* Except as provided in the following sentence, an election by the taxpayer with respect to a taxable year shall be made by a statement containing the information described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section which is—


(i) Attached to the taxpayer's return or amended return for such taxable year,


(ii) Attached to a timely filed claim by the taxpayer for credit or refund of tax for such taxable year, or


(iii) Filed by the taxpayer with the director of the Internal Revenue Service Center where the return for such taxable year was filed.


(3) *Statement.* The statement described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section shall contain the following information:


(i) The name, address, and taxpayer identification number of the taxpayer;


(ii) The taxable year to which the election is to apply if the statement is not attached to the return or a claim for credit or refund;


(iii) A description of any leases which are to be treated as a single lease; and


(iv) A description of any real property in use for more than 5 years to which the expense test is not to apply.


(4) *Revocation of election.* An election made pursuant to this paragraph may be revoked within the time prescribed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section for making an election and may not be revoked thereafter. Any such revocation shall be made in the manner prescribed by paragraph (d)(2) of this section for the making of an election.


(e) *Election by members of partnership.* Under section 703(b) (as amended by section 304(c) of the Revenue Act of 1971), any election under section 57(c) or 163(d)(7) with respect to property held by a partnership shall be made by each partner separately, rather than by the partnership. If an election made by a taxpayer under paragraph (b) of this section applies in whole or in part to property held by a partnership, the taxpayer shall, in applying the expense test referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, take into account his distributive share of the deductions of the partnership with respect to the property for the taxable year allowable solely by reason of section 162 (other than rents and reimbursed amounts with respect to the property) and also his distributive share of the partnership's rental income from such property for the taxable year.



---

[N] [T.D. 7271, 38 FR 9296, Apr. 13, 1973]




