# § 63.684   Standards: Off-site material treatment.

(a) The provisions of this section apply to the treatment of off-site material to remove or destroy HAP for which § 63.683(b)(1)(ii) of this subpart references the requirements of this section for such treatment.


(b) The owner or operator shall remove or destroy the HAP contained in off-site material streams to be managed in the off-site material management unit in accordance with § 63.683(b)(1)(ii) of this subpart using a treatment process that continuously achieves, under normal operations, one or more of the performance levels specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section (as applicable to the type of treatment process) for the range of off-site material stream compositions and quantities expected to be treated.


(1) *VOHAP concentration.* The treatment process shall reduce the VOHAP concentration of the off-site material using a means, other than by dilution, to achieve one of the following performance levels, as applicable: 


(i) In the case when every off-site material stream entering the treatment process has an average VOHAP concentration equal to or greater than 500 ppmw at the point-of-delivery, then the VOHAP concentration of the off-site material shall be reduced to a level that is less than 500 ppmw at the point-of-treatment. 


(ii) In the case when off-site material streams entering the treatment process are a mixture of off-site material streams having an average VOHAP concentration equal to or greater than 500 ppmw at the point-of-delivery with off-site material streams having average VOHAP concentrations less than 500 ppmw at the point-of-delivery, then the VOHAP concentration of the off-site material must be reduced to a level at the point-of-treatment that meets the performance level specified in either paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section.


(A) Less than the VOHAP concentration limit (C_R_) established for the treatment process using the procedure specified in § 63.694(d); or


(B) Less than the lowest VOHAP concentration determined for each of the off-site material streams entering the treatment process as determined by the VOHAP concentration of the off-site material at the point-of-delivery.


(2) *HAP mass removal.* The treatment process shall achieve a performance level such that the total quantity of HAP actually removed from the off-site material stream (MR) is equal to or greater than the required mass removal (RMR) established for the off-site material stream using the procedure specified in § 63.694(e) of this subpart. The MR for the off-site material streams shall be determined using the procedures specified in § 63.694(f) of this subpart. 


(3) *HAP reduction efficiency.* For any treatment process except a treatment process that uses biological degradation and is performed in an open tank or surface impoundment, the treatment process must achieve the applicable performance level specified in either paragraph (b)(3)(i) or (b)(3)(ii) of this section.


(i) In the case when the owner or operator determines that off-site material stream entering the treatment process has an average VOHAP concentration less than 10,000 ppmw at the point-of-delivery, then the treatment process shall achieve a performance level such that the total quantity of HAP in the off-site material stream is reduced by 95 percent or more. The HAP reduction efficiency (R) for the treatment process shall be determined using the procedure specified in § 63.694(g) of this subpart. The average VOHAP concentration of the off-site material stream at the point-of-delivery shall be determined using the procedure specified in § 63.694(b) of this subpart. 


(ii) In the case when the off-site material stream entering the treatment process has an average VOHAP concentration equal to or greater than 10,000 ppmw at the point-of-delivery, then the treatment process shall achieve a performance level such that the total quantity of HAP in the off-site material stream is reduced by 95 percent or more, and the average VOHAP concentration of the off-site material at the point-of-treatment is less than 100 parts per million by weight (ppmw). The HAP reduction efficiency (R) for the treatment process shall be determined using the procedure specified in § 63.694(g) of this subpart. The average VOHAP concentration of the off-site material stream at the point-of-treatment shall be determined using the procedure specified in § 63.694(c) of this subpart. 


(4) *Biological degradation performed in an open tank or surface impoundment.* A treatment process using biological degradation and performed in an open tank or surface impoundment must achieve the performance level specified in either paragraph (b)(4)(i) or (b)(4)(ii) of this section.


(i) The HAP reduction efficiency (R) for the treatment process is equal to or greater than 95 percent, and the HAP biodegradation efficiency (R_bio_) for the treatment process is equal to or greater than 95 percent. The HAP reduction efficiency (R) shall be determined using the procedure specified in § 63.694(g) of this subpart. The HAP biodegradation efficiency (R_bio_) shall be determined in accordance with the requirements of § 63.694(h) of this subpart. 


(ii) The total quantity of HAP actually removed from the off-site material stream by biological degradation (MR_bio_) shall be equal to or greater than the required mass removal (RMR) established for the off-site material stream using the procedure specified in § 63.694(e) of this subpart. The MR_bio_ of the off-site material stream shall be determined using the procedures specified in § 63.694(i) of this subpart. 


(5) *Incineration.* The treatment process must destroy the HAP contained in the off-site material stream using one of the combustion devices specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) An incinerator for which the owner or operator has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270, and the incinerator is designed and operated in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subpart O—Incinerators, or


(ii) An incinerator for which the owner or operator has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 265, subpart O—Incinerators.


(iii) A boiler or industrial furnace for which the owner or operator has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270, and the combustion unit is designed and operated in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H—Hazardous Waste Burned in Boilers and Industrial Furnaces.


(iv) A boiler or industrial furnace for which the owner or operator has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H Hazardous Waste Burned in Boilers and Industrial Furnaces.


(v) An incinerator, boiler, or industrial furnace for which the owner or operator has submitted a Notification of Compliance under §§ 63.1207(j) and 63.1210(d) and complies with the requirements of subpart EEE of this part at all times (including times when non-hazardous waste is being burned).


(c) For a treatment process that removes the HAP from the off-site material by a means other than thermal destruction or biological degradation to achieve one of the performances levels specified in paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this section, the owner or operator shall manage the HAP removed from the off-site material in such a manner to minimize release of these HAP to the atmosphere, to the extent practical. Examples of HAP emission control measures that meet the requirements of this paragraph include managing the HAP removed from the off-site material in units that use air emission controls in accordance with the standards specified in §§ 63.685 through 63.689 of this subpart, as applicable to the unit. 


(d) When the owner or operator treats the off-site material to meet one of the performance levels specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section, the owner or operator shall demonstrate that the treatment process achieves the selected performance level for the range of expected off-site material stream compositions expected to be treated. An initial demonstration shall be performed as soon as possible but no later than 30 days after first time an owner or operator begins using the treatment process to manage off-site material streams in accordance with the requirements of either § 63.683(b)(1)(ii) or § 63.683(b)(2)(ii) of this subpart as applicable to the affected off-site material management unit or process equipment. Thereafter, the owner or operator shall review and update, as necessary, this demonstration at least once every calendar year following the date of the initial demonstration.


(e) When the owner or operator treats the off-site material to meet one of the performance levels specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section, the owner or operator shall ensure that the treatment process is achieving the applicable performance requirements by continuously monitoring the operation of the process when it is used to treat off-site material by complying with paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) or, for biological treatment units, paragraph (e)(4) of this section:


(1) A continuous monitoring system shall be installed and operated for each treatment that measures operating parameters appropriate for the treatment process technology. This system shall include a continuous recorder that records the measured values of the selected operating parameters. The monitoring equipment shall be installed, calibrated, and maintained in accordance with the equipment manufacturer's specifications. The continuous recorder shall be a data recording device that is capable of recording either an instantaneous data value at least once every 15 minutes or an average value for intervals of 15 minutes or less.


(2) For each monitored operating parameter, the owner or operator shall establish a minimum operating parameter value or a maximum operating parameter value, as appropriate, to define the range of conditions at which the treatment process must be operated to continuously achieve the applicable performance requirements of this section.


(3) When the treatment process is operating to treat off-site material, the owner or operator shall inspect the data recorded by the continuous monitoring system on a routine basis and operate the treatment process such that the actual value of each monitored operating parameter is greater than the minimum operating parameter value or less than the maximum operating parameter value, as appropriate, established for the treatment process.


(4) When the treatment process is a biological treatment process that is complying with paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the owner or operator must establish and implement a written procedure to monitor the appropriate parameters that demonstrate proper operation of the biological treatment unit in accordance with the evaluation required in § 63.694(h) of this subpart. The written procedure must list the operating parameters that will be monitored and state the frequency of monitoring to ensure that the biological treatment unit is operating between the minimum operating parameter values and maximum operating parameter values to establish that the biological treatment unit is continuously achieving the performance requirement.


(f) The owner or operator must maintain records for each treatment process in accordance with the requirements of § 63.696(a) of this subpart.


(g) The owner or operator must prepare and submit reports for each treatment process in accordance with the requirements of § 63.697(a) of this subpart.


(h) The Administrator may at any time conduct or require that the owner or operator conduct testing necessary to demonstrate that a treatment process is achieving the applicable performance requirements of this section. The testing shall be conducted in accordance with the applicable requirements of this section. The Administrator may elect to have an authorized representative observe testing conducted by the owner or operator.



---

[N] [61 FR 34158, July 1, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 38967, July 20, 1999; 66 FR 1266, Jan. 8, 2001; 68 FR 37351, June 23, 2003; 80 FR 14273, Mar. 18, 2015]




