# ยง 570.486   Local government requirements.

(a) *Citizen participation requirements of a unit of general local government.* Each unit of general local government shall meet the following requirements as required by the state at ยง 91.115(e) of this title.


(1) Provide for and encourage citizen participation, particularly by low and moderate income persons who reside in slum or blighted areas and areas in which CDBG funds are proposed to be used;


(2) Ensure that residents will be given reasonable and timely access to local meetings, consistent with accessibility and reasonable accommodation requirements in accordance with section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the regulations at 24 CFR part 8, and the Americans with Disabilities Act and the regulations at 28 CFR parts 35 and 36, as applicable, as well as information and records relating to the unit of local government's proposed and actual use of CDBG funds;


(3) Furnish citizens information, including but not limited to:


(i) The amount of CDBG funds expected to be made available for the current fiscal year (including the grant and anticipated program income);


(ii) The range of activities that may be undertaken with the CDBG funds;


(iii) The estimated amount of the CDBG funds proposed to be used for activities that will meet the national objective of benefit to low and moderate income persons; and


(iv) The proposed CDBG activities likely to result in displacement and the unit of general local government's antidisplacement and relocation plans required under ยง 570.488.


(4) Provide technical assistance to groups that are representative of persons of low- and moderate-income that request assistance in developing proposals (including proposed strategies and actions to affirmatively further fair housing) in accordance with the procedures developed by the State. Such assistance need not include providing funds to such groups;


(5) Provide for a minimum of two public hearings, each at a different stage of the program, for the purpose of obtaining residents' views and responding to proposals and questions. Together the hearings must cover community development and housing needs (including affirmatively furthering fair housing), development of proposed activities, and a review of program performance. The public hearings to cover community development and housing needs must be held before submission of an application to the State. There must be reasonable notice of the hearings and they must be held at times and accessible locations convenient to potential or actual beneficiaries, with accommodations for persons with disabilities. Public hearings shall be conducted in a manner to meet the needs of non-English speaking residents where a significant number of non-English speaking residents can reasonably be expected to participate;


(6) Provide citizens with reasonable advance notice of, and opportunity to comment on, proposed activities in an application to the state and, for grants already made, activities which are proposed to be added, deleted or substantially changed from the unit of general local government's application to the state. Substantially changed means changes made in terms of purpose, scope, location or beneficiaries as defined by criteria established by the state.


(7) Provide citizens the address, phone number, and times for submitting complaints and grievances, and provide timely written answers to written complaints and grievances, within 15 working days where practicable.


(b) *Activities serving beneficiaries outside the jurisdiction of the unit of general local government.* Any activity carried out by a recipient of State CDBG program funds must significantly benefit residents of the jurisdiction of the grant recipient, and the unit of general local government must determine that the activity is meeting its needs in accordance with section 106(d)(2)(D) of the Act. For an activity to significantly benefit residents of the recipient jurisdiction, the CDBG funds expended by the unit of general local government must not be unreasonably disproportionate to the benefits to its residents.


(c) *Activities located in Entitlement jurisdictions.* Any activity carried out by a recipient of State CDBG program funds in entitlement jurisdictions must significantly benefit residents of the jurisdiction of the grant recipient, and the State CDBG recipient must determine that the activity is meeting its needs in accordance with section 106(d)(2)(D) of the Act. For an activity to significantly benefit residents of the recipient jurisdiction, the CDBG funds expended by the unit of general local government must not be unreasonably disproportionate to the benefits to its residents. In addition, the grant cannot be used to provide a significant benefit to the entitlement jurisdiction unless the entitlement grantee provides a meaningful contribution to the project.



---

[N] [57 FR 53397, Nov. 9, 1992, as amended at 61 FR 54922, Oct. 22, 1996; 77 FR 24143, Apr. 23, 2012; 80 FR 42367, July 16, 2015]




