# ยง 3020.105   Motions.

(a) *In general.* (1) An application for an order or ruling not otherwise specifically provided for in this subpart shall be made by motion. A motion shall set forth with particularity the ruling or relief sought, the grounds and basis therefor, and the statutory or other authority relied upon, and shall be filed with the Secretary and served pursuant to the provisions of subpart B to part 3010 of this chapter. A motion to dismiss proceedings or any other motion that involves a final determination of the proceeding, any motion under ยง 3020.121, and a motion that seeks to extend the deadline for issuance of an advisory opinion shall be addressed to the Commission. After a presiding officer is designated in a proceeding, all other motions in that proceeding, except those filed under part 3011 of this chapter, shall be addressed to the presiding officer.


(2) Within five days after a motion is filed, or such other period as the Commission or presiding officer in any proceeding under this subpart may establish, any participant to the proceeding may file and serve an answer in support of or in opposition to the motion pursuant to subpart B to part 3010 of this chapter. Such an answer shall state with specificity the position of the participant with regard to the ruling or relief requested in the motion and the grounds and basis and statutory or other authority relied upon. Unless the Commission or presiding officer otherwise provides, no reply to an answer or any further responsive document shall be filed.


(b) *Motions to be excused from answering discovery requests.* (1) A motion to be excused from answering discovery requests shall be filed with the Commission within three days of the filing of the interrogatory, request for production, or request for admission to which the motion is directed. If a motion to be excused from answering is made part of an interrogatory, request for production, or request for admission, the part to which objection is made shall be clearly identified. Claims of privilege shall identify the specific evidentiary privilege asserted and state the reasons for its applicability. Claims of undue burden shall state with particularity the effort that would be required to answer or respond to the request, providing estimates of costs and workhours required, to the extent possible.


(2) An answer to a motion to be excused from answering a discovery request shall be filed within two days of the filing of the motion. The text of the discovery request and any answer previously provided by the Postal Service shall be included as an attachment to the answer.


(3) Unless the Commission or presiding officer grants the motion to be excused from answering, the Postal Service shall answer the interrogatory, production request, or request for admission. Answers shall be filed in conformance with subpart B to part 3010 of this chapter within three days of the date on which a motion to be excused from answering is denied.


(4) The Commission or presiding officer may impose such terms and conditions as are just and may, for good cause, issue a protective order, including an order limiting or conditioning interrogatories, requests for production, and requests for admission as justice requires to protect the Postal Service from undue annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or expense.


(c) *Motions to strike.* Motions to strike are requests for extraordinary relief and are not substitutes for briefs or rebuttal evidence in a proceeding. A motion to strike testimony or exhibit materials must be submitted in writing at least three days before the scheduled appearance of a witness, unless good cause is shown. Responses to motions to strike are due within two days.


(d) *Motions for leave to file surrebuttal testimony.* Motions for leave to file surrebuttal testimony submitted pursuant to ยง 3020.121 and any answers thereto must be filed on or before the dates provided in the procedural schedule established by the Commission.




