# § 1.807-4   Adjustment for change in computing reserves.

(a) *Requirement to follow administrative procedures.* Under section 807(f), a change in basis of computing an item referred to in section 807(c) is a change in method of accounting. Accordingly, except as provided in § 1.446-1(e), a change in basis of computing an item referred to in section 807(c) is a change in method of accounting for purposes of § 1.446-1(e). Before computing such item under a new basis, a life insurance company must obtain the consent of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue or his delegate (Commissioner) pursuant to administrative procedures prescribed by the Commissioner. Similarly, an insurance company other than a life insurance company (a nonlife insurance company) that changes its basis of computing life insurance reserves must obtain the consent of the Commissioner pursuant to administrative procedures prescribed by the Commissioner.


(b) *Section 481 adjustment*—(1) *In general.* If the basis of computing any item referred to in section 807(c) as of the close of any taxable year (the year of change) differs from the basis of computing such item at the close of the preceding taxable year, then the difference between the amount of the item at the close of the taxable year computed on the new basis and the amount of the item at the close of the taxable year computed on the old basis that is attributable to contracts issued before the taxable year, is taken into account under section 481 and §§ 1.481-1 through 1.481-5 as an adjustment attributable to a change in method of accounting.


(2) *Loss of company status.* If for any taxable year a taxpayer that was an insurance company for the year of change is no longer an insurance company, then the taxpayer must take into account in the preceding taxable year (that is, the last taxable year it was an insurance company) the balance of any section 481(a) adjustment determined under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. A taxpayer that was an insurance company for the year of change does not accelerate the balance of any section 481(a) adjustment determined under paragraph (b)(1) of this section merely because it changes from a life insurance company to a nonlife insurance company or because it changes from a nonlife insurance company to a life insurance company.


(c) *Effect on determining increase or decrease in reserves*—(1) *Effect under section 807(a) and (b).* If there is a change in basis of computing any item referred to in section 807(c) for a taxable year, then, for purposes of section 807(a) and (b), the closing balance for such item for the year of change with respect to contracts issued before the year of change is determined on the old basis and the opening balance for such item for the next taxable year for such contracts is computed on the new basis.


(2) *Effect under section 832.* The following rules apply for purposes of section 832(b)(4):


(i) For the year of change, life insurance reserves at the end of the year of change with respect to contracts issued before the year of change are determined on the old basis.


(ii) For the taxable year following the year of change, life insurance reserves at the end of the preceding taxable year (that is, the year of change) with respect to contracts issued before the year of change are determined on the new basis.


(d) *Examples.* The principles of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section are illustrated by the following examples. For purposes of these examples and except as otherwise provided, IC is a life insurance company within the meaning of section 816(a) that issues life insurance and annuity contracts. IC is required to determine the amount of life insurance reserves under section 807(d) and to take net increases or decreases in the reserves into account in computing life insurance company taxable income. IC's reserve for each insurance contract at issue exceeds the net surrender value for such contract and does not exceed the statutory reserve for such contract. IC is on an accrual method and uses a calendar year as its taxable year.


(1) *Example 1*—(i) *Facts.* In 2021, IC changed the basis of computing the amount of life insurance reserves for a certain type of life insurance contract as described in section 807(f). Both the basis used for computing the reserves for the relevant contracts at the close of the 2020 taxable year (old basis) and the basis of computing the reserves for the relevant type of contract at the close of the 2021 taxable year (new basis) are consistent with the applicable Commissioners' Reserve Valuation Method. IC followed the administrative procedures prescribed by the Commissioner to obtain consent to change the basis of computing these reserves. IC determined that the life insurance reserves as of December 31, 2021, for the relevant contracts issued prior to 2021 were $110x if computed using the old method and $120x if computed using the new method. IC also determined that the life insurance reserves as of December 31, 2021, for the relevant contracts issued during 2021 were $15x using the new basis.


(ii) *Analysis.* IC must take into account under section 481 and the administrative procedures prescribed by the Commissioner the $10x difference between the reserves for the relevant contracts issued prior to 2021 computed under the old basis ($110x) and the reserves for such contracts computed under the new basis ($120x). For purposes of determining any net increase or net decrease in reserves in taxable year 2021 under section 807(a) or (b), IC's closing balance of life insurance reserves computed under section 807(d) with respect to the relevant contracts is $110x for contracts issued prior to 2021 (computed on the old basis) and $15x for contracts issued during 2021 (computed on the new basis). IC's opening balance in 2022 for life insurance reserves for the relevant contracts is $135x (computed on the new basis).


(2) *Example 2*—(i) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (d)(1) of this section (the facts in *Example 1*), except that IC is an insurance company that is not a life insurance company. IC is required to compute taxable income under section 832.


(ii) *Analysis.* IC must take into account under section 481 and the administrative procedures prescribed by the Commissioner the $10x difference between the reserves for the relevant contracts issued prior to 2021 computed under the old basis ($110x) and the reserves for such contracts computed under the new basis ($120x). For purposes of determining the premiums earned on insurance contracts during the taxable year as described in section 832(b)(4) for the year of change, the life insurance reserves at the end of the taxable year are $110x for contracts issued prior to 2021 (computed on the old basis) and $15x for contracts issued during 2021 (computed on the new basis). For purposes of determining the premiums earned on insurance contracts during the taxable year as described in section 832(b)(4) for the taxable year following the year of change, the life insurance reserves at the end of the preceding taxable year (the year of change) with respect to relevant contracts are $135x (computed on the new basis).


(e) *Applicability date.* The rules of this section apply to taxable years beginning after *October 13, 2020.* However, a taxpayer may choose to apply the rules of this section for a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017, the effective date of the revision of section 807 by Public Law 115-97, and on or before *October 13, 2020,* provided the taxpayer consistently applies the rules of this section to that taxable year and all subsequent taxable years. See section 7805(b)(7).



---

[N] [T.D. 9911, 85 FR 64392, Oct. 13, 2020]




