# § 63.3561   What definitions apply to this subpart?

Terms used in this subpart are defined in the CAA, in 40 CFR 63.2, and in this section as follows: 


*Add-on control* means an air pollution control device, such as a thermal oxidizer or carbon adsorber, that reduces pollution in an air stream by destruction or removal before discharge to the atmosphere. 


*Adhesive* means any chemical substance that is applied for the purpose of bonding two surfaces together. 


*Aerosol can* means any can into which a pressurized aerosol product is packaged. 


*Aseptic coating* means any coating that must withstand high temperature steam, chemicals, or a combination of both used to sterilize food cans prior to filling. 


*Can body* means a formed metal can, excluding the unattached end(s). 


*Can end* means a can part manufactured from metal substrate equal to or thinner than 0.3785 millimeters (mm) (0.0149 inch) for the purpose of sealing the ends of can bodies including nonmetal or composite can bodies.


*Capture device* means a hood, enclosure, room, floor sweep, or other means of containing or collecting emissions and directing those emissions into an add-on air pollution control device. 


*Capture efficiency* or *capture system efficiency* means the portion (expressed as a percentage) of the pollutants from an emission source that is delivered to an add-on control device. 


*Capture system* means one or more capture devices intended to collect emissions generated by a coating operation in the use of coatings, both at the point of application and at subsequent points where emissions from the coatings occur, such as flash-off, drying, or curing.


*Cleaning material* means a solvent used to remove contaminants and other materials such as dirt, grease, oil, and dried or wet coating (*e.g.,* depainting) from a substrate before or after coating application or from equipment associated with a coating operation, such as spray booths, spray guns, racks, tanks, and hangers. Thus, it includes any cleaning material used on substrates or equipment or both. 


*Coating* means a material applied to a substrate for decorative, protective, or functional purposes. Such materials include, but are not limited to, paints, sealants, caulks, inks, adhesives, and maskants. Fusion pastes, ink jet markings, mist solutions, and lubricants, as well as decorative, protective, or functional materials that consist only of protective oils for metal, acids, bases, or any combination of these substances, are not considered coatings for the purposes of this subpart. 


*Coating operation* means equipment used to apply coating to a metal can or end (including decorative tins), or metal crown or closure, and to dry or cure the coating after application. A coating operation always includes at least the point at which a coating is applied and all subsequent points in the affected source where organic HAP emissions from that coating occur. There may be multiple coating operations in an affected source. Coating application with hand-held nonrefillable aerosol containers, touch-up markers, or marking pens is not a coating operation for the purposes of this subpart. 


*Coating solids* means the nonvolatile portion of a coating that makes up the dry film. 


*Continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS)* means the total equipment that may be required to meet the data acquisition and availability requirements of this subpart; used to sample, condition (if applicable), analyze, and provide a record of coating operation, capture system, or add-on control device parameters. 


*Controlled coating operation* means a coating operation from which some or all of the organic HAP emissions are routed through an emission capture system and add-on control device. 


*Crowns and closures* means steel or aluminum coverings such as bottle caps and jar lids for containers other than can ends. 


*Decorative tin* means a single-walled container, designed to be covered or uncovered that is manufactured from metal substrate equal to or thinner than 0.3785 mm (0.0149 inch) and is normally coated on the exterior surface with decorative coatings. Decorative tins may contain foods but are not hermetically sealed and are not subject to food processing steps such as retort or pasteurization. Interior coatings are not usually applied to protect the metal and contents from chemical interaction. 


*Deviation, before August 24, 2020,* means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart or an owner or operator of such a source:


(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart including but not limited to any emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard; or


(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or


(3) Fails to meet any emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard in this subpart during startup, shutdown, or malfunction regardless of whether or not such failure is permitted by this subpart.


*Deviation, on and after August 24, 2020,* means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart or an owner or operator of such a source:


(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart including but not limited to any emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard; or


(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit.


*Drum* means a cylindrical metal container with walls of 29 gauge or thicker and a capacity greater than 45.4 liters (12 gal). 


*Emission limitation* means an emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard. 


*Enclosure* means a structure that surrounds a source of emissions and captures and directs the emissions to an add-on control device. 


*End coating* means the application of end seal compound or repair spray on can ends during manufacturing. 


*End seal compound* means the coating applied onto ends of cans that functions to seal the end(s) of a can to the can body. 


*Exempt compound* means a specific compound that is not considered a VOC due to negligible photochemical reactivity. The exempt compounds are listed in 40 CFR 51.100(s). 


*Food can* means any can manufactured to contain edible products and designed to be hermetically sealed. Does not include decorative tins. 


*Fusion paste* means a material used to attach nozzles and other miscellaneous parts to general line cans. 


*General line can* means any can manufactured to contain inedible products. Does not include aerosol cans or decorative tins. 


*Ink jet marking* means the ink and makeup fluid used for date code and other identification markings on a can for the marking on a can indicating when food in a can has completed the retort process. 


*Inside spray* means a coating sprayed on the interior of a can body to provide a protective film between the can and its contents. 


*Lubricant* means an organic liquid used as a lubricating agent to facilitate the handling and fabrication (*e.g.,* tab making, stamping, or necking) of can bodies or ends. 


*Manufacturer's formulation data* means data on a material (such as a coating) that are supplied by the material manufacturer based on knowledge of the ingredients used to manufacture that material, rather than based on testing of the material with the test methods specified in § 63.3521. Manufacturer's formulation data may include, but are not limited to, information on density, organic HAP content, volatile organic matter content, and coating solids content. 


*Mass fraction of organic HAP* means the ratio of the mass of organic HAP to the mass of a material in which it is contained, expressed as kg of organic HAP per kg of material. 


*Metal can* means a single-walled container manufactured from metal substrate equal to or thinner than 0.3785 mm (0.0149 inch). 


*Mist solution* means a hydrocarbon or aqueous solution used as an application aid with solvent-based or waterborne end seal compounds to prevent compound accumulation on the lining nozzle. 


*Month* means a calendar month or a pre-specified period of 28 days to 35 days to allow for flexibility in recordkeeping when data are based on a business accounting period. 


*Nonaseptic coating* means any coating that is not subjected to high temperature steam, chemicals, or a combination of both to sterilize food cans prior to filling. 


*One and two-piece draw and iron can* means a steel or aluminum can manufactured by the draw and iron process. Includes two-piece beverage cans, two-piece food cans, and one-piece aerosol cans. 


*One-piece aerosol can* means an aerosol can formed by the draw and iron process to which no ends are attached and a valve is placed directly on top. 


*Organic HAP content* means the mass of organic HAP per volume of coating solids for a coating, calculated using Equation 1 of § 63.3521. The organic HAP content is determined for the coating in the condition it is in when received from its manufacturer or supplier and does not account for any alteration after receipt. 


*Pail* means a cylindrical or rectangular metal container with walls of 29 gauge or thicker and a capacity of 7.6 to 45.4 liters (2 to 12 gal) (for example, bucket). 


*Permanent total enclosure (PTE)* means a permanently installed enclosure that meets the criteria of Method 204 of appendix M, 40 CFR part 51, for a PTE and that directs all the exhaust gases from the enclosure to an add-on control device. 


*Protective oil* means an organic material that is applied to metal for the purpose of providing lubrication or protection from corrosion without forming a solid film. This definition of protective oil includes, but is not limited to, lubricating oils, evaporative oils (including those that evaporate completely), and extrusion oils. 


*Repair spray* means a spray coating for post-formed easy-open ends to provide additional protection in the scored areas by covering breaks at the score location or to provide an additional layer of protective coating on the interior of the end for corrosion resistance. 


*Research or laboratory equipment* means any equipment that is being used to conduct research and development of new processes and products, when such equipment is operated under the close supervision of technically trained personnel and is not engaged in the manufacture of final or intermediate products for commercial purposes, except in a *de minimis* manner. 


*Responsible official* means responsible official as defined in 40 CFR 70.2. 


*Sheetcoating* means a can manufacturing coating process that involves coating of flat metal sheets before they are formed into cans. 


*Side seam stripe* means a coating applied to the interior and/or exterior of the welded or soldered seam of a three-piece can body to protect the exposed metal. 


*Startup, initial* means the first time equipment is brought online in a facility. 


*Surface preparation* means use of a cleaning material on a portion of or all of a substrate. That includes use of a cleaning material to remove dried coating which is sometimes called “depainting.” 


*Temporary total enclosure (TTE)* means an enclosure constructed for the purpose of measuring the capture efficiency of pollutants emitted from a given source as defined in Method 204 of appendix M, 40 CFR part 51. 


*Thinner* means an organic solvent that is added to a coating after the coating is received from the supplier. 


*Three-piece aerosol can* means a steel aerosol can formed by the three-piece can assembly process manufactured to contain food or nonfood products. 


*Three-piece can assembly* means the process of forming a flat metal sheet into a shaped can body which may include the processes of necking, flanging, beading, and seaming and application of a side seam stripe and/or an inside spray coating. 


*Three-piece food can* means a steel can formed by the three-piece can assembly process manufactured to contain edible products and designed to be hermetically sealed. 


*Total volatile hydrocarbon (TVH)* means the total amount of nonaqueous volatile organic matter determined according to Methods 204 and 204A through 204F of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 and substituting the term TVH each place in the methods where the term VOC is used. The TVH includes both VOC and non-VOC. 


*Two-piece beverage can* means a two-piece draw and iron can manufactured to contain drinkable liquids such as beer, soft drinks, or fruit juices. 


*Two-piece food can* means a steel or aluminum can manufactured by the draw and iron process and designed to contain edible products other than beverages and to be hermetically sealed. 


*Uncontrolled coating operation* means a coating operation from which none of the organic HAP emissions are routed through an emission capture system and add-on control device. 


*Volatile organic compound (VOC)* means any compound defined as VOC in 40 CFR 51.100(s). 


*Volume fraction of coating solids* means the ratio of the volume of coating solids (also known as volume of nonvolatiles) to the volume of coating; liters of coating solids per liter of coating. 


*Wastewater* means water that is generated in a coating operation and is collected, stored, or treated prior to being discarded or discharged. 



---

[N] [68 FR 64446, Nov. 13, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 1384, Jan. 6, 2006; 85 FR 10856, Feb. 25, 2020]







