# ยง 0.81   Office of the Executive Secretariat.

(a) The Office of the Executive Secretariat is headed by an Executive Secretary. The Executive Secretary is appointed by the Attorney General and reports to the Deputy Attorney General.


(b) The Office of the Executive Secretariat shall:


(1) Ensure that official documents requiring the review, approval, or signature by the Attorney General, Deputy Attorney General, or Associate Attorney General are assigned, tracked, and cleared within the Department of Justice, as appropriate.


(2) Manage select correspondence within the Department of Justice. Correspondence refers to written communication from Department stakeholders addressed to the Attorney General, Deputy Attorney General, or the Associate Attorney General, or, as appropriate, other leadership within the Department of Justice.


(3) Manage select interagency requests for official approval or concurrence by the Attorney General, Deputy Attorney General, or Associate Attorney General; Departmental clearances; and submissions from other agencies for review within the Department of Justice.


(4) Ensure that records maintained by the Office of the Executive Secretariat are managed and preserved in accordance with applicable statutes, regulations, and policies, including but not limited to the Federal Records Act, Privacy Act of 1974, Freedom of Information Act, and U.S. National Archives and Records Administration-approved records schedules.


(5) Perform such other duties and assignments as directed by the Attorney General or the Deputy Attorney General.


















