# § 21.188   “Extended evaluation” status.

(a) *Purpose.* The purposes of *extended evaluation* status are to:


(1) Identify a veteran for whom a period of *extended evaluation* is needed; and


(2) Assure that necessary services are provided by VA during the extended evaluation.


(b) *Assignment to extended evaluation* status. A veteran's case may be assigned or reassigned to *extended evaluation* status under provisions of § 21.57, § 21.74, § 21.86, § 21.94, or § 21.96.


(c) *Continuation in extended evaluation* status. A veteran's case will be in *extended evaluation* status during periods in which:


(1) The veteran is pending induction into the facility at which rehabilitation services will be provided;


(2) The veteran is receiving rehabilitation services prescribed in the IEEP (§ 21.86); or


(3) The veteran is on authorized leave of absence during an extended evaluation.


(d) *Termination of extended evaluation status.* A veteran in *extended evaluation* status will remain in that status until one of the following events occur:


(1) Following notification of necessary arrangements to begin an extended evaluation, the date the extended evaluation begins, and instructions as to the next steps to be taken, the veteran:


(i) Fails to report and does not respond to followup contact by the case manager;


(ii) Declines or refuses to enter the program; or


(iii) Defers induction for a period exceeding 30 days beyond the scheduled date of induction, except where the deferment is due to illness or other sufficient reason;


(2) VA determines the reasonable feasibility of a vocational goal for the veteran before completion of all of the planned evaluation because the decision does not require the further evaluation;


(3) The veteran completes the extended evaluation;


(4) Either the veteran or VA interrupts the extended evaluation;


(5) Either the veteran or VA discontinues the extended evaluation; or


(6) Service-connection for the veteran's service-connected disability is severed by VA or his or her continued eligibility otherwise ceases.



---

[N] [49 FR 40814, Oct. 18, 1984, as amended at 84 FR 193, Jan. 18, 2019]




