# § 200.942   Supplementary specific procedural requirements under HUD building product standards and certification program for carpet and carpet with attached cushion.

(a) *Applicable standards.* (1) Carpet and carpet with attached cushion certified for this program shall be designed, manufactured and tested in accordance with the following standards:


(i) AATCC 20A-81—Fiber Analysis: Quantitative;


(ii) AATCC 16E-82—Colorfastness to Light: Water-Cooled Xenon-Arc Lamp, Continuous Light;


(iii) AATCC 8-85—Colorfastness to Crocking: AATCC Crockmeter Method;


(iv) AATCC 24-85—Insect, Resistance to Textiles to;


(v) ASTM D1335-67 (Reapproved 1972)—Standard Test Method for Tuft Bind of Pile Floor Coverings;


(vi) ASTM D3676-78 (Reapproved 1983)—Standard Specification for Rubber Cellular Cushion Used for Carpet or Rug Underlay;


(vii) ASTM E648-78—Standard Test Method for Critical Radiant Flux of Floor-Covering Systems Using a Radiant Heat Energy Source;


(viii) ASTM D2646-79—Standard Methods of Testing Backing Fabrics;


(ix) ASTM D3936-80—Standard Test Method for Delamination Strength of Secondary Backing of Pile Floor Coverings;


(x) ASTM D297-81—Standard Methods for Rubber Products—Chemical Analysis;


(xi) ASTM D418-82—Standard Methods of Testing Pile Yarn Floor Covering Construction; and


(xii) National Bureau of Standards DOC FF 1-70. (ASTM D2859-76)—Standard Test Method for Flammability of Finished Textile Floor Covering Materials.


(2) These standards have been approved by the Director of the Federal Register for incorporation by reference. They are available from the (i) American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists (AATCC), P.O. Box 12215, Research Triangle Park, NC 27709;


(ii) American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103; and


(iii) U.S. Department of Commerce, National Bureau of Standards, Washington, DC 20234. 


(b) *Labeling.* (1) Under the procedures set forth in § 202.935(d)(6), concerning labeling of a product, the administrator's validation mark and the manufacturer's certification of compliance with the applied standard is required to be on the certification label issued by the administrator to the manufacturer. In the case of carpet and carpet with attached cushion, the following additional information shall be included on the certification label, mark or stamp:


(i) Manufacturer's name or code identifying the manufacturing plant location; and


(ii) Manufacturer's statement of compliance with UM 44d.


(2) The certification mark shall be applied to each carpet at intervals of at least every six feet, not less than one foot from the edge.


(c) *Periodic tests and quality control inspections.* (1) Five samples of carpet and carpet with attached cushion shall be tested annually by the administrator or by an administrator-approved laboratory. Three samples of each certified quality shall be taken from the plant annually. Of these, two shall be interim samples (taken every six months) and one an annual sample. In addition, two samples of each certified quality shall be taken annually from sources other than the manufacturer, *i.e.,* brought in the market place from distributors or stores, not from the factory. The administrator shall select samples for testing, and testing shall be conducted, in accordance with the applicable standards in a laboratory accredited by the National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program (NVLAP) of the National Bureau of Standards, U.S. Department of Commerce.


(2) The administrator shall visit the manufacturer's facility at least once every six months to assure that the initially accepted quality control procedures continue to be followed.



---

[N] [51 FR 17928, May 16, 1986]




