# ยง 23.78   What happens to confiscated wildlife and plants?

(a) *Purpose.* Article VIII of the Treaty provides for confiscation or return to the country of export of specimens that are traded in violation of CITES.


(b) *Disposal options.* Part 12 of this subchapter provides the options we have for disposing of forfeited and abandoned live and dead wildlife and plants. These include maintenance in captivity either in the United States or in the country of export, return to the wild under limited circumstances, and sale of certain Appendix-II or -III specimens. Under some conditions, euthanasia or destruction may be necessary.


(1) We use a plant rescue center program to dispose of confiscated live plants. Participants in this program may also assist APHIS, CBP, and FWS Law Enforcement in holding seized specimens as evidence pending any legal decisions.


(2) We dispose of confiscated live wildlife on a case-by-case basis at the time of seizure and forfeiture, and consider the quantity, protection level, and husbandry needs of the wildlife.


(c) *Re-export.* We may issue a re-export certificate for a CITES specimen that was forfeited or abandoned when the certificate indicates the specimen was confiscated and when the re-export meets one of the following purposes:


(1) For any CITES species, the return of a live specimen to the Management Authority of the country of export, placement of a live specimen in a rescue center, or use of the specimen for law enforcement, judicial, or forensic purposes.


(2) For an Appendix-II or -III species, the disposal of the specimen in an appropriate manner that benefits enforcement and administration of the Convention.


(d) *Consultation process.* FWS and APHIS may consult with the Management Authority in the country of export or re-export and other relevant governmental and nongovernmental experts before making a decision on the disposal of confiscated live specimens that have been forfeited or abandoned to the FWS, APHIS, or CBP.




