# § 674.25   Role of the State safety oversight agency.

(a) An SSOA must establish minimum standards for the safety of all rail fixed guideway public transportation systems within its oversight. These minimum standards must be consistent with the National Public Transportation Safety Plan, the Public Transportation Safety Certification Training Program, the rules for Public Transportation Agency Safety Plans and all applicable Federal and State law.


(b) An SSOA must review and approve the Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan for every rail fixed guideway public transportation system within its oversight. An SSOA must oversee an RTA's execution of its Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan. An SSOA must enforce the execution of a Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan, through an order of a corrective action plan or any other means, as necessary or appropriate.


(c) An SSOA has the responsibility to provide safety oversight of an RTA's project(s) in the engineering or construction phase to verify compliance with all applicable Federal and State safety requirements. For purposes of §§ 674.33 and 674.35, this is limited to safety events that involve transit-related activities such as operations, testing, simulated service or pre-revenue service, or a transit-related maintenance activity.


(d) An SSOA must ensure that a Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan meets the requirements at 49 U.S.C. 5329(d) and part 673 of this chapter.


(e) An SSOA has primary responsibility for the investigation of any allegation of noncompliance with a Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan. These responsibilities do not preclude the Administrator from exercising their authority under 49 U.S.C. 5329(f).


(f) An SSOA has primary responsibility for the investigation of a safety event on a rail fixed guideway public transportation system. This responsibility does not preclude the Administrator from exercising his or her authority under 49 U.S.C. 5329(f).


(g) An SSOA may enter into an agreement with a contractor for assistance in overseeing safety event investigations and performing independent safety event investigations; and for expertise the SSOA does not have within its own organization.


(h) All designated personnel employed by an SSOA must comply with the requirements of the Public Transportation Safety Certification Training Program.






