# § 350.5   Assertion of claims of trade secrecy.

(a) A claim of trade secrecy may be made only for the specific chemical identity of an extremely hazardous substance under sections 303 (d)(2) and (d)(3), a hazardous chemical under sections 311 and 312, and a toxic chemical under section 313.


(b) Method of asserting claims of trade secrecy for information submitted under sections 303 (d)(2) and (d)(3).


(1) In submitting information to the local emergency planning committee under sections 303 (d)(2) or (d)(3), the submitter may claim as trade secret the specific chemical identity of any chemical subject to reporting under section 303.


(2) To make a claim, the submitter shall submit to EPA the following:


(i) A copy of the information which is being submitted under sections 303 (d)(2) or (d)(3) to the local emergency planning committee, with the chemical identity or identities claimed trade secret deleted, and the generic class or category of the chemical identity or identities inserted in its place. The method of choosing generic class or category is set forth in paragraph (f) of this section.


(ii) A sanitized and unsanitized substantiation in accordance with § 350.7 for each chemical identity claimed as trade secret.


(3) If the submitter wishes to claim information in the substantiation as trade secret or business confidential, it shall do so in accordance with § 350.7(d).


(4) Section 303 claims shall be sent to the address specified in § 350.16 of this regulation.


(c) Method of asserting claims of trade secrecy for information submitted under section 311.


(1) Submitters may claim as trade secret the specific chemical identity of any chemical subject to reporting under section 311 on the material safety data sheet or chemical list under section 311.


(2) To assert a claim for a chemical identity on a material safety data sheet under section 311, the submitter shall submit to EPA the following:


(i) One copy of the material safety data sheet which is being submitted to the State emergency response commission, the local emergency planning committee and the local fire department, which shall make it available to the public. In place of the specific chemical identity claimed as trade secret, the generic class or category of the chemical claimed as trade secret shall be inserted. The method of choosing generic class or category is set forth in paragraph (f) of this section.


(ii) A sanitized and unsanitized substantiation in accordance with § 350.7 for every chemical identity claimed as trade secret.


(3) To assert a claim for a chemical identity on a list under section 311, the submitter shall submit to EPA the following:


(i) An unsanitized copy of the chemical list under section 311. The submitter shall clearly indicate the specific chemical identity claimed as trade secret, and shall label it *“Trade Secret.”* The generic class or category of the chemical claimed as trade secret shall be inserted directly below the claimed chemical identity. The method of choosing generic class or category is set forth in paragraph (f) of this section.


(ii) A sanitized copy of the chemical list under section 311. This copy shall be identical to the document in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section except that the submitter shall delete the chemical identity claimed as trade secret, leaving in place the generic class or category of the chemical claimed as trade secret. This copy shall be sent by the submitter to the State emergency response commission, the local emergency planning committee and the local fire department, which shall make it available to the public.


(iii) A sanitized and unsanitized substantiation in accordance with § 350.7 for every chemical identity claimed as trade secret.


(4) If the submitter wishes to claim information in the substantiation as trade secret or business confidential, it shall do so in accordance with § 350.7(d).


(5) Section 311 claims shall be sent to the address specified in § 350.16 of this regulation.


(d) Method of asserting claims of trade secrecy for information submitted under section 312.


(1) Submitters may claim as trade secret the specific chemical identity of any chemical subject to reporting under section 312.


(2) To assert a claim the submitter shall submit to EPA the following:


(i) An unsanitized copy of the Tier II emergency and hazardous chemical inventory form under section 312. (The Tier I emergency and hazardous chemical inventory form does not require the reporting of specific chemical identity and therefore no trade secrecy claims may be made with respect to that form.) The submitter shall clearly indicate the specific chemical identity claimed as trade secret by checking the box marked “trade secret” next to the claimed chemical identity.


(ii) A sanitized copy of the Tier II emergency and hazardous chemical inventory form. This copy shall be identical to the document in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section except that the submitter shall delete the chemical identity or identities claimed as trade secret and include instead the generic class or category of the chemical claimed as trade secret. The method of choosing generic class or category is set forth in paragraph (f) of this section. The sanitized copy shall be sent by the submitter to the State emergency response commission, local emergency planning committee or the local fire department, whichever entity requested the information.


(iii) A sanitized and unsanitized substantiation in accordance with § 350.7 for every chemical identity claimed as trade secret.


(3) If the submitter wishes to claim information in the substantiation as trade secret or business confidential, it shall do so in accordance with § 350.7(d).


(4) Section 312 claims shall be sent to the address specified in § 350.16 of this regulation.


(e) Method of asserting claims of trade secrecy for information submitted under section 313.


(1) Submitters may claim as trade secret the specific chemical identity of any chemical subject to reporting under section 313.


(2) To make a claim, the submitter shall submit to EPA the following:


(i) An unsanitized copy of the toxic release inventory form under section 313 with the information claimed as trade secret clearly identified. To do this, the submitter shall check the box on the form indicating that the chemical identity is being claimed as trade secret. The submitter shall enter the generic class or category that is structurally descriptive of the chemical, as specified in paragraph (f) of this section.


(ii) A sanitized copy of the toxic release inventory form. This copy shall be identical to the document in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section except that the submitter shall delete the chemical identity claimed as trade secret. This copy shall also be submitted to the State official or officials designated to receive this information.


(iii) A sanitized and unsanitized substantiation in accordance with § 350.7 for every chemical identity claimed as trade secret.


(3) If the submitter wishes to claim information in the substantiation as trade secret or business confidential, it shall do so in accordance with § 350.7(d).


(4) Section 313 claims shall be sent to the address specified in § 350.16 of this regulation.


(f) Method of choosing generic class or category for sections 303, 311, 312 and 313. A facility owner or operator claiming chemical identity as trade secret should choose a generic class or category for the chemical that is structurally descriptive of the chemical.


(g) If a specific chemical identity is submitted under Title III to EPA, or to a State emergency response commission, designated State agency, local emergency planning committee or local fire department, without asserting a trade secrecy claim, the chemical identity shall be considered to have been voluntarily disclosed, and non-trade secret.


(h) A submitter making a trade secrecy claim under this section shall submit to entities other than EPA (e.g., a designated State agency, local emergency planning committee and local fire department) only the sanitized or public copy of the submission and substantiation.




