# § 54.1302   Calculation of incumbent local exchange carrier portion of nationwide loop cost expense adjustment for rate-of-return carriers.

(a) Beginning January 1, 2013, and each calendar year thereafter, the total annual amount of the incumbent local exchange carrier portion of the nationwide loop cost expense adjustment shall not exceed the amount for the immediately preceding calendar year, multiplied times one plus the Rural Growth Factor calculated pursuant to § 54.1303. Beginning January 1, 2021, and each calendar year thereafter, the base amount of the nationwide loop cost expense adjustment shall be the annualized amount of the final six months of the preceding calendar year. The total amount of the incumbent local exchange carrier portion of the nationwide loop cost expense adjustment for the first six months of the calendar year shall be the base amount divided by two and for the second six months of the calendar year shall be the base amount divided by two, multiplied times one plus the Rural Growth Factor calculated pursuant to § 54.1303.






(b) The annual rural incumbent local exchange carrier portion of the nationwide loop cost expense adjustment shall be reduced to reflect the transfer of rural incumbent local exchange carrier access lines that are eligible for expense adjustments pursuant to § 54.1310. The reduction shall equal the amount of the § 54.1310 expense adjustment available to the transferred access lines at the time of the transfer and shall be effective in the next calendar quarter after the access lines are transferred.


(c) Safety net additive support calculated pursuant to § 54.1304, and transferred high-cost support and safety valve support calculated pursuant to § 54.305 of this part shall not be included in the rural incumbent local exchange carrier portion of the annual nationwide loop cost expense adjustment.





---

[N] [79 FR 39190, July 9, 2014, as amended at 89 FR 25163, Apr. 10, 2024]




