# § 401.645   Owner request to review HUD decision.

(a) *HUD notice of decision.* (1) HUD will provide notice to the owner of:


(i) A decision that the owner or project is not eligible for the Mark-to-Market program;


(ii) A decision not to offer a proposed Restructuring Commitment to the owner; and


(iii) A decision to offer a proposed Restructuring Commitment. The proposed Restructuring Commitment provided to the owner constitutes the notice of decision for purposes of requesting a review of a HUD decision.


(2) The notice of decision will include the reasons for the decision.


(3) The notice of decision will also notify the owner of the right to request a review of the decision or to cure any deficiencies on which the decision was based; the date by which the review request must be submitted or the deficiencies must be cured, which will be at least 30 days after the date of the notice of decision; and the address to which the review request is to be submitted.


(b) *Review request by owner*—(1) *Written statement.* The review request must specify in writing:


(i) Each item of the decision to which the owner objects;


(ii) The reasons for the owner's objections; and


(iii) All information in support of the objections that the owner wants HUD to consider.


(2) *Scope of information submitted.* HUD will not consider information first submitted to HUD in conjunction with an owner's request for review except for:


(i) Information that could not have been submitted previously; and


(ii) New health and safety information.


(c) *HUD review and final decision.* (1) HUD may expand the scope of review beyond the issues raised by the owner and may review and modify any term within the Restructuring Commitment without regard to whether the owner has raised an objection to that term, including adjustments to rents or expenses as underwritten by the PAE. If HUD does expand the scope of review, HUD will notify the owner of such action and provide an additional 30 days for the owner to raise any additional objections and provide additional information.


(2) Within 30 days of HUD's receipt of the owner's review request and any additional objections and information, HUD will review the request and, using a standard of what is reasonable in light of all of the evidence presented, issue a final decision. The final decision will:


(i) Affirm the notice of decision; or


(ii) Modify the notice of decision and, if applicable, modify the Restructuring Commitment, in which event HUD will issue an amended or restated Restructuring Commitment that incorporates the final decision; or


(iii) Revoke the notice of decision and, if applicable, terminate the Restructuring Commitment and notify the owner that the owner is not eligible for participation in the Mark-to-Market program or that a restructuring of the property is not feasible.



---

[N] [72 FR 66040, Nov. 26, 2007]




