# ยง 63.11588   What definitions apply to this subpart?

*Chemical preparation* means a target HAP-containing product, or intermediate used in the manufacture of other products, manufactured in a process operation described by the NAICS code 325998 if the operation manufactures target HAP-containing products or intermediates other than indelible ink, India ink, writing ink, and stamp pad ink. Indelible ink, India ink, writing ink, and stamp pad ink manufacturing operations are subject to regulation by the paints and allied products area source rule (40 CFR part 63, subpart CCCCCCC).


*Chemical preparations facility* means any facility-wide collection of chemical preparation operations.


*Chemical preparations operation* means the collection of mixing, blending, milling, and extruding equipment used to manufacture chemical preparations. A chemical preparation operation may include all, or only some, of the equipment listed above, depending on the chemical preparation being manufactured. Mixing and blending equipment may be used to process either wet or dry materials, or a combination of wet and dry materials. Milling equipment includes, but is not limited to, various types of rolling mills, rotary mills, and grinders. Extruding equipment, for the purposes of this subpart, includes direct and indirect extruders, spray driers, and prilling towers.


*Deviation* means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:


(1) Fails to meet any requirement or management practice established by this subpart;


(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement a requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or


(3) Fails to meet any emissions limit.


*In target HAP service* means that equipment in the chemical preparation operation either contains, contacts, or is processing target HAP-containing materials.


*Leak* means a break in the integrity of the vent collection or control device system (*i.e.,* in the duct work, piping, *etc.*) such that visual particulate emissions, liquids or residue form outside the vent collection system or control device.


*Process vent stream* means a gas stream from any equipment in target HAP service at the point where that gas stream is discharged from a vent collection system to the atmosphere, or inlet of a control device, if any.


*Research and development equipment* means any equipment whose primary purpose is to conduct research and development to develop new processes and products, where such equipment is operated under the close supervision of technically trained personnel and is not engaged in the manufacture of products for commercial sale in commerce, except in a *de minimis* manner.


*Responsible official* means one of the following:


(1) For a corporation: A president, secretary, treasurer, or vice president of the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation, or a duly authorized representative of such person if the representative is responsible for the overall operation of one or more chemical preparations facilities;


(2) For a partnership: A general partner;


(3) For a sole proprietorship: The owner; or


(4) For a municipality, State, Federal, or other public agency: Either a principal executive officer or ranking official.


*Target HAP* means metal compounds for chromium, lead, manganese, and nickel.


*Target HAP-containing* means raw materials, intermediates, or products that contain one or more target HAP. Any material that contains compounds of chromium (VI), lead, or nickel in amounts greater than or equal to 0.1 percent by weight (as the metal), or manganese or chromium (III) compounds in amounts greater than or equal to 1.0 percent by weight (as the metal) is considered to be target HAP-containing. Target HAP content is shown in the formulation data provided by the manufacturer or supplier, such as the Material Safety Data Sheet for the material.


*Unsafe or difficult to inspect* means the equipment cannot be inspected without elevating the inspection personnel more than two meters above a support surface or it is not accessible at anytime in a safe manner.


*Vent collection system* means hoods, enclosures, ductwork and fans utilized to remove particulate emissions from chemical preparations operations work areas.







