# § 447.10   Prohibition against reassignment of provider claims.

(a) *Basis and purpose.* This section implements section 1902(a)(32) of the Act which prohibits State payments for Medicaid services to anyone other than a provider or beneficiary, under an assignment, power of attorney, or similar arrangement, except in specified circumstances.


(b) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section: 


*Facility* means an institution that furnishes health care services to inpatients. 


*Factor* means an individual or an organization, such as a collection agency or service bureau, that advances money to a provider for accounts receivable that the provider has assigned, sold or transferred to the individual organization for an added fee or a deduction of a portion of the accounts receivable. Factor does not include a business representative as described in paragraph (f) of this section. 


*Organized health care delivery system* means a public or private organization for delivering health services. It includes, but is not limited to, a clinic, a group practice prepaid capitation plan, and a health maintenance organization. 


(c) *State plan requirements.* A State plan must provide that the requirements of paragraphs (d) through (h) of this section are met. 


(d) *Who may receive payment.* Payment may be made only—


(1) To the provider; or 


(2) To the beneficiary if he is a noncash beneficiary eligible to receive the payment under § 447.25; or 


(3) In accordance with paragraphs (e), (f), and (g) of this section. 


(e) *Reassignments.* Payment may be made in accordance with a reassignment from the provider to a government agency or reassignment by a court order. 


(f) *Business agents.* Payment may be made to a business agent, such as a billing service or an accounting firm, that furnishes statements and receives payments in the name of the provider, if the agent's compensation for this service is—


(1) Related to the cost of processing the billing; 


(2) Not related on a percentage or other basis to the amount that is billed or collected; and 


(3) Not dependent upon the collection of the payment. 


(g) *Individual practitioners.* Payment may be made to—


(1) The employer of the practitioner, if the practitioner is required as a condition of employment to turn over his fees to the employer;


(2) The facility in which the service is provided, if the practitioner has a contract under which the facility submits the claim; or


(3) A foundation, plan, or similar organization operating an organized health care delivery system, if the practitioner has a contract under which the organization submits the claim.


(h) *Prohibition of payment to factors.* Payment for any service furnished to a beneficiary by a provider may not be made to or through a factor, either directly or by power of attorney. 


(i) The payment prohibition in section 1902(a)(32) of the Act and paragraph (d) of this section does not apply to payments to a third party on behalf of an individual practitioner for benefits such as health insurance, skills training, and other benefits customary for employees, in the case of a class of practitioners for which the Medicaid program is the primary source of revenue, if the practitioner voluntarily consents to such payments to third parties on the practitioner's behalf.



---

[N] [43 FR 45253, Sept. 29, 1978, as amended at 46 FR 42672, Aug. 24, 1981; 61 FR 38398, July 24, 1996; 79 FR 3039, Jan. 16, 2014; 84 FR 19728, May 6, 2019; 87 FR 29690, May 16, 2022]




