# § 240.7   Definitions.

As used in this part—


*Administrator* means the Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration or the Administrator's delegate.


*Alcohol* means ethyl alcohol (ethanol) and includes use or possession of any beverage, mixture, or preparation containing ethyl alcohol.


*Conductor* means the crewmember in charge of a “train or yard crew” as defined in part 218 of this chapter.


*Controlled Substance* has the meaning assigned by 21 U.S.C. 802 and includes all substances listed on Schedules I through V as they may be revised from time to time (21 CFR parts 1301-1316).


*Current Employee* is any employee with at least one year of experience in transportation service on a railroad.


*Designated Supervisor of Locomotive Engineers* is a person designated as such by a railroad in accordance with the provisions of § 240.105 of this part.


*Drug* means any substance (other than alcohol) that has known mind or function-altering effects on a human subject, specifically including any psychoactive substance and including, but not limited to, controlled substances.


*Drug and alcohol counselor (DAC)* means a person who meets the credentialing and qualification requirements of a “Substance Abuse Professional” (SAP), as provided in 49 CFR part 40.


*Dual purpose vehicle* means a piece of on-track equipment that is capable of moving railroad rolling stock and may also function as roadway maintenance equipment.


*File, filed and filing* mean submission of a document under this part on the date when the DOT Docket Clerk or FRA receives it, or if sent by mail, the date mailing was completed. 


*FRA* means the Federal Railroad Administration.


*FRA Representative* means the FRA Associate Administrator for Railroad Safety/Chief Safety Officer and the Associate Administrator's delegate, including any safety inspector employed by the Federal Railroad Administration and any qualified State railroad safety inspector acting under part 212 of this chapter.


*Ineligible or ineligibility* means that a person is legally disqualified from serving as a certified locomotive engineer. The term covers a number of circumstances in which a person may not serve as a certified locomotive engineer. Revocation of certification pursuant to § 240.307 and denial of certification pursuant to § 240.219 are two examples in which a person would be ineligible to serve as a certified locomotive engineer. A period of ineligibility may end when a condition or conditions are met. For example, a period of ineligibility may end when a person meets the conditions to serve as a certified locomotive engineer following an alcohol or drug violation pursuant to § 240.119.


*Instructor engineer,* as used in this part:


(1) Means a person who has demonstrated, pursuant to the railroad's written program, an adequate knowledge of the subjects under instruction and, where applicable, has the necessary operating experience to instruct effectively in the field, and has the following qualifications:


(i) Is a certified locomotive engineer under this part; and


(ii) Has been selected as such by a designated railroad officer, in concurrence with the designated employee representative, where present, to teach others proper train handling procedures; or


(iii) In absence of concurrence provided in paragraph (1)(ii) of this definition, has a minimum of 12 months service working in the class of service for which the person is designated to instruct.


(2) If a railroad does not have designated employee representation, then a person employed by the railroad need not comply with paragraph (1)(ii) or (iii) of this definition to be an instructor engineer.


*Joint Operations* means rail operations conducted by more than one railroad on the same track regardless of whether such operations are the result of—


(1) Contractual arrangement between the railroads,


(2) Order of a governmental agency or a court of law, or


(3) Any other legally binding directive.


*Knowingly* means having actual knowledge of the facts giving rise to the violation or that a reasonable person acting in the circumstances, exercising due care, would have had such knowledge.


*Locomotive* means a piece of on-track equipment (other than specialized roadway maintenance equipment or a dual purpose vehicle operating in accordance with § 240.104(a)(2)):


(1) With one or more propelling motors designed for moving other equipment;


(2) With one or more propelling motors designed to carry freight or passenger traffic or both; or


(3) Without propelling motors but with one or more control stands.


*Locomotive engineer* means any person who moves a locomotive or group of locomotives regardless of whether they are coupled to other rolling equipment except:


(1) A person who moves a locomotive or group of locomotives within the confines of a locomotive repair or servicing area as provided for in 49 CFR 218.5 and 218.29(a)(1); or


(2) A person who moves a locomotive or group of locomotives for distances of less than 100 feet and this incidental movement of a locomotive or locomotives is for inspection or maintenance purposes.


*Main track* means a track upon which the operation of trains is governed by one or more of the following methods of operation: timetable; mandatory directive; signal indication; or any form of absolute or manual block system.


*Medical examiner* means a person licensed as a doctor of medicine or doctor of osteopathy. A medical examiner can be a qualified, full-time salaried employee of a railroad, a qualified practitioner who contracts with the railroad on a fee-for-service or other basis, or a qualified practitioner designated by the railroad to perform functions in connection with medical evaluations of employees. As used in this rule, the medical examiner owes a duty to make an honest and fully informed evaluation of the condition of an employee.


*On-the-job training (OJT)* means job training that occurs in the workplace, *i.e.,* the employee learns the job while doing the job.


*Person* means an entity of any type covered under 1 U.S.C. 1, including but not limited to the following: a railroad; a manager, supervisor, official, or other employee or agent of a railroad; any owner, manufacturer, lessor, or lessee of railroad equipment, track, or facilities; any independent contractor providing goods or services to a railroad; and any employee of such owner, manufacturer, lessor, lessee, or independent contractor.


*Physical characteristics* means the actual track profile of and physical location for points within a specific yard or route that affect the movement of a locomotive or train. *Physical characteristics* includes both main track physical characteristics (*see* definition of “main track” in this section) and other than main track physical characteristics.


*Plant railroad* means a plant or installation that owns or leases a locomotive, uses that locomotive to switch cars throughout the plant or installation, and is moving goods solely for use in the facility's own industrial processes. The plant or installation could include track immediately adjacent to the plant or installation if the plant railroad leases the track from the general system railroad and the lease provides for (and actual practice entails) the exclusive use of that trackage by the plant railroad and the general system railroad for purposes of moving only cars shipped to or from the plant. A plant or installation that operates a locomotive to switch or move cars for other entities, even if solely within the confines of the plant or installation, rather than for its own purposes or industrial processes, will not be considered a plant railroad because the performance of such activity makes the operation part of the general railroad system of transportation.


*Qualified* means a person who has successfully completed all instruction, training and examination programs required by the employer and the applicable parts of this chapter, and that the person therefore may reasonably be expected to be proficient on all safety-related tasks the person is assigned to perform.


*Railroad* means any form of nonhighway ground transportation that runs on rails or electromagnetic guideways and any entity providing such transportation, including


(1) Commuter or other short-haul railroad passenger service in a metropolitan or suburban area and commuter railroad service that was operated by the Consolidated Rail Corporation on January 1, 1979; and


(2) High speed ground transportation systems that connect metropolitan areas, without regard to whether those systems use new technologies not associated with traditional railroads; but does not include rapid transit operations in an urban area that are not connected to the general railroad system of transportation.


*Railroad Officer* means any supervisory employee of a railroad.


*Railroad rolling stock* is on-track equipment that is either a “railroad freight car” (as defined in § 215.5 of this chapter) or a “passenger car” (as defined in § 238.5 of this chapter).


*Roadway maintenance equipment* is on-track equipment powered by any means of energy other than hand power which is used in conjunction with maintenance, repair, construction or inspection of track, bridges, roadway, signal, communications, or electric traction systems.


*Segment* means any portion of a railroad assigned to the supervision of one superintendent or equivalent transportation officer.


*Serve or service,* in the context of serving documents, has the meaning given in Rule 5 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure as amended. Similarly, the computation of time provisions in Rule 6 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure as amended are also applicable in this part. *See also* the definition of “filing” in this section.


*Specialized roadway maintenance equipment* is roadway maintenance equipment that does not have the capability to move railroad rolling stock. Any alteration of such equipment that enables it to move railroad rolling stock will require that the equipment be treated as a dual purpose vehicle.


*Substance abuse disorder* refers to a psychological or physical dependence on alcohol or a drug, or another identifiable and treatable mental or physical disorder involving the abuse of alcohol or drugs as a primary manifestation. A substance abuse disorder is “active” within the meaning of this part if the person is currently using alcohol or other drugs, except under medical supervision consistent with the restrictions described in § 219.103 of this chapter or has failed to complete primary treatment successfully or participate in aftercare successfully as directed by a DAC or SAP.


*Substance Abuse Professional (SAP)* means a person who meets the qualifications of a Substance Abuse Professional, as provided in part 40 of this title.


*Territorial qualifications* means possessing the necessary knowledge concerning a railroad's operating rules and timetable special instructions, including familiarity with applicable main track and other than main track physical characteristics of the territory over which the locomotive or train movement will occur.


*Tourist, scenic, historic, or excursion operations that are not part of the general railroad system of transportation* means a tourist, scenic, historic, or excursion operation conducted only on track used exclusively for that purpose (*i.e.,* there is no freight, intercity passenger, or commuter passenger railroad operation on the track).


*Type I Simulator* means a replica of the control compartment of a locomotive with all associated control equipment that:


(1) Functions in response to a person's manipulation and causes the gauges associated with such controls to appropriately respond to the consequences of that manipulation;


(2) Pictorially, audibly and graphically illustrates the route to be taken;


(3) Graphically, audibly, and physically illustrates the consequences of control manipulations in terms of their effect on train speed, braking capacity, and in-train force levels throughout the train; and


(4) Is computer enhanced so that it can be programmed for specific train consists and the known physical characteristics of the line illustrated.


*Type II Simulator* means a replica of the control equipment for a locomotive that:


(1) Functions in response to a person's manipulation and causes the gauges associated with such controls to appropriately respond to the consequences of that manipulation;


(2) Pictorially, audibly, and graphically illustrates the route to be taken;


(3) Graphically and audibly illustrates the consequences of control manipulations in terms of their effect on train speed braking capacity, and in-train force levels throughout the train; and


(4) Is computer enhanced so that it can be programmed for specific train consists and the known physical characteristics of the line illustrated.


*Type III Simulator* means a replica of the control equipment for a locomotive that:


(1) Functions in response to a person's manipulation and causes the gauges associated with such controls to appropriately respond to the consequences of that manipulation;


(2) Graphically illustrates the route to be taken;


(3) Graphically illustrates the consequences of control manipulations in terms of their effect on train speed braking capacity, and in-train force levels throughout the train; and


(4) Is computer enhanced so that it can be programmed for specific train consists and the known physical characteristics of the line illustrated.



---

[N] [56 FR 28254, June 19, 1991, as amended at 58 FR 19002, Apr. 9, 1993; 60 FR 53136, Oct. 12, 1995; 64 FR 60989, Nov. 8, 1999; 65 FR 58483, Sept. 29, 2000; 67 FR 24, Jan. 2, 2002; 74 FR 68182, Dec. 23, 2009; 85 FR 81307, Dec. 15, 2020]




