# ยง 416.2015   Establishing eligibility.

(a) *Applications.* Any person who meets the application requirements of subpart C of this part is deemed to have filed an application for any federally administered State supplementation for which he may be eligible unless supplementation has been waived pursuant to ยง 416.2047. However, a supplemental statement will be required where additional information is necessary to establish eligibility or to determine the correct payment amount.


(b) *Evidentiary requirements.* The evidentiary requirements and developmental procedures of this part are applicable with respect to federally administered State supplementary payments.


(c) *Determination.* Where not inconsistent with the provisions of this subpart, eligibility for and the amount of the State supplementary payment will be determined pursuant to the provisions of subparts A through Q of this part.


(d) *Categories; aged, blind, disabled.* An applicant will be deemed to have filed for the State supplementary payment amount provided for the category under which his application for a Federal supplemental security income benefit is filed. As in the Federal supplemental security income program, an individual who establishes eligibility as a blind or disabled individual, and continually remains on the rolls, will continue to be considered blind or disabled after he attains age 65.


(e) *Concurrent categories.* (1) In States where the supplementary payment provided for the aged category is higher than for the blind or disabled category aged individuals will be paid the State supplement on the basis of age.


(2) If the administration agreement pursuant to ยง 416.2005(b) provides for higher supplementary payments to the blind or disabled than to the aged category, then, at the option of the State, the agreement may provide that individuals who are age 65 or over at time of application and who are blind or disabled may elect to receive such higher supplementary payments.




