# § 54.625   Service Provider Identification Number (SPIN) changes.

(a) *Corrective SPIN change.* A “corrective SPIN change” is any amendment to the SPIN associated with a Funding Request Number that does not involve a change to the service provider associated with that Funding Request Number. An applicant under the Telecommunications Program or the Healthcare Connect Fund Program may file a request for a corrective SPIN change with the Administrator to:


(1) Correct ministerial errors;


(2) Update the service provider's SPIN that resulted from a merger or acquisition of companies; or


(3) Effectuate a change to the SPIN that does not involve a change to the service provider of a funding request and was not initiated by the applicant.


(b) *Operational SPIN Change.* An “operational SPIN change” is any change to the service provider associated with a Funding Request Number. An applicant under the Telecommunications Program or the Healthcare Connect Fund Program may file a request for an operational SPIN change with the Administrator if:


(1) The applicant has a legitimate reason to change providers (*e.g.,* breach of contract or the service provider is unable to perform); and


(2) The applicant's newly selected service provider received the next highest point value in the original bid evaluation, assuming there were multiple bidders.


(c) *Filing deadline.* An applicant must file its request for a corrective or operational SPIN change with the Administrator no later than the invoice filing deadline as defined by § 54.627.





---

[N] [84 FR 54979, Oct. 11, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 1846, Jan. 11, 2024]






