# § 171.51   Application and definitions.

(a) *Application.* The following definitions, regulations, and criteria are designed to establish and implement procedures required by section 6079 of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, Pub. L. 100-690, title VI (102 Stat. 4181). They are intended to supplement existing law and procedures relative to the forfeiture of property under the identified statutory authority. The provisions of these regulations do not affect the existing legal and equitable rights and remedies of those with an interest in property seized for forfeiture, nor do these provisions relieve interested parties from their existing obligations and responsibilities in pursuing their interests through such courses of action. These regulations are intended to reflect the intent of Congress to minimize the adverse impact occasioned by the prolonged detention of property subject to forfeiture due to violations of law involving possession of personal use quantities of controlled substances. The definition of personal use quantities of controlled substance as contained herein is intended to distinguish between those quantities small in amount which are generally considered to be possessed for personal consumption and not for distribution, and those larger quantities generally considered to be subject to distribution. 


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this subpart, the following terms shall have the meanings specified: 


(1) *Appraised value.* “Appraised value” has the meaning given in § 162.43(a) of this chapter. 


(2) *Commercial fishing industry vessel.* “Commercial fishing industry vessel” means a vessel that: 


(i) Commercially engages in the catching, taking, or harvesting of fish or an activity that can reasonably be expected to result in the catching, taking, or harvesting of fish;


(ii) Commercially prepares fish or fish products other than by gutting, decapitating, gilling, skinning, shucking, icing, freezing, or brine chilling; or 


(iii) Commercially supplies, stores, refrigerates, or transports fish, fish products, or materials directly related to fishing or the preparation of fish to or from a fishing, fish processing, or fish tender vessel or fish processing facility. 


(3) *Controlled substance.* “Controlled substance” has the meaning given in 21 U.S.C. 802. 


(4) *Normal and customary manner.* “Normal and customary manner” means that inquiry suggested by particular facts and circumstances which would customarily be undertaken by a reasonably prudent individual in a like or similar situation. Actual knowledge of such facts and circumstances is unnecessary, and implied, imputed, or constructive knowledge is sufficient. An established norm, standard, or custom is persuasive but not conclusive or controlling in determining whether a petitioner acted in a normal and customary manner to ascertain how property would be used by another legally in possession of the property. 


(5) *Owner or interested party.* “Owner or interested party” means one having a legal and possessory interest in the property seized for foreiture or one who was in legal possession of the property at the time of seizure and is entitled to legal possession at the time of granting the petition for expedited procedure. This includes a lienholder, to the extent of his interest in the property, whose claim is in writing (except for a maritime lien which need not be in writing), unless the collateral is in the possession of the secured party. The agreement securing such a lien must create or provide for a security interest in the collateral, describe the collateral and be signed by the debtor. 


(6) *Personal use quantities.* “Personal use quantities” means possession of controlled substances in circumstances where there is no evidence of intent to distribute, or to facilitate the manufacturing, compounding, processing, delivering, importing or exporting of any controlled substance. A quantity of a controlled substance is presumed to be for personal use if the amounts possessed do not exceed the quantities set forth in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section if there is no evidence of illicit drug trafficking or distribution such as, but not limited to the factors set forth in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section. The possession of a narcotic, a depressant, a stimulant, a hallucinogin or a cannabis-controlled substance will be considered in excess of personal use quantities if the dosage unit amount possessed provides the same or greater equivalent efficacy as described in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section. 


(i) *Quantities presumed to be for personal use unless evidence of illicit drug trafficking or distribution exists.* (A) One gram of a mixture of substance containing a detectable amount of heroin; 


(B) One gram of a mixture of substance containing a detectable amount of—


(*1*) Coca leaves, except coca leaves and extracts of coca leaves from which cocaine, ecgonine, and derivations of ecgonine or their salts have been removed; 


(*2*) Cocaine, its salts, optional and geometric isomers, and salts of isomers; 


(*3*) Ecgonine, its derivatives, their salts, isomers, and salts of isomers; or


(*4*) Any compound, mixture, or preparation which contains any quantity of any of the substances referred to in paragraphs (b)(6)(i)(B) (*1*) through (*3*) of this section; 


(C) 
1/10th gram of a mixture of substances described in paragraph (b)(6)(i)(B) of this section which contains cocaine base; 


(D) 
1/10th gram of mixture of substance containing a detectable amount of phencyclidine (PCP); 


(E) 500 micrograms of a mixture of substance containing a detectable amount of lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD); 


(F) One ounce of a mixture of substance containing a detectable amount of marihuana; or 


(G) One gram of methamphetamine, its salts, isomers, and salts of its isomers, or one gram of a mixture of substances containing a detectable amount of methamphetamine, its salts, isomers, or salts of its isomers. 


(ii) *Evidence of possession for other than personal use.* Quantities shall not be considered to be for personal use if sweepings are present or there is other evidence of possession for other than personal use such as:


(A) Evidence such as drug scales, drug distribution paraphernalia, drug records, drug packaging material, method of drug packaging, drug “cutting” agents and other equipment, that indicates an intent to process, package or distribute a controlled substance; 


(B) Information from reliable sources indicating possession of a controlled substance with intent to distribute; 


(C) The arrest and/or conviction record of the person or persons in actual or constructive possession of the controlled substance for offenses under Federal, State or local law that indicates an intent to distribute a controlled substance;


(D) The controlled substance is related to large amounts of cash or any amount of prerecorded government funds;


(E) The controlled substance is possessed under circumstances that indicate such a controlled substance is a sample intended for distribution in anticipation of a transaction involving large quantities, or is part of a larger delivery; or


(F) Statements by the possessor, or otherwise attributable to the possessor, including statements of conspirators, that indicate possession with intent to distribute.


(7) *Property.* “Property” means property subject to forfeiture under 19 U.S.C. 1595a.


(8) *Seizing agency.* “Seizing agency” means the Federal agency which has seized the property or adopted the seizure of another agency, and has the responsibility for administratively forfeiting the property.


(9) *Sworn to.* “Sworn to” refers to the oath as provided by 28 U.S.C. 1746 or as notarized in accordance with state law.



---

[N] [T.D. 89-86, 54 FR 37602, Sept. 11, 1989; 54 FR 41364, Oct. 6, 1989, as amended by T.D. 00-88, 65 FR 78093, Dec. 14, 2000; CBP Dec. 04-28, 69 FR 52600, Aug. 27, 2004] 




