# § 20.602   Remedial action.

(a)(1) Remedial action should normally be considered only after attempts to obtain voluntary resolution have failed. Voluntary resolution may include:


(i) Voluntary divestiture;


(ii) Voluntary conversion to securities which are not prohibited, or the holding of which would not violate law or regulation; or


(iii) Voluntary reassignment to another position.


(2) If the bureau Ethics Counselor decides that remedial action is required, such action shall be initiated within a reasonable time, usually 90 days.


(b) Remedial action may include:


(1) *Reassignment or disqualification of the employee.* It may be possible for the employee to be reassigned to another job, or to be disqualified from performing particular duties. Although the number of cases where this remedy can be used should be rare, the possibility should be explored before divestiture of an interest is ordered.


(2) *Waiver.* (i) The Designated Agency Ethics Official (DAEO) is authorized to make a written advance determination pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 208(b)(1) waiving the prohibitions of 18 U.S.C. 208(a) for any Department employee except the Secretary and those employees in the same organization as the DEAO, i.e., the Department's Office of Policy, Management and Budget. The Secretary or the Deputy Secretary shall issue individual waivers pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 208(b)(1) for employees in the Office of Policy, Management and Budget.


(ii) In the case of a special Government employee serving on an advisory committee within the meaning of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, 5 U.S.C. App. (including an individual being considered for an appointment to such a position), the DAEO, after review of the financial disclosure report filed by the individual pursuant to the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, 5 U.S.C. App., is authorized to certify in writing that the need for the individual's services outweighs the potential for a conflict of interest created by the financial interest involved.


(iii) The DAEO may grant a waiver under 5 CFR 3501.103(e) from the regulatory restrictions at 5 CFR 3501.103 (b) and (c).


(3) *Divestiture of the interest.* An employee may be required to divest an interest, including outside employment, that is prohibited by law or regulation. Divestiture of the interest shall be ordered in all situations where it is determined by the appropriate official that there is no other satisfactory remedy. Evidence of divestiture must be provided in the form of broker's sale receipt or other appropriate document.


(c) *Authority to order remedial action.* (1) Each bureau Ethics Counselor is authorized to order remedial actions within his or her bureau. The advice of the appropriate Regional Solicitor, the Associate Solicitor—Division of General Law, or the Designated Agency Ethics Official or his or her designee may be sought before such an order is issued. This authority to order remedial action may not be redelegated.


(2) The Deputy Assistant Secretary for Policy is authorized to order remedial actions for employees within the Office of the Secretary, except that the Secretary shall order remedial actions in situations involving the Deputy Secretary.


(d) An employee who fails to comply with an order for remedial action is considered to be in violation of this part and shall be subject to disciplinary action.




