# ยง 63.1041   Definitions.

All terms used in this subpart shall have the meaning given to them in the Act and in this section. If a term is defined in both this section and in another subpart that references the use of this subpart, then the definition in this subpart shall take precedence when implementing this subpart.


*Closure device* means a cap, hatch, lid, plug, seal, valve, or other type of fitting that, when the device is secured in the closed position, prevents or reduces air emissions to the atmosphere by blocking an opening in a fixed roof or floating roof. Closure devices include devices that are detachable from the cover (e.g., a sampling port cap), manually operated (e.g., a hinged access lid or hatch), or automatically operated (e.g., a spring-loaded pressure relief valve).


*Continuous seal* means a seal that forms a continuous closure that completely covers the space between the edge of the floating roof and the wall of a separator. A continuous seal may be constructed of fastened segments so as to form a continuous seal.


*Fixed roof* means a cover that is mounted on a separator in a stationary position and does not move with fluctuations in the level of the liquid managed in the separator.


*Floating roof* means a pontoon-type or double-deck type cover that rests upon and is supported by the liquid managed in a separator.


*Liquid-mounted seal* means a foam- or liquid-filled continuous seal that is mounted between the wall of the separator and the floating roof, and the seal is in contact with the liquid in a separator.


*Oil-water separator* means a separator as defined for this subpart that is used to separate oil from water.


*Organic-water separator* means a separator as defined for this subpart that is used to separate organics from water.


*Metallic shoe seal* means a continuous seal that is constructed of metal sheets which are held vertically against the wall of the separator by springs, weighted levers, or other mechanisms and is connected to the floating roof by braces or other means. A flexible coated fabric (envelope) spans the annular space between the metal sheet and the floating roof.


*No detectable organic emissions* means no escape of organics to the atmosphere as determined using the procedure specified in ยง 63.1046(a) of this subpart.


*Regulated-material* means the material (e.g. waste, wastewater, off-site material) required to be managed in separators using air emission controls in accordance with the standards specified in this subpart.


*Safety device* means a closure device such as a pressure relief valve, frangible disc, fusible plug, or any other type of device which functions to prevent physical damage or permanent deformation to equipment by venting gases or vapors during unsafe conditions resulting from an unplanned, accidental, or emergency event. For the purpose of this subpart, a safety device is not used for routine venting of gases or vapors from the vapor headspace underneath a cover such as during filling of the unit or to adjust the pressure in this vapor headspace in response to normal daily diurnal ambient temperature fluctuations. A safety device is designed to remain in a closed position during normal operations and open only when the internal pressure, or another relevant parameter, exceeds the device threshold setting applicable to the equipment as determined by the owner or operator based on manufacturer recommendations, applicable regulations, fire protection and prevention codes, standard engineering codes and practices, or other requirements for the safe handling of flammable, combustible, explosive, reactive, or hazardous materials.


*Separator* means a waste management unit, generally a tank, that is used to separate oil or organics from water. A separator consists of not only the separation unit but also the forebay and other separator basins, skimmers, weirs, grit chambers, sludge hoppers, and bar screens that are located directly after the individual drain system and prior to any additional treatment units such as an air flotation unit clarifier or biological treatment unit. Examples of a separator include an API separator, parallel-plate interceptor, and corrugated-plate interceptor with the associated ancillary equipment. 



---

[N] [61 FR 34195, July 1, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 38991, July 20, 1999]




