# ยง 154.3   Definitions.

Terms used in this part have the same meaning as in the Act. In addition, as used in this part, the following terms shall apply:


*Act or FIFRA* means the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, as amended.


*Administrator* means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency or any officer or employee thereof to whom authority has been delegated to act for the Administrator.


*Confidential business information* means trade secrets or confidential commercial or financial information under FIFRA section 10(b) or 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(3) or (4).


*Other significant evidence* means factually significant information that relates to the uses of the pesticide and its adverse risk to man or to the environment but does not include evidence based only on misuse of the pesticide unless such misuse is widespread and commonly recognized practice.


*Person* means an applicant, registrant, manufacturer, pesticide user, environmental group, labor union, or other individual or group of individuals interested in pesticide regulation.


*Pesticide use* means a use of a pesticide (described in terms of the application site and other applicable identifying factors) that is included in the labeling of a pesticide product which is registered, or for which an application for registration is pending, and the terms and conditions (or proposed terms and conditions) of registration for the use.


*Terms and conditions of registration* means the terms and conditions governing lawful sale, distribution, and use approved in conjunction with registration, including labeling, use classification, composition, and packaging.


*Validated test* means a test determined by the Agency to have been conducted and evaluated in a manner consistent with accepted scientific procedures.



---

[N] [73 FR 75595, Dec. 12, 2008]




