# § 21.6005   Definitions.

(a) *Temporary program.* The term *temporary program* means the program of vocational training for certain pension recipients authorized by section 1524, chapter 15, title 38 U.S.C.


(b) *Program period.* The term *program period* means the period beginning on February 1, 1985, and ending on December 31, 1992.


(c) *Qualified veteran.* The term *qualified veteran* means—


(1) A veteran awarded disability pension during the program period; or


(2) A veteran who was awarded disability pension prior to the beginning of the program period on February 1, 1985, has been continuously in receipt of pension since that time, and is in receipt of pension on the date his or her claim for assistance under the vocational training program is received by VA.


(d) *Program participant.* The term *program participant* means a qualified veteran as defined in paragraph (c) of this section who, following an evaluation in which VA finds achievement of a vocational goal is reasonably feasible for the veteran, elects to participate in a vocational training program.


(e) *Vocational training program.* The term *vocational training program* means vocationally oriented services and assistance of the kind provided under chapter 31 of the title 38 U.S.C. and such other services and assistance of the kind provided under that chapter as are necessary to enable the veteran to prepare for, and participate in, vocational training or employment.


(f) *Employment assistance.* The term *employment assistance* means employment counseling and placement and postplacement services, and personal and work adjustment training.


(g) *Program of employment services.* The term *program of employment services* is used when the veteran's entire program is limited to employment assistance as that term is defined in paragraph (f) of this section.


(h) *Job development.* The term *job development* means comprehensive professional services to assist the individual veteran to actually obtain a suitable job, and not simply the solicitation of jobs on behalf of the veteran.


(i) *Institution of higher learning.* The term *institution of higher learning* shall have the same definition as is provided in § 21.4200(a) of this part.


(j) *Other terms.* The following terms shall have the same meaning or explanation provided in § 21.35 of this part.


(1) Vocational goal.


(2) Program of education.


(3) Rehabilitation to the point of employability.


(4) Counseling psychologist.


(5) Vocational rehabilitation specialist.


(6) School, educational institution or institution.


(7) Training establishment.


(8) Rehabilitation facility.


(9) Workshop.


(10) Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor.



---

[N] [53 FR 4397, Feb. 16, 1988, as amended at 55 FR 17271, Apr. 24, 1990; 57 FR 28086, June 24, 1992; 58 FR 41637, Aug. 5, 1993; 81 FR 26132, May 2, 2016]




