# § 457.1201   Standard contract requirements.

(a) *CMS review.* The State must submit all MCO, PAHP, PIHP, PCCM, and PCCM entity contracts for review in the form and manner established by CMS.


(b) *Entities eligible for comprehensive risk contracts.* The State may enter into a comprehensive risk contract only with the entities specified in § 438.3(b)(1) through (3) of this chapter.


(c) *Payment.* The final capitation rates for all MCO, PIHP or PAHP contracts must be identified and developed, and payment must be made in accordance with §§ 438.3(c) and 438.16(c)(1) through (3) of this chapter, except that the requirement for preapproval of contracts, certifications by an actuary, annual cost reports, contract arrangements described in § 438.6(c), and references to pass through payments do not apply, and contract rates must be submitted to CMS upon request of the Secretary.


(d) *Enrollment discrimination prohibited.* Contracts with MCOs, PAHPs, PIHPs, PCCMs and PCCM entities must comply with prohibitions on enrollment discrimination in accordance with § 438.3(d) of this chapter, except that § 438.3(d)(2) of this chapter (related to voluntary enrollment) does not apply.


(e)* Services that may be covered by an MCO, PIHP, or PAHP.* An MCO, PIHP, or PAHP may cover, for enrollees, services that are not covered under the State plan in accordance with §§ 438.3(e) and 438.16(b), (d), and (e) of this chapter, except that references to § 438.7, IMDs, and rate certifications do not apply and that references to enrollee rights and protections under part 438 should be read to refer to the rights and protections under subparts K and L of this part.


(f) *Compliance with applicable laws and conflict of interest safeguards.* Contracts with MCOs, PAHPs, PIHPs, PCCMs or PCCM entities must comply with Federal laws and regulations in accordance with § 438.3(f) of this chapter.


(g) *Inspection and audit of records and access to facilities.* Contracts with MCOs, PIHPs, PAHPs, PCCMs or PCCM entities must allow for the inspection and audit of records and access to facilities in accordance with § 438.3(h) of this chapter.


(h) *Physician incentive plans.* If a contract with an MCO, PAHP, or PIHP provides for a physician incentive plan, it must comply with § 438.3(i) of this chapter (which cross references §§ 422.208 and 422.210 of this chapter).


(i) *Subcontractual relationships and delegations.* The state must ensure, through its contracts with MCOs, PIHPs, and PAHPs, that any contract or written agreement that the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP has with any individual or entity that relates directly or indirectly to the performance of the MCOs, PIHPs, or PAHPs obligations under its contract comply with § 457.1233(b) (which cross references § 438.230 of this chapter).


(j) *Choice of network provider.* The contract must allow each enrollee to choose his or her network provider in accordance with § 438.3(l) of this chapter.


(k) *Audited financial reports.* Contracts with MCOs, PAHPs, and PIHPs must comply with the requirements for submission of audited financial reports in § 438.3(m) of this chapter.


(l) *Parity in mental health and substance use disorder benefits.* Contracts with MCOs, PAHPs, and PIHPs must comply with the requirements of § 457.496.


(m) *Additional rules for contracts with PCCMs.* Contracts with PCCMs must comply with the requirements of § 438.3(q) of this chapter, except that the right to disenroll is in accordance with § 457.1212.


(n) *Additional rules for contracts with PCCM entities.* (1) States must submit PCCM entity contracts to CMS for review.


(2) Contracts with PCCMs must comply with the requirements of paragraph (o) of this section; § 457.1207; § 457.1240(b) (cross-referencing § 438.330(b)(2), (b)(3), (c), and (e) of this chapter); § 457.1240(e) (cross-referencing § 438.340 of this chapter).


(o) *Attestations.* Contracts with MCO, PAHP, PIHP, PCCM or PCCM entities must include an attestation to the accuracy, completeness, and truthfulness of claims and payment data, under penalty of perjury.


(p) *Guarantee not to avoid costs.* Contracts with an MCO, PAHP, PIHP, PCCM or PCCM entities must include a guarantee that the MCO, PAHP, PIHP, PCCM or PCCM entity will not avoid costs for services covered in its contract by referring enrollees to publicly supported health care resources.


(q) *Recordkeeping requirements.* Contracts with MCOs, PIHPs, and PAHPs, must comply with the recordkeeping requirements of § 438.3(u) of this chapter.



---

[N] [81 FR 27897, May 6, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 40, Jan. 3, 2017; May 10, 2024]




