# § 157.206   Standard conditions.

Any activity authorized under a blanket certificate issued under this subpart is subject to the following conditions:


(a) *Revisions.* (1) The Commission reserves the right to amend the requirements of this subpart from time to time.


(2) The blanket certificate is not transferable in any manner and shall be effective only so long as the certificate holder continues the activities authorized by the order issuing such certificate and does so in accordance with the provisions of the Natural Gas Act, as well as applicable rules, regulations, and orders of the Commission.


(b) *Environmental compliance.* This paragraph only applies to activities that involve ground disturbance or changes to operational air and noise emissions.


(1) The certificate holder shall adopt the requirements set forth in § 380.15(a) and (b) of this chapter for all activities authorized by the blanket certificate and shall issue the relevant portions thereof to construction personnel, with instructions to use them.


(2) All activities shall be consistent with all applicable law including the provisions of the following statutes and regulations or compliance plans developed to implement these statutes:


(i) Clean Water Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1251 *et seq.*) and the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System Program, 40 CFR part 122 *et seq.;*

(ii) Clean Air Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1801 *et seq.*) and air quality regulations and state implementation plans adopted pursuant to 40 CFR parts 50-99; 


(iii) National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 470 *et seq.*); 


(iv) Archeological and Historic Preservation Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-291); 


(v) Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1451 *et seq.*); 


(vi) Endangered Species Act of 1973, Pub. L. 93-205, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 *et seq.*); 


(vii) Executive Order 11988, May 24, 1977 requiring Federal agencies to evaluate the potential effects of any actions it may take on a floodplain;


(viii) Executive Order 11990, May 24, 1977 requiring an evaluation of the potential effects of construction on wetland; 


(ix) Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274 *et seq.*); 


(x) National Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133 *et seq.*); 


(xi) National Parks and Recreation Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 1 and 230 *et seq.*). 


(xii) Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801, *et seq.*)


(3) The certificate holder shall be deemed in compliance with: 


(i) Paragraph (b)(2)(vi) of this section only if it adheres to the procedures in appendix I of this subpart in which case the Commission finds that endangered species and their critical habitat are protected in accordance with 16 U.S.C. 1536; 


(ii) Paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section only if it adheres to the procedures in appendix II of this subpart in which case the Commission finds that there is no effect on any property protected by 16 U.S.C. 470f; 


(iii) Paragraph (b)(2)(v) of this section only if the appropriate state agency designated to administer the state's coastal zone management plan, prior to construction of the project, waives its right of review or determines that the project complies with the state's coastal zone management plan. 


(iv) Paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (viii) of this section only if it adheres to Commission staff's current “Upland Erosion Control, Revegetation and Maintenance Plan” and “Wetland and Waterbody Construction and Mitigation Procedures” which are available on the Commission Internet home page or from the Commission staff, or gets written approval from the staff or the appropriate Federal or state agency for the use of project-specific alternatives to clearly identified portions of those documents.


(4) Any transaction authorized under a blanket certificate shall not have a significant adverse impact on a sensitive environmental area.


(5)(i) The noise attributable to any new compressor station, compression added to an existing station, or any modification, upgrade or update of an existing station, must not exceed a day-night level (L_dn_) of 55 dBA at any pre-existing noise-sensitive area (such as schools, hospitals, or residences).


(ii) A compressor facility installed under this section must be designed to meet the following noise emissions criteria. For each new compressor station facility, and for each addition or modification to an existing compression station, the blanket certificate holder must file a noise survey with the Secretary within 60 days of placing the facility in service.


(A) If noise emitted from a new compressor facility operating at full load exceeds an L_dn_ of 55 dBA at any noise-sensitive area (NSA), or if an addition or modification to an existing compressor station operating at full load at or below an L_dn_ of 55 dBA at NSAs causes overall noise attributable to the station to exceed an L_dn_ of 55 dBA at an NSA, the blanket certificate holder must come into compliance with an L_dn_ of 55 dBA at NSAs within 1 year of placing the facility in service.


(B) If an addition or modification to an existing compressor station operating at full load above an L_dn_ of 55 dBA at NSAs causes overall noise attributable to the station to increase at an NSA, the blanket certificate holder must act within 1 year of placing the added or modified facility in service to reduce noise at NSAs to the level that existed prior to the addition or modification.


(C) If the initial noise survey demonstrates a need to take action to mitigate noise, within 60 days of completing such action, the blanket certificate holder must file a subsequent noise survey with the Secretary demonstrating that each new compressor station facility, and each addition or modification to an existing compressor station, complies with the noise level limits.


(iii) Any horizontal directional drilling or drilling of wells which will occur between 10 p.m. and 7 a.m. local time must be conducted with the goal of keeping the perceived noise from the drilling at any pre-existing noise-sensitive area (such as schools, hospitals, or residences) at or below a night level (L_n_) of 55 dBA.


(6)(i) Any activity otherwise subject to authorization under § 157.208 shall not be authorized if the activity is located within 0.5 mile of a nuclear power plant which is either operating or under construction, or for which a construction permit has been filed with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. 


(ii) Any activity otherwise subject to authorization under § 157.215 shall not be authorized if the activity is located within 2.0 miles of a nuclear power plant which is either operating or under construction, or for which a construction permit has been filed with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. 


(7) The certificate holder shall act as the Commission's non-Federal representative upon acceptance of the blanket certificate for purposes of complying with the Endangered Species Act of 1973. 


(c) *Commencement.* Any authorized construction, extension, or acquisition shall be completed and made available for service by the certificate holder and any authorized operation, or service, shall be available within one year of the date the activity is authorized pursuant to § 157.205(h). The certificate holder may apply to the Director of the Office of Energy Projects for an extension of this deadline. However, if the request for extension is due to the end-user/shipper not being ready to accept service, the certificate holder must so notify the Commission in writing no later than 10 days after expiration of the one-year period.


(d) *Reports.* The certificate holder shall file reports as required by this subpart.



---

[N] [Order 234, 47 FR 24266, June 4, 1982] 


