# ยง 303.14   Allocation factors, duty refund calculations and miscellaneous provisions.

(a) *The allocation formula.* (1) Except as provided in (a)(2) of this section, the territorial shares (excluding any amount set aside for possible new entrants) shall be allocated among the several producers in each territory in accordance with the following formula:


(i) Fifty percent of the territorial share shall be allocated on the basis of the net dollar amount of economic contributions to the territory consisting of the dollar amount of creditable wages, up to an amount equal to 65% of the contribution and benefit base for Social Security as defined in the Social Security Act for the year in which the wages were earned, paid by each producer to territorial residents, plus the dollar amount of income taxes (excluding penalty and interest payments and deducting any income tax refunds and subsidies paid by the territorial government), and


(ii) Fifty percent of the territorial share shall be allocated on the basis of the number of units of watches and watch movements assembled in the territory and entered by each producer duty-free into the customs territory of the United States.


(2) If there is only one producer in a territory, the entire territorial share, excluding any amount set aside for possible new entrants, may be allocated without recourse to any distributive formula.


(b) *Minimum assembly requirements and prohibition of preferential supply relationship.* (1) No insular watch movement or watch may be entered free of duty into the customs territory of the United States unless the producer used 30 or more discrete parts and components to assemble a mechanical watch movement and 33 or more discrete parts and components to assemble a mechanical watch.


(2) Quartz analog watch movements must be assembled from parts knocked down to the maximum degree possible for the technical capabilities of the insular industry as a whole. The greatest degree of disassembly specified, for each manufacturer's brand and model, by any producer in any territory purchasing such brands and models shall constitute the disassembly required as a minimum for the industry as a whole.


(3) Watch movements and watches assembled from components with a value of more than $300 for watch movements and $3000 for watches shall not be eligible for duty-exemption upon entry into the U.S. Customs territory. Value means the value of the merchandise plus all charges and costs incurred up to the last point of shipment (*i.e.*, prior to entry of the parts and components into the territory). 


(4) No producer shall accept from any watch parts and components supplier advantages and preferences which might result in a more favorable competitive position for itself vis-a-vis other territorial producers relying on the same supplier. Disputes under this paragraph may be resolved under the appeals procedures contained in ยง 303.13(b). 


(c) *Calculation of the value of the mid-year production incentive certificates.* (1) The value of each producer's certificate shall equal the producer's average creditable wage per unit shipped during the first six months of the calendar year multiplied by the sum of:


(i) The number of units shipped up to 300,000 units times a factor of 90%; plus


(ii) Incremental units shipped up to 450,000 units times a factor of 85%; plus


(iii) Incremental units shipped up to 600,000 units times a factor of 80%; plus


(iv) Incremental units shipped up to 750,000 units times a factor of 75%.


(2) *Calculation of the value of the annual production incentive certificates.* The value of each producer's certificate shall equal the producer's average creditable benefit per unit based on creditable wages, health insurance, life insurance and pension benefits plus any duty differential, if applicable, averaged from the amount of duty free units shipped during the calendar year multiplied by the sum of the following to obtain the total verified amount of the annual duty-refund per company. This amount would then be adjusted by deducting the amount of the mid-year duty-refund already issued.


(i) The number of units shipped up to 300,000 units times a factor of 90%; plus


(ii) Incremental units shipped up to 450,000 units times a factor of 85%; plus


(iii) Incremental units shipped up to 600,000 units times a factor of 80%; plus


(iv) Incremental units shipped up to 750,000 units times a factor of 75%.


(3) The Departments may make adjustments for these data in the manner set forth in ยง 303.5(c).


(d) *New entrant invitations.* Applications from new firms are invited for any unused portion of any territorial share.


(e) *Territorial shares.* The shares of the total duty exemption are 1,866,000 for the Virgin Islands, 500,000 for Guam, 500,000 for American Samoa, and 500,000 for the Northern Mariana Islands.



---

[N] [49 FR 17740, Apr. 25, 1984, as amended at 50 FR 43568, Oct. 28, 1985; 53 FR 17825, May 19, 1988; 53 FR 52679, Dec. 29, 1988; 53 FR 52994, Dec. 30, 1988; 56 FR 9622, Mar. 7, 1991; 58 FR 21348, Apr. 21, 1993; 59 FR 8847, 8848, Feb. 24, 1994; 61 FR 55885, Oct. 30, 1996; 63 FR 49667, Sept. 17, 1998; 65 FR 8049, Feb. 17, 2000; 69 FR 51533, Aug. 20, 2004; 72 FR 16714, Apr. 5, 2007]




