# § 281.206   Priority 1 reclassification.

(a) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section “high-priority entitlements” means, with respect to a particular interstate pipeline.


(1) In the case of a direct sale customer, the volume of natural gas such direct sale customer is entitled to receive for high-priority uses (as defined in § 281.203) under the currently effective curtailment plan of the interstate pipeline;


(2) In the case of a local distribution company, the volume of natural gas which such local distribution company is entitled to receive on account of the high-priority uses (as defined in § 281.203) of its high-priority user customers under the currently effective curtailment plan of the interstate pipeline;


(3) In the case of an interstate pipeline purchaser the volume of natural gas such interstate pipeline purchaser is entitled to receive from an interstate pipeline supplier for the high-priority entitlements of its direct sale customers, local distribution company customers and interstate pipeline customers.


(b) *Direct sale customer and local distribution company customers.* (1)(i) Subject to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and § 281.211 each direct sale customer may request each of its direct interstate pipeline suppliers to reclassify its high-priority entitlements in its currently effective curtailment plan as priority 1 entitlements.


(ii) Subject to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and § 281.211 each local distribution company must request each of its direct interstate pipeline suppliers to reclassify its high priority entitlements in its currently effective curtailment plan as priority 1 entitlements.


(2) The direct sale customer or local distribution company customer shall designate the entitlements in each priority of service category in the currently effective curtailment plan for which priority 1 reclassification is requested. It shall request that those entitlements for which priority 1 reclassification is requested be excluded from the category of service in which they are included in the currently effective plan. 


(3) Subject to § 281.210, the interstate pipeline shall reclassify all such high-priority entitlements as priority 1 entitlements and shall reduce by an equal amount the entitlements in such other priority of service categories as designated by the direct sale customer or local distribution company customer, (in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section).


(c) *Interstate pipeline.* (1) Subject to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and § 281.211 an interstate pipeline purchaser may request each of its direct interstate pipeline suppliers to reclassify its high-priority entitlements in its currently effective curtailment plan (equal to the attributed priority 1 entitlements calculated in accordance with § 281.209) as priority 1 entitlements in the currently effective curtailment plan of the interstate pipeline supplier. 


(2) The interstate pipeline purchaser shall designate the entitlements in each priority of service category in the currently effective curtailment plan for which priority 1 reclassification is requested. It shall request that those entitlements for which priority 1 classification is requested be excluded from the category of service in which they are included in the currently effective plan. 


(3) Subject to § 281.210, the interstate pipeline supplier shall reclassify all such high-priority entitlements as priority 1 entitlements and shall reduce the high-priority entitlements in other priority of service categories as designated by the interstate pipeline customer, (in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section). 



---

[N] [44 FR 26862, May 8, 1979] 




