# § 60.105a   Monitoring of emissions and operations for fluid catalytic cracking units (FCCU) and fluid coking units (FCU).

(a) *FCCU and FCU subject to PM emissions limit.* Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall monitor each FCCU and FCU subject to the PM emissions limit in § 60.102a(b)(1) according to the requirements in paragraph (b), (c), (d), or (e) of this section.


(b) *Control device operating parameters.* Each owner or operator of a FCCU or FCU subject to the PM per coke burn-off emissions limit in § 60.102a(b)(1) that uses a control device other than fabric filter or cyclone shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) The owner or operator shall install, operate and maintain continuous parameter monitor systems (CPMS) to measure and record operating parameters for each control device according to the applicable requirements in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) For units controlled using an electrostatic precipitator, the owner or operator shall use CPMS to measure and record the hourly average total power input and secondary current to the entire system.


(ii) For units controlled using a wet scrubber, the owner or operator shall use CPMS to measure and record the hourly average pressure drop, liquid feed rate, and exhaust gas flow rate. As an alternative to a CPMS, the owner or operator must comply with the requirements in either paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section.


(A) As an alternative to pressure drop, the owner or operator of a jet ejector type wet scrubber or other type of wet scrubber equipped with atomizing spray nozzles must conduct a daily check of the air or water pressure to the spray nozzles and record the results of each check. Faulty (*e.g.*, leaking or plugged) air or water lines must be repaired within 12 hours of identification of an abnormal pressure reading.


(B) As an alternative to exhaust gas flow rate, the owner or operator shall comply with the approved alternative for monitoring exhaust gas flow rate in 40 CFR 63.1573(a) of the National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units.


(iii) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each CPMS according to the manufacturer's specifications and requirements.


(iv) The owner or operator shall determine and record the average coke burn-off rate and hours of operation for each FCCU or FCU using the procedures in § 60.104a(d)(4)(iii).


(v) If you use a control device other than an electrostatic precipitator, wet scrubber, fabric filter, or cyclone, you may request approval to monitor parameters other than those required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section by submitting an alternative monitoring plan to the Administrator. The request must include the information in paragraphs (b)(1)(v)(A) through (E) of this section.


(A) A description of each affected facility and the parameter(s) to be monitored to determine whether the affected facility will continuously comply with the emission limitations and an explanation of the criteria used to select the parameter(s).


(B) A description of the methods and procedures that will be used to demonstrate that the parameter(s) can be used to determine whether the affected facility will continuously comply with the emission limitations and the schedule for this demonstration. The owner or operator must certify that an operating limit will be established for the monitored parameter(s) that represents the conditions in existence when the control device is being properly operated and maintained to meet the emission limitation.


(C) The frequency and content of the recordkeeping, recording, and reporting, if monitoring and recording are not continuous. The owner or operator also must include the rationale for the proposed monitoring, recording, and reporting requirements.


(D) Supporting calculations.


(E) Averaging time for the alternative operating parameter.


(2) For use in determining the coke burn-off rate for an FCCU or FCU, the owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring the concentrations of CO_2_, O_2_ (dry basis), and if needed, CO in the exhaust gases prior to any control or energy recovery system that burns auxiliary fuels. A CO monitor is not required for determining coke burn-off rate when no auxiliary fuel is burned and a continuous CO monitor is not required in accordance with paragraph (h)(3) of this section.


(i) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each CO_2_ and O_2_ monitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to this part.


(ii) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each CO_2_ and O_2_ monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to this part. The owner or operator shall use Method 3, 3A or 3B of appendix A-2 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60.


(iii) If a CO monitor is required, the owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each CO monitor according to Performance Specification 4 or 4A of appendix B to this part. If this CO monitor also serves to demonstrate compliance with the CO emissions limit in § 60.102a(b)(4), the span value for this instrument is 1,000 ppm; otherwise, the span value for this instrument should be set at approximately 2 times the typical CO concentration expected in the FCCU of FCU flue gas prior to any emission control or energy recovery system that burns auxiliary fuels.


(iv) If a CO monitor is required, the owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each CO monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 4 of appendix B to this part. The owner or operator shall use Method 10, 10A, or 10B of appendix A-3 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations.


(v) The owner or operator shall comply with the quality assurance requirements of procedure 1 of appendix F to this part, including quarterly accuracy determinations for CO_2_ and CO monitors, annual accuracy determinations for O_2_ monitors, and daily calibration drift tests.


(c) *Bag leak detection systems.* Each owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain a bag leak detection system for each baghouse or similar fabric filter control device that is used to comply with the PM per coke burn-off emissions limit in § 60.102a(b)(1) for an FCCU or FCU according to paragraph (c)(1) of this section; prepare and operate by a site-specific monitoring plan according to paragraph (c)(2) of this section; take action according to paragraph (c)(3) of this section; and record information according to paragraph (c)(4) of this section.


(1) Each bag leak detection system must meet the specifications and requirements in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section.


(i) The bag leak detection system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting PM emissions at concentrations of 0.00044 grains per actual cubic foot or less.


(ii) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative PM loadings. The owner or operator shall continuously record the output from the bag leak detection system using electronic or other means (e.g., using a strip chart recorder or a data logger).


(iii) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with an alarm system that will sound when the system detects an increase in relative particulate loading over the alarm set point established according to paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section, and the alarm must be located such that it can be heard by the appropriate plant personnel.


(iv) In the initial adjustment of the bag leak detection system, the owner or operator must establish, at a minimum, the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device, the alarm set points, and the alarm delay time.


(v) Following initial adjustment, the owner or operator shall not adjust the averaging period, alarm set point, or alarm delay time without approval from the Administrator or delegated authority except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(vi) of this section.


(vi) Once per quarter, the owner or operator may adjust the sensitivity of the bag leak detection system to account for seasonal effects, including temperature and humidity, according to the procedures identified in the site-specific monitoring plan required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(vii) The owner or operator shall install the bag leak detection sensor downstream of the baghouse and upstream of any wet scrubber.


(viii) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.


(2) The owner or operator shall develop and submit to the Administrator for approval a site-specific monitoring plan for each baghouse and bag leak detection system. The owner or operator shall operate and maintain each baghouse and bag leak detection system according to the site-specific monitoring plan at all times. Each monitoring plan must describe the items in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section.


(i) Installation of the bag leak detection system;


(ii) Initial and periodic adjustment of the bag leak detection system, including how the alarm set-point will be established;


(iii) Operation of the bag leak detection system, including quality assurance procedures;


(iv) How the bag leak detection system will be maintained, including a routine maintenance schedule and spare parts inventory list;


(v) How the bag leak detection system output will be recorded and stored;


(vi) Procedures as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. In approving the site-specific monitoring plan, the Administrator or delegated authority may allow owners and operators more than 3 hours to alleviate a specific condition that causes an alarm if the owner or operator identifies in the monitoring plan this specific condition as one that could lead to an alarm, adequately explains why it is not feasible to alleviate this condition within 3 hours of the time the alarm occurs, and demonstrates that the requested time will ensure alleviation of this condition as expeditiously as practicable; and


(vii) How the baghouse system will be operated and maintained, including monitoring of pressure drop across baghouse cells and frequency of visual inspections of the baghouse interior and baghouse components such as fans and dust removal and bag cleaning mechanisms.


(3) For each bag leak detection system, the owner or operator shall initiate procedures to determine the cause of every alarm within 1 hour of the alarm. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section, the owner or operator shall alleviate the cause of the alarm within 3 hours of the alarm by taking whatever action(s) are necessary. Actions may include, but are not limited to the following:


(i) Inspecting the baghouse for air leaks, torn or broken bags or filter media, or any other condition that may cause an increase in particulate emissions;


(ii) Sealing off defective bags or filter media;


(iii) Replacing defective bags or filter media or otherwise repairing the control device;


(iv) Sealing off a defective baghouse compartment;


(v) Cleaning the bag leak detection system probe or otherwise repairing the bag leak detection system; or


(vi) Shutting down the process producing the particulate emissions.


(4) The owner or operator shall maintain records of the information specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section for each bag leak detection system.


(i) Records of the bag leak detection system output;


(ii) Records of bag leak detection system adjustments, including the date and time of the adjustment, the initial bag leak detection system settings, and the final bag leak detection system settings; and


(iii) The date and time of all bag leak detection system alarms, the time that procedures to determine the cause of the alarm were initiated, the cause of the alarm, an explanation of the actions taken, the date and time the cause of the alarm was alleviated, and whether the alarm was alleviated within 3 hours of the alarm.


(d) *Continuous emissions monitoring systems (CEMS).* An owner or operator subject to the PM concentration emission limit (in gr/dscf) in § 60.102a(b)(1) for an FCCU or FCU shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration (0 percent excess air) of PM in the exhaust gases prior to release to the atmosphere. The monitor must include an O_2_ monitor for correcting the data for excess air.


(1) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each PM monitor according to Performance Specification 11 of appendix B to part 60. The span value of this PM monitor is 0.08 gr/dscf PM.


(2) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each PM monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 11 of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use EPA Methods 5 or 5I of appendix A-3 to part 60 or Method 17 of appendix A-6 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations.


(3) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each O_2_ monitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. The span value of this O_2_ monitor must be selected between 10 and 25 percent, inclusive.


(4) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each O_2_ monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60.


(5) The owner or operator shall comply with the quality assurance requirements of Procedure 2 of appendix B to part 60 for each PM CEMS and Procedure 1 of appendix F to part 60 for each O_2_ monitor, including quarterly accuracy determinations for each PM monitor, annual accuracy determinations for each O_2_ monitor, and daily calibration drift tests.


(e) *Alternative monitoring option for FCCU and FCU—COMS.* Each owner or operator of an FCCU or FCU that uses cyclones to comply with the PM emission limit in § 60.102a(b)(1) shall monitor the opacity of emissions according to the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the opacity of emissions from the FCCU or the FCU exhaust vent.


(2) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each COMS according to Performance Specification 1 of appendix B to part 60. The instrument shall be spanned at 20 to 60 percent opacity.


(3) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each COMS according to § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 1 of appendix B to part 60.


(f) *FCCU and FCU subject to NO*_X_*limit.* Each owner or operator subject to the NO_X_ emissions limit in § 60.102a(b)(2) for an FCCU or FCU shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration by volume (dry basis, 0 percent excess air) of NO_X_ emissions into the atmosphere. The monitor must include an O_2_ monitor for correcting the data for excess air.


(1) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each NO_X_ monitor according to Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to part 60. The span value of this NO_X_ monitor is 200 ppmv NO_X_.


(2) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each NO_X_ monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use Methods 7, 7A, 7C, 7D, or 7E of appendix A-4 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 7 or 7C of appendix A-4 to part 60.


(3) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each O_2_ monitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. The span value of this O_2_ monitor must be selected between 10 and 25 percent, inclusive.


(4) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each O_2_ monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60.


(5) The owner or operator shall comply with the quality assurance requirements of Procedure 1 of appendix F to part 60 for each NO_X_ and O_2_ monitor, including quarterly accuracy determinations for NO_X_ monitors, annual accuracy determinations for O_2_ monitors, and daily calibration drift tests.


(g) *FCCU and FCU subject to SO*_2_*limit.* The owner or operator subject to the SO_2_ emissions limit in § 60.102a(b)(3) for an FCCU or an FCU shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration by volume (dry basis, corrected to 0 percent excess air) of SO_2_ emissions into the atmosphere. The monitor shall include an O_2_ monitor for correcting the data for excess air.


(1) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each SO_2_ monitor according to Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to part 60. The span value of this SO_2_ monitor is 200 ppmv SO_2_.


(2) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each SO_2_ monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use Methods 6, 6A, or 6C of appendix A-4 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI / ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 6 or 6A of appendix A-4 to part 60.


(3) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each O_2_ monitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. The span value of this O_2_ monitor must be selected between 10 and 25 percent, inclusive.


(4) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each O_2_ monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60.


(5) The owner or operator shall comply with the quality assurance requirements in Procedure 1 of appendix F to part 60 for each SO_2_ and O_2_ monitor, including quarterly accuracy determinations for SO_2_ monitors, annual accuracy determinations for O_2_ monitors, and daily calibration drift tests.


(h) *FCCU and fluid coking units subject to CO emissions limit.* Except as specified in paragraph (h)(3) of this section, the owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration by volume (dry basis) of CO emissions into the atmosphere from each FCCU and FCU subject to the CO emissions limit in § 60.102a(b)(4).


(1) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each CO monitor according to Performance Specification 4 or 4A of appendix B to this part. The span value for this instrument is 1,000 ppmv CO.


(2) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each CO monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 4 or 4A of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use Methods 10, 10A, or 10B of appendix A-4 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations.


(3) A CO CEMS need not be installed if the owner or operator demonstrates that all hourly average CO emissions are and will remain less than 50 ppmv (dry basis) corrected to 0 percent excess air. The Administrator may revoke this exemption from monitoring upon a determination that CO emissions on an hourly average basis have exceeded 50 ppmv (dry basis) corrected to 0 percent excess air, in which case a CO CEMS shall be installed within 180 days.


(i) The demonstration shall consist of continuously monitoring CO emissions for 30 days using an instrument that meets the requirements of Performance Specification 4 or 4A of appendix B to this part. The span value shall be 100 ppmv CO instead of 1,000 ppmv, and the relative accuracy limit shall be 10 percent of the average CO emissions or 5 ppmv CO, whichever is greater. For instruments that are identical to Method 10 of appendix A-4 to this part and employ the sample conditioning system of Method 10A of appendix A-4 to this part, the alternative relative accuracy test procedure in section 10.1 of Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to this part may be used in place of the relative accuracy test.


(ii) The owner or operator must submit the following information to the Administrator:


(A) The measurement data specified in paragraph (h)(3)(i) of this section along with all other operating data known to affect CO emissions; and


(B) Descriptions of the CPMS for exhaust gas temperature and O_2_ monitor required in paragraph (h)(4) of this section and operating limits for those parameters to ensure combustion conditions remain similar to those that exist during the demonstration period.


(iii) The effective date of the exemption from installation and operation of a CO CEMS is the date of submission of the information and data required in paragraph (h)(3)(ii) of this section.


(4) The owner or operator of a FCCU or FCU that is exempted from the requirement to install and operate a CO CEMS in paragraph (h)(3) of this section shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain CPMS to measure and record the operating parameters in paragraph (h)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section. The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each CPMS according to the manufacturer's specifications.


(i) For a FCCU or FCU with no post-combustion control device, the temperature and O_2_ concentration of the exhaust gas stream exiting the unit.


(ii) For a FCCU or FCU with a post-combustion control device, the temperature and O_2_ concentration of the exhaust gas stream exiting the control device.


(i) *Excess emissions.* For the purpose of reports required by § 60.7(c), periods of excess emissions for a FCCU or FCU subject to the emissions limitations in § 60.102a(b) are defined as specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (6) of this section. Note: Determine all averages, except for opacity, as the arithmetic average of the applicable 1-hour averages, e.g., determine the rolling 3-hour average as the arithmetic average of three contiguous 1-hour averages.


(1) If a CPMS is used according to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, all 3-hour periods during which the average PM control device operating characteristics, as measured by the continuous monitoring systems under paragraph (b)(1), fall below the levels established during the performance test. If the alternative to pressure drop CPMS is used for the owner or operator of a jet ejector type wet scrubber or other type of wet scrubber equipped with atomizing spray nozzles, each day in which abnormal pressure readings are not corrected within 12 hours of identification.


(2) If a bag leak detection system is used according to paragraph (c) of this section, each day in which the cause of an alarm is not alleviated within the time period specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(3) If a PM CEMS is used according to § 60.105a(d), all 7-day periods during which the average PM emission rate, as measured by the continuous PM monitoring system under § 60.105a(d) exceeds 0.040 gr/dscf corrected to 0 percent excess air for a modified or reconstructed FCCU, 0.020 gr/dscf corrected to 0 percent excess air for a newly constructed FCCU, or 0.040 gr/dscf for an affected fluid coking unit.


(4) If a COMS is used according to § 60.105a(e), all 3-hour periods during which the average opacity, as measured by the COMS under § 60.105a(e), exceeds the site-specific limit established during the most recent performance test.


(5) All rolling 7-day periods during which the average concentration of NO_X_ as measured by the NO_X_ CEMS under § 60.105a(f) exceeds 80 ppmv for an affected FCCU or FCU.


(6) All rolling 7-day periods during which the average concentration of SO_2_ as measured by the SO_2_ CEMS under § 60.105a(g) exceeds 50 ppmv, and all rolling 365-day periods during which the average concentration of SO_2_ as measured by the SO_2_ CEMS exceeds 25 ppmv.


(7) All 1-hour periods during which the average CO concentration as measured by the CO continuous monitoring system under paragraph (h) of this section exceeds 500 ppmv or, if applicable, all 1-hour periods during which the average temperature and O_2_ concentration as measured by the continuous monitoring systems under paragraph (h)(4) of this section fall below the operating limits established during the performance test.



---

[N] [73 FR 35867, June 24, 2008, as amended at 77 FR 56473, Sep. 12, 2012; 80 FR 75232, Dec. 1, 2015; 83 FR 60713, Nov. 26, 2018]




