# § 574.330   Additional standards for short-term supported housing.

Short-term supported housing includes facilities to provide temporary shelter to eligible individuals as well as rent, mortgage, and utilities payments to enable eligible individuals to remain in their own dwellings. If grant funds are used to provide such short-term supported housing assistance, the following additional standards apply:


(a) *Time limits.* (1) A short-term supported housing facility may not provide residence to any individual for more than 60 days during any six month period. Rent, mortgage, and utilities payments to prevent the homelessness of the tenant or mortgagor of a dwelling may not be provided to such an individual for these costs accruing over a period of more than 21 weeks in any 52 week period. These limitations do not apply to rental assistance provided under § 574.300(b)(5).


(2) *Waiver of time limitations.* HUD may waive, as it determines appropriate, the limitations of paragraph (a)(1) and will favorably consider a waiver based on the good faith effort of a project sponsor to provide permanent housing under subsection (c).


(b) *Residency limitations*—(1) *Residency.* A short-term supported facility may not provide shelter or housing at any single time for more than 50 families or individuals;


(2) *Waiver of residency limitations.* HUD may waive, as it determines appropriate, the limitations of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(c) *Placement.* A short-term supported housing facility assisted under this part must, to the maximum extent practicable, provide each individual living in such housing the opportunity for placement in permanent housing or in a living environment appropriate to his or her health and social needs.


(d) *Assistance to continue independent living.* In addition to the supportive services provided when an individual is relocated to a short-term supported housing facility, supportive services may be provided to individuals when they remain in their residence because the residence is appropriate to the needs of the individual. In the latter case, a rent, mortgage and utilities payments program assisted under this part shall provide, when reasonable, supportive services specifically designed to maintain the individual in such residence.


(e) *Case management services.* A program assisted under this section shall provide each assisted individual with an opportunity, if eligible, to receive case management services from the appropriate social service agencies.



---

[N] [57 FR 61740, Dec. 28, 1992, as amended at 59 FR 17200, Apr. 11, 1994]




