# § 1065.376   Chiller NO

(a) *Scope and frequency.* If you use a chiller to dry a sample upstream of a NO_X_ measurement instrument, but you don't use an NO_2_-to-NO converter upstream of the chiller, you must perform this verification for chiller NO_2_ penetration. Perform this verification after initial installation and after major maintenance.


(b) *Measurement principles.* A chiller removes H_2_O, which can otherwise interfere with a NO_X_ measurement. However, liquid H_2_O remaining in an improperly designed chiller can remove NO_2_ from the sample. If a chiller is used without an NO_2_-to-NO converter upstream, it could remove NO_2_ from the sample prior NO_X_ measurement.


(c) *System requirements.* A chiller must allow for measuring at least 95% of the total NO_2_ at the maximum expected concentration of NO_2_.


(d) *Procedure.* Use the following procedure to verify chiller performance:


(1) *Instrument setup.* Follow the analyzer and chiller manufacturers' start-up and operating instructions. Adjust the analyzer and chiller as needed to optimize performance.


(2) *Equipment setup and data collection.* (i) Zero and span the total NO_X_ gas analyzer(s) as you would before emission testing.


(ii) Select an NO_2_ calibration gas, balance gas of dry air, that has an NO_2_ concentration within ±5% of the maximum NO_2_ concentration expected during testing.


(iii) Overflow this calibration gas at the gas sampling system's probe or overflow fitting. Allow for stabilization of the total NO_X_ response, accounting only for transport delays and instrument response.


(iv) Calculate the mean of 30 seconds of recorded total NO_X_ data and record this value as *x*_NOXref_.


(v) Stop flowing the NO_2_ calibration gas.


(vi) Next saturate the sampling system by overflowing a dewpoint generator's output, set at a dewpoint of 50 °C, to the gas sampling system's probe or overflow fitting. Sample the dewpoint generator's output through the sampling system and chiller for at least 10 minutes until the chiller is expected to be removing a constant rate of H_2_O.


(vii) Immediately switch back to overflowing the NO_2_ calibration gas used to establish *x*_NOxref_. Allow for stabilization of the total NO_X_ response, accounting only for transport delays and instrument response. Calculate the mean of 30 seconds of recorded total NO_X_ data and record this value as *x*_NOxmeas_.


(viii) Correct *x*_NOxmeas_ to *x*_NOxdry_ based upon the residual H_2_O vapor that passed through the chiller at the chiller's outlet temperature and pressure.


(3) *Performance evaluation.* If *x*_NOxdry_ is less than 95% of *x*_NOxref_, repair or replace the chiller.


(e) *Exceptions.* The following exceptions apply:


(1) You may omit this verification if you can show by engineering analysis that for your NO_X_ sampling system and your emission calculations procedures, the chiller always affects your brake-specific NO_X_ emission results by less than 0.5% of the applicable NO_X_ standard.


(2) You may use a chiller that you determine does not meet this verification, as long as you try to correct the problem and the measurement deficiency does not adversely affect your ability to show that engines comply with all applicable emission standards.



---

[N] [73 FR 37312, June 30, 2008, as amended at 79 FR 23771, Apr. 28, 2014]








