# ยง 371.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this part:


(a) *Accelerated records entity* means a records entity that:


(1) Has a composite rating, as determined by its appropriate Federal banking agency in its most recent report of examination, of 4 or 5 under the Uniform Financial Institution Rating System, or in the case of an insured branch of a foreign bank, an equivalent rating; or


(2) Is determined by the appropriate Federal banking agency or by the FDIC in consultation with the appropriate Federal banking agency to be experiencing a significant deterioration of capital or significant funding difficulties or liquidity stress, notwithstanding the composite rating of the institution by its appropriate Federal banking agency in its most recent report of examination.


(b) *Affiliate* means any entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with another entity.


(c) *Appropriate Federal banking agency* means the agency or agencies designated under 12 U.S.C. 1813(q).


(d) *Business day* means any day other than any Saturday, Sunday or any day on which either the New York Stock Exchange or the Federal Reserve Bank of New York is closed.


(e) *Control.* An entity controls another entity if:


(1) The entity directly or indirectly or acting through one or more persons owns, controls, or has power to vote 25 per centum or more of any class of voting securities of the other entity;


(2) The entity controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors or trustees of the other entity; or


(3) The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has determined, after notice and opportunity for hearing in accordance with 12 CFR 225.31, that the entity directly or indirectly exercises a controlling influence over the management or policies of the other entity.


(f) *Corporate group* means an entity and all affiliates of that entity.


(g) *Counterparty* means any natural person or entity (or separate non-U.S. branch of any entity) that is a party to a QFC with a records entity or, if the records entity is required or chooses to maintain the records specified in ยง 371.4(b), a reportable subsidiary of such records entity.


*(h) Effective date* means October 1, 2017.


(i) *Full scope entity* means a records entity that has total consolidated assets equal to or greater than $50 billion or that is a Part 148 affiliate.


(j) *Insured depository institution* means any bank or savings association, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813, the deposits of which are insured by the FDIC.


(k) *Legal entity identifier* or *LEI* for an entity means the global legal entity identifier maintained for such entity by a utility accredited by the Global LEI Foundation or by a utility endorsed by the Regulatory Oversight Committee. As used in this definition:


(1) *Regulatory Oversight Committee* means the Regulatory Oversight Committee (of the Global LEI System), whose charter was set forth by the Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors of the Group of Twenty and the Financial Stability Board, or any successor thereof; and


(2) *Global LEI Foundation* means the not-for-profit organization organized under Swiss law by the Financial Stability Board in 2014, or any successor thereof.


(l) *Limited scope entity* means a records entity that is not a full scope entity.


(m) *Parent entity* with respect to an entity means an entity that controls that entity.


(n) *Part 148* means 31 CFR part 148.


(o) *Part 148 affiliate* means a records entity that, on financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or other applicable accounting standards, consolidates, or is consolidated by or with (or is required to consolidate or be consolidated by or with), a member of a corporate group one or more members of which are required to maintain QFC records pursuant to Part 148.


(p) *Position* means an individual transaction under a qualified financial contract and includes the rights and obligations of a person or entity as a party to an individual transaction under a qualified financial contract.


(q) *Qualified financial contract* or *QFC* means any qualified financial contract as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1821(e)(8)(D), and any agreement or transaction that the FDIC determines by regulation, resolution, or order to be a QFC, including without limitation, any securities contract, commodity contract, forward contract, repurchase agreement, and swap agreement.


(r) *Records entity* means any insured depository institution that has received written notice from the institution's appropriate Federal banking agency or the FDIC that it is in a troubled condition and written notice from the FDIC that it is subject to the recordkeeping requirements of this part.


(s) *Reportable subsidiary* means any subsidiary of a records entity that is incorporated or organized under U.S. federal law or the laws of any State that is not:


(1) A functionally regulated subsidiary as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1844(c)(5);


(2) A security-based swap dealer as defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(71); or


(3) A major security-based swap participant as defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(67).


(t) *State* means any state, commonwealth, territory or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam or the United States Virgin Islands.


(u)* Subsidiary,* with respect to another entity, means an entity that is, or is required to be, consolidated by such other entity on such other entity's financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or other applicable accounting standards.


(v) *Total consolidated assets* means the total consolidated assets of a records entity and its consolidated subsidiaries as reported in the records entity's most recent year-end audited consolidated statement of financial condition filed with the appropriate Federal banking agency.


(w) *Troubled condition* means an insured depository institution that:


(1) Has a composite rating, as determined by its appropriate Federal banking agency in its most recent report of examination, of 3 (only for insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or greater), 4 or 5 under the Uniform Financial Institution Rating System, or in the case of an insured branch of a foreign bank, an equivalent rating;


(2) Is subject to a proceeding initiated by the FDIC for termination or suspension of deposit insurance;


(3) Is subject to a cease-and-desist order or written agreement issued by the appropriate Federal banking agency, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(q), that requires action to improve the financial condition of the insured depository institution or is subject to a proceeding initiated by the appropriate Federal banking agency which contemplates the issuance of an order that requires action to improve the financial condition of the insured depository institution, unless otherwise informed in writing by the appropriate Federal banking agency;


(4) Is informed in writing by the insured depository institution's appropriate Federal banking agency that it is in troubled condition for purposes of 12 U.S.C. 1831i on the basis of the institution's most recent report of condition or report of examination, or other information available to the institution's appropriate Federal banking agency; or


(5) Is determined by the appropriate Federal banking agency or the FDIC in consultation with the appropriate Federal banking agency to be experiencing a significant deterioration of capital or significant funding difficulties or liquidity stress, notwithstanding the composite rating of the institution by its appropriate Federal banking agency in its most recent report of examination.




