# § 141.3   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part— 


(a) *Annual percentage rate* means the annual percentage rate of finance charge determined in accordance with 12 CFR 226.5, which defines annual percentage rates. 


(b) *Consumer credit transaction* means a grant of credit or a loan that is made by a person regularly engaged in the business of making loans or granting credit primarily for a personal, family, household, or agricultural purpose. 


(c) *Draft* means a writing that is a direction to pay that: 


(1) Identifies the person to pay with reasonable certainty; 


(2) Is signed by the drawer; 


(3) Contains an unconditional order to pay a sum certain in money and no other promise, order, obligation or power given by the drawer; 


(4) Is payable on demand or at a definite time; and 


(5) Is payable to order. 


(d) *Finance charge* means the cost of credit determined in accordance with 12 CFR 226.4, which defines “finance charge”. 


(e) *Firm* means a corporation or a partnership. 


(f) *Gross receipts* include the following: 


(1) All cash received from the conduct and operation of the licensee's business at the premises described in the application for license. 


(2) Receipts from both wholesale and retail transactions. 


(3) Receipts resulting from transactions concluded off the reservation that originate from the conduct and operation of the licensee's business on the reservation. 


(4) The market value of all property taken in trade on the date when received and either held by the licensee for purposes other than resale or credited on any account in payment for merchandise. 


(5) Proceeds from the sale of any goods bought from Indians regardless of where the sale takes place. 


(6) Finance charge received on loans, but not the return of principal. 


(g) *Open end credit* means consumer credit transactions made on an account by a plan under which: 


(1) The creditor may permit the customer to make purchases or obtain loans, from time to time, directly from the creditor or indirectly by use of a credit card, check, or other device, as the plan may provide; 


(2) The customer has the privilege of paying the balance in full or in installments; and 


(3) A finance charge may be computed by the creditor from time to time on an outstanding unpaid balance. 


(h) *Pawnbroker* means a person whose business includes lending money secured by personal property deposited with the lender. 


(i) *Peddler* means a person who offers goods for sale within the exterior boundaries of the Hopi, Navajo or Zuni Reservations, but does not do business from a fixed location or site on any of those reservations. 


(j) *Person* includes a natural person, a corporation, trust, estate, partnership, cooperative or association. 


(k) *Replacement value* means the present cost to the owner of replacing an item with one having the same quality and usefulness. 


(l) *Reservation business* means a person that engages at a fixed location or site within the exterior boundaries of the Navajo, Hopi or Zuni Reservations in the sale or purchase of goods or services or in consumer credit transactions with Indians and is not a bank, saving bank, trust company, savings or building and loan association or credit union operating under the laws of the United States or the laws of New Mexico, Arizona or Utah, a business on the Hopi Reservation that is wholly owned and operated by members of the Hopi Tribe, or a business on the Zuni Reservation that is wholly owned and operated by members of the Zuni Tribe. 




