# § 721.10733   Tires, wastes, pyrolyzed, C5-15 condensate oil fraction.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as tires, wastes, pyrolyzed, C5-15 condensate oil fraction (PMN P-13-237; chemical substance definition: A complex combination of hydrocarbons obtained from the substance produced by the pyrolysis of rubber-based tires after removal of the carbon black fraction. It consists predominantly of hydrocarbons having carbon numbers in the range of C5 through C15. It boils in the range of approximately 36 °C to 265 °C (97 °F to 509 °F).) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities of the PMN substances that have been blended into finished petroleum products or sent to a petroleum refinery for use as a chemical intermediate, or stored as described in the Distribution section of the order.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* The significant new use is any exposure exceeding an 8 hour time weighted average (TWA) exposure limit of 1 part per million (ppm).


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80. A significant new use is any use other than as a raw feedstock for refineries.


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 4).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), (k), and records documenting that exposures do not exceed an 8 hour time weighted average (TWA) exposure limit of 1 part per million are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.



---

[N] [79 FR 39283, July 9, 2014]




