# § 9.28   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart, the terms in this section have the following meanings:


*911 Authority.* A State, territorial, regional, Tribal, or local governmental entity that operates or has administrative authority over all or any aspect of a communications network for the receipt of 911 traffic at NG911 Delivery Points and for the transmission of such traffic from that point to PSAPs.


*911 traffic.* Transmissions consisting of all 911 calls (as defined in §§ 9.3, 9.11(b)(2)(ii)(A), 9.14(d)(2)(iii)(A), and 9.14(e)(2)(ii)(A)) and/or 911 text messages (as defined in § 9.10(q)(9)), as well as information about calling parties' locations and originating telephone numbers and routing information transmitted with the calls and/or text messages.


*Commonly accepted standards.* The technical standards followed by the communications industry for network, device, and Internet Protocol connectivity that—


(1) Enable interoperability; and


(2) Are—


(i) Developed and approved by a standards development organization that is accredited by a United States standards body (such as the American National Standards Institute) or an equivalent international standards body in a process that—


(A) Is open to the public, including open for participation by any person; and


(B) Provides for a conflict resolution process;


(ii) Subject to an open comment and input process before being finalized by the standards development organization;


(iii) Consensus-based; and


(iv) Made publicly available once approved.


*Covered text provider.* The term “covered text provider” has the meaning given such term under § 9.10(q)(1).


*Emergency Services Internet Protocol Network (ESInet).* An Internet Protocol (IP)-based network that is managed or operated by a 911 Authority or its agents or vendors and that is used for emergency services communications, including Next Generation 911.


*Functional element.* A set of software features that may be combined with hardware interfaces and operations on those interfaces to accomplish a defined task.


*Location Information Server (LIS).* A functional element that provides locations of endpoints. A LIS can provide Location-by-Reference or Location-by-Value, and, if the latter, in geodetic or civic forms. A LIS can be queried by an endpoint for its own location, or by another entity for the location of an endpoint.


*Location Validation Function (LVF).* A functional element in NG911 Core Services (NGCS) consisting of a server where civic location information is validated against the authoritative Geographic Information System (GIS) database information. A civic address is considered valid if it can be located within the database uniquely, is suitable to provide an accurate route for an emergency call, and is adequate and specific enough to direct responders to the right location.


*Nationwide CMRS provider.* The term “nationwide CMRS provider” has the meaning given such term under § 9.10(i)(1)(iv).


*Next Generation 911 (NG911).* An Internet Protocol-based system that—


(1) Ensures interoperability;


(2) Is secure;


(3) Employs commonly accepted standards;


(4) Enables emergency communications centers to receive, process, and analyze all types of 911 requests for emergency assistance;


(5) Acquires and integrates additional information useful to handling 911 requests for emergency assistance; and


(6) Supports sharing information related to 911 requests for emergency assistance among emergency communications centers and emergency response providers.


*NG911 Delivery Point.* A geographic location, facility, or demarcation point designated by a 911 Authority where an originating service provider shall transmit and deliver 911 traffic in an IP format to ESInets or other NG911 network facilities.


*Non-nationwide CMRS provider.* The term “non-nationwide CMRS provider” has the meaning given such term under § 9.10(i)(1)(v).


*Non-rural wireline provider.* A wireline provider that is not a rural incumbent local exchange carrier (as defined in § 54.5 of this chapter).


*Originating service providers.* Providers that originate 911 traffic, specifically wireline providers; commercial mobile radio service (CMRS) providers, excluding mobile satellite service (MSS) operators to the same extent as set forth in § 9.10(a); covered text providers, as defined in § 9.10(q)(1); interconnected Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) providers, including all entities subject to subpart D of this part; and internet-based Telecommunications Relay Service (TRS) providers that are directly involved with routing 911 traffic, pursuant to subpart E of this part.


*Rural incumbent local exchange carrier (RLEC).* The term “rural incumbent local exchange carrier” or “RLEC” has the meaning given such term under § 54.5 of this chapter.


*Session Initiation Protocol (SIP).* A signaling protocol used for initiating, maintaining, modifying, and terminating communications sessions between Internet Protocol (IP) devices. SIP enables voice, messaging, video, and other communications services between two or more endpoints on IP networks.


*Wireline provider.* A local exchange carrier (as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(32)) that provides service using wire communication (as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(59)).






