# § 184.1099   Tartaric acid.

(a) Food grade tartaric acid (C_4_H_6_O_6_, CAS Reg. No. 87-69-4) has the l configuration. The l form of tartaric acid is dextrorotatory in solution and is also known as l−(+)−tartaric acid. Tartaric acid occurs as colorless or translucent crystals or as a white, crystalline powder. It is odorless and has an acid taste. It is obtained as a byproduct of wine manufacture.


(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), P. 320, which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) In accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) as a direct human food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:


(1) The ingredient is used as a firming agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(10) of this chapter; a flavor enhancer as defined in § 170.3(o)(11) of this chapter; a flavoring agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(12) of this chapter; a humectant as defined in § 170.3(o)(16) of this chapter; and a pH control agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(23) of this chapter.


(2) The ingredient is used in foods at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice.


(d) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.



---

[N] [48 FR 52447, Nov. 18, 1983, as amended at 50 FR 49536, Dec. 3, 1985]




