# ยง 44.4905-1   Change of ownership.

(a) *Changes through death.* Whenever any person who has paid the special tax imposed by section 4411 dies, the surviving spouse or child, or executor or administrator, or other legal representative, may carry on such business for the remainder of the term for which such special tax has been paid without any additional payment, subject to the conditions hereinafter stated. If the surviving spouse or child, or executor or administrator, or other legal representative of the deceased taxpayer continues the business, such person shall within 30 days after the date of the death of the taxpayer execute a return on Form 11-C. Such return shall show the name of the deceased taxpayer, together with all other data required to be reported on Form 11-C (see ยง 44.4412-1), and the stamp issued to such taxpayer shall be submitted with the return for proper notation by the district director.


(b) *Changes from other causes.* A receiver or trustee in bankruptcy may continue the business under the stamp issued to the taxpayer at the place and for the period for which the special tax was paid. An assignee for the benefit of creditors may continue business under his assignor's special tax stamp without incurring additional special tax liability. In such cases the change shall be registered with the district director in a manner similar to that required by paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) *Changes in firm.* When one or more members of a firm partnership withdraw, the business may be continued by the remaining partner or partners under the same special tax stamp for the remainder of the period for which the stamp was issued to the old firm. The change shall, however, be registered in the same manner as required in paragraph (a) of this section. If new partners are taken into a firm the new firm so constituted may not carry on business under the special tax stamp of the old firm. The new firm shall make a return on Form 11-C and pay the special tax imposed by section 4411 reckoned from the first day of the month in which it began business, even though the name of such firm be the same as that of the old. If the members of a partnership, which has paid the special tax, form a corporation to continue the business a new special tax stamp must be obtained in the name of the corporation.


(d) *Change in corporation.* If a corporation changes its name, no additional tax is due, provided the change in name is registered with the district director in the manner required by paragraph (a) of this section. An increase in the capital stock of a corporation does not create a new special tax liability if the laws of the State under which it is incorporated permit such increase without the formation of a new corporation. A stockholder in a corporation, who after its dissolution continues the business, incurs liability for the special tax imposed by section 4411 unless he already has a special tax stamp obtained in respect of activities conducted as a sole proprietor.




