# § 682.711   Reinstatement after termination.

(a) A lender or third-party servicer whose eligibility has been terminated by the Secretary in accordance with the procedures of this subpart may request reinstatement of its eligibility after the later of—


(1) Eighteen months from the effective date of the termination; or


(2) The expiration of the period of debarment under Executive Order 12459 or the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4.


(b) The request must be in writing and must show that—


(1) The lender or servicer has corrected any violations on which the termination was based; and


(2) The lender or servicer meets all requirements for eligibility.


(c) Within 60 days after receiving a request for reinstatement, the Secretary—


(1) Grants the request;


(2) Denies the request; or


(3) Grants the request subject to limitations.


(d)(1) If the Secretary denies the lender's or servicer's request or allows reinstatement subject to limitations, the lender or servicer, upon request, is given an opportunity to show why its eligibility should be reinstated and all limitations removed.


(2) A lender or third-party servicer whose eligibility to participate in the FFEL programs is reinstated subject to limitations imposed by the Secretary pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section, may participate in those programs, subject to those limitations, pending a decision by the Secretary on a request under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.



---

[N] [57 FR 60323, Dec. 18, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 9119, Feb. 19, 1993; 59 FR 22459, Apr. 29, 1994; 59 FR 34964, July 7, 1994; 60 FR 33058, June 26, 1995; 64 FR 58965, Nov. 1, 1999; 78 FR 65822, Nov. 1, 2013]




