# § 80.717   Tybee Island, GA to St. Simons Island, GA.

(a) A line drawn from the southernmost extremity of Savannah Beach on Tybee Island 255° true across Tybee Inlet to the shore of Little Tybee Island south of the entrance to Buck Hammock Creek.


(b) A straight line drawn from the northeasternmost extremity of Wassaw Island 031° true through Tybee River Daybeacon 1 to the shore of Little Tybee Island.


(c) A line drawn approximately parallel with the general trend of the highwater shorelines from the seaward tangent of Wassaw Island to the seaward tangent of Bradley Point on Ossabaw Island.


(d) A north-south line (longitude 81°08.4′ W.) drawn from the southernmost extremity of Ossabaw Island to St. Catherines Island.


(e) A north-south line (longitude 81°10.6′ W.) drawn from the southernmost extremity of St. Catherines Island to Northeast Point on Blackbeard Island.


(f) A line following the general trend of the seaward highwater shoreline across Cabretta Inlet.


(g) A north-south line (longitude 81°16.9′ W.) drawn from the south-westernmost point on Sapelo Island to Wolf Island.


(h) A north-south line (longitude 81°17.1′ W.) drawn from the south-easternmost point of Wolf Island to the northeasternmost point on Little St. Simons Island.


(i) A line drawn from the northeasternmost extremity of Sea Island 045° true to Little St. Simons Island.


(j) An east-west line from the southernmost extremity of Sea Island across Goulds Inlet to St. Simons Island.



---

[N] [CGD 77-118a, 42 FR 35784, July 11, 1977. Redesignated by CGD 81-017, 46 FR 28154, May 26, 1981, as amended by USCG-2013-0397, 78 FR 39171, July 1, 2013]




