# § 334.815   Menominee River, at the Marinette Marine Corporation Shipyard, Marinette, Wisconsin; naval restricted area.

(a) *The area.* The waters adjacent to Marinette Marine Corporation's pier defined by a rectangular shape on the south side of the river beginning on shore at the eastern property line of Marinette Marine Corporation at latitude 45°05′58.70″ N., longitude 87°36′55.90″ W.; thence northerly to latitude 45°05′59.72″ N., longitude 87°36′55.61″ W.; thence westerly to latitude 45°06′03.22″ N., longitude 87°37′09.75″ W.; thence westerly to latitude 45°06′03.78″ N., longitude 87°37′16.40″ W.' thence southerly to latitude 45°06′2.80″ N., longitude 87°37′16.56″ W.; thence easterly along the Marinette Marine Corporation pier to the point of origin. The datum for these geographic coordinates is the World Geodetic System 1984 (WGS 84). The restricted area will be marked by a lighted and signed floating buoy line.


(b) *The regulation.* All persons, swimmers, vessels and other craft, except those vessels under the supervision or contract to local military or Naval authority, vessels of the United States Coast Guard, and local or state law enforcement vessels, are prohibited from entering the restricted area when marked by signed floating buoy line without permission from the Supervisor of Shipbuilding, Conversion and Repair, USN, Bath, ME or his/her authorized representative.


(c) *Enforcement.* The regulation in this section shall be enforced by the Supervisor of Shipbuilding, Conversion and Repair, USN, Bath, ME and/or such agencies or persons as he/she may designate.


(d) *Disestablishment of restricted area.* The restricted area will be disestablished not later than November 17, 2025, unless written application for its continuance is made to and approved by the Secretary of the Army prior to that date.



---

[N] [82 FR 53423, Nov. 16, 2017]




