# § 63.1405   Continuous process vent provisions.

(a) *Emission standards for new affected sources.* For each continuous process vent located at a new affected source with a Total Resource Effectiveness (TRE) index value, as determined following the procedures specified in § 63.1412(j), less than or equal to 1.2, the owner or operator shall comply with either paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section. As an alternative to complying with paragraph (a) of this section, an owner or operator may comply with paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(1) Vent all emissions of organic HAP to a flare. 


(2) Reduce emissions of total organic HAP by 85 weight-percent. Control shall be achieved by venting emissions through a closed vent system to any combination of control devices meeting the requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS (national emission standards for closed vent systems, control devices, recovery devices and routing to a fuel gas system or process). When complying with the requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS, the following apply for purposes of this subpart:


(i) Design evaluations are allowed for control devices that control emission points with total emissions less than 10 tons of organic HAP per year before control (i.e., small control devices). 


(ii) When 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS refers to specific test methods for the measurement of organic HAP concentration, the test methods presented in § 63.1414(a) shall be used. 


(iii) The option to measure TOC instead of organic HAP, as a basis for demonstrating compliance, is not allowed. 


(iv) Excused excursions are not allowed. 


(v) The provisions in § 63.1403(b), rather than the provisions in § 63.982(f), are to be followed for combined vent streams. 


(vi) When a scrubber is used as a control device, the owner or operator shall follow the guidance provided in this subpart for design evaluations or performance tests, as appropriate, and for monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting. 


(vii) When there are conflicts between the due dates for reports presented in 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS and this subpart, reports shall be submitted according to the due dates presented in this subpart. 


(viii) When there are conflicts between the recordkeeping and reporting requirements presented in 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS and this subpart, the owner or operator shall either follow both sets of requirements (i.e., follow the requirements in 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS for emission points covered by 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS and follow the requirements of this subpart for emission points covered by this subpart) or shall follow the set of requirements they prefer. If an owner or operator chooses to follow just one set of requirements, the owner or operator shall identify which set of requirements are being followed and which set of requirements are being disregarded in the appropriate report. 


(b) *Emission standards for existing affected sources.* For each continuous process vent located at an existing affected source, the owner or operator shall comply with either paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section. As an alternative to complying with paragraph (b) of this section, an owner or operator may comply with paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(1) Vent all emissions of organic HAP to a flare.


(2) Reduce emissions as specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) The owner or operator of a back-end continuous process vent shall reduce total organic HAP emissions to less than or equal to 4.3 kilograms of total organic HAP per megagram of resin produced (8.6 pounds of total organic HAP per ton of resin produced).


(ii) The owner or operator of a front-end reactor continuous process vent shall reduce total organic HAP emissions to less than or equal to 0.28 kilograms of total organic HAP per hour (0.61 pounds of total organic HAP per hour).


(iii) The owner or operator of a front-end non-reactor continuous process vent shall reduce total organic HAP emissions to less than or equal to 0.010 kilograms of total organic HAP per hour (0.022 pounds of total organic HAP per hour).


(c) *Alternative emission standards.* As an alternative to complying with paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, an owner or operator may comply with paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section, as appropriate.


(1) For each continuous process vent located at a new affected source, the owner or operator shall vent all organic HAP emissions from a continuous process vent meeting the TRE value specified in paragraph (a) of this section to a non-flare combustion control device achieving an outlet organic HAP concentration of 20 ppmv or less or to a non-combustion control device achieving an outlet organic HAP concentration of 50 ppmv or less. Any continuous process vents that are not vented to a control device meeting these conditions shall be controlled in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section.


(2) For each continuous process vent located at an existing affected source, the owner or operator shall vent all organic HAP emissions from a continuous process vent to a non-flare combustion control device achieving an outlet organic HAP concentration of 20 ppmv or less or to a non-combustion control device achieving an outlet organic HAP concentration of 50 ppmv or less. Any continuous process vents that are not vented to a control device meeting these conditions shall be controlled in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section.



---

[N] [65 FR 3290, Jan. 20, 2000, as amended at 79 FR 60930, Oct. 8, 2014; 83 FR 51853, Oct. 15, 2018]




