# ยง 18.452   Health and other social services.

(a) *General.* In providing health, or other social services or benefits, a recipient may not, on the basis of handicap: 


(1) Deny a qualified handicapped person these benefits or services; 


(2) Give a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to receive benefits or services that are not equal to those offered nonhandicapped persons. 


(3) Provide a qualified handicapped person with benefits or services that are not as effective (as defined in ยง 18.404(b)(2)) as the benefits or services provided to others; 


(4) Provide benefits or services in a manner that limits or has the effect of limiting the participation of qualified handicapped persons; or 


(5) Provide different or separate benefits or services to handicapped persons except where necessary to provide qualified handicapped persons with benefits and services that are as effective as those provided to others. 


(b) *Notice.* A recipient that provides notice concerning benefits or services or written material concerning waivers of rights of consent to treatment shall ensure that qualified handicapped persons, including those with impaired sensory or speaking skills, are not denied effective notice because of their handicap. 


(c) *Emergency treatment for the hearing impaired.* A recipient hospital that provides health services or benefits shall establish a procedure for effective communication with persons with impaired hearing for the purpose of providing emergency care. 


(d) *Auxiliary aids.* (1) A recipient that employs fifteen or more persons shall provide appropriate auxiliary aids to persons with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills, where necessary to give these persons an equal opportunity to benefit from the service in question. 


(2) The Secretary may require recipients with fewer than fifteen employees to provide auxiliary aids where the provision of aids would not significantly impair the ability of the recipient to provide its benefits or services. 


(3) Auxiliary aids may include brailled and taped material, interpreters, and aids for persons with impaired hearing or vision. 




