# § 54.600   Terms and definitions.

As used in this subpart, the following terms shall be defined as follows:


(a) *Funding year.* A “funding year” for purposes of the funding cap shall be the period between July 1 of the current calendar year through June 30 of the next calendar year.


(b) *Health care provider.* A “health care provider” is any:


(1) Post-secondary educational institution offering health care instruction, including a teaching hospital or medical school;


(2) Community health center or health center providing health care to migrants;


(3) Local health department or agency;


(4) Community mental health center;


(5) Not-for-profit hospital;


(6) Rural health clinic;


(7) Skilled nursing facility (as defined in section 395i-3(a) of Title 42); or a


(8) Consortium of health care providers consisting of one or more entities described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) in this section.


(c) *Off-site administrative office.* An “off-site administrative office” is a facility that does not provide hands-on delivery of patient care but performs administrative support functions that are critical to the provision of clinical care by eligible health care providers.


(d) *Off-site data center.* An “off-site data center” is a facility that serves as a centralized repository for the storage, management, and dissemination of an eligible health care provider's computer systems, associated components, and data, including (but not limited to) electronic health records.


(e) *Rural area.* A “rural area” is an area that is entirely outside of a Core Based Statistical Area; is within a Core Based Statistical Area that does not have any Urban Area with a population of 25,000 or greater; or is in a Core Based Statistical Area that contains an Urban Area with a population of 25,000 or greater, but is within a specific census tract that itself does not contain any part of a Place or Urban Area with a population of greater than 25,000. For purposes of this rule, “Core Based Statistical Area,” “Urban Area,” and “Place” are as identified by the Census Bureau.


(f) *Rural health care provider.* A “rural health care provider” is an eligible health care provider site located in a rural area.


(g) *Urbanized area.* An “urbanized area” is an area with 50,000 or more people as designated by the Census Bureau based on the most recent decennial Census.




