# § 1300.05   Definitions relating to the disposal of controlled substances.

(a) Any term not defined in this part or elsewhere in this chapter shall have the definition set forth in section 102 of the Act (21 U.S.C. 802).


(b) As used in part 1317 of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings specified:


*Employee* means an employee as defined under the general common law of agency. Some of the factors relevant to the determination of employee status include: The hiring party's right to control the manner and means by which the product is accomplished; the skill required; the source of the instrumentalities and tools; the location of the work; the duration of the relationship between the parties; whether the hiring party has the right to assign additional projects to the hired party; the extent of the hired party's discretion over when and how long to work; the method of payment; the hired party's role in hiring and paying assistants; whether the work is part of the regular business of the hiring party; whether the hiring party is in business; the provision of employee benefits; and the tax treatment of the hired party. Other applicable factors may be considered and no one factor is dispositive. The following criteria will determine whether a person is an *employee* of a registrant for the purpose of disposal: The person is directly paid by the registrant; subject to direct oversight by the registrant; required, as a condition of employment, to follow the registrant's procedures and guidelines pertaining to the handling of controlled substances; subject to receive a performance rating or performance evaluation on a regular/routine basis from the registrant; subject to disciplinary action by the registrant; and required to render services at the registrant's registered location.


*Law enforcement officer* means a person who is described in paragraph (1), (2) or (3) of this definition:


(1) Meets all of the following criteria:


(i) Employee of either a law enforcement agency, or law enforcement component of a Federal agency;


(ii) Is under the direction and control of a Federal, State, tribal, or local government;


(iii) Acting in the course of his/her official duty; and


(iv) Duly sworn and given the authority by a Federal, State, tribal, or local government to carry firearms, execute and serve warrants, make arrests without warrant, and make seizures of property;


(2) Is a Veterans Health Administration (VHA) police officer authorized by the Department of Veterans Affairs to participate in collection activities conducted by the VHA; or


(3) Is a Department of Defense (DOD) police officer authorized by the DOD to participate in collection activities conducted by the DOD.


*Non-retrievable* means, for the purpose of destruction, the condition or state to which a controlled substance shall be rendered following a process that permanently alters that controlled substance's physical or chemical condition or state through irreversible means and thereby renders the controlled substance unavailable and unusable for all practical purposes. The process to achieve a non-retrievable condition or state may be unique to a substance's chemical or physical properties. A controlled substance is considered “non-retrievable” when it cannot be transformed to a physical or chemical condition or state as a controlled substance or controlled substance analogue. The purpose of destruction is to render the controlled substance(s) to a non-retrievable state and thus prevent diversion of any such substance to illicit purposes.


*On-site* means located on or at the physical premises of the registrant's registered location. A controlled substance is destroyed *on-site* when destruction occurs on the physical premises of the destroying registrant's registered location. A hospital/clinic has an *on-site* pharmacy when it has a pharmacy located on the physical premises of the registrant's registered location.



---

[N] [79 FR 53560, Sept. 9, 2014]




