# ยง 291.609   Bidding process.

(a) *Sale notice.* The Secretary will prescribe requirements for a Single Family Sale through the Sale Notice. For each Single Family Sale, HUD will publish the PSA Addendum, Desk Guide, ISA Addendum, CAA Addendum, and Sale Notices on HUD's public website.


(b) *Submission of bids.* All bids by a Qualified Participant must be submitted to HUD in accordance with the Sale Notice and the instructions in the BIP. By submitting a bid, the Qualified Participant is considered to have made an offer to purchase Single Family Loans as presented in the BIP. Submission of a bid constitutes acceptance of the terms and conditions set forth in the BIP. Along with the bid, the Qualified Participant must submit an executed copy of the CAA and ISA, as applicable.


(c) *Bids by brokers or agents.* Any bid submitted by a broker or agent for a Qualified Participant must be made in the name of the Qualified Participant and signed by the broker or agent as the attorney-in-fact for the Qualified Participant. All such bid documents must bind the Qualified Participant. Each bid must also include a power of attorney satisfactory to HUD as to form and content.


(d) *Earnest money deposits.* The Qualified Participant must submit to HUD, along with its bid, an earnest money deposit, as required in the CAA or Sale Notice. The earnest money deposit is nonrefundable for a Qualified Participant whose bid is selected for award and will be credited toward the purchase price. If a Qualified Participant's bid is not selected for any award, their earnest money will be returned.


(e) *Timing for withdrawal of bids.* A Qualified Participant may withdraw a submitted bid in accordance with the instructions in the BIP for a Single Family Sale. However, a previously submitted bid may not be withdrawn once the bidding has closed.


(f) *Termination of Single Family Sale.* HUD reserves the right to terminate a Single Family Sale in whole or in part at any time before the bid date.


(g) *Withdrawal of Single Family Loans.* HUD reserves the right to withdraw Single Family Loans from a Single Family Sale prior to the settlement date. Any earnest money deposits made by a Purchaser relating to withdrawn Single Family Loans will be retained by the Secretary and credited toward the total purchase price of the remaining Single Family Loans in the pool, in accordance with the CAA and BIP. After the bid date, HUD can withdraw Single Family Loans or not deliver all the Single Family Loans for settlement for any reason, including those set forth in the BIP and CAA.


(h) *Rejection of bids.* At HUD's discretion, any bid may be rejected under the following circumstances:


(1) The bid does not conform with the instructions in the BIP;


(2) HUD determines that an award based on the bid would not be in the best interests of the Secretary because the award would not further HUD's fiduciary responsibility to the mutual mortgage insurance fund (MMIF) or any stated mission objectives in the Sale Notice; or


(3) HUD can also issue a conditional rejection that would provide the opportunity for the bid to be amended and resubmitted for acceptance upon fulfillment of HUD's requests.






