# § 1.861-20   Allocation and apportionment of foreign income taxes.

(a) *Scope.* This section provides rules for the allocation and apportionment of foreign income taxes, including allocating and apportioning foreign income taxes to separate categories for purposes of the foreign tax credit. The rules of this section apply except as modified under the rules for an operative section (as described in § 1.861-8(f)(1)). See, for example, §§ 1.704-1(b)(4)(viii)(*d*)(*1*), 1.904-6, 1.960-1(d)(3)(ii), and 1.965-5(b)(2). Paragraph (b) of this section provides definitions for the purposes of this section. Paragraph (c) of this section provides the general rule for allocation and apportionment of foreign income taxes. Paragraph (d) of this section provides rules for assigning foreign gross income to statutory and residual groupings. Paragraph (e) of this section provides rules for allocating and apportioning foreign law deductions to foreign gross income in the statutory and residual groupings. Paragraph (f) of this section provides rules for apportioning foreign income taxes among statutory and residual groupings. Paragraph (g) of this section provides examples that illustrate the application of this section. Paragraph (h) of this section provides the applicability date for this section.


(b) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply for purposes of this section.


(1) *Corporation.* The term *corporation* has the same meaning as set forth in § 301.7701-2(b) of this chapter, and so includes a reverse hybrid.


(2) *Corresponding U.S. item.* The term *corresponding U.S. item* means the item of U.S. gross income or U.S. loss, if any, that arises from the same transaction or other realization event from which an item of foreign gross income also arises. An item of U.S. gross income or U.S. loss is a corresponding U.S. item even if the item of foreign gross income that arises from the same transaction or realization event differs in amount from the item of U.S. gross income or U.S. loss. A corresponding U.S. item does not include an item of gross income that is exempt, excluded, or eliminated from U.S. gross income, nor does it include an item of U.S. gross income or U.S. loss that is not realized, recognized or taken into account by the taxpayer in the U.S. taxable year in which the taxpayer paid or accrued the foreign income tax, except as provided in the next sentence. If a taxpayer pays or accrues a foreign income tax that is imposed on foreign taxable income that includes an item of foreign gross income by reason of a transaction or other realization event that also gave rise to an item of U.S. gross income or U.S. loss, but the U.S. and foreign taxable years end on different dates and the event occurred in the last U.S. taxable year that ends before the end of the foreign taxable year, then the item of U.S. gross income or U.S. loss is a corresponding U.S. item.


(3) *Disregarded entity.* The term *disregarded entity* means an entity described in § 301.7701-2(c)(2) of this chapter that is disregarded as an entity separate from its owner for Federal income tax purposes.


(4) *Foreign capital gain amount.* The term *foreign capital gain amount* means the portion of a distribution that under foreign law gives rise to gross income of a type described in section 301(c)(3)(A) or section 731(a).


(5) *Foreign dividend amount.* The term *foreign dividend amount* means the portion of a distribution that is taxable as a dividend under foreign law.


(6) *Foreign gross income.* The term *foreign gross income* means the items of gross income included in the base upon which a foreign income tax is imposed. This includes all items of foreign gross income included in the foreign tax base, even if the foreign taxable year begins in the U.S. taxable year that precedes the U.S. taxable year in which the taxpayer pays or accrues the foreign income tax.


(7) *Foreign income tax.* The term *foreign income tax* has the meaning provided in § 1.901-2(a).


(8) *Foreign law CFC.* The term *foreign law CFC* means an entity that is a body corporate under foreign law, certain of the earnings of which are taxable to its shareholder under a foreign law inclusion regime.


(9) *Foreign law disposition.* The term *foreign law disposition* means an event that foreign law treats as a taxable disposition or deemed disposition of property but that Federal income tax law does not treat as a disposition causing the recognition of gain or loss (for example, marking property to market under foreign law).


(10) *Foreign law distribution.* The term *foreign law distribution* means an event that foreign law treats as a taxable distribution (other than by reason of a foreign law inclusion regime) but that Federal income tax law does not treat as a distribution of property within the meaning of section 317(a) (for example, a stock dividend described in section 305 or a foreign law consent dividend).


(11) *Foreign law inclusion regime.* A *foreign law inclusion regime* is a foreign law tax regime similar to the subpart F or GILTI regime described in sections 951 through 959, or the PFIC regime described in sections 1293 through 1295 (relating to qualified electing funds), that imposes a tax on a shareholder of an entity based on an inclusion in the shareholder's taxable income of certain of the entity's current earnings, whether or not the foreign law deems the entity's earnings to be distributed.


(12) *Foreign law inclusion regime income.* The term *foreign law inclusion regime income* means the items of foreign gross income included by a taxpayer with respect to a foreign law CFC by reason of a foreign law inclusion regime.


(13) *Foreign law pass-through income.* The term *foreign law pass-through income* means the items of a reverse hybrid, computed under foreign law, that give rise to an inclusion in a taxpayer's foreign gross income under the laws of a foreign country imposing tax by reason of the taxpayer's ownership of the reverse hybrid.


(14) *Foreign taxable income.* The term *foreign taxable income* means foreign gross income reduced by the deductions that are allowed under foreign law.


(15) *Foreign taxable year.* The term *foreign taxable year* has the meaning set forth in section 7701(a)(23), applied by substituting “under foreign law” for the phrase “under subtitle A.”


(16) *Partnership.* The term *partnership* has the same meaning as set forth in § 301.7701-2(c)(1) of this chapter.


(17) *Previously taxed earnings and profits.* The term *previously taxed earnings and profits* has the meaning provided in § 1.960-1(b).


(18) *Reverse hybrid.* The term *reverse hybrid* means a corporation that is a fiscally transparent entity (under the principles of § 1.894-1(d)(3)) or a branch under the laws of a foreign country imposing tax on the income of the entity.


(19) *Taxpayer.* The term *taxpayer* has the meaning described in § 1.901-2(f)(1).


(20) *U.S. capital gain amount.* The term *U.S. capital gain amount* means gain recognized by a taxpayer on the sale, exchange, or other disposition of stock or an interest in a partnership or, in the case of a distribution with respect to stock or a partnership interest, the portion of the distribution to which section 301(c)(3)(A) or 731(a)(1), respectively, applies. A U.S. capital gain amount includes gain that is subject to section 751 and § 1.751-1, but does not include the portion of any gain recognized by a taxpayer that is included in gross income as a dividend under section 964(e) or 1248.


(21) *U.S. dividend amount.* The term *U.S. dividend amount* means the portion of a distribution that is made out of earnings and profits under Federal income tax law, including distributions out of previously taxed earnings and profits described in section 959(a) or (b). It also includes amounts included in gross income as a dividend by reason of section 1248 or section 964(e).


(22) *U.S. equity hybrid instrument.* The term *U.S. equity hybrid instrument* means an instrument that is treated as stock or a partnership interest for Federal income tax purposes but for foreign income tax purposes is treated as indebtedness or otherwise gives rise to the accrual of income to the holder with respect to such instrument that is not characterized as a dividend or distributive share of partnership income for foreign tax law purposes.


(23) *U.S. gross income.* The term *U.S. gross income* means the items of gross income that a taxpayer recognizes and includes in taxable income under Federal income tax law for its U.S. taxable year.


(24) *U.S. loss.* The term *U.S. loss* means the item of loss that a taxpayer recognizes and includes in taxable income under Federal income tax law for its U.S. taxable year.


(25) *U.S. return of capital amount.* The term *U.S. return of capital amount* means, in the case of the sale, exchange, or other disposition of stock, the taxpayer's adjusted basis of the stock, or in the case of a distribution with respect to stock, the portion of the distribution to which section 301(c)(2) applies.


(26) *U.S. taxable year.* The term *U.S. taxable year* has the same meaning as that of the term *taxable year* set forth in section 7701(a)(23).


(c) *General rule.* A foreign income tax (other than certain in lieu of taxes described in paragraph (h) of this section) is allocated and apportioned to the statutory and residual groupings that include the items of foreign gross income included in the base on which the tax is imposed. Each such foreign income tax (that is, each separate levy) is allocated and apportioned separately under the rules in paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section. A foreign income tax is allocated and apportioned to or among the statutory and residual groupings under the following steps:


(1) First, by assigning the items of foreign gross income to the groupings under the rules of paragraph (d) of this section;


(2) Second, by allocating and apportioning the deductions that are allowed under foreign law to the foreign gross income in the groupings under the rules of paragraph (e) of this section; and


(3) Third, by allocating and apportioning the foreign income tax by reference to the foreign taxable income in the groupings under the rules of paragraph (f) of this section.


(d) *Assigning items of foreign gross income to the statutory and residual groupings*—(1) *In general.* Each item of foreign gross income is assigned to a statutory or residual grouping. The amount of the item is determined under foreign law. However, Federal income tax law applies to characterize the item and the transaction or other realization event from which the item arose, and to assign it to a grouping. Except as provided in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, if a taxpayer pays or accrues a foreign income tax that is imposed on foreign taxable income that includes an item of foreign gross income with respect to which the taxpayer also realizes, recognizes, or takes into account a corresponding U.S. item, then the item of foreign gross income is assigned to the grouping to which the corresponding U.S. item is assigned. See paragraph (g)(2) of this section (*Example 1*). If the corresponding U.S. item is a U.S. loss (or zero), the foreign gross income is assigned to the grouping to which a gain would be assigned had the transaction or other realization event given rise to a gain, rather than a U.S. loss (or zero), for Federal income tax purposes, and not (if different) to the grouping to which the U.S. loss is allocated and apportioned in computing U.S. taxable income. Paragraph (d)(3) of this section provides special rules regarding the assignment of the item of foreign gross income in particular circumstances.


(2) *Items of foreign gross income with no corresponding U.S. item*—(i) *In general.* The rules in paragraphs (d)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section apply for purposes of characterizing an item of foreign gross income and assigning it to a grouping if the taxpayer does not realize, recognize, or take into account a corresponding U.S. item. But see paragraphs (d)(3)(i)(C) and (d)(3)(iii) of this section for special rules with respect to items of foreign gross income attributable to foreign law pass-through income and foreign law inclusion regime income.


(ii) *Foreign gross income from U.S. nonrecognition event, or U.S. recognition event that falls in a different U.S. taxable year*—(A) *In general.* If a taxpayer recognizes an item of foreign gross income arising from a transaction or other foreign realization event that does not result in the recognition of gross income or loss under Federal income tax law in the same U.S. taxable year in which the foreign income tax is paid or accrued or (in the circumstance described in the last sentence of paragraph (b)(2) of this section) in the immediately preceding U.S. taxable year, then the item of foreign gross income is characterized and assigned to the grouping to which the corresponding U.S. item (or the items described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section that are used to assign certain items of foreign gross income to the statutory and residual groupings) would be assigned if the event giving rise to the foreign gross income resulted in the recognition of gross income or loss under Federal income tax law in the U.S. taxable year in which the foreign income tax is paid or accrued.


(B) *Foreign law distributions.* An item of foreign gross income that a taxpayer includes as a result of a foreign law distribution with respect to either stock or a partnership interest is assigned to the same statutory or residual groupings to which the foreign gross income would be assigned if a distribution of property in the amount of the taxable distribution under foreign law were made for Federal income tax purposes on the date on which the foreign law distribution occurred. See paragraph (g)(6) of this section (*Example 5*). See paragraph (d)(3)(i)(B) of this section for rules regarding the assignment of foreign gross income arising from a distribution with respect to stock. For purposes of applying paragraph (d)(3)(i)(B) of this section to a foreign law distribution, the U.S. dividend amount, U.S. capital gain amount, and U.S. return of capital amount are computed as if the distribution occurred on the date the distribution occurs for foreign law purposes. See § 1.960-1(d)(3)(ii) for rules for assigning foreign gross income arising from a foreign law distribution to income groups or PTEP groups for purposes of section 960 as the operative section, and paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(B) of this section for rules regarding the assignment of foreign gross income arising from a distribution by a partnership.


(C) *Foreign law dispositions.* A foreign gross income item of gain that a taxpayer includes as a result of a foreign law disposition of property is assigned to the grouping to which a corresponding U.S. item of gain or loss would be assigned on a taxable disposition of the property under Federal income tax law in exchange for an amount equal to the gross receipts or other value used under foreign law to determine the amount of the items of foreign gross income arising from the foreign law disposition in the U.S. taxable year in which the taxpayer paid or accrued the foreign income tax. For example, an item of foreign gross income that results from a deemed disposition of stock under a foreign law mark-to-market regime is assigned under the rules of this paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(C) as though a taxable disposition of the stock occurred under Federal income tax law for an amount equal to the fair market value determined under foreign law for purposes of marking the stock to market. See paragraph (g)(3) of this section (*Example 2*).


(D) *Foreign law transfers between taxable units.* This paragraph (d)(2)(ii) applies to an item of foreign gross income arising from an event that foreign law treats as a transfer of property, or as giving rise to an item of accrued income, gain, deduction, or loss with respect to a transaction, between taxable units (as defined in paragraph (d)(3)(v)(E) of this section) of the same taxpayer, and that would be treated as a disregarded payment (as defined in paragraph (d)(3)(v)(E) of this section) if the transfer of property occurred, or the item accrued, for Federal income tax purposes in the same U.S. taxable year in which the foreign income tax is paid or accrued. An item of foreign gross income to which this paragraph (d)(2)(ii) applies is characterized and assigned to the grouping to which a disregarded payment in the amount of the item of foreign gross income (or the gross receipts giving rise to the item of foreign gross income) would be assigned under the rules of paragraph (d)(3)(v) of this section if the event giving rise to the foreign gross income resulted in a disregarded payment in the U.S. taxable year in which the foreign income tax is paid or accrued. For example, an item of foreign gross income that a taxpayer recognizes by reason of a foreign law distribution (such as a stock dividend or a consent dividend) from a disregarded entity is assigned to the same statutory or residual groupings to which the foreign gross income would be assigned if a distribution of property in the amount of the taxable distribution under foreign law were made for Federal income tax purposes on the date on which the foreign law distribution occurred.


(iii) *Foreign gross income of a type that is recognized but excluded from U.S. gross income*—(A) *In general.* If a taxpayer recognizes an item of foreign gross income that is a type of recognized gross income that Federal income tax law excludes from U.S. gross income, then the item of foreign gross income is assigned to the grouping to which the item of gross income would be assigned if it were included in U.S. gross income. See paragraph (g)(4) of this section (*Example 3*). Notwithstanding the first sentence of this paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(A), foreign gross income that is attributable to a base difference is assigned under paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(B) of this section.


(B) *Base differences.* If a taxpayer recognizes an item of foreign gross income that is attributable to a base difference, then the item of foreign gross income is assigned to the residual grouping. But see § 1.904-6(b)(1) (assigning foreign gross income attributable to a base difference to foreign source income in the separate category described in section 904(d)(2)(H)(i)) for purposes of applying section 904 as the operative section). An item of foreign gross income is attributable to a base difference under this paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(B) only if the item results from the receipt of one of the following items:


(*1*) Death benefits described in section 101;


(*2*) Gifts and inheritances described in section 102;


(*3*) Contributions to capital described in section 118;


(*4*) Money or other property in exchange for stock described in section 1032 (including by reason of a transfer described in section 351(a)); or


(*5*) Money or other property in exchange for a partnership interest described in section 721.


(3) *Special rules for assigning certain items of foreign gross income to a statutory or residual grouping*—(i) *Items of foreign gross income that a taxpayer includes by reason of its ownership of an interest in a corporation*—(A) *Scope.* The rules of this paragraph (d)(3)(i) apply to characterize and assign to a statutory or residual grouping an item of foreign gross income that a taxpayer includes in foreign taxable income as a result of its ownership of an interest in a corporation with respect to which there is a distribution under both foreign law and Federal income tax law, an inclusion of foreign law pass-through income, or a disposition under both foreign law and Federal income tax law.


(B) *Foreign gross income items arising from a distribution with respect to a corporation*—(*1*) *In general.* If there is a distribution by a corporation that is treated as a distribution of property for both foreign law and Federal income tax purposes, a taxpayer first applies the rules of paragraph (d)(3)(i)(B)(*2*) of this section, and then (if necessary) applies the rules of paragraph (d)(3)(i)(B)(*3*) of this section to characterize and assign to the statutory and residual groupings the items of foreign gross income that constitute the foreign dividend amount and the foreign capital gain amount, if any, that arise from the distribution. See paragraph (g)(5) of this section (*Example 4*). For purposes of this paragraph (d)(3)(i)(B), the U.S. dividend amount, U.S. capital gain amount, and U.S. return of capital amount that result from a distribution (including a distribution that occurs on the same date, but in different taxable years, for foreign law purposes and Federal income tax purposes) are computed on the date the distribution occurred for Federal income tax purposes. See paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B) of this section for rules for assigning foreign gross income arising from any portion of a distribution that is a foreign law distribution. See § 1.960-1(d)(3)(ii) for rules for assigning foreign gross income arising from a distribution described in this paragraph (d)(3)(i)(B) to income groups or PTEP groups for purposes of section 960 as the operative section.


(*2*) *Foreign dividend amounts.* The foreign dividend amount is, to the extent of the U.S. dividend amount, assigned to the same statutory and residual grouping (or ratably to the groupings) to which a distribution of the U.S. dividend amount is assigned under Federal income tax law. If the foreign dividend amount exceeds the U.S. dividend amount, the excess foreign dividend amount is an item of foreign gross income that is, to the extent of the U.S. return of capital amount, assigned to the same statutory and residual grouping (or ratably to the groupings) to which earnings of the distributing corporation would be assigned if they were recognized for Federal income tax purposes in the U.S. taxable year in which the distribution is made. These earnings are deemed to arise in the statutory and residual groupings in the same proportions as the proportions in which the tax book value of the stock of the distributing corporation is (or would be if the taxpayer were a United States person) assigned to the groupings under the asset method in § 1.861-9 in the U.S. taxable year in which the distribution is made. Any additional excess of the foreign dividend amount over the sum of the U.S. dividend amount and the U.S. return of capital amount is an item of foreign gross income that is assigned to the statutory or residual grouping (or ratably to the groupings) to which the U.S. capital gain amount is assigned.


(*3*) *Foreign capital gain amounts.* The foreign capital gain amount is, to the extent of the U.S. capital gain amount, assigned to the statutory and residual groupings to which the U.S. capital gain amount is assigned under Federal income tax law. If the foreign capital gain amount exceeds the U.S. capital gain amount, the excess is, to the extent of the U.S. return of capital amount, assigned to the statutory and residual groupings to which earnings equal to the U.S. return of capital amount would be assigned if they were recognized in the U.S. taxable year in which the distribution is made. These earnings are deemed to arise in the statutory and residual groupings in the same proportions as the proportions in which the tax book value of the stock of the distributing corporation is (or would be if the taxpayer were a United States person) assigned under the asset method in § 1.861-9 in the U.S. taxable year in which the distribution is made. Any excess of the foreign capital gain amount over the sum of the U.S. capital gain amount and the U.S. return of capital amount is assigned ratably to the statutory and residual groupings to which the U.S. dividend amount is assigned.


(C) *Foreign law pass-through income from a reverse hybrid.* An item of foreign law pass-through income that a taxpayer includes in its foreign taxable income as a result of its direct or indirect ownership of a reverse hybrid is assigned to a statutory or residual grouping by treating the taxpayer's items of foreign law pass-through income as the foreign gross income of the reverse hybrid, and applying the rules in this paragraph (d) by treating the reverse hybrid as the taxpayer in the reverse hybrid's U.S. taxable year with or within which its foreign taxable year (under the law of the foreign jurisdiction imposing the owner-level tax) ends. See § 1.904-6(f) for special rules that apply for purposes of section 904 with respect to items of foreign gross income that under this paragraph (d)(3)(iii) would be assigned to a separate category that includes income that gives rise to inclusions under section 951A.


(D) *Foreign gross income items arising from a disposition of stock.* An item of foreign gross income that arises from a transaction that is treated as a sale, exchange, or other disposition for both foreign law and Federal income tax purposes of an interest that is stock in a corporation for Federal income tax purposes is assigned first, to the extent of any U.S. dividend amount that results from the disposition, to the same statutory or residual grouping (or ratably to the groupings) to which the U.S. dividend amount is assigned under Federal income tax law. If the foreign gross income item exceeds the U.S. dividend amount, the foreign gross income item is next assigned, to the extent of the U.S. capital gain amount, to the statutory or residual grouping (or ratably to the groupings) to which the U.S. capital gain amount is assigned under Federal income tax law. Any excess of the foreign gross income item over the sum of the U.S. dividend amount and the U.S. capital gain amount is assigned to the same statutory or residual grouping (or ratably to the groupings) to which earnings equal to such excess amount would be assigned if they were recognized for Federal income tax purposes in the U.S. taxable year in which the disposition occurred. These earnings are deemed to arise in the statutory and residual groupings in the same proportions as the proportions in which the tax book value of the stock is (or would be if the taxpayer were a United States person) assigned to the groupings under the asset method in § 1.861-9 in the U.S. taxable year in which the disposition occurs. See paragraph (g)(10) of this section (*Example 9*).


(ii) *Items of foreign gross income included by a taxpayer by reason of its ownership of an interest in a partnership*—(A) *Scope.* The rules of this paragraph (d)(3)(ii) apply to assign to a statutory or residual grouping certain items of foreign gross income that a taxpayer includes in foreign taxable income by reason of its ownership of an interest in a partnership. See paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section for rules that apply in characterizing items of foreign gross income that are attributable to a partner's distributive share of income of a partnership. See paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section for rules that apply in characterizing items of foreign gross income that are attributable to an inclusion under a foreign law inclusion regime.


(B) *Foreign gross income items arising from a distribution with respect to an interest in a partnership.* If a partnership makes a distribution that is treated as a distribution of property for both foreign law and Federal income tax purposes, any foreign gross income item arising from the distribution (including foreign gross income attributable to a distribution from a partnership that foreign law classifies as a dividend from a corporation) is, to the extent of the U.S. capital gain amount arising from the distribution, assigned to the statutory and residual groupings to which the U.S. capital gain amount is assigned under Federal income tax law. If the foreign gross income item arising from the distribution exceeds the U.S. capital gain amount, such excess amount is assigned to the statutory and residual groupings to which a distributive share of income of the partnership in the amount of such excess would be assigned if such income were recognized for Federal income tax purposes in the U.S. taxable year in which the distribution is made. The items constituting this distributive share of income are deemed to arise in the statutory and residual groupings in the same proportions as the proportions in which the tax book value of the partnership interest or the partner's pro rata share of the partnership assets, as applicable, is assigned (or would be assigned if the partner were a United States person) for purposes of apportioning the partner's interest expense under § 1.861-9(e) in the U.S. taxable year in which the distribution is made.


(C) *Foreign gross income items arising from the disposition of an interest in a partnership.* An item of foreign gross income arising from a transaction that is treated as a sale, exchange, or other disposition for both foreign law and Federal income tax purposes of an interest that is an interest in a partnership for Federal income tax purposes is assigned first, to the extent of the U.S. capital gain amount arising from the disposition, to the statutory or residual grouping (or ratably to the groupings) to which the U.S. capital gain amount is assigned. If the foreign gross income item arising from the disposition exceeds the U.S. capital gain amount, such excess amount is assigned to the statutory and residual grouping (or ratably to the groupings) to which a distributive share of income of the partnership in the amount of such excess would be assigned if such income were recognized for Federal income tax purposes in the U.S. taxable year in which the disposition occurred. The items constituting this distributive share of income are deemed to arise in the statutory and residual groupings in the same proportions as the proportions in which the tax book value of the partnership interest, or the partner's pro rata share of the partnership assets, as applicable, is assigned (or would be assigned if the partner were a United States person) for purposes of apportioning the partner's interest expense under § 1.861-9(e) in the U.S. taxable year in which the disposition occurred.


(iii) *Foreign law inclusion regime income.* A gross item of foreign law inclusion regime income that a taxpayer includes in its capacity as a shareholder under foreign law of a foreign law CFC under a foreign law inclusion regime is assigned to the same statutory and residual groupings as the item of foreign gross income of the foreign law CFC that gives rise to the item of foreign law inclusion regime income of the taxpayer. The assignment is made by treating the gross items of foreign law inclusion regime income of the taxpayer as the items of foreign gross income of the foreign law CFC and applying the rules in this paragraph (d) by treating the foreign law CFC as the taxpayer in its U.S. taxable year with or within which its foreign taxable year (under the law of the foreign jurisdiction imposing the shareholder-level tax) ends. See paragraphs (g)(7) and (8) of this section (*Examples 6* and *7*). See § 1.904-6(f) for special rules with respect to items of foreign gross income relating to items of the foreign law CFC that give rise to inclusions under section 951A for purposes of applying section 904 as the operative section.


(iv) *Gain on sale of disregarded entity.* An item of foreign gross income arising from gain recognized on the sale, exchange, or other disposition of a disregarded entity that is characterized as a disposition of assets for Federal income tax purposes is assigned to statutory and residual groupings in the same proportion as the gain that would be treated as foreign gross income in each grouping if the transaction were treated as a disposition of assets for foreign tax law purposes. See paragraph (g)(9) of this section (*Example 8*).




(v) *Disregarded payments*—(A) *In general.* This paragraph (d)(3)(v) applies to assign to a statutory or residual grouping a foreign gross income item that a taxpayer includes by reason of the receipt of a disregarded payment. In the case of a taxpayer that is an individual or a domestic corporation, this paragraph (d)(3)(v) applies to a disregarded payment made between a taxable unit that is a foreign branch, a foreign branch owner, or a non-branch taxable unit, and another such taxable unit of the same taxpayer. In the case of a taxpayer that is a foreign corporation, this paragraph (d)(3)(v) applies to a disregarded payment made between taxable units that are tested units of the same taxpayer. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(3)(v), an individual or corporation is treated as the taxpayer with respect to its distributive share of foreign income taxes paid or accrued by a partnership, estate, trust or other pass-through entity. The rules of paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B) of this section apply to attribute U.S. gross income comprising the portion of a disregarded payment that is a reattribution payment to a taxable unit, and to associate the foreign gross income item arising from the receipt of the reattribution payment with the statutory and residual groupings to which that U.S. gross income is assigned. The rules of paragraph (d)(3)(v)(C) of this section apply to assign to statutory and residual groupings items of foreign gross income arising from the receipt of the portion of a disregarded payment that is a remittance or a contribution. The rules of paragraph (d)(3)(v)(D) of this section apply to assign to statutory and residual groupings items of foreign gross income arising from disregarded payments, other than the portions of disregarded payments that are reattribution payments, in connection with disregarded sales or exchanges of property. Paragraph (d)(3)(v)(E) of this section provides definitions that apply for purposes of this paragraph (d)(3)(v) and paragraph (g) of this section.


(B) *Reattribution payments*—(*1*) *In general.* This paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B) assigns to a statutory or residual grouping a foreign gross income item that a taxpayer includes by reason of the receipt by a taxable unit of the portion of a disregarded payment that is a reattribution payment. The foreign gross income item is assigned to the statutory or residual groupings to which one or more reattribution amounts that constitute the reattribution payment are assigned upon receipt by the taxable unit. If a reattribution payment comprises multiple reattribution amounts and the amount of the foreign gross income item that is attributable to the reattribution payment differs from the amount of the reattribution payment, foreign gross income is apportioned among the statutory and residual groupings in proportion to the reattribution amounts in each statutory and residual grouping. The statutory or residual grouping of a reattribution amount received by a taxable unit is the grouping that includes the U.S. gross income attributed to the taxable unit by reason of its receipt of the gross reattribution amount, regardless of whether, after taking into account disregarded payments made by the taxable unit, the taxable unit has an attribution item as a result of its receipt of the reattribution amount. See paragraph (g)(13) of this section (*Example 12*).


(*2*) *Attribution of U.S. gross income to a taxable unit.* This paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B)(*2*) provides attribution rules to determine the reattribution amounts received by a taxable unit in the statutory and residual groupings in order to apply paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B)(*1*) of this section to assign foreign gross income items arising from a reattribution payment to the groupings. In the case of a taxpayer that is an individual or a domestic corporation, the attribution rules in § 1.904-4(f)(2) apply to determine the reattribution amounts received by a taxable unit in the separate categories (as defined in § 1.904-5(a)(4)(v)) in order to apply paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B)(*1*) of this section for purposes of § 1.904-6(b)(2)(i). In the case of a taxpayer that is a foreign corporation, the attribution rules in § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(ii)(B) apply to determine the reattribution amounts received by a taxable unit in the statutory and residual groupings in order to apply paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B)(*1*) of this section for purposes of §§ 1.951A-2(c)(3), 1.951A-2(c)(7), and 1.960-1(d)(3)(ii). For purposes of other operative sections (as described in § 1.861-8(f)(1)), the principles of § 1.904-4(f)(2)(vi) or § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(ii)(B), as applicable, apply to determine the reattribution amounts received by a taxable unit in the statutory and residual groupings. The rules and principles of § 1.904-4(f)(2)(vi) or § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(ii)(B), as applicable, apply to determine the extent to which a disregarded payment made by the taxable unit is a reattribution payment and the reattribution amounts that constitute a reattribution payment, and to adjust the U.S. gross income initially attributed to each taxable unit to reflect the reattribution payments that the taxable unit makes and receives. The rules in this paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B)(*2*) limit the amount of a disregarded payment that is a reattribution payment to the U.S. gross income of the payor taxable unit that is recognized in the U.S. taxable year in which the disregarded payment is made.


(*3*) *Effect of reattribution payment on foreign gross income items of payor taxable unit.* The statutory or residual grouping to which an item of foreign gross income of a taxable unit is assigned is determined without regard to reattribution payments made by the taxable unit, and without regard to whether the taxable unit has one or more attribution items after taking into account such reattribution payments. No portion of the foreign gross income of the payor taxable unit is treated as foreign gross income of the payee taxable unit by reason of the reattribution payment, notwithstanding that U.S. gross income of the payor taxable unit that is used to assign foreign gross income of the payor taxable unit to statutory and residual groupings is reattributed to the payee taxable unit under paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B)(*1*) of this section by reason of the reattribution payment. See paragraph (e) of this section for rules reducing the amount of a foreign gross income item of a taxable unit by deductions allowed under foreign law, including deductions by reason of disregarded payments made by a taxable unit that are included in the foreign gross income of the payee taxable unit.


(C) *Remittances and contributions*—(*1*) *Remittances*—(*i*) *In general.* An item of foreign gross income that a taxpayer includes by reason of the receipt of a remittance by a taxable unit is assigned to the statutory or residual groupings of the recipient taxable unit that correspond to the groupings out of which the payor taxable unit made the remittance under the rules of this paragraph (d)(3)(v)(C)(*1*)(*i*). A remittance paid by a taxable unit is considered to be made ratably out of all of the accumulated after-tax income of the taxable unit. The accumulated after-tax income of the taxable unit that pays the remittance is deemed to have arisen in the statutory and residual groupings in the same proportions as the proportions in which the tax book value of the assets of the taxable unit are (or would be if the owner of the taxable unit were a United States person) assigned for purposes of apportioning interest expense under the asset method in § 1.861-9 in the taxable year in which the remittance is made. See paragraph (g)(11) and (12) of this section (*Examples 10* and *11*). If the payor taxable unit is determined to have no assets under paragraph (d)(3)(v)(C)(*1*)(*ii*) of this section, then the foreign gross income that is included by reason of the receipt of the remittance is assigned to the residual grouping.


(*ii*) *Assets of a taxable unit.* The assets of a taxable unit are determined in accordance with § 1.987-6(b), except that for purposes of applying § 1.987-6(b)(2) under this paragraph (d)(3)(v)(C)(*1*)(*ii*), a taxable unit is deemed to be a section 987 QBU (within the meaning of § 1.987-1(b)(2)) and assets of the taxable unit include stock held by the taxable unit, the portion of the tax book value of a reattribution asset that is assigned to the taxable unit, and the taxable unit's pro rata share of the assets of another taxable unit (other than a corporation or a partnership), including the portion of any reattribution assets assigned to the other taxable unit, in which it owns an interest. If a taxable unit owns an interest in a taxable unit that is a partnership, the assets of the taxable unit that is the owner include its interest in the partnership or its pro rata share of the partnership assets, as applicable, determined under the principles of § 1.861-9(e). The portion of the tax book value of a reattribution asset that is assigned to a taxable unit is an amount that bears the same ratio to the total tax book value of the reattribution asset as the sum of the attribution items of that taxable unit arising from gross income produced by the reattribution asset bears to the total gross income produced by the reattribution asset. The portion of a reattribution asset that is assigned to a taxable unit under this paragraph (d)(3)(v)(C)(*1*)(*ii*) is not treated as an asset of the taxable unit making the reattribution payment for purposes of applying paragraph (d)(3)(v)(C)(*1*)(*i*) of this section.


(*2*) *Contributions.* An item of foreign gross income that a taxpayer includes by reason of the receipt of a contribution by a taxable unit is assigned to the residual grouping. See, however, § 1.904-6(b)(2)(ii) (assigning certain items of foreign gross income to the foreign branch category for purposes of applying section 904 as the operative section).


(*3*) *Disregarded payment that comprises both a reattribution payment and a remittance or contribution.* If both a reattribution payment and either a remittance or a contribution result from a single disregarded payment, the foreign gross income is first attributed to the portion of the disregarded payment that is a reattribution payment to the extent of the amount of the reattribution payment, and any excess of the foreign gross income item over the amount of the reattribution payment is then to attributed to the portion of the disregarded payment that is a remittance or contribution.


(D) *Disregarded payments in connection with disregarded sales or exchanges of property.* An item of foreign gross income that is attributable to gain recognized under foreign law by reason of a disregarded payment, other than the portion of the disregarded payment that is a reattribution payment, received in exchange for property is characterized and assigned under the rules of paragraph (d)(2) of this section. See paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B) of this section for rules for assigning an item of foreign gross income attributable to the portion of a disregarded payment that is a reattribution payment, including a reattribution payment received in exchange for property.


(E) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply for purposes of this paragraph (d)(3)(v) and paragraph (g) of this section.


(*1*) *Attribution item.* The term *attribution item* means the portion of an item of gross income, computed under Federal income tax law, that is attributed to a taxable unit after taking into account all reattribution payments made and received by the taxable unit.


(*2*) *Contribution.* The term *contribution* means the excess amount of a disregarded payment, other than a disregarded payment received in exchange for property, made by a taxable unit to another taxable unit that the first taxable unit owns over the portion of the disregarded payment, if any, that is a reattribution payment.


(*3*) *Disregarded entity.* The term *disregarded entity* means an entity described in § 301.7701-2(c)(2) of this chapter that is disregarded as an entity separate from its owner for Federal income tax purposes.


(*4*) *Disregarded payment.* The term *disregarded payment* means an amount of property (within the meaning of section 317(a)) that is transferred to or from a taxable unit, including a transfer of property that would be a contribution to capital described in section 118 or a transfer described in section 351 if the taxable unit were a corporation under Federal income tax law, a transfer of property that would be a distribution by a corporation to a shareholder with respect to its stock if the taxable unit were a corporation under Federal income tax law, or a payment in exchange for property or in satisfaction of an account payable, in connection with a transaction that is disregarded for Federal income tax purposes and that is reflected on the separate set of books and records of the taxable unit. A disregarded payment also includes any other amount that is reflected on the separate set of books and records of a taxable unit in connection with a transaction that is disregarded for Federal income tax purposes and that would constitute an item of accrued income, gain, deduction, or loss of the taxable unit if the transaction to which the amount is attributable were regarded for Federal income tax purposes.


(*5*) *Reattribution amount.* The term *reattribution amount* means an amount of gross income, computed under Federal income tax law, that is initially assigned to a single statutory or residual grouping that includes gross income of a taxable unit but that is, by reason of a disregarded payment made by that taxable unit, attributed to another taxable unit under paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B)(*2*) of this section.


(*6*) *Reattribution asset.* The term *reattribution asset* means an asset that produces one or more items of gross income, computed under Federal income tax law, to which a disregarded payment is allocated under the rules of paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B)(*2*) of this section.


(*7*) *Reattribution payment.* The term *reattribution payment* means the portion of a disregarded payment equal to the sum of all reattribution amounts that are attributed to the recipient of the disregarded payment.


(*8*) *Remittance.* The term *remittance* means the excess amount, other than an amount that is treated as a contribution under paragraph (d)(3)(v)(E)(*2*) of this section, of a disregarded payment, other than a disregarded payment received in exchange for property, made by a taxable unit to a second taxable unit (including a second taxable unit that shares the same owner as the payor taxable unit) over the portion of the disregarded payment, if any, that is a reattribution payment.


(*9*) *Taxable unit.* In the case of a taxpayer that is an individual or a domestic corporation, the term *taxable unit* means a foreign branch, a foreign branch owner, or a non-branch taxable unit, as defined in § 1.904-6(b)(2)(i)(B). In the case of a taxpayer that is a foreign corporation, the term *taxable unit* means a tested unit, as defined in § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(iv)(A).


(vi) *Foreign gross income included by reason of U.S. equity hybrid instrument ownership*—(A) *Foreign gross income included by reason of an accrual.* Foreign gross income included by reason of an accrual under foreign law with respect to a U.S. equity hybrid instrument is considered to arise from the same transaction or realization event as a distribution of property described in paragraph (d)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section and is assigned to the statutory and residual groupings by treating each amount accrued as a foreign law distribution made on the date of the accrual under foreign law.


(B) *Foreign gross income included by reason of a payment.* Foreign gross income included by reason of a payment of interest under foreign law with respect to a U.S. equity hybrid instrument is considered to arise from the same transaction or realization event as a distribution of property described in paragraph (d)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section and is assigned to the statutory and residual groupings by treating each payment as a distribution made on the date of the payment.




(e) *Allocating and apportioning deductions (allowed under foreign law) to foreign gross income in a grouping*—(1) *Application of foreign law expense allocation rules.* In order to determine foreign taxable income in each statutory grouping, or the residual grouping, foreign gross income in each grouping is reduced by deducting any expenses, losses, or other amounts that are deductible under foreign law that are specifically allocable to the items of foreign gross income in the grouping under the laws of that foreign country. If expenses are not specifically allocated under foreign law, then the expenses are allocated and apportioned among the groupings under the principles of foreign law. Thus, for example, if foreign law provides that expenses will be apportioned on a gross income basis, the foreign law deductions are apportioned on the basis of the relative amounts of foreign gross income assigned to each grouping.


(2) *Application of U.S. expense allocation rules in the absence of foreign law rules.* If foreign law does not provide rules for the allocation or apportionment of expenses, losses or other deductions to particular items of foreign gross income, then the principles of the section 861 regulations (as defined in § 1.861-8(a)(1)) apply in allocating and apportioning such expenses, losses, or other deductions to foreign gross income. For example, in the absence of foreign law expense allocation rules, the principles of the section 861 regulations apply to allocate definitely related expenses to particular categories of foreign gross income and provide the methods for apportioning foreign law expenses that are definitely related to more than one statutory grouping or that are not definitely related to any statutory grouping. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(2), the apportionment of expenses required to be made under the principles of the section 861 regulations need not be made on other than a separate company basis. If the taxpayer applies the principles of the section 861 regulations for purposes of allocating foreign law deductions under this paragraph (e), the taxpayer must apply the principles in the same manner as the taxpayer applies such principles in determining the income or earnings and profits for Federal income tax purposes of the taxpayer (or of the foreign branch, controlled foreign corporation, or other entity that paid or accrued the foreign taxes, as the case may be). For example, a taxpayer must use the modified gross income method under § 1.861-9T when applying the principles of that section for purposes of this paragraph (e) to determine the amount of foreign taxable income in each grouping if the taxpayer applies the modified gross income method in determining the income and earnings and profits of a controlled foreign corporation for Federal income tax purposes.


(f) *Allocation and apportionment of foreign income tax.* Foreign income tax is allocated to the statutory or residual grouping or groupings to which the items of foreign gross income are assigned under the rules of paragraph (d) of this section. If foreign gross income is assigned to more than one grouping, then the foreign income tax is apportioned among the statutory and residual groupings by multiplying the foreign income tax by a fraction, the numerator of which is the foreign taxable income in a grouping and the denominator of which is all foreign taxable income on which the foreign income tax is imposed. If foreign law, including by reason of an income tax convention, exempts certain types of income from tax, or if foreign taxable income is reduced to or below zero by foreign law deductions, then no foreign income tax is allocated and apportioned to that income. A withholding tax (as defined in section 901(k)(1)(B)) is allocated and apportioned to the foreign gross income from which it is withheld. If foreign law, including by reason of an income tax convention, provides for a specific rate of tax with respect to certain types of income (for example, capital gains), or allows credits only against tax on particular items or types of income (for example, credit for foreign withholding taxes), then such provisions are taken into account in determining the amount of foreign tax imposed on such foreign taxable income.


(g) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the application of this section and § 1.904-6.


(1) *Presumed facts.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (g), the following facts are assumed for purposes of the examples in paragraphs (g)(2) through (9) of this section:


(i) USP and US2 are domestic corporations, which are unrelated;


(ii) USP elects to claim a foreign tax credit under section 901;


(iii) CFC, CFC1, and CFC2 are controlled foreign corporations organized in Country A, and are not reverse hybrids;


(iv) All parties have a U.S. dollar functional currency and a U.S. taxable year and foreign taxable year that correspond to the calendar year;


(v) No party has expenses for Country A tax purposes or expenses for U.S. tax purposes (other than foreign income tax expense); and


(vi) Section 904 is the operative section, and terms have the meaning provided in this section or §§ 1.904-4 and 1.904-5.


(2) *Example 1: Corresponding U.S. item*—(i) *Facts.* USP conducts business in Country A that gives rise to a foreign branch (as defined in § 1.904-4(f)(3)). In Year 1, in a transaction that is a sale for purposes of the laws of Country A and Federal income tax law, the foreign branch transfers Asset X to US2 for $1,000x. For Country A tax purposes, USP earns $600x of gross income from the sale of Asset X and incurs foreign income tax of $80x. For Federal income tax purposes, USP earns $800x of foreign branch category income from the sale of Asset X.


(ii) *Analysis.* For purposes of allocating and apportioning the $80x of Country A foreign income tax, the $600x of Country A gross income from the sale of Asset X is first assigned to separate categories. The $800x of foreign branch category income from the sale of Asset X is the corresponding U.S. item to the Country A item of gross income. Under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, because USP recognizes a corresponding U.S. item with respect to the Country A item of gross income in the same U.S. taxable year, the $600x of Country A gross income is assigned to the same separate category as the corresponding U.S. item. This is the case even though the amount of gross income recognized for Federal income tax purposes differs from the amount recognized for Country A tax purposes. Accordingly, the $600x of Country A gross income is assigned to the foreign branch category. Additionally, because all of the Country A taxable income is assigned to a single separate category, the $80x of Country A tax is also allocated to the foreign branch category. No apportionment of the $80x is necessary because the class of gross income to which the tax is allocated consists entirely of a single statutory grouping, foreign branch category income.


(3) *Example 2: Foreign law disposition*—(i) *Facts.* USP owns all of the outstanding stock of CFC, which conducts business in Country A. CFC sells Asset X for $1,000x. For Country A tax purposes, CFC's basis in Asset X is $600x, the sale of Asset X occurs in Year 1, and CFC recognizes $400x of foreign gross income and incurs $80x of foreign income tax. For Federal income tax purposes, CFC's basis in Asset X is $500x, the sale of Asset X occurs in Year 2, and CFC recognizes $500x of general category income.


(ii) *Analysis.* For purposes of allocating and apportioning the $80x of Country A foreign income tax in Year 1, the $400x of Country A gross income from the sale of Asset X is first assigned to separate categories. There is no corresponding U.S. item because the sale occurs on a different date and in a different U.S. taxable year for U.S. and foreign tax purposes. Under paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(C) of this section, the item of foreign gross income (the $400x from the sale of Asset X) is characterized and assigned to the groupings to which the corresponding U.S. item would be assigned if for Federal income tax purposes Asset X were sold for $1,000x in Year 1, the same U.S. taxable year in which the foreign income tax accrued. This is the case even though the amount of gross income that would be recognized for Federal income tax purposes differs from the amount recognized for Country A tax purposes. Accordingly, the $400x of Country A gross income is assigned to the general category. Additionally, because all of the Country A taxable income is assigned to a single separate category, the $80x of Country A tax is also allocated to the general category. No apportionment of the $80x is necessary because the class of gross income to which the deduction is allocated consists entirely of a single statutory grouping, general category income.


(4) *Example 3: Foreign gross income excluded from U.S. gross income*—(i) *Facts.* USP conducts business in Country A. In Year 1, USP earns $200x of interest income on a State or local bond. For Country A tax purposes, the $200x of income is included in gross income and incurs $10x of foreign income tax. For Federal income tax purposes, the $200x is excluded from gross income under section 103.


(ii) *Analysis.* For purposes of allocating and apportioning the $10x of Country A foreign income tax, the $200x of Country A gross income is first assigned to separate categories. There is no corresponding U.S. item because the interest income is excluded from U.S. gross income. Thus, the rules of paragraph (d)(2) of this section apply to characterize and assign the foreign gross income to the groupings to which a corresponding U.S. item would be assigned if it were recognized under Federal income tax law in that U.S. taxable year. The interest income is excluded from U.S. gross income but is otherwise described or identified by section 103. Accordingly, under paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(A) of this section, the $200x of Country A gross income is assigned to the separate category to which the interest income would be assigned under Federal income tax law if the income were included in gross income. Under section 904(d)(2)(B)(i), the interest income would be passive category income. Accordingly, the $200x of Country A gross income is assigned to the passive category. Additionally, because all of the Country A taxable income is assigned to a single separate category, the $10x of Country A tax is also allocated to the passive category (subject to the rules in § 1.904-4(c)). No apportionment of the $10x is necessary because the class of gross income to which the deduction is allocated consists entirely of a single statutory grouping, passive category income.


(5) *Example 4: Actual distribution*—(1) *Facts.* USP owns all of the outstanding stock of CFC1, which in turn owns all of the outstanding stock of CFC2. CFC1 and CFC2 conduct business in Country A. In Year 1, CFC2 distributes $300x to CFC1. For Country A tax purposes, $100x of the distribution is the foreign dividend amount, $160x is treated as a nontaxable return of capital, and the remaining $40x is the foreign capital gain amount. CFC1 incurs $20x of foreign income tax with respect to the foreign dividend amount and $4x of foreign income tax with respect to the foreign capital gain amount. The $20x and $4x of foreign income tax are each a separate levy within the meaning of § 1.901-2(d). For Federal income tax purposes, $150x of the distribution is the U.S. dividend amount, $100x is the U.S. return of capital amount, and the remaining $50x is the U.S. capital gain amount. Under section 904(d)(3)(D) and §§ 1.904-4(d) and 1.904-5(c)(4), the $150x of U.S. dividend amount consists solely of general category income in the hands of CFC1. Under section 904(d)(2)(B)(i) and § 1.904-4(b)(2)(i)(A), the $50x of U.S. capital gain amount is passive category income to CFC1.


(ii) *Analysis*—(A) *In general.* Because the $20x of Country A foreign income tax and the $4x of Country A foreign income tax are separate levies, the taxes are allocated and apportioned separately. For purposes of allocating and apportioning each foreign income tax, the relevant item of Country A gross income (the foreign dividend amount or foreign capital gain amount) is first assigned to separate categories. The U.S. dividend amount and U.S. capital gain amount are corresponding U.S. items. However, paragraph (d)(3)(i)(B) of this section (and not paragraph (d)(1) of this section) applies to assign the items of foreign gross income arising from the distribution.


(B) *Foreign dividend amount.* Under paragraph (d)(3)(i)(B)(*2*) of this section, the foreign dividend amount ($100x) is, to the extent of the U.S. dividend amount ($150x), assigned to the same separate category from which the distribution of the U.S. dividend amount is made under Federal income tax law. Thus, $100x of foreign gross income that is the foreign dividend amount is assigned to the general category. Additionally, because all of the Country A taxable income included in the base on which the $20x of foreign income tax is imposed is assigned to a single separate category, the $20x of Country A tax on the foreign dividend amount is also allocated to the general category. No apportionment of the $20x is necessary because the class of gross income to which the deduction for foreign income tax is allocated consists entirely of a single statutory grouping, general category income. See also section 245A(d) for rules that may apply to disallow a credit or deduction for certain foreign taxes.


(C) *Foreign capital gain amount.* Under paragraph (d)(3)(i)(B)(*3*) of this section, the foreign capital gain amount ($40x) is, to the extent of the U.S. capital gain amount ($50x), assigned to the same separate category to which the U.S. capital gain is assigned under Federal income tax law. Thus, the $40x of foreign gross income that is the foreign capital gain amount is assigned to the passive category. Additionally, because all of the Country A taxable income in the base on which the $4x of foreign income tax is imposed is assigned to a single separate category, the $4x of Country A tax on the foreign dividend amount is also allocated to the passive category. No apportionment of the $4x is necessary because the class of gross income to which the deduction is allocated consists entirely of a single statutory grouping, passive category income.


(6) *Example 5: Foreign law distribution*—(i) *Facts.* USP owns all of the outstanding stock of CFC. In Year 1, for Country A tax purposes, CFC distributes $1,000x of its stock that is treated entirely as a dividend to USP, and Country A imposes a withholding tax on USP of $150x with respect to the $1,000x of foreign gross income. For Federal income tax purposes, the distribution is treated as a stock dividend described in section 305(a) and USP recognizes no U.S. gross income. At the time of the distribution, CFC has $800x of section 965(a) PTEP (as defined in § 1.960-3(c)(2)(vi)) in a single annual PTEP account (as defined in § 1.960-3(c)(1)), and $500x of earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(3). Section 965(g) is the operative section for purposes of this paragraph (g)(6). See § 1.965-5(b)(2). Section 904 is also a relevant operative section, but is not addressed in this paragraph (g)(6).


(ii) *Analysis.* For purposes of allocating and apportioning the $150x of Country A foreign income tax, the $1,000x of Country A gross income is first assigned to the relevant statutory and residual groupings for purposes of applying section 965(g) as the operative section. Under § 1.965-5(b)(2), the statutory grouping is the portion of the distribution that is attributable to section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits and the residual grouping is the portion of the distribution attributable to other earnings and profits. There is no corresponding U.S. item because under section 305(a) USP recognizes no U.S. gross income with respect to the distribution. Under paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, the item of foreign gross income (the $1,000x distribution) is assigned under the rules of paragraph (d)(3)(i)(B) of this section to the same statutory or residual groupings to which the foreign gross income would be assigned if a distribution of the same amount were made for Federal income tax purposes in Year 1 on the date the distribution occurs for foreign law purposes. If recognized for Federal income tax purposes, a $1,000x distribution in Year 1 would result in a U.S. dividend amount of $1,000x. Under paragraph (d)(3)(i)(B)(*2*) of this section, the foreign dividend amount ($1,000x) is, to the extent of the U.S. dividend amount ($1,000x), assigned to the same statutory or residual groupings from which a distribution of the U.S. dividend amount would be made under Federal income tax law. Thus, $800x of foreign gross income related to the foreign dividend amount is assigned to the statutory grouping for the portion of the distribution attributable to section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits and $200x of foreign gross income is assigned to the residual grouping. Under paragraph (f) of this section, $120x ($150x × $800x/$1,000x) of the Country A foreign income tax is apportioned to the statutory grouping and $30x ($150x × $200x/$1,000x) of the Country A foreign income tax is apportioned to the residual grouping. See section 965(g)(2) and § 1.965-5(b) for application of the applicable percentage (as defined in § 1.965-5(d)) to the foreign income tax allocated and apportioned to the statutory grouping.


(7) *Example 6: Foreign law inclusion regime, CFC shareholder*—(i) *Facts.* USP owns all of the outstanding stock of CFC1, which in turn owns all of the outstanding stock of CFC2. CFC2 is organized and conducts business in Country B. Country A has a foreign law inclusion regime that imposes a tax on CFC1 for certain earnings of CFC2, a foreign law CFC. In Year 1, CFC2 earns $400x of interest income and $200x of royalty income. CFC2 incurs no foreign income tax. For Country A tax purposes, the $400x of interest income and $200x of royalty income are each an item of foreign law inclusion regime income of CFC2 that are included in the gross income of CFC1. CFC1 incurs $150x of Country A foreign income tax with respect to the foreign law inclusion regime income. For Federal income tax purposes, with respect to CFC2, the $400x of interest income is passive category income under section 904(d)(2)(B)(i) and the $200x of royalty income is general category income under § 1.904-4(b)(2)(iii).


(ii) *Analysis.* For purposes of allocating and apportioning CFC1's $150x of Country A foreign income tax, the $600x of Country A gross income is first assigned to separate categories. The $600x of foreign gross income is not included in the U.S. gross income of CFC1, and thus, there is no corresponding U.S. item. Under paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section, each item of foreign law inclusion regime income that is included in CFC1's foreign gross income is assigned to the same separate category as the items of foreign gross income of CFC2 that give rise to the foreign law inclusion regime income of CFC1. With respect to CFC2, the $400x of interest income and the $200x of royalty income would be corresponding U.S. items if CFC2 were the taxpayer. Accordingly, $400x of CFC1's foreign gross income is assigned to the passive category and $200x of CFC1's foreign gross income is assigned to the general category. Under paragraph (f) of this section, $100x ($150x × $400x/$600x) of the Country A foreign income tax is apportioned to the passive category and $50x ($150x × $200x/$600x) of the Country A foreign income tax is apportioned to the general category.


(8) *Example 7: Foreign law inclusion regime, U.S. shareholder*—(i) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (g)(7)(i) of this section (the facts in *Example 6*), except that both CFC1 and CFC2 are organized and conduct business in Country B, all of the outstanding stock of CFC1 is owned by Individual X, a U.S. citizen resident in Country A, and Country A imposes tax of $150x on foreign gross income of $600x under its foreign law inclusion regime on Individual X, rather than on CFC1. For Federal income tax purposes, in the hands of CFC2, the $400x of interest income is passive category subpart F income and the $200x of royalty income is general category tested income (as defined in § 1.951A-2(b)(1)). CFC2's $400x of interest income gives rise to a passive category subpart F inclusion under section 951(a)(1)(A), and its $200x of tested income gives rise to a GILTI inclusion amount (as defined in § 1.951A-1(c)(1)) of $200x, with respect to Individual X.


(ii) *Analysis.* The analysis is the same as in paragraph (g)(7)(ii) of this section (the analysis in *Example 6*) except that under § 1.904-6(f), because $50x of the Country A foreign income tax is allocated and apportioned under paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section to CFC2's general category tested income group to which Individual X's inclusion under section 951A is attributable, the $50x of Country A foreign income tax is allocated and apportioned in the hands of Individual X to the section 951A category.


(9) *Example 8: Sale of disregarded entity*—(i) *Facts.* USP sells FDE, a disregarded entity that is organized and operates a trade or business in Country A, for $500x. FDE owns Asset X and Asset Y in Country A, each having a fair market value of $250x. For Country A tax purposes, FDE has a basis in Asset X of $100x and a basis in Asset Y of $200x, USP's basis in FDE is $100x, and the sale is treated as a sale of stock. Country A imposes foreign income tax of $40x on USP on the Country A gross income of $400x resulting from the sale of FDE, based on its rules for taxing capital gains of nonresidents selling stock of companies operating a trade or business in Country A. For Federal income tax purposes, USP has a basis of $150x in each of Assets X and Y, and so the sale of FDE results in $100x of passive category income with respect to the sale of Asset X and $100x of general category income with respect to the sale of Asset Y.


(ii) *Analysis.* For purposes of allocating and apportioning USP's $40x of Country A foreign income tax, the $400x of Country A gross income resulting from the sale of FDE is first assigned to separate categories. Under paragraph (d)(3)(iv) of this section, USP's $400x of Country A gross income is assigned among the statutory groupings in the same percentages as the foreign gross income in each grouping that would have resulted if the sale of FDE were treated as an asset sale for Country A tax purposes. Because for Country A tax purposes Asset X had a built-in gain of $150x and Asset Y had a built-in gain of $50x, $300x ($400x × $150x/$200x) of the Country A gross income is assigned to the passive category and $100x ($400x × $50x/$200x) is assigned to the general category. Under paragraph (f) of this section, $30x ($40x × $300x/$400x) of the Country A foreign income tax is apportioned to the passive category, and $10x ($40x × $100x/$400x) of the Country A foreign income tax is apportioned to the general category.




(10) *Example 9: Gain on disposition of stock*—(i) *Facts.* USP owns all of the outstanding stock of CFC, which conducts business in Country A. In Year 1, USP sells all of the stock of CFC to US2 for $1,000x. For Country A tax purposes, USP's basis in the stock of CFC is $200x. Accordingly, USP recognizes $800x of gain on which Country A imposes $80x of foreign income tax based on its rules for taxing capital gains of nonresidents, which satisfy the requirement in § 1.901-2(b)(5)(i)(C). For Federal income tax purposes, USP's basis in the stock of CFC is $400x. Accordingly, USP recognizes $600x of gain on the sale of the stock of CFC, of which $150x is included in the gross income of USP as a dividend under section 1248(a) that, as provided in section 1248(j), is treated as a dividend eligible for the deduction under section 245A(a). Under paragraphs (b)(20) and (21) of this section, respectively, the sale of CFC stock by USP gives rise to a $450x U.S. capital gain amount and a $150x U.S. dividend amount. Under §§ 1.904-4(d) and 1.904-5(c)(4), the $150x U.S. dividend amount is general category section 245A subgroup income, and the $450x U.S. capital gain amount is passive category income to USP. For purposes of allocating and apportioning its interest expense under §§ 1.861-9(g)(2)(i)(B) and 1.861-13, USP's stock in CFC is characterized as general category stock in the section 245A subgroup.


(ii) *Analysis.* For purposes of allocating and apportioning the $80x of Country A foreign income tax, the $800x of Country A gross income from the sale of the stock of CFC is first assigned to separate categories. Under paragraph (d)(3)(i)(D) of this section, the $800x of Country A gross income is first assigned to the separate category to which the $150x U.S. dividend amount is assigned, to the extent thereof, and is next assigned to the separate category to which the $450x U.S. capital gain amount is assigned, to the extent thereof. Accordingly, $150x of Country A gross income is assigned to the general category in the section 245A subgroup, and $450x of Country A gross income is assigned to the passive category. Under paragraph (d)(3)(i)(D) of this section, the remaining $200x of Country A gross income is assigned to the statutory and residual groupings to which earnings of CFC in that amount would be assigned if they were recognized for Federal income tax purposes in the U.S. taxable year in which the disposition occurred. These earnings are all deemed to arise in the section 245A subgroup of the general category, based on USP's characterization of its stock in CFC. Thus, under paragraph (d)(3)(i)(D) of this section the $800x of foreign gross income, and therefore the foreign taxable income, is characterized as $350x ($150x + $200x) of income in the general category section 245A subgroup and $450x of income in the passive category. This is the result even though for Country A tax purposes all $800x of Country A gross income is characterized as gain from the sale of stock, which would be passive category income under section 904(d)(2)(B)(i), because the income is assigned to a separate category based on the characterization of the gain under Federal income tax law. Under paragraph (f) of this section, the $80x of Country A tax is ratably apportioned between the general category section 245A subgroup and the passive category based on the relative amounts of foreign taxable income in each grouping. Accordingly, $35x ($80x × $350x/$800x) of the Country A tax is apportioned to the general category section 245A subgroup, and $45x ($80x × $450x/$800x) of the Country A tax is apportioned to the passive category. See also § 1.245A(d)-1 for rules that may disallow a credit or deduction for the $35x of Country A tax apportioned to the general category section 245A subgroup.


(11) *Example 10: Disregarded transfer of built-in gain property*—(i) *Facts.* USP owns FDE, a disregarded entity that is treated for Federal income tax purposes as a foreign branch operating in Country A. FDE transfers Asset F, equipment used in FDE's trade or business in Country A, for no consideration to USP in a transaction that is a remittance described in paragraph (d)(3)(v)(E) of this section for Federal income tax purposes but is treated as a distribution of Asset F from a corporation to its shareholder, USP, for Country A tax purposes. At the time of the transfer, Asset F has a fair market value of $250x and an adjusted basis of $100x for both Federal and Country A income tax purposes. Country A imposes $30x of tax on FDE with respect to the $150x of built-in gain on a deemed sale of Asset F, which is recognized for Country A tax purposes by reason of the transfer to USP. If FDE had sold Asset F for $250x in a transaction that was regarded for Federal income tax purposes, FDE would also have recognized gain of $150x for Federal income tax purposes, and that gain would have been characterized as foreign branch category income under § 1.904-4(f). Country A also imposes $25x of withholding tax, a separate levy, on USP by reason of the distribution of Asset F to USP.


(ii) *Analysis*—(A) *Net income tax on built-in gain.* For purposes of allocating and apportioning the $30x of Country A foreign income tax imposed on FDE by reason of the transfer of Asset F to USP for Country A tax purposes, under paragraph (c)(1) of this section the $150x of Country A gross income is first assigned to a separate category. Because the transfer does not result in a deemed sale for Federal income tax purposes, there is no corresponding U.S. item. However, FDE would have recognized gain of $150x, which would have been the corresponding U.S. item, if the deemed sale had been recognized for Federal income tax purposes. Therefore, under paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, the $150x item of foreign gross income is characterized and assigned to the grouping to which such corresponding U.S. item would have been assigned if the deemed sale were recognized under Federal income tax law. Because the sale of Asset F in a regarded transaction would have resulted in foreign branch category income, the foreign gross income is characterized as foreign branch category income. Under paragraph (f) of this section, the $30x of Country A tax is also allocated to the foreign branch category, the statutory grouping to which the $150x of Country A gross income is assigned. No apportionment of the $30x of Country A tax is necessary because the class of gross income to which the foreign gross income is allocated consists entirely of a single statutory grouping.


(B) *Withholding tax on distribution.* For purposes of allocating and apportioning the $25x of Country A withholding tax imposed on USP by reason of the transfer of Asset F, under paragraph (c)(1) of this section the $250x of Country A gross income arising from the transfer of Asset F is first assigned to a separate category. For Federal income tax purposes, the transfer of Asset F is a remittance from FDE to USP, and thus there is no corresponding U.S. item. Under paragraph (d)(3)(v)(C)(*1*)(*i*) of this section, the item of foreign gross income is assigned to the groupings to which the income out of which the payment is made is assigned; the payment is considered to be made ratably out of all of the accumulated after-tax income of FDE, as computed for Federal income tax purposes; and the accumulated after-tax income of FDE is deemed to have arisen in the statutory and residual groupings in the same proportions as those in which the tax book value of FDE's assets in the groupings, determined in accordance with paragraph (d)(3)(v)(C)(*1*)(*ii*) of this section, are assigned for purposes of apportioning USP's interest expense. Because all of FDE's assets produce foreign branch category income, under paragraph (d)(3)(v)(C)(*1*) of this section the foreign gross income is characterized as foreign branch category income. Under paragraph (f) of this section, the $25x of Country A withholding tax is also allocated entirely to the foreign branch category, the statutory grouping to which the $250x of Country A gross income is assigned. No apportionment of the $25x is necessary because the class of gross income to which the foreign gross income is allocated consists entirely of a single statutory grouping.


(12) *Example 11: Disregarded payment that is a remittance*—(i) *Facts.* USP wholly owns CFC1, which is a tested unit within the meaning of § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(iv)(A) (the “CFC1 tested unit”). CFC1 wholly owns FDE, a disregarded entity that is organized in Country B, which is a tested unit within the meaning of § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(iv)(A) (the “FDE tested unit”). The sole assets of FDE (determined in accordance with paragraph (d)(3)(v)(C)(*1*)(*ii*) of this section) are all the outstanding stock of CFC3, a controlled foreign corporation organized in Country B. In Year 1, CFC3 pays a $400x dividend to FDE that is excluded from CFC1's foreign personal holding company income (“FPHCI”) by reason of section 954(c)(6). FDE makes no payments to CFC1 and pays no Country B tax in Year 1. In Year 2, FDE makes a $400x remittance to CFC1 as defined in paragraph (d)(3)(v)(E) of this section. Under the laws of Country B, the remittance gives rise to a $400x dividend. Country B imposes a 5% ($20x) withholding tax (which is an eligible current year tax as defined in § 1.960-1(b)) on CFC1 on the dividend. In Year 2, CFC3 pays no dividends to FDE, and FDE earns no income. For Federal income tax purposes, the $400x payment from FDE to CFC1 is a disregarded payment and results in no income to CFC1. For purposes of this paragraph (g)(12) (*Example 11*), section 960(a) is the operative section and the income groups described in § 1.960-1(d)(2) are the statutory and residual groupings. See § 1.960-1(d)(3)(ii)(A) (applying § 1.960-1 to allocate and apportion current year taxes to income groups). For Federal income tax purposes, in Year 2 the stock of CFC3 owned by FDE has a tax book value of $1,000x, $750x of which is assigned under the asset method in § 1.861-9 (as applied by treating CFC1 as a United States person) to the general category tested income group described in § 1.960-1(d)(2)(ii)(C), and $250x of which is assigned to a passive category FPHCI group described in § 1.960-1(d)(2)(ii)(B)(*2*)(*i*).


(ii) *Analysis.* (A) The $20x Country B withholding tax on the Year 2 remittance from FDE is imposed on a $400x item of foreign gross income that CFC1 includes in foreign gross income by reason of its receipt of a disregarded payment. In order to allocate and apportion the $20x of Country B withholding tax under paragraph (c) of this section for purposes of § 1.960-1(d)(3)(ii)(A), paragraph (d)(3)(v) of this section applies to assign the $400x item of foreign gross dividend income to a statutory or residual grouping. Under paragraph (d)(3)(v)(C)(*1*) of this section, the $400x item of foreign gross income is assigned to the statutory or residual groupings of the CFC1 tested unit that correspond to the statutory and residual groupings out of which FDE made the remittance.


(B) Under paragraph (d)(3)(v)(C)(*1*)(*i*) of this section, FDE is considered to have made the remittance ratably out of all of its accumulated after-tax income, which is deemed to have arisen in the statutory and residual groupings in the same proportions as the proportions in which the tax book value of FDE's assets would be assigned (if CFC1 were a United States person) for purposes of apportioning interest expense under the asset method in Year 2, the taxable year in which FDE made the remittance. Accordingly, $300x ($400x × $750x/$1,000x) of the remittance is deemed made out of the general category tested income of the FDE tested unit, and $100x ($400x × $250x/$1,000x) of the remittance is deemed made out of the passive category FPHCI of the FDE tested unit.


(C) Under paragraph (d)(3)(v)(C)(*1*)(*i*) of this section, $300x of the $400x item of foreign gross income from the remittance, and therefore an equal amount of foreign taxable income, is assigned to the income group that includes general category tested income attributable to the CFC1 tested unit, and $100x of this foreign gross income item, and therefore an equal amount of foreign taxable income, is assigned to the income group that includes passive category FPHCI attributable to the CFC1 tested unit. Under paragraph (f) of this section, the $20x of Country B withholding tax is ratably apportioned between the income groups based on the relative amounts of foreign taxable income in each grouping. Accordingly, $15x ($20x × $300x/$400x) of the Country B withholding tax is apportioned to the CFC1 tested unit's general category tested income group, and $5x ($20x × $100x/$400x) of the Country B withholding tax is apportioned to the CFC1 tested unit's passive category FPHCI income group. See § 1.960-2 for rules on determining the amount of such taxes that may be deemed paid under section 960(a) and (d).


(13) *Example 12: Disregarded payment that is a reattribution payment*—(i) *Facts.* (A) USP wholly owns CFC1, a tested unit within the meaning of § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(iv)(A)(*1*) (the “CFC1 tested unit”). CFC1 wholly owns FDE1, a disregarded entity organized in Country B, that is a tested unit within the meaning of § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(iv)(A)(*2*) (the “FDE1 tested unit”). Country B imposes a 20 percent net income tax on its residents. CFC1 also wholly owns FDE2, a disregarded entity organized in Country C, that is a tested unit within the meaning of § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(iv)(A)(*2*) (the “FDE2 tested unit”). Country C imposes a 15 percent net income tax on its residents. The net income tax imposed by each of Country B and Country C on their tax residents is a foreign income tax within the meaning of § 1.901-2(a) and a separate levy within the meaning of § 1.901-2(d). For purposes of this paragraph (g)(13) (*Example 12*), the operative section is the high-tax exclusion of section 951A(c)(2)(A)(i)(III) and § 1.951A-2(c)(7), and the statutory groupings are the tested income groups of each tested unit, as defined in § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(iv)(A).


(B) FDE2 owns Asset A, which is intangible property with a tax book value of $12,000x that is properly reflected on the separate set of books and records of FDE2. In Year 1, pursuant to a license agreement between FDE1 and FDE2 for the use of Asset A, FDE1 makes a disregarded royalty payment to FDE2 of $1,000x that would be deductible if regarded for Federal income tax purposes. Because it is disregarded for Federal income tax purposes, the $1,000x disregarded royalty payment by FDE1 to FDE2 results in no income to CFC1 for Federal income tax purposes. Also, in Year 1, pursuant to a sub-license agreement between FDE1 and an unrelated third party for the use of Asset A, FDE1 earns $1,200x of royalty income for Federal income tax purposes (the “U.S. gross royalty”) for the use of Asset A. The $1,200 of royalty income received by FDE1 from the unrelated third party is excluded from CFC1's foreign personal holding company income by reason of the active business exception in section 954(c)(2) because CFC1 satisfies the requirements of § 1.954-2(d)(1). As a result, the $1,200x of royalty income that FDE1 earns from the sub-license agreement is gross tested income (as defined in § 1.951A-2(c)(1)), which is properly reflected on the separate set of books and records of FDE1.


(C) Under the laws of Country B, the transaction that gives rise to the $1,200x item of U.S. gross royalty income causes FDE1 to include a $1,200x item of gross royalty income in its Country B taxable income (the “Country B gross royalty”). In addition, FDE1 deducts its $1,000x disregarded royalty payment to FDE2 for Country B tax purposes. For Country B tax purposes, FDE1 therefore has $200x ($1,200x−$1,000x) of taxable income on which Country B imposes $40x (20% × $200x) of net income tax.


(D) Under the laws of Country C, the $1,000x disregarded royalty payment from FDE1 to FDE2 causes FDE2 to include a $1,000x item of gross royalty income in its Country C taxable income (the “Country C gross royalty”). FDE2 therefore has $1,000x of taxable income for Country C tax purposes, on which Country C imposes $150x (15% × $1,000x) of net income tax.


(ii) *Analysis*—(A) *Country B net income tax.* (*1*) The Country B net income tax is imposed on foreign taxable income of FDE1 that consists of a $1,200x item of Country B gross royalty income and a $1,000x item of royalty expense. For Federal income tax purposes, the FDE1 tested unit has a $1,200x item of U.S. gross royalty income that is initially attributable to it under paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B)(*2*) of this section and § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(ii)(B). The transaction that produced the $1,200x item of U.S. gross royalty income also produced the $1,200x item of Country B gross royalty income. Under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the $1,200x item of U.S. gross royalty income is therefore the corresponding U.S. item for the $1,200x item of Country B gross royalty income of FDE1.


(*2*) The $1,000x disregarded royalty payment from FDE1 to FDE2 is allocated under paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B)(*2*) of this section and § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(ii)(B) to the $1,200x of U.S. gross income of the FDE1 tested unit to the extent of that gross income. As a result, the $1,000x disregarded royalty payment causes $1,000x of the $1,200x item of U.S. gross royalty income to be reattributed from the FDE1 tested unit to the FDE2 tested unit, and results in a $1,000x reattribution amount that is also a reattribution payment.


(*3*) The $1,200x Country B gross royalty item that is included in the Country B taxable income of FDE1 is assigned under paragraph (d)(1) of this section to the statutory or residual grouping to which the $1,200x corresponding U.S. item is initially assigned under § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(ii), namely, the FDE1 income group. This assignment is made without regard to the $1,000x reattribution payment from the FDE1 tested unit to the FDE2 tested unit; none of the FDE1 tested unit's $1,200x Country B gross royalty income is reattributed to the FDE2 tested unit for this purpose. See paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B)(*3*) of this section. Under paragraph (f) of this section, all of the $40x of Country B net income tax on the $200x of Country B taxable income is allocated to the FDE1 income group, the statutory grouping to which the $1,200x item of Country B gross royalty income of FDE1 is assigned. No apportionment of the $40x is necessary because the class of gross income to which the foreign gross income is allocated consists entirely of a single statutory grouping.


(B) *Country C net income tax.* The Country C net income tax is imposed on foreign taxable income of FDE2 that consists of a $1,000x item of Country C gross royalty income. For Federal income tax purposes, under paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B)(*2*) of this section and § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(ii)(B), the FDE2 tested unit has a reattribution amount of $1,000x of U.S. gross royalty income by reason of its receipt of the $1,000x reattribution payment from FDE1. The $1,000x item of U.S. gross royalty income that is included in the taxable income of the FDE2 tested unit by reason of the $1,000x reattribution payment is assigned under paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B)(*1*) of this section to the statutory or residual grouping to which the $1,000x reattribution amount of U.S. gross royalty income that constitutes the reattribution payment is assigned upon receipt by the FDE2 tested unit under § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(ii), namely, the FDE2 income group. Under paragraph (d)(3)(v)(B)(*1*) of this section, the $1,000x item of Country C gross royalty income is assigned to the statutory grouping to which the $1,000x corresponding U.S. item is assigned. Accordingly, under paragraph (f) of this section, all of the $150x of Country C net income tax is allocated to the FDE2 income group, the statutory grouping to which the $1,000x item of Country C gross royalty income of FDE2 is assigned. No apportionment of the $150x is necessary because the class of gross income to which the foreign gross income is allocated consists entirely of a single statutory grouping.


(14) *Example 13: Assets of a taxable unit that owns an interest in a lower-tier taxable unit*—(i) *Facts.* USP wholly owns CFC1, a tested unit within the meaning of § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(iv)(A) (the “CFC1 tested unit”). CFC1 wholly owns FDE1, a disregarded entity that is organized in Country A, and FDE2, a disregarded entity that is organized in Country B. CFC1's interests in FDE1 and FDE2 are each tested units within the meaning of § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(iv)(A) (the “FDE1 tested unit” and “FDE2 tested unit,” respectively). The FDE1 tested unit and FDE2 tested unit each own 50% of the interests in FDE3, a disregarded entity that is organized in Country C. CFC1's indirect interests in FDE3 are also a tested unit within the meaning of § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(iv)(A) (the “FDE3 tested unit”). The FDE2 tested unit owns Asset A with a tax book value of $10,000x, and makes a reattribution payment to FDE3 that causes $5,000x of the tax book value of Asset A to be assigned to FDE3 under paragraph (d)(3)(v)(C)(*1*)(*ii*) of this section. FDE3 owns Asset B, which has a tax book value of $5,000x.


(ii) *Analysis*—(A) *Assets of the FDE3 tested unit.* The assets of the FDE3 tested unit consist of the portion of Asset A that is assigned to it under paragraph (d)(3)(v)(C)(*1*)(*ii*) of this section and any other assets determined in accordance with § 1.987-6(b). The assets of the FDE3 tested unit thus consist of $5,000x of the tax book value of Asset A and all $5,000x of the tax book value of Asset B.


(B) *Assets of the FDE2 tested unit.* The assets of the FDE2 tested unit consist of the tax book value of any assets that it owns directly plus its pro rata share of the assets of the FDE3 tested unit, including the portion of reattribution assets assigned to the FDE3 tested unit. Asset A is a reattribution asset under paragraphs (d)(3)(v)(C)(*1*)(*ii*) and (d)(3)(v)(E) of this section. The assets of the FDE2 tested unit therefore consist of the portion of Asset A that it owns directly and that was not assigned to the FDE3 tested unit (or $5,000x) plus its pro rata share of the portion of Asset A that was assigned to the FDE3 tested unit, or $2,500x (50% of $5,000x). In addition, the assets of the FDE2 tested unit include its pro rata share of the tax book value of Asset B, or $2,500x (50% of $5,000x).


(C) *Assets of the FDE1 tested unit.* The assets of the FDE1 tested unit consist of its pro rata share of the assets of the FDE3 tested unit, including the portion of reattribution assets assigned to the FDE3 tested unit. Asset A is a reattribution asset under paragraphs (d)(3)(v)(C)(*1*)(*ii*) and (d)(3)(v)(E) of this section. The assets of the FDE1 tested unit therefore consist of its pro rata share of the portion of Asset A that was reattributed to the FDE3 tested unit, or $2,500x (50% of $5,000x), plus its pro rata share of the tax book value of Asset B, or $2,500x (50% of $5,000x).


(h) *Allocation and apportionment of certain foreign in lieu of taxes described in section 903.* A tax that is a foreign income tax by reason of § 1.903-1(c)(1) is allocated and apportioned to statutory and residual groupings in the same proportions as the foreign taxable income that comprises the excluded income (as defined in § 1.903-1(c)(1)). See paragraph (f) of this section for rules on allocating and apportioning certain withholding taxes described in § 1.903-1(c)(2).


(i) *Applicability dates.* Except as provided in this paragraph (i), this section applies to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2019. Paragraphs (b)(19) and (23) and (d)(3)(i), (ii), and (v) of this section apply to taxable years that begin after December 31, 2019, and end on or after November 2, 2020. Paragraph (h) of this section applies to taxable years beginning after December 28, 2021.



---

[N] [T.D. 9922, 85 FR 72049, Nov. 12, 2020; 86 FR 54367, Oct. 1, 2021, as amended by T.D. 9959, 87 FR 327, Jan. 4, 2022; 87 FR 45019, July 27, 2022]






