# ยง 545.11   Procedures.

When an inmate has a financial obligation, unit staff shall help that inmate develop a financial plan and shall monitor the inmate's progress in meeting that obligation.


(a) *Developing a financial plan.* At initial classification, the unit team shall review an inmate's financial obligations, using all available documentation, including, but not limited to, the Presentence Investigation and the Judgment and Commitment Order(s). The financial plan developed shall be documented and will include the following obligations, ordinarily to be paid in the priority order as listed:


(1) Special Assessments imposed under 18 U.S.C. 3013;


(2) Court-ordered restitution;


(3) Fines and court costs;


(4) State or local court obligations; and


(5) Other federal government obligations.


(b) *Payment.* The inmate is responsible for making satisfactory progress in meeting his/her financial responsibility plan and for providing documentation of these payments to unit staff. Payments may be made from institution resources or non-institution (community) resources. In developing an inmate's financial plan, the unit team shall first subtract from the trust fund account the inmate's minimum payment schedule for UNICOR or non-UNICOR work assignments, set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section. The unit team shall then exclude from its assessment $75.00 a month deposited into the inmate's trust fund account. This $75.00 is excluded to allow the inmate the opportunity to better maintain telephone communication under the Inmate Telephone System (ITS). 


(1) Ordinarily, the minimum payment for non-UNICOR and UNICOR grade 5 inmates will be $25.00 per quarter. This minimum payment may exceed $25.00, taking into consideration the inmate's specific obligations, institution resources, and community resources.


(2) Inmates assigned grades 1 through 4 in UNICOR ordinarily will be expected to allot not less than 50% of their monthly pay to the payment process. Any allotment which is less than the 50% minimum must be approved by the Unit Manager. Allotments may also exceed the 50% minimum after considering the individual's specific obligations and resources.


(c) *Monitoring.* Participation and/or progress in the Inmate Financial Responsibility Program will be reviewed each time staff assess an inmate's demonstrated level of responsible behavior.


(d) *Effects of non-participation.* Refusal by an inmate to participate in the financial responsibility program or to comply with the provisions of his financial plan ordinarily shall result in the following:


(1) Where applicable, the Parole Commission will be notified of the inmate's failure to participate;


(2) The inmate will not receive any furlough (other than possibly an emergency or medical furlough);


(3) The inmate will not receive performance pay above the maintenance pay level, or bonus pay, or vacation pay;


(4) The inmate will not be assigned to any work detail outside the secure perimeter of the facility;


(5) The inmate will not be placed in UNICOR. Any inmate assigned to UNICOR who fails to make adequate progress on his/her financial plan will be removed from UNICOR, and once removed, may not be placed on a UNICOR waiting list for six months. Any exceptions to this require approval of the Warden;


(6) The inmate shall be subject to a monthly commissary spending limitation more stringent than the monthly commissary spending limitation set for all inmates. This more stringent commissary spending limitation for IFRP refusees shall be at least $25 per month, excluding purchases of stamps, telephone credits, and, if the inmate is a common fare participant, Kosher/Halal certified shelf-stable entrees to the extent that such purchases are allowable under pertinent Bureau regulations;


(7) The inmate will be quartered in the lowest housing status (dormitory, double bunking, etc.);


(8) The inmate will not be placed in a community-based program;


(9) The inmate will not receive a release gratuity unless approved by the Warden;


(10) [Reserved]


(11) The inmate will not receive an incentive for participation in residential drug treatment programs. 



---

[N] [56 FR 23477, May 21, 1991, as amended at 59 FR 15825, Apr. 4, 1994; 59 FR 16406, Apr. 6, 1994; 59 FR 53345, Oct. 21, 1994; 60 FR 240, Jan. 3, 1995; 61 FR 91, Jan. 2, 1996; 64 FR 72799, Dec. 28, 1999]




