# § 416.1336   Notice of intended action affecting recipient's payment status.

(a) *Advance written notice requirement.* Advance written notice of intent to discontinue payment because of an event requiring suspension, reduction (see subpart D of this part), or termination of payments shall be given in all cases, prior to effectuation of the action, except where the Social Security Administration has factual information confirming the death of the recipient, e.g., as enumerated in § 404.704(b) of this chapter, or a report by a surviving spouse, a legal guardian, a parent or other close relative, or a landlord.


(b) *Continuation of payment pending an appeal.* The written notice of intent to suspend, reduce, or terminate payments shall allow 60 days after the date of receipt of the notice for the recipient to request the appropriate appellate review (see subpart N of this part). If appeal is filed within 10 days after the individual's receipt of the notice, the payment shall be continued or reinstated at the previously established payment level (subject to the effects of intervening events on the payment which are not appealed within 10 days of receipt of a required advance notice or which do not require advance notice, e.g., an increase in the benefit amount) until a decision on such initial appeal is issued, unless the individual specifically waives in writing his right to continuation of payment at the previously established level in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. (See § 416.1337 for exceptions to the continuation of payment level.) Where the request for the appropriate appellate review is filed more than 10 days after the notice is received but within the 60-day period specified in § 416.1413 or § 416.1425 of this part, there shall be no right to continuation or reinstatement of payment at the previously established level unless good cause is established under the criteria specified in § 416.1411 of this part for failure to appeal within 10 days after receipt of the notice. For purposes of this paragraph, the date of receipt of the notice of intent to suspend, reduce, or terminate payments shall be presumed to be 5 days after the date on the face of such notice, unless there is a reasonable showing to the contrary.


(c) *Waiver of right to continued payment.* Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, the recipient, in order to avoid the possibility of an overpayment of benefits, may waive continuation of payment at the previously established level (subject to intervening events which would have increased the benefit for the month in which the incorrect payment was made, in which case the higher amount shall be paid), after having received a full explanation of his rights. The request for waiver of continuation of payment shall be in writing, state that waiver action is being initiated solely at the recipient's request, and state that the recipient understands his right to receive continued payment at the previously established level.



---

[N] [43 FR 18170, Apr. 28, 1978, as amended at 65 FR 16815, Mar. 30, 2000]




