# § 721.5192   Substituted 1,6-dihydroxy naphthalene.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as substituted 1,6-dihydroxy naphthalene (PMN P-87-1036) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are: 


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(2)(iv), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). 


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (f), (k), and (q). 


(iv) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85 (a)(1) and (a)(2). 


(v) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(3). 


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph. 


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [60 FR 45083, Aug. 30, 1995]




