# § 41.53   Temporary workers and trainees.

(a) *Requirements for H classification.* An alien shall be classifiable under INA 101(a)(15)(H) if: 


(1) The consular officer is satisfied that the alien qualifies under that section; and either 


(2) With respect to the principal alien, the consular officer has received official evidence of the approval by DHS, or by the Department of Labor in the case of temporary agricultural workers, of a petition to accord such classification or of the extension by DHS of the period of authorized entry in such classification; or 


(3) The consular officer is satisfied the alien is the spouse or child of an alien so classified and is accompanying or following to join the principal alien. 


(b) *Petition approval.* The approval of a petition by the Department of Homeland Security or by the Department of Labor does not establish that the alien is eligible to receive a nonimmigrant visa.


(c) *Validity of visa.* The period of validity of a visa issued on the basis of paragraph (a) to this section must not exceed the period indicated in the petition, notification, or confirmation required in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(d) *Alien not entitled to H classification.* The consular officer must suspend action on this alien's application and submit a report to the approving DHS office if the consular officer knows or has reason to believe that an alien applying for a visa under INA 101(a)(15)(H) is not entitled to the classification as approved.


(e) *“Trainee” defined.* The term *Trainee,* as used in INA 101(a)(15)(H)(iii), means a nonimmigrant alien who seeks to enter the United States temporarily at the invitation of an individual, organization, firm, or other trainer for the purpose of receiving instruction in any field of endeavor (other than graduate medical education or training), including agriculture, commerce, communication, finance, government, transportation, and the professions.


(f) *Former exchange visitor.* Former exchange visitors who are subject to the 2-year residence requirement of INA 212(e) are ineligible to apply for visas under INA 101(a)(15)(H) until they have fulfilled the residence requirement or obtained a waiver of the requirement.



---

[N] [57 FR 31449, July 16, 1992, as amended at 61 FR 1833, Jan. 24, 1996; 65 FR 52306, Aug. 29, 2000]




