# ยง 1101.61   Generally.

(a) *Generally.* In addition to the requirements of section 6(b)(1), section 6(b)(5) of the CPSA imposes further limitations on the disclosure of information submitted to the Commission pursuant to section 15(b) of the CPSA, 15 U.S.C. 2064(b).


(b) *Criteria for disclosure.* Under section 6(b)(5) the Commission shall not disclose to the public information which is identified as being submitted pursuant to section 15(b) or which is treated by the Commission staff as being submitted pursuant to section 15(b). Section 6(b)(5) also applies to information voluntarily submitted after a firm's initial report to assist the Commission in its evaluation of the section 15 report. However, the Commission may disclose information submitted pursuant to section 15(b) in accordance with section 6(b)(1)-(3) if:


(1) The Commission has issued a complaint under section 15 (c) or (d) of the CPSA alleging that such product presents a substantial product hazard; or


(2) In lieu of proceeding against such product under section 15 (c) or (d), the Commission has accepted in writing a remedial settlement agreement dealing with such product; or


(3) The person who submitted the information under section 15(b) agrees to its public disclosure.


(4) The Commission publishes a finding that the public health and safety requires public disclosure with a lesser period of notice than is required by section 6(b)(1).



---

[N] [48 FR 57430, Dec. 29, 1983, as amended at 73 FR 72335, Nov. 28, 2008]




