# § 725.511   Use and benefit defined.

(a) Payments certified to a representative payee shall be considered as having been applied for the use and benefit of the beneficiary when they are used for the beneficiary's current maintenance—*i.e.,* to replace current income lost because of the disability of the beneficiary. Where a beneficiary is receiving care in an institution, current maintenance shall include the customary charges made by the institution and charges made for the current and foreseeable needs of the beneficiary which are not met by the institution. 


(b) Payments certified to a representative payee which are not needed for the current maintenance of the beneficiary, except as they may be used under § 725.512, shall be conserved or invested on the beneficiary's behalf. Preferred investments are U.S. savings bonds which shall be purchased in accordance with applicable regulations of the U.S. Treasury Department (31 CFR part 315). Surplus funds may also be invested in accordance with the rules applicable to investment of trust estates by trustees. For example, surplus funds may be deposited in an interest or dividend bearing account in a bank or trust company or in a savings and loan association if the account is either federally insured or is otherwise insured in accordance with State law requirements. Surplus funds deposited in an interest or dividend bearing account in a bank or trust company or in a savings and loan association must be in a form of account which clearly shows that the representative payee has only a fiduciary, and not a personal, interest in the funds. The preferred forms of such accounts are as follows: 


