# § 790.68   Modification of consent agreements.

(a) *Changes in the scope of testing.* (1) Manufacturers or processors subject to a consent agreement, other persons or EPA may seek modifications in the scope of testing performed under the consent agreement. If, upon receiving a request for modification, EPA determines that new issues have been raised that warrant reconsideration of the scope of testing, or if EPA determines on its own that such reconsideration is appropriate, EPA will publish a _Federal Register_ notice describing the proposed modification and soliciting public comment. If, based on the comments received, EPA concludes that differences of opinion may exist about the proposed modification, EPA will establish a schedule for conducting negotiations and invite parties who wish to participate in or monitor these negotiations to contact the Agency in writing. Any negotiations that EPA conducts will conform to the procedures specified in § 790.22(b).


(2) The scope of testing required by a consent agreement will be modified only where there is a consensus concerning the modified testing requirements among EPA, affected manufacturers and/or processors, and other persons who have asked to participate in or monitor negotiations under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. In determining whether a consensus exists, EPA will employ the criteria specified in § 790.22(b)(8). In the absence of consensus, EPA may initiate rulemaking under section 4(a) of the Act if it concludes that any testing beyond that required by the consent agreement is necessary and that the other statutory findings required by section 4(a) can be made. While such rulemaking proceedings are underway, the consent agreement will remain in effect unless EPA finds that the testing required by the agreement is or may be unnecessary in view of the testing requirements included in EPA's proposed rule.


(b) *Changes in test standards or schedules.* (1) Any test sponsor who wishes to modify the test schedule for any test required under a consent agreement must submit an application in accordance with this paragraph. Application for modification must be made using the method specified in § 790.5(b). Applications must include an appropriate explanation and rationale for the modification. EPA will consider only those applications that request modifications to mandatory testing conditions or requirements (“shall statements” in the consent agreement). Where a test sponsor requests EPA to provide guidance or to clarify a non-mandatory testing requirement (i.e., “should statements”), the test sponsor shall submit these requests to EPA using the method specified in § 790.5(b).


(2)(i) Where EPA concludes that the requested modification of a test standard or schedule for a test required under a consent agreement is appropriate, EPA will proceed in accordance with this paragraph (b)(2).


(ii) Where, in EPA's judgment, the requested modification of a test standard or schedule would not alter the scope of the test or significantly change the schedule for completing the test, EPA will not ask for public comment before approving the modification. EPA will notify the test sponsor, and any other persons who have signed the consent agreement, by letter of EPA's approval. EPA will place copies of each application and EPA approval letter in the administrative record maintained for the consent agreement in question. EPA will publish a notice annually in the _Federal Register_ indicating the test standards or schedules for test required in consent agreements which have been modified under this paragraph (b)(2)(ii) and describing the nature of the modifications.


(iii) Where, in EPA's judgment, the requested modification of a test standard or schedule would significantly alter the scope of the test or significantly change the schedule for completing the test, EPA will publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ requesting comment on the proposed modification. However, EPA will approve a requested modification of a test standard under paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section without first seeking public comment if EPA believes that an immediate modification to the test standard is necessary to preserve the accuracy or validity of an ongoing test. EPA also may modify a testing requirement or test condition in a test standard if EPA determines that the completion or achievement of this requirement or condition is not technically feasible. EPA may approve a requested modification of a test schedule under paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section without first seeking public comment if EPA determines, on a case-by-case basis, that a delay of over 12 months is not the fault of the test sponsor and is due to unforeseen circumstances such as a lack of laboratory availability, lack of availability of suitable test substance (e.g., 14-C labelled test substance), lack of availability of healthy test organisms, or the unexpected failure of a long-term test. EPA will publish an annual notice in the _Federal Register_ announcing the approval of any test standard modifications and test scheduled extensions under paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, and provide a brief rationale of why the modification was granted.


(iv) For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2), a requested modification of a test standard of schedule for a test required under a consent agreement would alter the scope of the test or significantly change the schedule for completing the test if the modification would:


(A) Change the test species.


(B) Change the route of administration of the test chemical.


(C) Change the period of time during which the test species is exposed to the test chemical.


(D) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, extend the final reporting deadline more than 12 months from the date specified in the consent order.


(3) Where EPA concludes that the requested modification of a test standard or schedule for a test requirement under a consent agreement is not appropriate, EPA will so notify the test sponsor in writing.


(c) *Timing.* (1) Test sponsors should submit all applications for test schedule modifications at least 60 days before the reporting deadline for the test in question.


(2) EPA will not normally approve any test schedule extensions submitted less than 30 days before the reporting deadline for the test in question.


(3) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, EPA may grant extensions as shown necessary for up to 1 year but will normally limit extensions to a period of time equal to the in-life portion of the test plus 60 days.


(4) EPA will normally approve only one deadline extension for each test.


(5) Test sponsors should submit requests for test standard modifications as soon as they determine that the test cannot be successfully completed according to the test standard specified in the consent order.



---

[N] [51 FR 23715, June 30, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 36571, Sept. 30, 1987; 54 FR 36314, Sept. 1, 1989; 60 FR 34466, July 3, 1995; 75 FR 56476, Sept. 16, 2010; 78 FR 72830, Dec. 4, 2013]




