# ยง 89.320   Minimum performance requirements for remote identification broadcast modules.

Remote identification broadcast modules must meet the following minimum performance requirements:


(a) *Take-off location.* The remote identification broadcast module must be capable of determining the take-off location of the unmanned aircraft.


(b) *Time mark.* The time mark message element must be synchronized with all other remote identification message elements.


(c) *Self-testing and monitoring.* (1) Prior to take-off, the remote identification broadcast module must automatically test the remote identification functionality and notify the person manipulating the flight controls of the unmanned aircraft system of the result of the test.


(2) The remote identification broadcast module must continuously monitor the remote identification functionality from takeoff to shutdown and must provide notification of malfunction or failure to the person manipulating the flight controls of the unmanned aircraft system.


(d) *Tamper resistance.* The remote identification broadcast module must be designed and produced in a way that reduces the ability of a person to tamper with the remote identification functionality.


(e) *Error correction.* The remote identification broadcast module must incorporate error correction in the broadcast of the message elements in ยง 89.315.


(f) *Interference considerations.* The remote identification broadcast module must not interfere with other systems or equipment installed on compatible unmanned aircraft, and other systems or equipment installed on compatible unmanned aircraft must not interfere with the remote identification equipment.


(g) *Message broadcast.* (1) The remote identification broadcast module must be capable of broadcasting the message elements in ยง 89.315 using a non-proprietary broadcast specification and using radio frequency spectrum compatible with personal wireless devices in accordance with 47 CFR part 15, where operations may occur without an FCC individual license.


(2) The remote identification broadcast module must be designed to maximize the range at which the broadcast can be received, while complying with 47 CFR part 15 and any other applicable laws in effect as of the date the declaration of compliance is submitted to the FAA for acceptance.


(h) *Message elements performance requirements.* (1) The reported geometric position of the unmanned aircraft must be accurate to within 100 feet of the true position, with 95 percent probability.


(2) The reported geometric altitude of the unmanned aircraft must be accurate to within 150 feet of the true geometric altitude, with 95 percent probability.


(3) The reported geometric position of the take-off location must be accurate to within 100 feet of the true geometric position, with 95 percent probability.


(4) The reported geometric altitude of the take-off location must be accurate to within 150 feet of the true geometric altitude, with 95 percent probability.


(5) The remote identification broadcast module must broadcast the latitude, longitude, and geometric altitude of the unmanned aircraft no later than 1.0 seconds from the time of measurement to the time of broadcast.


(6) The remote identification broadcast module must broadcast the message elements at a rate of at least 1 message per second.


