# ยง 203.41   General.

(a) *Authority.* Public Law 84-99 authorizes repair and restoration of the following types of projects to ensure their continued function: 


(1) Flood control projects. 


(2) Federally authorized and constructed hurricane/shore protection projects. 


(b) *Implementation of authority.* The Rehabilitation and Inspection Program (RIP) implements Public Law 84-99 authority to repair and rehabilitate flood control projects damaged by floods and coastal storm events. The RIP consists of a process to inspect flood control work; a status determination, *i.e.,* an inspection-based determination of qualification for future Rehabilitation Assistance; and the provision of Rehabilitation Assistance to those projects with Active status that are damaged in a flood or coastal storm event. 


(c) *Active status.* In order for a flood control work to be eligible for Rehabilitation Assistance, it must be in an Active status at the time of damage from a flood or coastal storm event. To gain an Active status, a non-Federal flood control work must meet certain engineering, maintenance, and qualification criteria, as determined by the Corps during an Initial Eligibility Inspection (IEI). To retain an Active status, Federal and non-Federal flood control works must continue to meet inspection criteria set by the Corps, as determined by the Corps during a Continuing Eligibility Inspection (CEI). All flood control works not in an Active status are considered to be Inactive, regardless of whether or not they have previously received a Corps inspection, or Corps assistance. 


(d) *Modification of flood control projects.* Modification of a flood control project to increase the level of protection, or to provide protection to a larger area, is beyond the scope of Public Law 84-99 assistance. Such modifications to Federal projects are normally accomplished under congressional authorization and appropriation, or under Continuing Authorities Programs of the Corps. Such modifications to non-Federal projects are normally accomplished by the non-Federal sponsor and local interests. Modifications necessary to preserve the structural integrity of an existing non-Federal flood control project may be funded by the RIP, but such work must meet the criteria established in ยง 203.47 to be eligible for funding under Public Law 84-99. 




