# ยง 884.118   Responsibilities of the owner.

(a) The Owner shall be responsible (subject to post-review or audit by HUD or the PHA, as the case may be) for management and maintenance of the project. These responsibilities shall include but not be limited to: 


(1) Payment for utilities and services (unless paid directly by the Family), insurance and taxes; 


(2) Performance of all ordinary and extraordinary maintenance; 


(3) Performance of all management functions, including the taking of applications; determining eligibility of applicants in accordance with part 5 of this title; selection of families, including verification of income, provision of Federal selection preferences in accordance with 24 CFR part 5, obtaining and verifying Social Security Numbers submitted by applicants (as provided by 24 CFR part 5), obtaining signed consent forms from applicants for the obtaining of wage and claim information from State Wage Information Collection Agencies (as provided in 24 CFR part 5), and other pertinent requirements; and determination of the amount of tenant rent in accordance with HUD established schedules and criteria;


(4) Collection of Tenant Rents; 


(5) Termination of tenancies, including evictions; 


(6) Preparation and furnishing of information required under the Contract; 


(7) Reexamination of family income and composition; redetermination, as appropriate, of the amount of Tenant Rent and the amount of housing assistance payment in accordance with part 5 of this title; obtaining and verifying Social Security Numbers submitted by participants, as provided by 24 CFR part 5; and obtaining signed consent forms from participants for the obtaining of wage and claim information from State Wage Information Collection Agencies, as provided by 24 CFR part 5;


(8) Redetermination of amount of Tenant Rent and amount of housing assistance payment in accordance with part 5 of this title as a result of an adjustment by the PHA or HUD, as appropriate, of any applicable Utility Allowance; and 


(9) Compliance with equal opportunity requirements issued by RHCDS and HUD with respect to project operation. 


(b) Subject to HUD approval, any Owner may contract with any private or public entity to perform for a fee the services required by paragraph (a) of this section: *Provided,* That such contract shall not relieve the Owner of his responsibilities or obligations. However, no entity which is responsible for administration of the Contract (for example, a PHA in the case of a Private-Owner/PHA Project) may contract to perform management and maintenance of the project: *Provided, however,* That this prohibition shall not preclude management by the PHA in the event it takes possession as the result of foreclosure or assignment in lieu of foreclosure. (See, however, ยง 884.123(b), which permits conversion of a Private-Owner/PHA Project to a Private-Owner Project.)



---

[N] [41 FR 47168, Oct. 27, 1976. Redesignated at 45 FR 6909, Jan. 30, 1980, and amended at 49 FR 19947, May 10, 1984; 51 FR 11227, Apr. 1, 1986; 53 FR 847, Jan. 13, 1988; 53 FR 1162, Jan. 15, 1988; 53 FR 6601, Mar. 2, 1988; 54 FR 39707, Sept. 27, 1989; 56 FR 7540, Feb. 22, 1991; 60 FR 14845, Mar. 20, 1995; 61 FR 13593, Mar. 27, 1996; 65 FR 16723, Mar. 29, 2000]




