# ยง 36.4322   Loan termination.

(a) For purposes of this part, a holder, using reasonable diligence must complete a foreclosure within the timeframe and in the manner determined by the Secretary. In determining what constitutes allowable time and method for foreclosure, the Secretary shall review allowances for time and method in connection with the foreclosure of single-family housing loans issued by HUD, Fannie Mae, and Freddie Mac, as well as State statutory requirements. The Secretary will review such timeframes annually and, as the Secretary deems necessary, publish in the _Federal Register_ a table setting forth the timeframes and methods the Secretary determines to be reasonable. The schedule will reflect the timeframe allowed for the standard, acceptable method for foreclosure proceedings in each State. The use of another method will require prior approval from VA. VA will maintain the loan termination time allowable timeframes on a Web site under VA's control, such as at *http://www.homeloans.va.gov.*

(b)(1) At least 30 days prior to the scheduled or anticipated date of the liquidation sale, the holder must request that VA assign an appraiser to conduct a liquidation appraisal.


(2) If the holder (or its authorized servicing agent) has been approved by the Secretary to process liquidation appraisals under 38 CFR 36.4348, the appraiser shall forward the liquidation appraisal report directly to the holder for a determination of the fair market value of the property pursuant to ยง 36.4348.


(3) If the holder (or its authorized servicing agent) has not been approved by the Secretary to process liquidations appraisals under 38 CFR 36.4348, the Secretary shall review the appraisal and determine the fair market value of the property. The Secretary will provide the holder with a statement of the fair market value.


(4)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, a liquidation appraisal or statement of fair market value issued pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section will be valid for 180 calendar days.


(ii) The Secretary may specify in writing a shorter validity period, not less than 90 calendar days, for a liquidation appraisal or statement of fair market value if rapidly-changing market conditions in the area where the property is located make such shorter validity period in the best fiscal interests of the United States.


(c) Prior to the liquidation sale, the holder shall compute the net value of the property securing the guaranteed loan by subtracting the estimated costs to the Secretary for the acquisition and disposition of the property from the fair market value, as determined under paragraph (b) of this section. Those costs will be calculated using the percentage derived by the Secretary and published in the _Federal Register_ pursuant to ยง 36.4301.


(d) If the holder learns of any material damage to the property occurring after the appraisal and prior to the liquidation sale, the impact of such damage on the fair market value must be determined in consultation with the fee appraiser, and the net value adjusted accordingly.


(e)(1) A holder may approve a short sale of the property securing the loan without the prior approval of the Secretary provided that:


(i) The holder has determined the loan is insoluble;


(ii) The credit to the indebtedness (consisting of the net proceeds from the short sale and any waiver of indebtedness by the holder) must equal or exceed the net value of the property securing the loan; and


(iii) The current owner of the property securing the loan will not receive any proceeds from the sale of the property.


(2) A holder may request advance approval from the Secretary for a short sale notwithstanding that all of the conditions specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section cannot be met if the holder believes such short sale would be in the best interests of the veteran and the Secretary.


(f)(1) A holder may accept a deed voluntarily tendered by the current owner of the property securing the loan in lieu of conducting a foreclosure without the prior approval of the Secretary provided that:


(i) The holder has determined the loan is insoluble;


(ii) The holder has computed the net value of the property securing the loan pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section;


(iii) The holder has considered a short sale pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section and determined such short sale is not practical; and,


(iv) The holder has determined the current owner of the property can convey clear and marketable title to the property that would meet the standard stated in paragraph (d)(5) of ยง 36.4323.


(2) A holder may request advance approval from the Secretary for a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure notwithstanding that all of the conditions specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section cannot be met if the holder believes such deed-in-lieu would be in the best interests of the veteran and the Secretary.



---

[N] [73 FR 6310, Feb. 1, 2008. Redesignated at 75 FR 33705, June 15, 2010, as amended at 75 FR 65238, Oct. 22, 2010; 82 FR 11153, Feb. 21, 2017; 89 FR 25144, Apr. 10, 2024]




