# § 171.4   Marine pollutants.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, no person may offer for transportation or transport a marine pollutant, as defined in § 171.8, in intrastate or interstate commerce except in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter.


(b) The requirements of this subchapter for the transportation of marine pollutants are based on the provisions of Annex III of the 1973 International Convention for Prevention of Pollution from Ships, as modified by the Protocol of 1978 (MARPOL 73/78).


(c) *Exceptions.* (1) Except when all or part of the transportation is by vessel, the requirements of this subchapter specific to marine pollutants do not apply to non-bulk packagings transported by motor vehicle, rail car or aircraft.


(2) Single or combination packagings containing a net quantity per single or inner packaging of 5 L or less for liquids or having a net mass of 5 kg or less for solids, are not subject to any other requirements of this subchapter provided the packagings meet the general requirements in §§ 173.24 and 173.24a. This exception does not apply to marine pollutants that are a hazardous waste or a hazardous substance. In the case of marine pollutants also meeting the criteria for inclusion in another hazard class, all provisions of this subchapter relevant to any additional hazards continue to apply.



---

[N] [Amdt. 171-116, 57 FR 52934, Nov. 5, 1993, as amended by Amdt. 107-39, 61 FR 51337, Oct. 1, 1996; 80 FR 1114, Jan. 8, 2015]




