# § 279.40   Applicability.

(a) *General.* Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section, this subpart applies to all used oil transporters. Used oil transporters are persons who transport used oil, persons who collect used oil from more than one generator and transport the collected oil, and owners and operators of used oil transfer facilities.


(1) This subpart does not apply to on-site transportation.


(2) This subpart does not apply to generators who transport shipments of used oil totalling 55 gallons or less from the generator to a used oil collection center as specified in § 279.24(a).


(3) This subpart does not apply to generators who transport shipments of used oil totalling 55 gallons or less from the generator to a used oil aggregation point owned or operated by the same generator as specified in § 279.24(b). 


(4) This subpart does not apply to transportation of used oil from household do-it-yourselfers to a regulated used oil generator, collection center, aggregation point, processor/re-refiner, or burner subject to the requirements of this part. Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section, this subpart does, however, apply to transportation of collected household do-it-yourselfer used oil from regulated used oil generators, collection centers, aggregation points, or other facilities where household do-it-yourselfer used oil is collected.


(b) *Imports and exports.* Transporters who import used oil from abroad or export used oil outside of the United States are subject to the requirements of this subpart from the time the used oil enters and until the time it exits the United States.


(c) *Trucks used to transport hazardous waste.* Unless trucks previously used to transport hazardous waste are emptied as described in § 261.7 of this chapter prior to transporting used oil, the used oil is considered to have been mixed with the hazardous waste and must be managed as hazardous waste unless, under the provisions of § 279.10(b), the hazardous waste/used oil mixture is determined not to be hazardous waste.


(d) *Other applicable provisions.* Used oil transporters who conduct the following activities are also subject to other applicable provisions of this part as indicated in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section:


(1) Transporters who generate used oil must also comply with subpart C of this part;


(2) Transporters who process or re-refine used oil, except as provided in § 279.41, must also comply with subpart F of this part;


(3) Transporters who burn off-specification used oil for energy recovery must also comply with subpart G of this part; 


(4) Transporters who direct shipments of off-specification used oil from their facility to a used oil burner or first claim that used oil that is to be burned for energy recovery meets the used oil fuel specifications set forth in § 279.11 must also comply with subpart H of this part; and


(5) Transporters who dispose of used oil, including the use of used oil as a dust suppressant, must also comply with subpart I of this part.



---

[N] [57 FR 41612, Sept. 10, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 26425, May 3, 1993]




