# § 1450.20   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart—


*Agency* means the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS) or means any other agency of the U.S. Government as defined by section 105 of title 5 U.S.C., including the U.S. Postal Service, and the U.S. Postal Rate Commission, a military department as defined by section 102 of title 5 U.S.C., an agency or court of the judicial branch, and an agency of the legislative branch, including the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives.


*Creditor agency* means the agency to which the debt is owed.


*Debt* means an amount owed to the United States from sources which include loans insured or guaranteed by the United States and all other amounts due the United States from fees, leases, rents, royalties, services, sales of real or personal property, overpayments, penalties, damages, interests, fines and forfeitures (except those arising under the Uniform Code Military Justice), and all other similar sources.


*Disposable pay* means that part of current basic pay, special pay, incentive pay, retired pay, retainer pay, or in the case of an employee not entitled to basic pay, other authorized pay remaining after the deduction of any amount required by law to be withheld. FMCS will exclude deductions described in 5 CFR 581.105 (b) through (f) to determine disposable pay subject to salary offset.


*Employee* means a current employee of FMCS or of another agency, including a current member of the Armed Forces or a Reserve of the Armed Forces


*FCCS* means the Federal Claims Collection Standards jointly published by the Justice Department and the General Accounting Office at 4 CFR parts 101-105.


*Paying agency* means the agency employing the individual and authorizing the payment of his or her current pay.


*Salary offset* means an administrative offset to collect a debt under 5 U.S.C. 5514 by deduction(s) at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of an employee without his or her consent.


*Waiver* means the cancellation, remission, forgiveness, or non-recovery of a debt allegedly owed by an employee to an agency as permitted or required by 5 U.S.C. 5584, 10 U.S.C. 2774, or 32 U.S.C. 710, 5 U.S.C. 8346(b), or any other law.




