# § 423.884   Requirements for qualified retiree prescription drug plans.

(a) *General.* Employment-based retiree health coverage is considered to be a qualified retiree prescription drug plan if all of the following requirements are satisfied:


(1) An actuarial attestation is submitted in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. The rules for submitting attestations as part of subsidy applications are described in paragraph (c) of this section.


(2) Part D eligible individuals covered under the plan are provided with creditable coverage notices in accordance with § 423.56.


(3) Records are maintained and made available for audit in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section and § 423.888(d).


(b) *Disclosure of information.* The sponsor must have a written agreement with its health insurance issuer (as defined in 45 CFR 160.103), or group health plan (as applicable) regarding disclosure of information to CMS, and the issuer or plan must disclose to CMS, on behalf of the sponsor, the information necessary for the sponsor to comply with this subpart.


(c) *Application*—(1) *Submitting an application.* The sponsor (or its designee) must submit an application for the subsidy to CMS that is signed by an authorized representative of the sponsor. The application must be provided in a form and manner specified by CMS.


(2) *Required information.* In connection with each application the sponsor (either directly or through its designee) must submit the following:


(i) Employer Tax ID Number (if applicable).


(ii) Sponsor name and address.


(iii) Contact name and email address.


(iv) Actuarial attestation that satisfies the standards specified in paragraph (d) of this section and any other supporting documentation required by CMS for each qualified retiree prescription drug plan for which the sponsor seeks subsidy payments.


(v) A list of all individuals the sponsor believes (using information reasonably available to the sponsor when it submits the application) are qualifying covered retirees enrolled in each prescription drug plan (including spouses and dependents, if Medicare-eligible), along with the information about each person listed below in this paragraph:


(A) Full name.


(B) Health Insurance Claim (HIC) number or Social Security number.


(C) Date of birth.


(D) Gender.


(E) Relationship to the retired employee.


(vi) A sponsor may satisfy paragraph (c)(2)(v) of this section by entering into a voluntary data sharing agreement (VDSA) with CMS (or any other arrangement CMS may make available).


(vii) A signed sponsor agreement.


(viii) Any other information specified by CMS.


(3) *Terms and conditions.* To receive a subsidy payment, the sponsor (through the signed sponsor agreement or as otherwise specified by CMS) must specifically accept and agree to:


(i) Comply with the terms and conditions of eligibility for a subsidy payment set forth in this regulation and in any related CMS guidance;


(ii) Acknowledge that at the same time CMS releases Part C and Part D summary payment data in accordance with §§ 422.504(n) and 423.505(o) CMS will also release Part D retiree drug subsidy payment data for the most recently reconciled year including the name of the eligible sponsor, the total gross aggregate dollar amount of the CMS subsidy, and the number of eligible retirees;


(iii) Acknowledge that the information in the application is being provided to obtain Federal funds; and


(iv) Require that all subcontractors, including plan administrators, acknowledge that information provided in connection with the subcontract is used for purposes of obtaining Federal funds.


(4) *Signature by sponsor.* An authorized representative of the requesting sponsor must sign the completed application and certify that the information contained in the application is true and accurate to the best of the sponsor's knowledge and belief.


(5) *Timing*—(i) *General rule.* An application for a given plan year must be submitted prior to the beginning of the plan year by a date specified by CMS in published guidance, unless a request for an extension has been filed and approved under procedures set forth in such guidance.


(ii) *Transition rule.* For plan years that end in 2006, an application must be submitted by September 30, 2005 unless a request for an extension has been filed and approved under procedures established by CMS.


(6) *Updates.* The sponsor (or the designee) must provide updates to CMS in a manner specified by CMS of the information required in paragraph (c)(2) of this section on a monthly basis or at a frequency specified by CMS.


(7) *Data match.* Once the full application for the subsidy payment is submitted, CMS—


(i) Matches the names and identifying information for the individuals submitted as qualifying covered retirees with a CMS database(s) to determine which retirees are Part D eligible individuals who are not enrolled in a Part D plan.


(ii) Provides information concerning the results of the search in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this paragraph (such as names and other identifying information, if necessary) to the sponsor (or to a designee).


(d) *Actuarial attestation—general.* The sponsor of the plan must provide to CMS an attestation in a form and manner specified by CMS that the actuarial value of the retiree prescription drug coverage under the plan is at least equal to the actuarial value of the defined standard prescription coverage (as defined at § 423.100), not taking into account the value of any discount or coverage provided during the coverage gap (as defined at § 423.100). The attestation must meet all of the following standards:


(1) Contents of the attestation include the following assurances:


(i) The actuarial gross value of the retiree prescription drug coverage under the plan for the plan year is at least equal to the actuarial gross value of the defined standard prescription drug coverage under Part D for the plan year in question, not taking into account the value of any discount or coverage provided during the coverage gap.


(ii) The actuarial net value of the retiree prescription drug coverage under the plan for that plan year is at least equal to the actuarial net value of the defined standard prescription drug coverage under Part D for that plan year in question, not taking into account the value of any discount or coverage provided during the coverage gap.


(iii) The actuarial values must be determined using the methodology in paragraph (d)(5) of this section.


(2) The attestation must be made by a qualified actuary who is a member of the American Academy of Actuaries. Applicants may use qualified outside actuaries, including (but not limited to) actuaries employed by the plan administrator or an insurer providing benefits under the plan. If an applicant uses an outside actuary, the attestation can be submitted directly by the outside actuary or by the plan sponsor.


(3) The attestation must be signed by a qualified actuary and must state that the attestation is true and accurate to the best of the attester's knowledge and belief.


(4) The attestation must contain an acknowledgement that the information being provided in the attestation is being used to obtain Federal funds.


(5) *Methodology*—(i) *Basis of the attestation.* The attestation must be based on generally accepted actuarial principles and any actuarial guidelines established by CMS in this section or in future guidance. To the extent CMS has not provided guidance on a specific aspect of the actuarial equivalence standard under this section, an actuary providing the attestation may rely on any reasonable interpretation of this section and section 1860D-22(a) of the Act consistent with generally accepted actuarial principles in determining actuarial values.


(ii) *Specific rules for determining the actuarial value of the sponsor's retiree prescription drug coverage.* (A) The gross value of coverage under the sponsor's retiree prescription drug plan must be determined using the actual claims experience and demographic data for Part D eligible individuals who are participants and beneficiaries in the sponsor's plan, provided that sponsors without creditable data due to their size or other factors, may use normative databases as specified by CMS. Sponsors may use other actuarial approaches specified by CMS as an alternative to the actuarial valuation specified by this paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(A).


(B) The net value of coverage provided under the sponsor's retiree prescription drug plan must be determined by reducing the gross value of such coverage as determined under paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(A) of this section by the expected premiums paid by Part D eligible individuals who are plan participants or their spouses and dependents. For sponsors of plans that charge a single, integrated premium or contribution to their retirees for both prescription drug coverage and other types of medical coverage, the attestation must allocate a portion of the premium/contribution to prescription drug coverage under the sponsor's plan, under any method determined by the sponsor or its actuary.


(iii) *Specific rules for calculating the actuarial value of defined standard prescription drug coverage under Part D.* (A) The gross value of defined standard prescription drug coverage under Part D must be determined using the actual claims experience and demographic data for Part D eligible individuals in the sponsor's plan, provided that sponsors without credible data due to their size or other factors may use normative databases as specified by CMS. Sponsors may use other actuarial approaches specified by CMS as an alternative to the actuarial valuation specified by this paragraph (d)(5)(iii)(A).


(B) To calculate the net value of defined standard prescription drug coverage under Part D, the gross value of defined standard prescription drug coverage under Part D as determined by paragraph (d)(5)(iii)(A) of this section is reduced by the following amounts:


(*1*) The monthly beneficiary premiums (as defined in § 423.286) expected to be paid for standard prescription drug coverage; and


(*2*) An amount calculated to reflect the impact on the value of defined standard prescription drug coverage of supplemental coverage actually provided by the sponsor. Sponsors may use other actuarial approaches specified by CMS as an alternative to the actuarial valuation specified in this paragraph (d)(5)(iii)(B)(*2*).


(C) The valuation of defined standard prescription drug coverage for a given plan year is based on the initial coverage limit cost-sharing and out-of-pocket threshold for defined standard prescription drug coverage under Part D in effect at the start of such plan year, not taking into account the value of any discount or coverage provided during the coverage gap.


(D) Example: If a sponsor's retiree prescription drug plan operates under a plan year that ends March 30, the sponsor has a choice of basing the attestation for the year April 1, 2007 through March 30, 2008 on either the initial coverage limit, cost-sharing amounts, and out-of-pocket threshold amounts that apply to defined standard prescription drug coverage under Part D in CY 2007, or the amounts announced for CY 2008. However, in order to use the amounts applicable in CY 2007, the sponsor must submit the attestation within 60 days after the publication of the Part D coverage limits for CY 2008. If the attestation is submitted more than 60 days after the 2008 coverage limits have been published, the CY 2008 coverage limits would apply.


(iv) Employment-based retiree health coverage with two or more benefit options. For the assurance required under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, the assurance must be provided separately for each benefit option for which the sponsor requests a subsidy under this subpart. For the assurance required under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, the assurance may be provided either separately for each benefit option for which the sponsor provided assurances under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, or in the aggregate for all benefit options (or for a subset of the benefit options).


(6) *Timing*—(i) *Annual submission.* The attestation must be provided annually at the time the sponsor's subsidy application is submitted, or at such other times as specified by CMS in further guidance.


(ii) Submission following material change. The attestation must be provided no later than 90 days before the implementation of a material change to the drug coverage of the sponsor's retiree prescription drug plan. For purposes of this clause, the term “material change” means the addition of a benefit option that does not impact the actuarial value of the retiree prescription drug coverage under the sponsor's plan such that it no longer meets the standards set forth in paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(7) Notice of failure to continue to satisfy the actuarial equivalence standards. A sponsor must notify CMS, in a form and manner specified by CMS, no later than 90 days before the implementation of a change to the drug coverage that impacts the actuarial value of the retiree prescription drug coverage under the sponsor's plan such that it no longer meets the standards set forth in paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(e) *Disclosure of creditable prescription drug coverage status.* The sponsor must disclose to all of its retirees and their spouses and dependents eligible to participate in its plan who are Part D eligible individuals whether the coverage is creditable prescription drug coverage under § 423.56 in accordance with the notification requirements under that section.


(f) *Access to records for audit.* The sponsor (and where applicable, its designee) must meet the requirements of § 423.888(d). Failure to comply with § 423.888(d) may result in nonpayment or recoupment of all or part of a subsidy payment.



---

[N] [70 FR 4525, Jan. 28, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 20508, Apr. 15, 2008; 76 FR 21576, Apr. 15, 2011]




