# § 62.14615a   How do I conduct the initial and annual performance test?

(a) All performance tests must consist of a minimum of three test runs conducted under conditions representative of normal operations.


(b) You must document that the waste burned during the performance test is representative of the waste burned under normal operating conditions by maintaining a log of the quantity of waste burned (as required in § 62.14675a(b)(1)) and the types of waste burned during the performance test.


(c) All performance tests must be conducted using the minimum run duration specified in tables 4 through 7 to this subpart.


(d) Method 1 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1, must be used to select the sampling location and number of traverse points.


(e) Method 3A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1, must be used for gas composition analysis, including measurement of oxygen concentration. Method 3A must be used simultaneously with each method (except when using Method 9 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4, and Method 22 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7).


(f) All pollutant concentrations, except for opacity, must be adjusted to 7 percent oxygen using equation 1 to this paragraph (f):


(g) You must determine dioxins/furans toxic equivalency by following the procedures in paragraphs (g)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) Measure the concentration of each dioxin/furan (tetra- through octa-) isomer emitted using EPA Method 23 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7.


(2) Quantify isomers meeting identification criteria in section 11.4.3.4 of Method 23 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, regardless of whether the isomers meet identification criteria in section 11.4.3.4.1 of Method 23. You must quantify the isomers per section 11.4.3.5 of Method 23. Note that you may reanalyze the sample aliquot or split to reduce the number of isomers not meeting identification criteria in section 11.4.3.4 of Method 23.


(3) For each dioxin/furan (tetra- through octa-chlorinated) isomer measured in accordance with paragraph (g)(1) and (2) of this section, multiply the isomer concentration by its corresponding toxic equivalency factor specified in table 2 to this subpart; and


(4) Sum the products calculated in accordance with paragraph (g)(3) of this section to obtain the total concentration of dioxins/furans emitted in terms of toxic equivalency.


(h) Method 22 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, must be used to determine compliance with the fugitive ash emission limit in table 4, 5, or 7 to this subpart.


(i) If you have an applicable opacity operating limit, you must determine compliance with the opacity limit using Method 9 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4, based on three 1-hour blocks consisting of ten 6-minute average opacity values, unless you are required to install a continuous opacity monitoring system, consistent with §§ 62.14640a and 62.14665a.


(j) You must determine dioxins/furans total mass basis by following the procedures in paragraphs (j)(1) through (3) of this section:


(1) Measure the concentration of each dioxin/furan tetra- through octa-chlorinated isomer emitted using EPA Method 23 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7;


(2) Quantify isomers meeting identification criteria in section 11.4.3.4 of Method 23 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, regardless of whether the isomers meet identification criteria in section 11.4.3.4.1 of Method 23. Note that you may reanalyze the sample aliquot or split to reduce the number of isomers not meeting identification criteria in section 11.4.3.4 of Method 23; and


(3) Sum the quantities measured in accordance with paragraphs (j)(1) and (2) of this section to obtain the total concentration of dioxins/furans emitted in terms of total mass basis.






