# § 721.8225   2-Propenamide, 

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propenamide, *N*-[3-dimethylamino)propyl]- (PMN P-86-1602) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are: 


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent) and (c). 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(v), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(v), (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (o) and (q).


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 300 ppb). 


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance, as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (i) and (k).


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [56 FR 40215, Aug. 13, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




