# ยง 37.3   How does this part affect a recipient's other obligations?

(a) A recipient's compliance with this part will satisfy any obligation of the recipient to comply with 29 CFR part 31, the Department of Labor's regulations implementing Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended (Title VI), and with Subparts A, D and E of 29 CFR part 32, the Department's regulations implementing Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (Section 504).


(b) 29 CFR part 32, Subparts B and C and Appendix A, the Department's regulations which implement the requirements of Section 504 pertaining to employment practices and employment-related training, program accessibility, and reasonable accommodation, are hereby incorporated into this part by reference. Therefore, recipients must comply with the requirements set forth in those regulatory sections as well as the requirements listed in this part.


(c) Recipients that are also public entities or public accommodations, as defined by Titles II and III of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), should be aware of obligations imposed by those titles.


(d) Similarly, recipients that are also employers, employment agencies, or other entities covered by Title I of the ADA should be aware of obligations imposed by that title.


(e) Compliance with this part does not affect, in any way, any additional obligation that a recipient may have to comply with the following laws and their implementing regulations:


(1) Executive Order 11246, as amended;


(2) Sections 503 and 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 793 and 794);


(3) The affirmative action provisions of the Vietnam Era Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974, as amended (38 U.S.C. 4212);


(4) The Equal Pay Act of 1963, as amended (29 U.S.C. 206d);


(5) Titles VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2000d *et seq.* and 2000e *et seq.*);


(6) The Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended (42 U.S.C. 6101);


(7) The Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended (29 U.S.C. 621);


(8) Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, as amended (Title IX) (20 U.S.C. 1681);


(9) The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended (42 U.S.C. 12101 *et seq.*); and


(10) The anti-discrimination provision of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended (8 U.S.C. 1324b).


(f) This rule does not preempt consistent State and local requirements.




