# § 63.3176   What definitions apply to this subpart?

Terms used in this subpart are defined in the CAA, in the General Provisions of this part, and in this section as follows: 


*Add-on control device* means an air pollution control device, such as a thermal oxidizer or carbon adsorber, that reduces pollution in an air stream by destruction or removal before discharge to the atmosphere. 


*Add-on control device efficiency* means the ratio of the emissions collected or destroyed by an add-on air pollution control device to the total emissions that are introduced into the control device, expressed as a percentage. 


*Adhesive* means any chemical substance that is applied for the purpose of bonding two surfaces together. 


*Adhesive and sealer material* means adhesives, sealers and thinners added to adhesives or sealers. 


*Anti-chip coating* means a specialty type of coating designed to reduce stone chipping damage. Anti-chip coating may be applied to broad areas of the vehicle or to selected vehicle surfaces that are most vulnerable to impingement by stones and other road debris. Anti-chip coating is typically applied after the *electrodeposition primer* and before the *topcoat.* Anti-chip coating is a type of *primer-surfacer.*

*Automobile* means a motor vehicle designed to carry up to eight passengers, excluding vans, sport utility vehicles, and motor vehicles designed primarily to transport light loads of property. See also *Light-duty truck.*

*Automobile and light-duty truck assembly plant* means a facility which assembles automobiles or light-duty trucks, including coating facilities and processes.


*Bake oven air seal* means an entry or entry vestibule to or an exit or exit vestibule from a bake oven which isolates the bake oven from the area immediately preceding (for an entry or entry vestibule) or immediately following (for an exit or exit vestibule) the bake oven. No significant VOC generating activity takes place in a bake oven air seal. Fresh air is supplied into a bake oven air seal and is then directed in part into the bake oven and in part into the area immediately preceding or immediately following the bake oven. All types of bake ovens, including ovens associated with spray booths and electrodeposition primer bake ovens, may have bake oven air seals.


*Basecoat/clearcoat* means a topcoat system applied to exterior and selected interior vehicle surfaces primarily to provide an aesthetically pleasing appearance and acceptable durability performance. It consists of a layer of pigmented basecoat color coating, followed directly by a layer of a clear or semitransparent coating. It may include multiple layers of color coats or tinted clear materials. 


*Blackout coating* means a type of specialty coating applied on selected vehicle surfaces (including areas of the engine compartment visible through the grill, and window and pillar trim) to provide a cosmetic appearance. Typically black or dark gray color. Blackout coating may be included in either the primer-surfacer or topcoat operations. 


*Body part* means exterior parts such as hoods, fenders, doors, roof, quarter panels, decklids, tail gates, and cargo beds. Body parts were traditionally made of sheet metal, but now are also made of plastic. Bumpers, fascia, and cladding are not body parts. 


*Capture device* means a hood, enclosure, room, floor sweep, or other means of containing or collecting emissions and directing those emissions into an add-on air pollution control device. 


*Capture efficiency or capture system efficiency* means the portion (expressed as a percentage) of the pollutants from an emission source that is delivered to an add-on control device.


*Capture system* means one or more capture devices intended to collect emissions generated by a coating operation in the use of coatings, both at the point of application and at subsequent points where emissions from the coatings occur, such as flash-off, drying, or curing. As used in this subpart, multiple capture devices that collect emissions generated by a coating operation are considered a single capture system. 


*Catalytic oxidizer* means a device for oxidizing pollutants or waste materials via flame and heat incorporating a catalyst to aid the combustion at lower operating temperature. 


*Chip resistant edge primer* means an *anti-chip coating* applied to the leading edge of parts such as the hood or roof.


*Cleaning material* means a solvent used to remove contaminants and other materials such as dirt, grease, oil, and dried (*e.g.,* depainting) or wet coating from a substrate before or after coating application; or from equipment associated with a coating operation, such as spray booths, spray guns, tanks, and hangers. Thus, it includes any cleaning material used on substrates or equipment or both. 


*Coating* means a material applied to a substrate for decorative, protective, or functional purposes. Such materials include, but are not limited to, paints, sealants, caulks, inks, adhesives, primers, deadeners, and maskants. Decorative, protective, or functional materials that consist only of protective oils for metal, acids, bases, or any combination of these substances are not considered coatings for the purposes of this subpart. 


*Coating operation* means equipment used to apply coating to a substrate (coating application) and to dry or cure the coating after application. A single coating operation always includes at least the point at which a coating is applied and all subsequent points in the affected source where organic HAP emissions from that coating occur. There may be multiple coating operations in an affected source. Coating application with hand-held nonrefillable aerosol containers, touchup bottles, touchup markers, marking pens, or pinstriping equipment is not a coating operation for the purposes of this subpart. The application of temporary materials such as protective oils and “travel waxes” that are designed to be removed from the vehicle before it is delivered to a retail purchaser is not a coating operation for the purposes of this subpart. 


*Coating solids* means the nonvolatile portion of the coating. 


*Container* means a receptacle, such as a can, vessel, tote, or tank, in which coatings, solvents or cleaning materials are held, stored, mixed, or carried. 


*Continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS)* means the total equipment that may be required to meet the data acquisition and availability requirements of this subpart; used to sample, condition (if applicable), analyze, and provide a record of coating operation, or capture system, or add-on control device parameters. 


*Controlled coating operation* means a *coating operation* from which some or all of the organic HAP emissions are routed through a *capture system* and an *add-on control device* which are taken into account when demonstrating compliance with an emission limitation in this subpart.


*Day tank* means tank with agitation and pumping system used for mixing and continuous circulation of coatings from the paint storage area to the spray booth area of the paint shop. 


*Deadener* means a specialty coating applied to selected vehicle surfaces primarily for the purpose of reducing the sound of road noise in the passenger compartment.


*Deadener material* means deadener and thinner added to deadener. 


*Deposited solids* means the coating solids which remain on the substrate or object being painted. 


*Deviation* means:


(1) Before January 5, 2021, any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart or an owner or operator of such a source:


(i) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart including but not limited to any emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard;


(ii) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or


(iii) Fails to meet any emission limit or operating limit or work practice standard in this subpart during SSM, regardless of whether or not such failure is permitted by this subpart; and


(2) On and after January 5, 2021, any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart or an owner or operator of such a source:


(i) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart including but not limited to any emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard; or


(ii) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit.


*Electrodeposition primer or electrocoating primer* means a process of applying a protective, corrosion-resistant waterborne primer on exterior and interior surfaces that provides thorough coverage of recessed areas. It is a dip coating method that uses an electrical field to apply or deposit the conductive coating onto the part. The object being painted acts as an electrode that is oppositely charged from the particles of paint in the dip tank. Also referred to as E-Coat, Uni-Prime, and ELPO Primer. 


*Emission limitation* means an emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard. 


*Final repair* means the operations performed and coating(s) applied to completely-assembled motor vehicles or to parts that are not yet on a completely assembled motor vehicle to correct damage or imperfections in the coating. The curing of the coatings applied in these operations is accomplished at a lower temperature than that used for curing primer-surfacer and topcoat. This lower temperature cure avoids the need to send parts that are not yet on a completely assembled vehicle through the same type of curing process used for primer-surfacer and topcoat and is necessary to protect heat sensitive components on completely assembled motor vehicles. 


*Flash-off area* means the portion of a coating process between the coating application station and the next coating application station or drying oven where solvent begins to evaporate from the coated vehicle. 


*Glass bonding adhesive* means an adhesive used to bond windshield or other glass to an automobile or light-duty truck body. 


*Glass bonding primer* means a primer applied to windshield or other glass, or to body openings to prepare the glass or body openings for the application of glass bonding adhesive, or the installation of adhesive bonded glass. 


*Guide coat* means *Primer-surfacer.*

*In-line repair* means the operation performed and coating(s) applied to correct damage or imperfections in the topcoat on parts that are not yet on a completely assembled motor vehicle. The curing of the coatingspplied in these operations is accomplished at essentially the same temperature as that used for curing the previously applied topcoat. Also referred to as high bake repair or high bake reprocess. In-line repair is considered part of the topcoat operation.


*Light-duty truck* means vans, sport utility vehicles, and motor vehicles designed primarily to transport light loads of property with gross vehicle weight rating of 8,500 lbs or less. 


*Lower body anti-chip coating* means an *anti-chip coating* applied to lower body surfaces such as rocker panels, valence panels, lower portions of doors, or lower portions of fenders.


*Manufacturer's formulation data* means data on a material (such as a coating) that are supplied by the material manufacturer based on knowledge of the ingredients used to manufacture that material, rather than based on testing of the material with the test methods specified in §§ 63.3151 and 63.3161. Manufacturer's formulation data may include, but are not limited to, information on density, organic HAP content, volatile organic matter content, and coating solids content. 


*Mass fraction of organic HAP* means the ratio of the mass of organic HAP to the mass of a material in which it is contained, expressed as kg of organic HAP per kg of material. 


*Month* means a calendar month or a pre-specified period of 28 days to 35 days to allow for flexibility in recordkeeping when data are based on a business accounting period. 


*Organic HAP* content means the mass of organic HAP per mass of coating material. 


*Other motor vehicle* means a self-propelled vehicle designed for transporting persons or property on a street or highway that has a gross vehicle weight rating over 8,500 pounds. You may choose to make the coating of other motor vehicles subject to this subpart pursuant to § 63.3082(c).


*Other motor vehicle assembly plant* means a facility which assembles other motor vehicles, including coating facilities and processes.


*Paint line* means a set of coating operations which includes a topcoat operation and, if present, includes electrodeposition primer, primer-surfacer, final repair, glass bonding primer and glass bonding adhesive operations in which the same new automobile or new light-duty truck bodies, or body parts for new automobiles, or new light-duty trucks are coated. The most typical paint line consists of a set of electrodeposition primer, primer-surfacer, topcoat, final repair, glass bonding primer, and glass bonding adhesive operations in which the same new automobile or new light-duty truck bodies are coated. 


*Paint shop* means the collection of all areas at the facility in which new automobile or new light-duty truck bodies, or body parts for new automobiles or new light-duty trucks are phosphated and coated (including application, flash-off, drying and curing of electrodeposition primer, primer-surfacer, topcoat, final repair, glass bonding primer, glass bonding adhesive, deadener, adhesives and sealers); all coating operations added to the affected source pursuant to § 63.3082(c); all areas at the facility in which substrates or equipment are cleaned relating to the coating of new automobile or new light-duty truck bodies, the coating of body parts for new automobiles or new light-duty trucks, or coating operations added to the affected source pursuant to § 63.3082(c); and all areas at the facility used for storage, mixing, conveying and waste handling of coatings, thinners and cleaning materials related to the coating of new automobile or new light-duty truck bodies, the coating of body parts for new automobiles or new light-duty trucks, or coating operations added to the affected source pursuant to § 63.3082(c). If there is no application of topcoat to new automobile or new light-duty truck bodies, or body parts for new automobiles or new light-duty trucks at the facility, then for purposes of this subpart the facility does not have a paint shop. 


*Permanent total enclosure (PTE)* means a permanently installed enclosure that meets the criteria of Method 204 of appendix M, 40 CFR part 51, for a PTE and that directs all the exhaust gases from the enclosure to an add-on control device. 


*Plastic or composites molding facility* means a facility where the purchase cost of capital equipment used for plastic or composites molding, including presses, tooling, and associated material processing and handling equipment, is greater than the purchase cost of capital equipment used for the surface coating of new automobile or new light-duty truck bodies or body parts for new automobiles or new light-duty trucks.


*Primer-surfacer* means an intermediate protective coating applied on the *electrodeposition primer* and under the *topcoat.* Primer-surfacer provides adhesion, protection, and appearance properties to the total finish. Primer-surfacer may also be called *guide coat* or *surfacer. Anti-chip coating* is a type of primer-surfacer.


*Purge/clean operation* means the process of flushing paint out and cleaning the spray lines when changing colors or to remove undesired material. It includes use of air and solvents to clean the lines. 


*Purge capture* means the capture of purge solvent and materials into a closed collection system immediately after purging the system. It is used to prevent the release of organic HAP emissions and includes the disposal of the captured purge material. 


*Purge material* means the coating and associated cleaning solvent materials expelled from the spray system during the process of cleaning the spray lines and applicators when color-changing or to maintain the cleanliness of the spray system. 


*Protective oil* means an organic material that is applied to metal for the purpose of providing lubrication or protection from corrosion without forming a solid film. This definition of protective oil includes, but is not limited to, lubricating oils, evaporative oils (including those that evaporate completely), and extrusion oils. 


*Research or laboratory operations* means surface coating for which the primary purpose is research and development of new processes and products, that is conducted under the close supervision of technically trained personnel, and that is not part of the manufacture of final or intermediate products for commercial purposes, except in a *de minimis* manner. 


*Responsible official* means responsible official as defined in 40 CFR 70.2. 


*Sealer* means a high solids, high viscosity material, generally, but not always, applied in the paint shop after the body has received an electrodeposition primer coating. The primary purpose of sealers is to fill body joints completely so that there is no intrusion of water, gases or corrosive materials into the passenger area of the body compartment. Also referred to as sealants. 


*Spray booth* means a ventilated structure housing automatic and/or manual spray application equipment for coating operations. Includes facilities for the capture and entrapment of particulate overspray. 


*Spray booth air seal* means an entry or entry vestibule to or exit or exit vestibule from a spray booth which isolates the spray booth from the area immediately preceding (for an entry or entry vestibule) or immediately following (for an exit or exit vestibule) the spray booth. No coating application or other VOC generating activity takes place in a spray booth air seal. Fresh air is supplied into a spray booth air seal and is then directed in part into the spray booth and in part into the area immediately preceding or immediately following the spray booth.


*Startup, initial* means the first time equipment is used in a facility to produce a salable product. 


*Surface preparation* means use of a cleaning material on a portion of or all of a substrate. This includes use of a cleaning material to remove dried coating, which is sometimes called “depainting.” 


*Surfacer* means *Primer-surfacer.*

*Tack-wipe* means solvent impregnated cloth used to remove dust from surfaces prior to application of coatings. 


*Temporary total enclosure* means an enclosure constructed for the purpose of measuring the capture efficiency of pollutants emitted from a given source as defined in Method 204 of appendix M, 40 CFR part 51. 


*Thermal oxidizer* means a device for oxidizing air pollutants or waste materials via flame and heat. 


*Thinner* means an organic solvent that is added to a coating after the coating is received from the supplier.


*Topcoat* means the final coating system applied to provide the final color and/or a protective finish. The topcoat may be a monocoat color or basecoat/clearcoat system. In-line repair and two-tone are part of topcoat.


*Total volatile hydrocarbon (TVH)* means the total amount of nonaqueous volatile organic matter determined according to Methods 204 and 204A through F of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 and substituting the term TVH each place in the methods where the term VOC is used. The TVH includes both VOC and non-VOC.


*Touchup bottle* means a coating container with a volume of 0.25 liter or less used with a brush or other non-atomizing applicator.


*Transfer efficiency* means the ratio of the amount of coating solids deposited onto the surface of the object to the total amount of coating solids sprayed while applying the coating to the object.


*Uncontrolled coating operation* means a coating operation from which none of the organic HAP emissions are routed through an emission capture system and add-on control device.


*Underbody anti-chip coating* means an *anti-chip coating* applied to the underbody or wheel wells primarily for the purpose of protecting these areas of the vehicle from stone chipping.


*Volatile organic compound (VOC)* means any compound defined as VOC in 40 CFR 51.100(s).


*Volume fraction of coating solids* means the ratio of the volume of coating solids (also known as volume of nonvolatiles) to the volume of coating; liters of coating solids per liter of coating.



---

[N] [69 FR 22623, Apr. 26, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 76927, Dec. 22, 2006; 72 FR 20236, Apr. 24, 2007; 85 FR 41132, July 8, 2020]





