# § 438.920   Applicability.

(a) *MCOs, PIHPs, and PAHPs.* The requirements of this subpart apply to each MCO, PIHP, and PAHP offering services to enrollees of a MCO, in States covering medical/surgical and mental health or substance use disorder services under the State plan. These requirements regarding coverage for services that must be provided to enrollees of an MCO apply regardless of the delivery system of the medical/surgical, mental health, or substance use disorder services under the State plan.


(b) *State responsibilities.* (1) In any instance where the full scope of medical/surgical and mental health and substance use disorder services are not provided through the MCO, the State must review the mental health and substance use disorder and medical/surgical benefits provided through the MCO, PIHP, PAHP, and fee-for service (FFS) coverage to ensure the full scope of services available to all enrollees of the MCO complies with the requirements in this subpart. The State must provide documentation of compliance with requirements in this subpart to the general public and post this information on the State Medicaid Web site by October 2, 2017. Such documentation must be updated prior to any change in MCO, PIHP, PAHP or FFS State plan benefits.


(2) The State must ensure that all services are delivered to the enrollees of the MCO in compliance with this subpart.


(c) *Scope.* This subpart does not—


(1) Require a MCO, PIHP, or PAHP to provide any mental health benefits or substance use disorder benefits beyond what is specified in its contract, and the provision of benefits by a MCO, PIHP, or PAHP for one or more mental health conditions or substance use disorders does not require the MCO, PIHP or PAHP to provide benefits for any other mental health condition or substance use disorder;


(2) Require a MCO, PIHP, or PAHP that provides coverage for mental health or substance use disorder benefits only to the extent required under 1905(a)(4)(D) of the Act to provide additional mental health or substance use disorder benefits in any classification in accordance with this section; or


(3) Affect the terms and conditions relating to the amount, duration, or scope of mental health or substance use disorder benefits under the Medicaid MCO, PIHP, or PAHP contract except as specifically provided in §§ 438.905 and 438.910.




