# ยง 668.407   Student acknowledgments.

(a) Beginning on July 1, 2026, if an eligible program, other than an undergraduate degree program, has failing D/E rates, the Secretary notifies the institution under ยง 668.406(b)(4) that student acknowledgments are required for such program in the manner specified in this section.


(b)(1) If student acknowledgements are required, prospective students must acknowledge that they have viewed the information provided through the program information website established and maintained by the Secretary described in ยง 668.43(d).


(2) The Department will administer and collect the acknowledgment from students through the program information website.


(3) Prospective students must provide such acknowledgments until:


(i) The Secretary notifies the institution pursuant to ยง 668.406 that the program has passing D/E rates; or


(ii) Three years after the institution was last notified that the program had failing D/E rates, whichever is earlier.


(c)(1) A prospective student must provide the acknowledgment before the institution enters into an agreement to enroll the student.


(2) The Secretary monitors the institution's compliance with the requirements in paragraph (c)(1) of this section through audits, program reviews, or other investigations.


(d) The acknowledgment required in paragraph (c)(1) of this section does not mitigate the institution's responsibility to provide accurate information to students concerning program status, nor will it be considered as dispositive evidence against a student's claim if applying for a loan discharge.






