# § 334.1450   Atlantic Ocean off north coast of Puerto Rico; practice firing areas, U.S. Army Forces Antilles.

(a) *The danger zones*—(1) *Westerly small-arms range.* The waters within the sector of a circle bounded by radii of 10,000 yards bearing 279° and 315° respectively, from latitude 18°28′31″, longitude 66°25′37″, and the included arc.


(2) *Camp Tortuguero artillery range.* The waters within the quadrant of a circle bounded by radii of 20,000 yards bearing 315° and 45°, respectively, from latitude 18°28′31″, longitude 66°25′37″, and the included arc.


(3) *Easterly small-arms range.* The waters within the sector of a circle bounded by radii of 7,210 yards bearing 45° and 70°, respectively, from a point on the southeast boundary of the artillery range 2,790 yards from its southerly end, and the included arc.


(b) *The regulations.* (1) The danger zones shall be open to navigation at all times except when practice firing is being conducted. When practice firing is being conducted, no person, vessel or other craft except those engaged in towing targets or patrolling the area shall enter or remain within the danger zones: Provided, that any vessel propelled by mechanical power at a speed greater than five knots may proceed through the Camp Totuguero artillery range at any time to and from points beyond, but not from one point to another in the danger zone between latitudes 18°31′ and 18°32′, at its regular rate of speed without stopping or altering its course, except when notified to the contrary.


(2) The fact that practice firing is to take place over the designated area will be advertised to the public through the usual media for the dissemination of such information. Factual information as to the dates, time, and characteristics of the firing will be advertised in advance of each session of firing but in no case less than one week nor more than four weeks before such firing is scheduled to take place.


(3) Prior to conducting each practice firing, the entire danger zone will be patrolled by aircraft or surface vessels to insure that no watercraft are within the danger zone. Any watercraft in the vicinity will be warned that practice firing is about to take place. Any such watercraft shall, upon being so warned, leave the danger zone immediately and shall not return until such practice shall have been terminated and notification to that effect shall have been given by the patrol craft, except that vessels proceeding on a regular course through the area will be allowed to proceed out of the area without warning, and firing will not commence until such vessels are clear of the area.


(4) This section shall be enforced by the Commanding General, U.S. Army Forces Antilles, and such agencies as he may designate.



---

[N] [14 FR 4552, July 21, 1949. Redesignated at 14 FR 5593, Sept. 13, 1949, and amended at 15 FR 6758, Oct. 6, 1950. Redesignated at 50 FR 42696, Oct. 22, 1985, as amended at 62 FR 17559, Apr. 10, 1997; 62 FR 24034, May 2, 1997]




