# § 128.401   What requirements must a VOSB or SDVOSB meet to submit an offer on a contract?

(a) *Certification requirement.* Only certified VOSBs and SDVOSBs are eligible to submit an offer on a specific VOSB or SDVOSB requirement. For a competitively awarded VOSB/SDVOSB contract, order, or agreement, the concern must qualify as a small business concern under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract, order or agreement, and be a certified VOSB or SDVOSB and meet the eligibility requirements of a VOSB or SDVOSB in § 128.200 at the time of initial offer or response which includes price. For any sole source VOSB or SDVOSB award, the concern must qualify as a small business concern under the size standard corresponding to the applicable NAICS code and be a certified VOSB or SDVOSB and meet the eligibility requirements of a VOSB or SDVOSB in § 128.200 on the date of award.


(b) *Joint ventures.* A joint venture may submit an offer for a VOSB or SDVOSB contract if the joint venture meets the requirements set forth in § 128.402.


(c) *Non-manufacturers.* A certified VOSB or SDVOSB that is a non-manufacturer may submit an offer on a VOSB or SDVOSB contract for supplies if it meets the requirements of the non-manufacturer rule set forth at § 121.406(b)(1) of this chapter.


(d) *Multiple Award Contracts*—(1) *VOSB or SDVOSB status.* With respect to Multiple Award Contracts, orders issued against a Multiple Award Contract, and Blanket Purchase Agreements issued against a Multiple Award Contract:


(i) SBA determines a VOSB or SDVOSB's eligibility for the underlying Multiple Award Contract as of the date a business concern certifies its status as a certified VOSB or SDVOSB as part of its initial offer or response which includes price, unless the firm was required to recertify under § 125.12 of this chapter.


(A) *Unrestricted Multiple Award Contracts or set-aside Multiple Award Contracts for other than VOSB or SDVOSB.* For an unrestricted Multiple Award Contract or other Multiple Award Contract not specifically set aside for VOSBs or SDVOSBs, if a business concern is a certified VOSB or SDVOSB at the time of offer and contract-level recertification for the Multiple Award Contract, it is a VOSB or SDVOSB for goaling purposes for each order issued against the contract, unless a contracting officer requests recertification as a VOSB or SDVOSB for a specific order or Blanket Purchase Agreement or a contracting officer sets aside an order exclusively for VOSBs or SDVOSBs. Except for orders and Blanket Purchase Agreements issued under any Federal Supply Schedule contract, if an order or a Blanket Purchase Agreement under an unrestricted Multiple Award Contract is set aside exclusively for VOSBs or SDVOSBs, a concern must be a certified VOSB or SDVOSB at the time it submits its initial offer or response which includes price, for the particular order or Blanket Purchase Agreement. However, where the underlying Multiple Award Contract has been awarded to a pool of concerns for which certified VOSB or SDVOSB status is required, if an order or a Blanket Purchase Agreement under that Multiple Award Contract is set aside exclusively for concerns in the certified VOSB or SDVOSB pool, concerns need not recertify their status as VOSBs or SDVOSBs (unless a contracting officer requests size certifications with respect to a specific order or Blanket Purchase Agreement).


(B) *VOSB or SDVOSB set-aside Multiple Award Contracts.* For a Multiple Award Contract that is specifically set aside for VOSBs or SDVOSBs, if a business concern is a certified VOSB or SDVOSB at the time of offer and contract-level recertification for the Multiple Award Contract, it is a VOSB or SDVOSB for each order issued against the contract, unless a contracting officer requests recertification as a VOSB or SDVOSB for a specific order or Blanket Purchase Agreement.


(ii) SBA will determine VOSB or SDVOSB status at the time of initial offer or response which includes price, for an order or an Agreement issued against a Multiple Award Contract, if the contracting officer requests a new VOSB or SDVOSB certification for the order or Agreement.


(iii) For an indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ), Multiple Award Contract, where concerns are not required to submit price as part of the offer for the IDIQ contract, size will be determined as of the date of initial offer, which may not include price.


(2) *Total set-aside contracts.* The certified VOSB or SDVOSB must comply with the applicable limitations on subcontracting provisions (*see* § 125.6 of this chapter) and the nonmanufacturer rule (*see* § 121.406(b) of this chapter), if applicable, in the performance of a contract totally set aside for VOSBs or SDVOSBs. However, contracting officers, in their discretion, may require a concern to perform the applicable amount of work or comply with the nonmanufacturer rule for each order awarded under the contract.


(3) *Partial set-aside contracts.* For orders awarded under a partial set-aside contract, the certified VOSB or SDVOSB must comply with the applicable limitations on subcontracting provisions (*see* § 125.6 of this chapter) and the nonmanufacturer rule (*see* § 121.406(b) of this chapter), if applicable, during each performance period of the contract (*e.g.,* during the base term and then during each option period thereafter). For orders awarded under the non-set-aside portion, the VOSB or SDVOSB need not comply with any limitations on subcontracting or nonmanufacturer rule requirements. However, contracting officers, in their discretion, may require a concern to perform the applicable amount of work or comply with the nonmanufacturer rule for each order awarded under the contract.


(4) *Orders.* The certified VOSB or SDVOSB must comply with the applicable limitations on subcontracting provisions (*see* § 125.6 of this chapter) and the nonmanufacturer rule (*see* § 121.406(b) of this chapter), if applicable, in the performance of each individual order that has been set aside for VOSBs or SDVOSBs.


(5) *Reserves.* The certified VOSB or SDVOSB must comply with the applicable limitations on subcontracting provisions (*see* § 125.6 of this chapter) and the nonmanufacturer rule (*see* § 121.406(b) of this chapter), if applicable, in the performance of an order that is set aside for VOSBs or SDVOSBs. However, the VOSB or SDVOSB will not have to comply with the limitations on subcontracting provisions and the nonmanufacturer rule for any order issued against the Multiple Award Contract if the order is competed among VOSBs or SDVOSBs, and other-than-small business concerns.


(e) *Recertification.* A prime contractor that receives an award as a certified SDVOSB must comply with the recertification requirements set forth in § 125.12 of this chapter regarding its status as a certified SDVOSB.


(f) *Limitations on subcontracting.* A business concern seeking a VOSB or SDVOSB contract must meet the applicable limitations on subcontracting requirements set forth in § 125.6 of this chapter.


(g) *Ostensible subcontractor.* Where a subcontractor that is not a certified VOSB or SDVOSB will perform the primary and vital requirements of a VOSB or SDVOSB contract, or where a VOSB or SDVOSB prime contractor is unduly reliant on one or more small businesses that are not certified VOSBs or SDVOSBs to perform the VOSB or SDVOSB contract, the prime contractor is not eligible for award of that VOSB or SDVOSB contract.


(1) When the subcontractor qualifies as small for the size standard assigned to the procurement, this issue may be grounds for a VOSB or SDVOSB status protest, as described in § 134.1003(c) of this chapter. When the subcontractor is alleged to be other than small for the size standard assigned to the procurement, this issue may be grounds for a size protest under the ostensible subcontractor rule, as described at § 121.103(h)(2) of this chapter.




(2) In the case of a contract or order for services, specialty trade construction or supplies, SBA will find that a prime VOSB or SDVOSB contractor is performing the primary and vital requirements of the contract or order, and is not unduly reliant on one or more subcontractors that are not certified VOSBs or SDVOSBs, where the prime contractor can demonstrate that it, together with any subcontractors that are certified VOSBs or SDVOSBs, will meet the limitations on subcontracting provisions set forth in § 125.6 of this chapter.


(3) In a general construction contract, the primary and vital requirements of the contract are the management, supervision and oversight of the project, including coordinating the work of various subcontractors, not the actual construction work performed.


(h) *Two-step procurements.* For purposes of architect-engineering, design-build or two-step sealed bidding procurements, a concern must be certified as a VOSB or SDVOSB as of the date that it submits its initial bid or proposal (which may or may not include price) during phase one.



---

[N] [87 FR 73412, Nov. 29, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 26216, Apr. 27, 2023; 88 FR 42593, July 3, 2023; 89 FR 102509, Dec. 17, 2024]






