# § 235.14   SENTRI program.

(a) *Program description.* The Secure Electronic Network for Travelers Rapid Inspection (SENTRI) trusted traveler program is a voluntary program that allows certain pre-approved, low-risk travelers dedicated processing at specified land border ports along the U.S.-Mexico border. In order to participate, a person must meet the eligibility requirements specified in this section, apply in advance, undergo vetting by CBP, and be accepted into the program. A SENTRI participant will be issued a Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) card or other CBP-approved document that grants the individual access to specific, dedicated primary lanes (SENTRI lanes). These lanes are identified at *http://www.cbp.gov.* A SENTRI participant may utilize a vehicle in the dedicated SENTRI lanes into the United States from Mexico only if the vehicle is approved by CBP for such purpose. Participants in the SENTRI program may also be able to take advantage of certain benefits of the Global Entry and NEXUS programs. Please see *http://www.cbp.gov* for additional information.


(b) *Program eligibility criteria*—(1) *Eligible individuals.* Any individual may apply to participate in the SENTRI program absent any of the disqualifying factors described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Persons under the age of 18 must have the consent of a parent or legal guardian to participate in the SENTRI program and provide proof of such consent in accordance with CBP instructions.


(2) *Disqualifying factors.* An individual is ineligible to participate in the SENTRI program if CBP, at its sole discretion, determines that the individual presents a potential risk for terrorism, criminality (such as smuggling), or CBP is unable to establish that the applicant can be considered low-risk. This risk determination will be based in part upon an applicant's ability to demonstrate past compliance with laws, regulations, and policies. Reasons why an applicant may not qualify for participation include:


(i) The applicant provides false or incomplete information on his or her application;


(ii) The applicant has been arrested for, or convicted of, any criminal offense or has pending criminal charges or outstanding warrants in any country;


(iii) The applicant has been found in violation of any customs, immigration, or agriculture regulations, procedures, or laws in any country;


(iv) The applicant is the subject of an investigation by any Federal, State or local law enforcement agency in any country;


(v) The applicant is inadmissible to the United States under applicable immigration laws or has, at any time, been granted a waiver of inadmissibility or parole;


(vi) The applicant is known or suspected of being or having been engaged in conduct constituting, in preparation for, in aid of, or related to terrorism; or


(vii) The applicant cannot satisfy CBP of his or her low-risk status or meet other program requirements.


(c) *Program application.* (1) Each applicant must complete and submit the program application electronically through an approved application process as determined by CBP. The application and application instructions for the SENTRI program are available at *www.cbp.gov.*

(2) During the application process, an applicant must provide information on any vehicle that will utilize the SENTRI lanes. The vehicle must be approved by CBP to utilize the dedicated SENTRI lanes. Registration of one vehicle for use in the SENTRI lanes is included in the application fee provided the vehicle is registered at the time of initial application or at renewal. If any vehicle is registered after the initial application or renewal is filed, or if an applicant or participant wishes to register more than one vehicle for use in the SENTRI lanes, they will be assessed an additional fee in the amount set forth at 8 CFR 103.7(d)(16). The fee is to be paid to CBP at the time the vehicle is registered through the online TTP System, which can be found at *www.cbp.gov,* or other CBP-approved process.


(3) Except for certain minors, all other applicants must pay the non-refundable fee in the amount set forth at 8 CFR 103.7(d)(16) for the “SENTRI program”. Minors under the age of 18 who apply concurrently with a parent or legal guardian, or whose parent or legal guardian is already a participant of SENTRI, are exempt from payment of the applicable fee. The fee is to be paid to CBP at the time of application through the TTP System or other CBP-approved process.


(4) Every applicant accepted into the SENTRI program is accepted for a period of 5 years provided participation is not terminated by CBP prior to the end of the 5-year period. Each applicant may apply to renew participation up to one year prior to the close of the participation period.


(5) Each applicant may check the status of his or her application through his or her account with the application system in use for the SENTRI program.


(d) *Interview and enrollment.* (1) After submitting the application, conditionally approved applicants will be notified by CBP to schedule a personal interview.


(2) Each applicant must provide CBP the original of the identification document specified in his or her application. During the interview, CBP will collect biometric information from the applicant (*e.g.,* a set of fingerprints and/or digital photograph) to conduct background checks or as otherwise required for participation in the program.


(3) CBP may provide for alternative enrollment procedures, as necessary, to facilitate enrollment and ensure an applicant's eligibility for the program.


(e) *SENTRI lanes.* A SENTRI participant is issued a Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) card or other CBP-approved document. This RFID card or other CBP-approved document will grant the participant access to specific, dedicated primary lanes into the United States from Mexico (SENTRI lanes). These lanes are identified at *http://www.cbp.gov.* A SENTRI participant may utilize a vehicle in the dedicated SENTRI lanes into the United States from Mexico only if the vehicle is approved by CBP for such purpose.


(f) *Denial and removal.* (1) If an applicant is denied participation in the SENTRI program, or an applicant's or participant's vehicle is not approved for use in the SENTRI lanes, CBP will notify the applicant of the denial, and the reasons for the denial. CBP will also provide instructions regarding how to proceed if the applicant wishes to seek additional information as to the reason for the denial.


(2) A SENTRI participant may be removed from the program for any of the following reasons:


(i) CBP, at its sole discretion, determines that the participant has engaged in any disqualifying activities as outlined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section;


(ii) CBP, at its sole discretion, determines that the participant provided false information in the application and/or during the application process;


(iii) CBP, at its sole discretion, determines that the participant failed to follow the terms, conditions and requirements of the program;


(iv) CBP determines that the participant has been arrested or convicted of a crime or otherwise determines, at its sole discretion, that the participant no longer meets the program eligibility criteria; or


(v) CBP, at its sole discretion, determines that such action is otherwise necessary.


(3) CBP will notify the participant of their removal from the program in writing. Such removal is effective immediately.


(4) An applicant or participant denied or removed will not receive a refund, in whole or in part, of his or her application fee.


(g) *Redress.* An individual whose application is denied or who is removed from the program or whose vehicle is not approved for use in the program has two possible methods for redress. These processes do not create or confer any legal right, privilege, or benefit on the applicant or participant, and are wholly discretionary on the part of CBP. The methods of redress are:


(1) *DHS Traveler Redress Inquiry Program (DHS TRIP).* The applicant/participant may choose to initiate the redress process through DHS TRIP. An applicant/participant seeking redress may obtain the necessary forms and information to initiate the process on the DHS TRIP website, or by contacting DHS TRIP by mail at the address on this website.


(2) *Ombudsman.* Applicants and participants may contest a denial or removal from the program by submitting a reconsideration request to the CBP Trusted Traveler Ombudsman through the TTP System or other CBP-approved process.





---

[N] [89 FR 22629, Apr. 2, 2024]




