# ยง 147.3   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Accommodation, control, or service spaces* means living quarters, including walkways, dining rooms, galleys, pantries, lounges, lavatories, cabins, staterooms, offices, hospitals, cinemas, and game and hobby rooms; areas containing controls for equipment and navigation; workshops, other than those forming part of machinery spaces; and store rooms adjacent to these spaces. 


*Combustible liquid* means *combustible liquid* as the term is defined in 49 CFR 173.120(b).


*Compressed gas* means *compressed gas* as the term is defined in 49 CFR 173.115.


*Consumer commodity* means a commodity, such as a polish, insecticide, cleaning compound, or distillate, that is packaged and distributed in a form and quantity intended for sale through retail sales establishments.


*Flammable liquid* means *flammable liquid* as the term is defined in 49 CFR 173.120(a).


*Hazardous material* means *hazardous material* as the term is defined in 49 CFR 171.8.


*Hazardous ships' stores* means ships' stores that are hazardous materials.


*Proper shipping name* means the name of the hazardous ships' stores shown in Roman print (not in italics) in 49 CFR 172.101.


*Ships' stores* means materials which are on board a vessel for the upkeep, maintenance, safety, operation, or navigation of the vessel (except for fumigants under part 147A of this chapter, for fuel and compressed air used for the vessel's primary propulsion machinery, or for fixed auxiliary equipment) or for the safety or comfort of the vessel's passengers or crew. 


*Technical name* means the recognized chemical name used in scientific or technical publications.



---

[N] [CGD 84-044, 53 FR 7749, Mar. 10, 1988, as amended by CGD 97-057, 62 FR 51048, Sept. 30, 1997]




