# § 770.30   Importers, fabricators, distributors, and retailers.

(a) Importers, fabricators, distributors, and retailers must take reasonable precautions to ensure that the composite wood products they sell, supply, offer for sale, or hold for sale, whether in the form of panels, component parts, or finished goods, comply with the emission standards and other requirements of this subpart.


(b) Importers must demonstrate that they have taken reasonable precautions by maintaining, for three years, bills of lading, invoices, or comparable documents that include a written statement from the supplier that the composite wood products, component parts, or finished goods are TSCA Title VI compliant or were produced before June 1, 2018 and by ensuring the following records are made available to EPA within 30 calendar days of request:


(1) Records identifying the panel producer and the date the composite wood products were produced; and


(2) Records identifying the supplier, if different, and the date the composite wood products, component parts, or finished goods were purchased.


(c) Fabricators, distributors, and retailers must demonstrate that they have taken reasonable precautions by obtaining bills of lading, invoices, or comparable documents that include a written statement from the supplier that the composite wood products, component parts, or finished goods are TSCA Title VI compliant or that the composite wood products were produced before June 1, 2018.


(d) Beginning March 22, 2019, importers of articles that are regulated composite wood products, or articles that contain regulated composite wood products, must comply with the import certification regulations for “Chemical Substances in Bulk and As Part of Mixtures and Articles,” as found at 19 CFR 12.118 through 12.127.


(e) Records required by this section must be maintained in accordance with § 770.40(d).



---

[N] [81 FR 89724, Dec. 12, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 44537, Sept. 25, 2017; 84 FR 43525, Aug. 21, 2019]




