# § 74.701   Definitions.

(a) *Television broadcast translator station.* A station in the broadcast service operated for the purpose of retransmitting the programs and signals of a television broadcast station, without significantly altering any characteristic of the original signal other than its frequency and amplitude, for the purpose of providing television reception to the general public.


(b) *Primary station.* The television station which provides the programs and signals being retransmitted by a television broadcast translator station.


(c) *Analog to Digital Replacement Translator (DRT).* A television translator licensed to a full power television station that allows it to restore service to any loss areas that may have occurred as a result of its transition from analog to digital.


(d) *Digital to Digital Replacement Translator (DTDRT).* A television translator licensed to a full power television station that allows it to restore service to any loss areas that may have occurred as a result of the station being assigned a new channel pursuant to the Incentive Auction and repacking process.


(e) [Reserved]


(f) *Low power TV station.* A station authorized under the provisions of this subpart G of this part that may retransmit the programs and signals of a TV broadcast station and that may originate programming in any amount greater than 30 seconds per hour.


(g) [Reserved]


(h) *Local origination.* Program origination if the parameters of the program source signal, as it reaches the transmitter site, are under the control of the low power TV station licensee. Transmission of TV program signals generated at the transmitter site constitutes local origination. Local origination also includes transmission of programs reaching the transmitter site via TV STL stations, but does not include transmission of signals obtained from either terrestrial or satellite microwave feeds or low power TV stations.


(i) [Reserved]


(j) *Television broadcast translator station (“TV translator station”).* A station operated for the purpose of retransmitting the programs and signals of a television broadcast station, without significantly altering any characteristic of the original signal other than its frequency, for the purpose of providing television reception to the general public.


(k) *Low power TV station (“LPTV station”).* A station authorized under the provisions of this subpart that may retransmit the programs and signals of a television broadcast station, may originate programming in any amount greater than 30 seconds per hour for the purpose of providing television reception to the general public and, subject to a minimum video program service requirement, may offer services of an ancillary or supplementary nature, including subscription-based services. (*See* § 74.790.)


(l) *Digital program origination.* For purposes of this part, digital program origination shall be any transmissions other than the simultaneous retransmission of the programs and signals of a TV or DTV broadcast station or transmissions related to service offerings of an ancillary or supplementary nature. Origination shall include locally generated television program signals and program signals obtained via video recordings (tapes and discs), microwave, common carrier circuits, or other sources.


(m) *Existing low power television or television translator station.* When used in this subpart, the terms existing low power television and existing television translator station refer to a low power television station or television translator station that is either licensed or has a valid construction permit.



---

[N] [28 FR 13722, Dec. 14, 1963, as amended at 43 FR 1951, Jan. 13, 1978; 47 FR 21497, May 18, 1982; 48 FR 21486, May 12, 1983; 52 FR 7422, Mar. 11, 1987; 52 FR 31403, Aug. 20, 1987; 62 FR 26720, May 14, 1997; 69 FR 69331, Nov. 29, 2004; 87 FR 58202, Sept. 23, 2022; 89 FR 7265, Feb. 1, 2024]




