# ยง 542.15   What are the minimum internal control standards for credit?

(a) *Computer applications.* For any computer applications utilized, alternate documentation and/or procedures that provide at least the level of control described by the standards in this section, as approved by the Tribal gaming regulatory authority, will be acceptable. 


(b) *Credit standards.* The following standards shall apply if the gaming operation authorizes and extends credit to customers: 


(1) At least the following information shall be recorded for customers that have credit limits or are issued credit (excluding personal checks, payroll checks, cashier's checks, and traveler's checks): 


(i) Customer's name, current address, and signature; 


(ii) Identification verifications; 


(iii) Authorized credit limit; 


(iv) Documentation of authorization by a person designated by management to approve credit limits; and 


(v) Credit issuances and payments. 


(2) Prior to extending credit, the customer's gaming operation credit record and/or other documentation shall be examined to determine the following: 


(i) Properly authorized credit limit; 


(ii) Whether remaining credit is sufficient to cover the credit issuance; and 


(iii) Identity of the customer (except for known customers). 


(3) Credit extensions over a specified dollar amount shall be approved by personnel designated by management. 


(4) Proper approval of credit extensions over ten percent (10%) of the previously established limit shall be documented. 


(5) The job functions of credit approval (i.e., establishing the customer's credit worthiness) and credit extension (*i.e.,* advancing customer's credit) shall be segregated for credit extensions to a single customer of $10,000 or more per day (applies whether the credit is extended in the pit or the cage). 


(6) If cage credit is extended to a single customer in an amount exceeding $2,500, appropriate gaming personnel shall be notified on a timely basis of the customers playing on cage credit, the applicable amount of credit issued, and the available balance. 


(7) Cage marker forms shall be at least two parts (the original marker and a payment slip), prenumbered by the printer or concurrently numbered by the computerized system, and utilized in numerical sequence.


(8) The completed original cage marker shall contain at least the following information: 


(i) Marker number; 


(ii) Player's name and signature; and 


(iii) Amount of credit issued (both alpha and numeric). 


(9) The completed payment slip shall include the same marker number as the original, date and time of payment, amount of payment, nature of settlement (cash, chips, etc.), and signature of cashier receiving the payment. 


(c) *Payment standards.* (1) All payments received on outstanding credit instruments shall be recorded in ink or other permanent form of recordation in the gaming operation's records. 


(2) When partial payments are made on credit instruments, they shall be evidenced by a multi-part receipt (or another equivalent document) that contains: 


(i) The same preprinted number on all copies; 


(ii) Customer's name; 


(iii) Date of payment; 


(iv) Dollar amount of payment (or remaining balance if a new marker is issued), and nature of settlement (cash, chips, etc.); 


(v) Signature of employee receiving payment; and 


(vi) Number of credit instrument on which partial payment is being made. 


(3) Unless account balances are routinely confirmed on a random basis by the accounting or internal audit departments, or statements are mailed by a person independent of the credit transactions and collections thereon, and the department receiving payments cannot access cash, then the following standards shall apply: 


(i) The routing procedures for payments by mail require that they be received by a department independent of credit instrument custody and collection; 


(ii) Such receipts by mail shall be documented on a listing indicating the customer's name, amount of payment, nature of payment (if other than a check), and date payment received; and 


(iii) The total amount of the listing of mail receipts shall be reconciled with the total mail receipts recorded on the appropriate accountability form by the accounting department on a random basis (for at least three (3) days per month). 


(d) *Access to credit documentation.* (1) Access to credit documentation shall be restricted as follows: 


(i) The credit information shall be restricted to those positions that require access and are so authorized by management; 


(ii) Outstanding credit instruments shall be restricted to persons authorized by management; and 


(iii) Written-off credit instruments shall be further restricted to persons specified by management. 


(2) [Reserved] 


(e) *Maintenance of credit documentation.* (1) All extensions of cage credit, pit credit transferred to the cage, and subsequent payments shall be documented on a credit instrument control form. 


(2) Records of all correspondence, transfers to and from outside agencies, and other documents related to issued credit instruments shall be maintained. 


(f) *Write-off and settlement standards.* (1) Written-off or settled credit instruments shall be authorized in writing. 


(2) Such authorizations shall be made by at least two management officials who are from departments independent of the credit transaction. 


(g) *Collection agency standards.* (1) If credit instruments are transferred to collection agencies or other collection representatives, a copy of the credit instrument and a receipt from the collection representative shall be obtained and maintained until the original credit instrument is returned or payment is received. 


(2) A person independent of credit transactions and collections shall periodically review the documents in paragraph (g)(1) of this section. 


(h) *Accounting/auditing standards.* (1) A person independent of the cage, credit, and collection functions shall perform all of the following at least three (3) times per year: 


(i) Ascertain compliance with credit limits and other established credit issuance procedures; 


(ii) Randomly reconcile outstanding balances of both active and inactive accounts on the accounts receivable listing to individual credit records and physical instruments; 


(iii) Examine credit records to determine that appropriate collection efforts are being made and payments are being properly recorded; and 


(iv) For a minimum of five (5) days per month, partial payment receipts shall be subsequently reconciled to the total payments recorded by the cage for the day and shall be numerically accounted for. 


(2) [Reserved] 




