# ยง 1489.20   Financial management.

(a) A RAPP Participant shall implement and maintain a financial management system that conforms to generally accepted accounting principles. A RAPP Participant's financial management system shall comply with the standards in 2 CFR part 200.


(b) A RAPP Participant shall institute internal controls and provide written guidance to commercial entities participating in its activities to ensure their compliance with this part.


(c) A RAPP Participant shall retain all records concerning a RAPP program transaction for a period of three years after completion of the program transaction and permit the CCC to have full and complete access to such records during the transaction period and for such three-year period after completion of the program transaction. These records shall include all records pertaining to contractors.


(d) A RAPP Participant shall maintain its records of expenditures and contributions in a manner that allows it to provide information by activity plan, country, activity number, and cost category. Such records shall include:


(1) Receipts for all STRE (actual vendor invoices or restaurant checks, rather than credit card receipts);


(2) Original receipts for any other program-related expenditure in excess of a set amount that CCC will determine and announce in writing to all RAPP Participants via a RAPP notice issued on the FAS website. The CCC may, from time to time, set a different minimum amount. In that case, the CCC will announce the new amount in writing to all RAPP Participants via a RAPP notice issued on the FAS website;


(3) The exchange rate used to calculate the dollar equivalent of expenditures made in a foreign currency and the basis for such calculation;


(4) Copies of reimbursement claims;


(5) An itemized list of claims charged to each of the RAPP Participant's CCC resources accounts;


(6) Documentation with accompanying English translation supporting each reimbursement claim, including original evidence to support the financial transactions such as canceled checks, receipted paid bills, contracts or purchase orders, per diem calculations, travel vouchers, and credit memos; and


(7) Documentation supporting contributions. These must include the dates, purpose, and location of the activity for which the cash or in-kind items were claimed as a contribution; who conducted the activity; the participating groups or individuals; and the method of computing the claimed contributions. RAPP Participants must retain and make available for compliance review documentation related to claimed contributions.


(e) Upon request, a RAPP Participant shall provide to the CCC originals of documents supporting reimbursement claims.






