# ยง 63.341   Definitions and nomenclature.

(a) *Definitions.* Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Act, in subpart A of this part, or in this section. For the purposes of subpart N of this part, if the same term is defined in subpart A of this part and in this section, it shall have the meaning given in this section.


*Add-on air pollution control device* means equipment installed in the ventilation system of chromium electroplating and anodizing tanks for the purposes of collecting and containing chromium emissions from the tank(s).


*Affirmative defense* means, in the context of an enforcement proceeding, a response or a defense put forward by a defendant, regarding which the defendant has the burden of proof, and the merits of which are independently and objectively evaluated in a judicial or administrative proceeding.


*Air pollution control technique* means any method, such as an add-on air pollution control device or a chemical fume suppressant, that is used to reduce chromium emissions from chromium electroplating and chromium anodizing tanks.


*Base metal* means the metal or metal alloy that comprises the workpiece.


*Bath component* means the trade or brand name of each component(s) in trivalent chromium plating baths. For trivalent chromium baths, the bath composition is proprietary in most cases. Therefore, the trade or brand name for each component(s) can be used; however, the chemical name of the wetting agent contained in that component must be identified.


*Chemical fume suppressant* means any chemical agent that reduces or suppresses fumes or mists at the surface of an electroplating or anodizing bath; another term for fume suppressant is mist suppressant.


*Chromic acid* means the common name for chromium anhydride (CrO_3_).


*Chromium anodizing* means the electrolytic process by which an oxide layer is produced on the surface of a base metal for functional purposes (e.g., corrosion resistance or electrical insulation) using a chromic acid solution. In chromium anodizing, the part to be anodized acts as the anode in the electrical circuit, and the chromic acid solution, with a concentration typically ranging from 50 to 100 grams per liter (g/L), serves as the electrolyte.


*Chromium anodizing tank* means the receptacle or container along with the following accompanying internal and external components needed for chromium anodizing: rectifiers fitted with controls to allow for voltage adjustments, heat exchanger equipment, circulation pumps, and air agitation systems.


*Chromium electroplating tank* means the receptacle or container along with the following internal and external components needed for chromium electroplating: Rectifiers, anodes, heat exchanger equipment, circulation pumps, and air agitation systems.


*Composite mesh-pad system* means an add-on air pollution control device typically consisting of several mesh-pad stages. The purpose of the first stage is to remove large particles. Smaller particles are removed in the second stage, which consists of the composite mesh pad. A final stage may remove any reentrained particles not collected by the composite mesh pad.


*Contains hexavalent chromium* means, the substance consists of, or contains 0.1 percent or greater by weight, chromium trioxide, chromium (VI) oxide, chromic acid, or chromic anhydride.


*Decorative chromium electroplating* means the process by which a thin layer of chromium (typically 0.003 to 2.5 microns) is electrodeposited on a base metal, plastic, or undercoating to provide a bright surface with wear and tarnish resistance. In this process, the part(s) serves as the cathode in the electrolytic cell and the solution serves as the electrolyte. Typical current density applied during this process ranges from 540 to 2,400 Amperes per square meter (A/m
2) for total plating times ranging between 0.5 to 5 minutes.


*Electroplating or anodizing bath* means the electrolytic solution used as the conducting medium in which the flow of current is accompanied by movement of metal ions for the purposes of electroplating metal out of the solution onto a workpiece or for oxidizing the base material.


*Emission limitation* means, for the purposes of this subpart, the concentration of total chromium allowed to be emitted expressed in milligrams per dry standard cubic meter (mg/dscm), or the allowable surface tension expressed in dynes per centimeter (dynes/cm).


*Enclosed hard chromium electroplating tank* means a chromium electroplating tank that is equipped with an enclosing hood and ventilated at half the rate or less that of an open surface tank of the same surface area.


*Existing affected source* means an affected hard chromium electroplating tank, decorative chromium electroplating tank, or chromium anodizing tank, the construction or reconstruction of which commenced on or before February 8, 2012.


*Facility* means the major or area source at which chromium electroplating or chromium anodizing is performed.


*Fiber-bed mist eliminator* means an add-on air pollution control device that removes contaminants from a gas stream through the mechanisms of inertial impaction and Brownian diffusion. These devices are typically installed downstream of another control device, which serves to prevent plugging, and consist of one or more fiber beds. Each bed consists of a hollow cylinder formed from two concentric screens; the fiber between the screens may be fabricated from glass, ceramic plastic, or metal.


*Foam blanket* means the type of chemical fume suppressant that generates a layer of foam across the surface of a solution when current is applied to that solution.


*Fresh water* means water, such as tap water, that has not been previously used in a process operation or, if the water has been recycled from a process operation, it has been treated and meets the effluent guidelines for chromium wastewater.


*Hard chromium electroplating* or industrial chromium electroplating means a process by which a thick layer of chromium (typically 1.3 to 760 microns) is electrodeposited on a base material to provide a surface with functional properties such as wear resistance, a low coefficient of friction, hardness, and corrosion resistance. In this process, the part serves as the cathode in the electrolytic cell and the solution serves as the electrolyte. Hard chromium electroplating process is performed at current densities typically ranging from 1,600 to 6,500 A/m
2 for total plating times ranging from 20 minutes to 36 hours depending upon the desired plate thickness.


*Hexavalent chromium* means the form of chromium in a valence state of + 6.


*Large, hard chromium electroplating facility* means a facility that performs hard chromium electroplating and has a maximum cumulative potential rectifier capacity greater than or equal to 60 million ampere-hours per year (amp-hr/yr).


*Maximum cumulative potential rectifier capacity* means the summation of the total installed rectifier capacity associated with the hard chromium electroplating tanks at a facility, expressed in amperes, multiplied by the maximum potential operating schedule of 8,400 hours per year and 0.7, which assumes that electrodes are energized 70 percent of the total operating time. The maximum potential operating schedule is based on operating 24 hours per day, 7 days per week, 50 weeks per year.


*New affected source* means an affected hard chromium electroplating tank, decorative chromium electroplating tank, or chromium anodizing tank, the construction or reconstruction of which commenced after February 8, 2012.


*Open surface hard chromium electroplating tank* means a chromium electroplating tank that is ventilated at a rate consistent with good ventilation practices for open tanks.


*Operating parameter value* means a minimum or maximum value established for a control device or process parameter which, if achieved by itself or in combination with one or more other operating parameter values, determines that an owner or operator is in continual compliance with the applicable emission limitation or standard.


*Packed-bed scrubber* means an add-on air pollution control device consisting of a single or double packed bed that contains packing media on which the chromic acid droplets impinge. The packed-bed section of the scrubber is followed by a mist eliminator to remove any water entrained from the packed-bed section.


*Perfluorooctane sulfonic acid (PFOS)-based fume suppressant* means a fume suppressant that contains 1 percent or greater PFOS by weight.


*Research or laboratory operation* means an operation whose primary purpose is for research and development of new processes and products, that is conducted under the close supervision of technically trained personnel, and that is not involved in the manufacture of products for commercial sale in commerce, except in a de minimis manner.


*Small, hard chromium electroplating facility* means a facility that performs hard chromium electroplating and has a maximum cumulative potential rectifier capacity less than 60 million amp-hr/yr.


*Stalagmometer* means an instrument used to measure the surface tension of a solution by determining the mass of a drop of liquid by weighing a known number of drops or by counting the number of drops obtained from a given volume of liquid.


*Surface tension* means the property, due to molecular forces, that exists in the surface film of all liquids and tends to prevent liquid from spreading.


*Tank operation* means the time in which current and/or voltage is being applied to a chromium electroplating tank or a chromium anodizing tank.


*Tensiometer* means an instrument used to measure the surface tension of a solution by determining the amount of force needed to pull a ring from the liquid surface. The amount of force is proportional to the surface tension.


*Trivalent chromium* means the form of chromium in a valence state of + 3.


*Trivalent chromium process* means the process used for electrodeposition of a thin layer of chromium onto a base material using a trivalent chromium solution instead of a chromic acid solution.


*Wetting agent* means the type of commercially available chemical fume suppressant that materially reduces the surface tension of a liquid.


(b) *Nomenclature.* The nomenclature used in this subpart has the following meaning:


(1) AMR = the allowable mass emission rate from each type of affected source subject to the same emission limitation in milligrams per hour (mg/hr).


(2) AMR_sys_ = the allowable mass emission rate from affected sources controlled by an add-on air pollution control device controlling emissions from multiple sources in mg/hr.


(3) EL = the applicable emission limitation from ยง 63.342 in milligrams per dry standard cubic meter (mg/dscm).


(4) IA_total_ = the sum of all inlet duct areas from both affected and nonaffected sources in meters squared.


(5) IDA_i_ = the total inlet area for all ducts associated with affected sources in meters squared.


(6) IDA_i,a_ = the total inlet duct area for all ducts conveying chromic acid from each type of affected source performing the same operation, or each type of affected source subject to the same emission limitation in meters squared.


(7) VR = the total of ventilation rates for each type of affected source subject to the same emission limitation in dry standard cubic meters per minute (dscm/min).


(8) VR_inlet_ = the total ventilation rate from all inlet ducts associated with affected sources in dscm/min.


(9) VR_inlet,a_ = the total ventilation rate from all inlet ducts conveying chromic acid from each type of affected source performing the same operation, or each type of affected source subject to the same emission limitation in dscm/min.


(10) VR_tot_ = the average total ventilation rate for the three test runs as determined at the outlet by means of the Method 306 or 306A testing specified in appendix A of this part in dscm/min.



---

[N] [60 FR 4963, Jan. 25, 1995, as amended at 69 FR 42894, July 19, 2004; 77 FR 58242, Sept. 19, 2012]




