# ยง 362.404   Appointment and extension.

(a) *Appointments.* (1) An agency may make 2-year appointments to the PMF Program, pursuant to a Pathways Policy, under Schedule D of the excepted service in accordance with part 302 of this chapter.


(2) An agency must appoint a PMF using the excepted service appointing authority provided by ยง 213.3402(c) of this chapter.


(3) OPM will establish an eligibility period during which agencies may appoint Fellow finalists.


(b) *Extension.* An agency may extend a Fellow's appointment for up to 120 days to cover rare or unusual circumstances or situations. The agency's Pathways MOU must identify the criteria for approving extensions.


(c) *Grade.* An agency may appoint a Fellow at the GS-09, GS-11, or GS-12 level or equivalent depending on his or her qualifications.


(d) *Trial period.* The duration of the PMF appointment in the excepted service is a trial period.


(e) *Work schedules.* A PMF will generally have a full-time work schedule. A PMF may request a part-time work schedule for a limited period of up to 6 months during the PMF Program. An agency has the discretion to approve or deny a request for a part-time work schedule if the agency and PMF have determined that it would not negatively impact the PMF's ability to meet all Program requirements by the expiration of the PMF's appointment. The agency's approval of the request must include an approval of a specific time period that the agency determines to be appropriate. A PMF is not entitled to approval of a request for a part-time work schedule. An agency's Pathways Policy must specify the conditions under which a part-time work schedule may be authorized. The PMF's Pathways Participant agreement must be updated with the new work schedule information when a part-time work schedule is approved.



---

[N] [77 FR 28215, May 11, 2012, as amended at 89 FR 25774, Apr. 12, 2024]








