# ยง 390.207   Other governing regulations.

(a) *Motor carriers.* (1) A motor carrier granted registration under this part must successfully complete the applicable New Entrant Safety Assurance Program as described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (a)(1)(iii) of this section as a condition for permanent registration:


(i) A U.S.- or Canada-domiciled motor carrier is subject to the new entrant safety assurance program under part 385, subpart D, of this subchapter.


(ii) A Mexico-domiciled motor carrier is subject to the safety monitoring program under part 385, subpart B of this subchapter.


(iii) A Non-North America-domiciled motor carrier is subject to the safety monitoring program under part 385, subpart I of this subchapter.


(2) Only the legal name or a single trade name of the motor carrier may be used on the Form MCSA-1, the URS online application.


(b) *Brokers, freight forwarders and non-exempt for-hire motor carriers.* (1) A broker or freight forwarder must obtain operating authority pursuant to part 365 of this chapter as a condition for obtaining USDOT Registration.


(2) A motor carrier registering to engage in transportation that is not exempt from economic regulation by FMCSA must obtain operating authority pursuant to part 365 of this subchapter as a condition for obtaining USDOT Registration.


(c) *Intermodal equipment providers.* An intermodal equipment provider is subject to the requirements of subpart C of this part.


(1) Only the legal name or a single trade name of the intermodal equipment provider may be used on the Form MCSA-1, the URS online application.


(2) The intermodal equipment provider must identify each unit of interchanged intermodal equipment by its assigned USDOT Number.


(d) *Hazardous materials safety permit applicants.* A person who applies for a hazardous materials safety permit is subject to the requirements of part 385, subpart E, of this subchapter.


(e) *Cargo tank facilities.* A cargo tank facility is subject to the requirements of 49 CFR part 107, subpart F, 49 CFR part 172, subpart H, and 49 CFR part 180.


