# ยง 162.78   Presentations responding to prepenalty notice.

(a) *Time within which to respond.* Unless a shorter period is specified in the prepenalty notice or an extension is given in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, the named person shall have 30 days from the date of mailing of the prepenalty notice to make a written and an oral presentation. The Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer may specify a shorter reasonable period of time, but not less than 7 days, if less than 1 year remains before the statute of limitations may be asserted as a defense. If a period of fewer than 30 days is specified, the Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer, if possible, shall inform the named person of the prepenalty notice and its contents by telephone at or about the time of issuance.


(b) *Extensions.* If at least 1 year remains before the statute of limitations may be asserted as a defense, the Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer, upon written request, may extend the time for filing a written presentation, or making an oral presentation, or both, for any of the reasons given in part 171 of this chapter (except for the reason described in ยง 171.15(a)(4)), relating to extensions of time for filing petitions for relief. In addition, an extension may be granted if, upon the request of the alleged violator, the Commissioner of Customs determines that the case involves an issue which is a proper matter for submission to Customs Headquarters under the internal advice procedures of ยง 177.11(b)(2) of this chapter. Other extensions may be authorized only by Headquarters.


(c) *Form and contents of written presentation.* The written presentation need not be in any particular form, but shall contain information sufficient to indicate that it is the written presentation in response to the prepenalty notice. It should contain answers to the allegations in the prepenalty notice and set forth the reasons why the person believes the claim should not be issued or, if issued, why it should be in a lesser amount than proposed.


(d) *Additional presentations.* In addition to one written and one oral presentation, the Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer, in his discretion, may allow further presentations. 



---

[N] [T.D. 72-211, 37 FR 16488, Aug. 15, 1972, as amended by T.D. 85-195, 50 FR 50290, Dec. 10, 1985; T.D. 99-27, 64 FR 13676, Mar. 22, 1999]




