# ยง 19.162   Operations bond for distilled spirits plant and adjacent bonded wine cellar.

(a) *One bond satisfying two requirements.* A proprietor who operates a bonded wine cellar that is adjacent to the proprietor's distilled spirits plant may file a single operations bond to cover the operations of the distilled spirits plant and the bonded wine cellar. A proprietor who files this type of bond satisfies the requirement in 26 U.S.C. 5173 for an operations bond covering the distilled spirits plant and the requirement in 26 U.S.C. 5354 for a bond covering wine and spirits possessed at, and in transit to, the bonded wine cellar. (The proprietor may still have to obtain a supplemental bond for the wine cellar to cover liabilities resulting from deferred payment of tax. See the second sentence of 26 U.S.C. 5354.)


(b) *One bond combining terms and coverage of separate bonds.* An operations bond filed under paragraph (a) of this section must contain the same terms and conditions that would be in separate bonds for the distilled spirits plant and for the bonded wine cellar. The proprietor may not allocate or divide the penal sum between the distilled spirits plant and the bonded wine cellar. The total amount of the bond must be available to satisfy any liability incurred under the terms of the bond at either facility.


(c) *Persons qualified for a single bond.* A proprietor may choose to file a single operations bond for a distilled spirits plant and adjacent bonded wine cellar only if:


(1) Such distilled spirits plant is qualified under subpart D of this part for the production of distilled spirits; and


(2) Such wine cellar and distilled spirits plant are operated by the same person (or in the case of a corporation, by such corporation and its controlled subsidiaries).


