# ยง 1641.22   Decisions of debarring official.

(a) *Standard of proof.* (1) A debarment or removal must be based on a finding that the cause or causes for debarment or removal are established by a preponderance of the evidence in the administrative record of the case.


(2) A suspension must be based on a finding that the cause or causes are established by adequate evidence in the administrative record of the case.


(b) The administrative record consists of any information, reports, documents or other evidence identified and relied upon in the Notice of Proposed Debarment, the Notice of Proposed Suspension, or the Notice of Proposed Removal, together with any relevant material contained in the IPA's response or submitted by an affected recipient. In the case of debarment or removal, when additional proceedings are necessary to determine disputed material facts, the administrative record also shall consist of any relevant material submitted or presented at such proceedings.


(c) Failure of the OIG to meet a time requirement of this part does not preclude the OIG from debarring, suspending or removing an IPA. In extraordinary circumstances, the OIG may grant an IPA an extension of the time requirements set out in this part.


(d) *Notice of decisions.* IPAs shall be given prompt notice of the debarring official's decision. A copy of the decision also will be sent to the affected recipient. If the debarring official debars, suspends or removes an IPA, the decision shall:


(1) Set forth the finding(s) upon which the decision is based;


(2) Set forth the effect of the debarment, suspension or removal action and the effective dates of the action;


(3) Refer the IPA to its procedural rights of appeal and reconsideration under ยง 1641.24; and


(4) Inform the IPA that a copy of the debarring official's decision will be a public document and the fact of debarment, suspension or removal will be a matter of public record.


(e) If the debarring official decides that a debarment, suspension, or removal is not warranted, the Notice may be withdrawn or the proceeding may be otherwise terminated.


(f) If the debarring official deems it appropriate, the debarring official may, at any time, settle by agreement with the IPA a debarment, suspension, or removal action. Such a negotiated settlement may include the imposition of appropriate conditions on the IPA.




