# ยง 270.11   Signatories to permit applications and reports.

(a) *Applications.* All permit applications shall be signed as follows:


(1) *For a corporation:* By a responsible corporate officer. For the purpose of this section, a responsible corporate officer means (i) A president, secretary, treasurer, or vice-president of the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs similar policy- or decisionmaking functions for the corporation, or (ii) the manager of one or more manufacturing, production or operating facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual sales or expenditures exceeding $25 million (in second-quarter 1980 dollars), if authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.


(2) *For a partnership or sole proprietorship;* by a general partner or the proprietor, respectively; or


(3) *For a municipality, State, Federal, or other public agency:* by either a principal executive officer or ranking elected official. For purposes of this section, a principal executive officer of a Federal agency includes: (i) The chief executive officer of the agency, or (ii) a senior executive officer having responsibility for the overall operations of a principal geographic unit of the agency (e.g., Regional Administrators of EPA).


(b) *Reports.* All reports required by permits and other information requested by the Director shall be signed by a person described in paragraph (a) of this section, or by a duly authorized representative of that person. A person is a duly authorized representative only if:


(1) The authorization is made in writing by a person described in paragraph (a) of this section;


(2) The authorization specifies either an individual or a position having responsibility for overall operation of the regulated facility or activity such as the position of plant manager, operator of a well or a well field, superintendent, or position of equivalent responsibility. (A duly authorized representative may thus be either a named individual or any individual occupying a named position); and


(3) The written authorization is submitted to the Director.


(c) *Changes to authorization.* If an authorization under paragraph (b) of this section is no longer accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the overall operation of the facility, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section must be submitted to the Director prior to or together with any reports, information, or applications to be signed by an authorized representative.


(d)(1) Any person signing a document under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section must make the following certification:


(2) For remedial action plans (RAPs) under subpart H of this part, if the operator certifies according to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, then the owner may choose to make the following certification instead of the certification in paragraph (d)(1) of this section:



---

[N] [48 FR 14228, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 48 FR 39622, Sept. 1, 1983; 63 FR 65941, Nov. 30, 1998; 71 FR 40279, July 14, 2006]




