# § 98.346   Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by § 98.3(c), each annual report must contain the following information for each landfill.


(a) A classification of the landfill as “open” (actively received waste in the reporting year) or “closed” (no longer receiving waste), the year in which the landfill first started accepting waste for disposal, the last year the landfill accepted waste (for open landfills, enter the estimated year of landfill closure), the capacity (in metric tons) of the landfill, an indication of whether leachate recirculation is used during the reporting year and its typical frequency of use over the past 10 years (e.g., used several times a year for the past 10 years, used at least once a year for the past 10 years, used occasionally but not every year over the past 10 years, not used), an indication as to whether scales are present at the landfill, and the waste disposal quantity for each year of landfilling required to be included when using Equation HH-1 of this subpart (in metric tons, wet weight).


(b) Method for estimating reporting year and historical waste disposal quantities, reason for its selection, and the range of years it is applied. For years when waste quantity data are determined using the methods in § 98.343(a)(3), report separately the quantity of waste determined using the methods in § 98.343(a)(3)(i) and the quantity of waste determined using the methods in § 98.343(a)(3)(ii). For historical waste disposal quantities that were not determined using the methods in § 98.343(a)(3), provide the population served by the landfill for each year the Equation HH-2 of this subpart is applied, if applicable, or, for open landfills using Equation HH-3 of this subpart, provide the value of landfill capacity (LFC) used in the calculation.


(c) Waste composition for each year required for Equation HH-1 of this subpart, in percentage by weight, for each waste category listed in Table HH-1 to this subpart that is used in Equation HH-1 of this subpart to calculate the annual modeled CH_4_ generation.


(d) For each waste type used to calculate CH_4_ generation using Equation HH-1 of this subpart, you must report:


(1) Degradable organic carbon (DOC) and fraction of DOC dissimilated (DOC_F_) values used in the calculations.


(2) Decay rate (k) value used in the calculations.


(e) Fraction of CH_4_ in landfill gas (F), an indication of whether the fraction of CH_4_ was determined based on measured values or the default value, and the methane correction factor (MCF) used in the calculations. If an MCF other than the default of 1 is used, provide an indication of whether active aeration of the waste in the landfill was conducted during the reporting year, a description of the aeration system, including aeration blower capacity, the fraction of the landfill containing waste affected by aeration, the total number of hours during the year the aeration blower was operated, and other factors used as a basis for the selected MCF value.


(f) The surface area of the landfill containing waste (in square meters), identification of the type(s) of cover material used (as either organic cover, clay cover, sand cover, or other soil mixtures).


(g) The modeled annual methane generation rate for the reporting year (metric tons CH_4_) calculated using Equation HH-1 of this subpart.


(h) An indication of the applicability of part 60 or part 62 of this chapter requirements to the landfill (part 60, subparts WWW and XXX of this chapter, approved state plan implementing part 60, subparts Cc or Cf of this chapter, Federal plan as implemented at part 62, subparts GGG or OOO of this chapter, or not subject to part 60 or part 62 of this chapter municipal solid waste landfill rules), and if the landfill is subject to a part 60 or part 62 of this chapter municipal solid waste landfill rule, an indication of whether the landfill gas collection system is required under part 60 or part 62 of this chapter.




(i) For landfills without gas collection systems, the annual methane emissions (i.e., the methane generation, adjusted for oxidation, calculated using Equation HH-5 of this subpart), reported in metric tons CH_4_, the oxidation fraction used in the calculation, and an indication of whether passive vents and/or passive flares (vents or flares that are not considered part of the gas collection system as defined in § 98.6) are present at this landfill.


(j) For landfills with gas collection systems, you must report:


(1) Total volumetric flow of landfill gas collected for destruction for the reporting year (cubic feet at 520 °R or 60 degrees Fahrenheit and 1 atm).


(2) Annual average CH_4_ concentration of landfill gas collected for destruction (percent by volume).


(3) Monthly average temperature and pressure for each month at which flow is measured for landfill gas collected for destruction, or statement that temperature and/or pressure is incorporated into internal calculations run by the monitoring equipment.


(4) An indication as to whether flow was measured on a wet or dry basis, an indication as to whether CH_4_ concentration was measured on a wet or dry basis, and if required for Equation HH-4 of this subpart, monthly average moisture content for each month at which flow is measured for landfill gas collected for destruction.


(5) The number of gas collection systems at the landfill facility.


(6) For each gas collection system at the facility report:


(i) A unique name or ID number for the gas collection system.


(ii) A description of the gas collection system (manufacturer, capacity, and number of wells).


(iii) The annual hours the gas collection system was operating normally. Do not include periods of shut down or poor operation, such as times when pressure, temperature, or other parameters indicative of operation are outside of normal variances, in the annual operating hours.


(iv) The number of measurement locations associated with the gas collection system.


(v) For each measurement location associated with the gas collection system, report:


(A) A unique name or ID number for the measurement location.


(B) Annual quantity of recovered CH_4_ (metric tons CH_4_) calculated using equation HH-4 to § 98.343.


(C) An indication of whether destruction occurs at the landfill facility, off-site, or both for the measurement location.


(D) If destruction occurs at the landfill facility for the measurement location (in full or in part), also report the number of destruction devices associated with the measurement location that are located at the landfill facility and the information in paragraphs (j)(6)(v)(D)(1) through (6) of this section for each destruction device located at the landfill facility.


(*1*) A unique name or ID number for the destruction device.


(*2*) The type of destruction device (flare, a landfill gas to energy project (*i.e.,* engine or turbine), off-site, or other (specify)).


(*3*) The destruction efficiency (decimal).


(*4*) The total annual hours where active gas flow was sent to the destruction device.


(*5*) The annual operating hours where active gas flow was sent to the destruction device and the destruction device was operating at its intended temperature or other parameter indicative of effective operation. For flares, times when there is no flame present must be excluded from the annual operating hours for the destruction device.


(*6*) The estimated fraction of the recovered CH4 reported for the measurement location directed to the destruction device based on best available data or engineering judgement (decimal, must total to 1 for each measurement location).


(*7*)[SF1] The following information about the landfill.


(i) The surface area (square meters) and estimated waste depth (meters) for each area specified in table HH-3 to this subpart.


(ii) The estimated gas collection system efficiency for the landfill.


(iii) An indication of whether passive vents and/or passive flares (vents or flares that are not considered part of the gas collection system as defined in § 98.6) are present at the landfill.










(8) Methane generation corrected for oxidation calculated using Equation HH-5 of this subpart, reported in metric tons CH_4_, and the oxidation fraction used in the calculation.


(9) Methane generation (G_CH4_) value used as an input to Equation HH-6 of this subpart. Specify whether the value is modeled (G_CH4_ from HH-1 of this subpart) or measured (R from Equation HH-4 of this subpart).


(10) Methane generation corrected for oxidation calculated using Equation HH-7 of this subpart, reported in metric tons CH_4_, and the oxidation fraction used in the calculation.


(11) Methane emissions calculated using Equation HH-6 of this subpart, reported in metric tons CH_4_, and the oxidation fraction used in the calculation.


(12) Methane emissions calculated using Equation HH-8 of this subpart, reported in metric tons CH_4_, and the oxidation fraction used in the calculation.


(13) Methane emissions for the landfill (*i.e.,* the subpart HH total methane emissions). Choose the methane emissions from either Equation HH-6 or Equation HH-8 of this subpart that best represents the emissions from the landfill. If the quantity of recovered CH_4_ from Equation HH-4 of this subpart is used as the value of G_CH4_ in Equation HH-6, use the methane emissions calculated using Equation HH-8 as the methane emissions for the landfill.



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 66472, Oct. 28, 2010; 78 FR 71970, Nov. 29, 2013; 81 FR 89266, Dec. 9, 2016; 89 FR 31940, Apr. 25, 2024]




