# ยง 4284.502   Organization of subpart.

The information in this subpart is organized into six main topics:


(a) *General information.* Sections 4284.501 through 4284.519 discuss the purpose of the program, definitions, exception authority, conflict of interest, and compliance with other laws and regulations.


(b) *Eligibility information.* Sections 4284.520 through 4284.529 discuss the eligibility requirements for the program. The sections include information on Applicant eligibility, Project eligibility, and the use of funds. See ยง 4284.522 for information about the award amounts, Period of Performance, and Matching Funds requirements.


(c) *Application requirements information.* Sections 4284.530 through 4284.539 discuss the requirements for submitting an application. The sections include information on what forms and other information are required for a complete application as well as the format of the application, the application deadline, and how to submit the application.


(d) *Application processing information.* Sections 4284.540 through 4284.549 discuss how the Agency will process applications. The sections include information on how applications will be reviewed for eligibility, how applications will be evaluated for merit, and how an Applicant can withdraw an application from consideration.


(e) *Award information.* Sections 4284.550 through 4284.559 discuss how the Agency will make awards. The sections include information about how applications will be selected for funding, how Applicants will be notified if their applications are selected for funding, how Applicants can resolve disputes regarding funding selections, and the requirements for an Applicant to accept an award and be approved as a Recipient of an award.


(f) *Post-award information.* Sections 4284.560 through 4284.561 discuss the reporting requirements for Recipients after an award is approved as well as monitoring procedures that the Agency will use.


(g) *Other.* (1) Sections 4284.562 through 4284.599 are reserved.


(2) Section 4284.600 includes the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) control number for reporting and recordkeeping requirements under this subpart.






