# §  361.103   Automatic issuance of import licenses.

(a) *In general.* Aluminum import licenses will be issued to registered importers, customs brokers or their agents through an automatic aluminum import licensing system. The licenses will be issued automatically after the completion of the form.


(b) *Customs entry number.* Filers are not required to report a Customs entry number to obtain an import license but are encouraged to do so if the Customs entry number is known at the time of filing for the license.


(c) *Information required to obtain an import license.* (1) The following information is required to be reported in order to obtain an import license (if using the automatic licensing system, some of this information will be provided automatically from information submitted as part of the registration process):


(i) Filer company name and address;


(ii) Filer contact name, phone number, email address;


(iii) Entry type (*i.e.,* Consumption, FTZ);


(iv) Importer name;


(v) Exporter name;


(vi) Manufacturer name (filer may state “unknown”);


(vii) Country of origin;


(viii) Country of exportation;


(ix) Expected date of export;


(x) Expected date of import;


(xi) Expected port of entry;


(xii) Current Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS) number (from Chapter 76);


(xiii) Country where the largest volume of primary aluminum used in the manufacture of the product was smelted (see paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section);


(xiv) Country where the second largest volume of primary aluminum used in the manufacture of the product was smelted (see paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section);


(xv) Country where the product was most recently cast (see paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section);


(xvi) Quantity (in kilograms); and


(xvii) Customs value (US$).


(2) Certain fields will be automatically filled out by the automatic license system based on information submitted by the filer (*e.g.,* product category, unit value). Filers should review these fields to help confirm the accuracy of the submitted data.


(3)(i) For purposes of paragraph (c)(1)(xiii) of this section:


(A) The field in the license application requiring identification of the country where the largest volume of primary aluminum used in the manufacture of the product was smelted applies to the country where the largest volume of new aluminum metal is produced from alumina (or aluminum oxide) by the electrolytic Hall-Héroult process.


(B) Filers may state “not applicable” for this field if the product contains only secondary aluminum and no primary aluminum. Secondary aluminum is defined as aluminum metal that is produced from recycled aluminum scrap through a re-melting process.


(C) For license applications up to June 28, 2022, filers may state “unknown” for this field. Effective June 29, 2022, filers may not state “unknown” for this field.


(ii) For purposes of paragraph (c)(1)(xiv) of this section:


(A) The field in the license application requiring identification of the country where the second largest volume of primary aluminum used in the manufacture of the product was smelted applies to the country where the second largest volume of new aluminum metal is produced from alumina (or aluminum oxide) by the electrolytic Hall-Héroult process.


(B) Filers may state “not applicable” for this field if the product does not contain a second largest volume of primary aluminum or if the product contains only secondary aluminum and no primary aluminum. Secondary aluminum is defined as aluminum metal that is produced from recycled aluminum scrap through a re-melting process.


(C) For license applications up to June 28, 2022, filers may state “unknown” for this field. Effective June 29, 2022, filers may not state “unknown” for this field.


(iii) For purposes of paragraph (c)(1)(xv) of this section:


(A) The field in the license application requiring identification of the country where the product was most recently cast applies to the country where the aluminum (with or without alloying elements) was last liquified by heat and cast into a solid state. The final solid state can take the form of either a semi-finished product (slab, billets or ingots) or a finished aluminum product.


(B) Filers may not state “not applicable” for this field.


(C) Filers may not state “unknown” for this field.


(4) Upon completion of the form, the importer, customs broker or the importer's agent will certify as to the accuracy and completeness of the information and submit the form electronically. After refreshing the page, the system will automatically issue an aluminum import license number. The refreshed form containing the submitted information and the newly issued license number will appear on the screen (the “license form”). Filers can print the license form themselves only at that time. For security purposes, users will not be able to retrieve licenses themselves from the license system at a later date for reprinting. If needed, copies of completed license forms can be requested from Commerce during normal business hours.


(d) *Duration of the aluminum import license.* The aluminum import license can be applied for up to 60 days prior to the expected date of importation and until the date of filing of the entry summary documents, or in the case of FTZ admissions, the filing of Customs Form 214, or their electronic equivalents. With the exception of the licenses for FTZ admission (*see* § 361.101(c)), the aluminum import license is valid for 75 days; however, import licenses that were valid on the date of importation but expired prior to the filing of entry summary data will be accepted.


(e) *Correcting submitted license information.* Users will need to correct licenses themselves if they determine that there was an error submitted. To access a previously issued license, a user must log on with his username and identify the license number and the volume (quantity in kilograms) for the first product shown on the license. The information on the license should match the information presented in the entry summary data as closely as possible. This includes the value and quantity of the shipment, the expected date of importation, and the Customs port of entry.


(f) *Low-value licenses.* There is one exception to the requirement for obtaining a unique license for each Customs entry. If the total value of the covered aluminum portion of an entry is less than $5,000, applicants may apply to Commerce for a low-value license that can be used in lieu of a single-entry license for low-value entries.



---

[N] [85 FR 83814, Dec. 23, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 27518, May 21, 2021]






