# § 12.152   Prohibitions and conditions on the importation and exportation of rough diamonds.

(a) *General.* The Clean Diamond Trade Act (Pub. L. 108-19) requires the President, subject to certain waiver authorities, to prohibit the importation into, or exportation from, the United States, of any rough diamond, from whatever source, that has not been controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme. By Executive Order 13312 dated July 29, 2003, published in the _Federal Register_ (68 FR 45151) on July 31, 2003, the President implemented the Clean Diamond Trade Act, effective for rough diamonds imported into, or exported from, the United States on or after July 30, 2003. Pursuant to Executive Order 13312 and other authorities, the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), Department of the Treasury, promulgated the Rough Diamonds Control Regulations (see 31 CFR part 592). Any persons importing into or exporting from the United States a shipment of rough diamonds must comply with the requirements of CBP, OFAC, and the U.S. Census Bureau (15 CFR part 30).


(b) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:


(1) *Controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme.* “Controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme” means meeting the requirements set forth in 31 CFR 592.301;


(2) *Kimberley Process Certificate.* “Kimberley Process Certificate” means a forgery resistant document that meets the minimum requirements listed in Annex I of the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme, as well as the requirements listed in 31 CFR 592.307;


(3) *Rough diamond.* “Rough diamond” means any diamond that is unworked or simply sawn, cleaved, or bruted and classifiable under subheading 7102.10, 7102.21, or 7102.31 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States;


(4) *United States.* “United States”, when used in the geographic sense, means the several states, the District of Columbia, and any commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States; and


(5) *United States person.* “United States person” means:


(i) Any United States citizen or any alien admitted for permanent residence into the United States;


(ii) Any entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including its foreign branches); and


(iii) Any person in the United States.


(c) *Original Kimberley Process Certificate.* A shipment of rough diamonds imported into, or exported from, the United States must be accompanied by an original Kimberley Process Certificate.


(d) *Formal Entry Required.* Formal entry is required when importing a shipment of rough diamonds. Formal entry procedures are prescribed in part 142 of this chapter.


(e) *Report of Kimberley Process Certificate Unique Identifying Number.* Customs brokers, importers, and filers making entry of a shipment of rough diamonds must either submit through CBP's Automated Broker Interface (ABI) system the unique identifying number of the Kimberley Process Certificate accompanying the shipment or, for non-ABI entries, indicate the certificate number on the CBP Form 7501, Entry Summary, on each applicable line item.


(f) *Maintenance of Kimberley Process Certificate*—(1) *Ultimate consignee.* The ultimate consignee identified on the CBP Form 7501, Entry Summary, or its electronic equivalent filed with CBP in connection with an importation of rough diamonds must retain the original Kimberley Process Certificate for a period of at least five years from the date of importation and must make the certificate available for examination at the request of CBP.


(2) *Importer.* The U.S. person that imports into the United States a shipment of rough diamonds must retain a copy of the Kimberley Process Certificate accompanying the shipment for a period of at least five years from the date of importation and must make the copy available for examination at the request of CBP.


(3) *Exporter.* The U.S. person that exports from the United States a shipment of rough diamonds must retain a copy of the Kimberley Process Certificate accompanying the shipment for a period of at least five years from the date of exportation and must make the copy available for examination at the request of CBP.



---

[N] [78 FR 40629, July 8, 2013]




