# § 60.51a   Definitions.

*ASME* means the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. 


*Batch MWC* means an MWC unit designed such that it cannot combust MSW continuously 24 hours per day because the design does not allow waste to be fed to the unit or ash to be removed while combustion is occurring. 


*Bubbling fluidized bed combustor* means a fluidized bed combustor in which the majority of the bed material remains in a fluidized state in the primary combustion zone. 


*Calendar quarter* means a consecutive 3-month period (nonoverlapping) beginning on January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1. 


*Chief facility operator* means the person in direct charge and control of the operation of an MWC and who is responsible for daily on-site supervision, technical direction, management, and overall performance of the facility. 


*Circulating fluidized bed combustor* means a fluidized bed combustor in which the majority of the fluidized bed material is carried out of the primary combustion zone and is transported back to the primary zone through a recirculation loop. 


*Clean wood* means untreated wood or untreated wood products including clean untreated lumber, tree stumps (whole or chipped), and tree limbs (whole or chipped). Clean wood does not include yard waste, which is defined elsewhere in this section, or construction, renovation, and demolition wastes (which includes but is not limited to railroad ties and telephone poles), which are exempt from the definition of municipal solid waste in this section. 


*Cofired combustor* means a unit combusting municipal solid waste with nonmunicipal solid waste fuel (e.g., coal, industrial process waste) and subject to a federally enforceable permit limiting the unit to combusting a fuel feed stream, 30 percent or less of the weight of which is comprised, in aggregate, of municipal solid waste as measured on a calendar quarter basis. 


*Continuous emission monitoring system* or *CEMS* means a monitoring system for continuously measuring the emissions of a pollutant from an affected facility. 


*Continuous monitoring system* means the total equipment used to sample and condition (if applicable), to analyze, and to provide a permanent record of emissions or process parameters.


*Dioxin/furan* means total tetra- through octachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans. 


*Federally-enforceable* means all limitations and conditions that are enforceable by the Administrator including the requirements of 40 CFR parts 60 and 61, requirements within any applicable State implementation plan, and any permit requirements established under 40 CFR 52.21 or under 40 CFR 51.18 and 40 CFR 51.24.


*Four-hour block average* or *4-hour block average* means the average of all hourly emission rates when the affected facility is operating and combusting MSW measured over 4-hour periods of time from 12 midnight to 4 a.m., 4 a.m. to 8 a.m., 8 a.m. to 12 noon, 12 noon to 4 p.m., 4 p.m. to 8 p.m., and 8 p.m. to 12 midnight. 


*Large municipal waste combustor plant* means a municipal waste combustor plant with a municipal waste combustor aggregate plant capacity for affected facilities that is greater than 225 megagrams per day (250 tons per day) of municipal solid waste. 


*Mass burn refractory municipal waste combustor* means a field-erected combustor that combusts municipal solid waste in a refractory wall furnace. Unless otherwise specified, this includes combustors with a cylindrical rotary refractory wall furnace. 


*Mass burn rotary waterwall municipal waste combustor* means a field-erected combustor that combusts municipal solid waste in a cylindrical rotary waterwall furnace. 


*Mass burn waterwall municipal waste combustor* means a field-erected combustor that combusts municipal solid waste in a waterwall furnace. 


*Maximum demonstrated municipal waste combustor unit load* means the highest 4-hour arithmetic average municipal waste combustor unit load achieved during four consecutive hours during the most recent dioxin/furan performance test demonstrating compliance with the applicable limit for municipal waste combustor organics specified under § 60.53a. 


*Maximum demonstrated particulate matter control device temperature* means the highest 4-hour arithmetic average flue gas temperature measured at the particulate matter control device inlet during four consecutive hours during the most recent dioxin/furan performance test demonstrating compliance with the applicable limit for municipal waste combustor organics specified under § 60.53a. 


*Modification* or *modified municipal waste combustor unit* means a municipal waste combustor unit to which changes have been made if the cumulative cost of the changes, over the life of the unit, exceed 50 percent of the original cost of construction and installation of the unit (not including the cost of any land purchased in connection with such construction or installation) updated to current costs; or any physical change in the municipal waste combustor unit or change in the method of operation of the municipal waste combustor unit increases the amount of any air pollutant emitted by the unit for which standards have been established under section 129 or section 111. Increases in the amount of any air pollutant emitted by the municipal waste combustor unit are determined at 100-percent physical load capability and downstream of all air pollution control devices, with no consideration given for load restrictions based on permits or other nonphysical operational restrictions. 


*Modular excess air MWC* means a combustor that combusts MSW and that is not field-erected and has multiple combustion chambers, all of which are designed to operate at conditions with combustion air amounts in excess of theoretical air requirements. 


*Modular starved air MWC* means a combustor that combusts MSW and that is not field-erected and has multiple combustion chambers in which the primary combustion chamber is designed to operate at substoichiometric conditions.


*Municipal solid waste* or *municipal-type solid waste* or *MSW* means household, commercial/retail, and/or institutional waste. Household waste includes material discarded by single and multiple residential dwellings, hotels, motels, and other similar permanent or temporary housing establishments or facilities. Commercial/retail waste includes material discarded by stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses, nonmanufacturing activities at industrial facilities, and other similar establishments or facilities. Institutional waste includes material discarded by schools, nonmedical waste discarded by hospitals, material discarded by nonmanufacturing activities at prisons and government facilities, and material discarded by other similar establishments or facilities. Household, commercial/retail, and institutional waste does not include used oil; sewage sludge; wood pallets; construction, renovation, and demolition wastes (which includes but is not limited to railroad ties and telephone poles); clean wood; industrial process or manufacturing wastes; medical waste; or motor vehicles (including motor vehicle parts or vehicle fluff). Household, commercial/retail, and institutional wastes include: 


(1) Yard waste; 


(2) Refuse-derived fuel; and 


(3) Motor vehicle maintenance materials limited to vehicle batteries and tires except as specified in § 60.50a(c). 


*Municipal waste combustor, MWC,* or *municipal waste combustor unit:* (1) Means any setting or equipment that combusts solid, liquid, or gasified MSW including, but not limited to, field-erected incinerators (with or without heat recovery), modular incinerators (starved-air or excess-air), boilers (i.e., steam-generating units), furnaces (whether suspension-fired, grate-fired, mass-fired, air curtain incinerators, or fluidized bed-fired), and pyrolysis/combustion units. Municipal waste combustors do not include pyrolysis/combustion units located at plastics/ rubber recycling units (as specified in § 60.50a(k) of this section). Municipal waste combustors do not include internal combustion engines, gas turbines, or other combustion devices that combust landfill gases collected by landfill gas collection systems. 


(2) The boundaries of an MWC are defined as follows. The MWC unit includes, but is not limited to, the MSW fuel feed system, grate system, flue gas system, bottom ash system, and the combustor water system. The MWC boundary starts at the MSW pit or hopper and extends through: 


(i) The combustor flue gas system, which ends immediately following the heat recovery equipment or, if there is no heat recovery equipment, immediately following the combustion chamber; 


(ii) The combustor bottom ash system, which ends at the truck loading station or similar ash handling equipment that transfer the ash to final disposal, including all ash handling systems that are connected to the bottom ash handling system; and 


(iii) The combustor water system, which starts at the feed water pump and ends at the piping exiting the steam drum or superheater. 


(3) The MWC unit does not include air pollution control equipment, the stack, water treatment equipment, or the turbine generator set. 


*Municipal waste combustor plant* means one or more MWC units at the same location for which construction, modification, or reconstruction is commenced after December 20, 1989 and on or before September 20, 1994. 


*Municipal waste combustor plant capacity* means the aggregate MWC unit capacity of all MWC units at an MWC plant for which construction, modification, or reconstruction of the units commenced after December 20, 1989 and on or before September 20, 1994. Any MWC units for which construction, modification, or reconstruction is commenced on or before December 20, 1989 or after September 20, 1994 are not included for determining applicability under this subpart. 


*Municipal waste combustor unit capacity* means the maximum design charging rate of an MWC unit expressed in megagrams per day (tons per day) of MSW combusted, calculated according to the procedures under § 60.58a(j). Municipal waste combustor unit capacity is calculated using a design heating value of 10,500 kilojoules per kilogram (4,500 British thermal units per pound) for MSW. The calculational procedures under § 60.58a(j) include procedures for determining MWC unit capacity for continuous and batch feed MWC's. 


*Municipal waste combustor unit load* means the steam load of the MWC unit measured as specified in § 60.58a(h)(6). 


*MWC acid gases* means all acid gases emitted in the exhaust gases from MWC units including, but not limited to, sulfur dioxide and hydrogen chloride gases. 


*MWC metals* means metals and metal compounds emitted in the exhaust gases from MWC units. 


*MWC organics* means organic compounds emitted in the exhaust gases from MWC units and includes total tetra- through octa-chlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans. 


*Particulate matter* means total particulate matter emitted from MWC units as measured by Method 5 (see § 60.58a). 


*Plastics/rubber recycling unit* means an integrated processing unit where plastics, rubber, and/or rubber tires are the only feed materials (incidental contaminants may be included in the feed materials) and they are processed into a chemical plant feedstock or petroleum refinery feedstock, where the feedstock is marketed to and used by a chemical plant or petroleum refinery as input feedstock. The combined weight of the chemical plant feedstock and petroleum refinery feedstock produced by the plastics/rubber recycling unit on a calendar quarter basis shall be more than 70 percent of the combined weight of the plastics, rubber, and rubber tires processed by the plastics/rubber recycling unit on a calendar quarter basis. The plastics, rubber, and/or rubber tire feed materials to the plastics/rubber recycling unit may originate from the separation or diversion of plastics, rubber, or rubber tires from MSW or industrial solid waste, and may include manufacturing scraps, trimmings, and off-specification plastics, rubber, and rubber tire discards. The plastics, rubber, and rubber tire feed materials to the plastics/rubber recycling unit may contain incidental contaminants (e.g., paper labels on plastic bottles, metal rings on plastic bottle caps, etc.). 


*Potential hydrogen chloride emission rate* means the hydrogen chloride emission rate that would occur from combustion of MSW in the absence of any hydrogen chloride emissions control. 


*Potential sulfur dioxide emission rate* means the sulfur dioxide emission rate that would occur from combustion of MSW in the absence of any sulfur dioxide emissions control. 


*Pulverized coal/refuse-derived fuel mixed fuel-fired combustor* or *pulverized coal/RDF mixed fuel-fired combustor* means a combustor that fires coal and RDF simultaneously, in which pulverized coal is introduced into an air stream that carries the coal to the combustion chamber of the unit where it is fired in suspension. This includes both conventional pulverized coal and micropulverized coal. 


*Pyrolysis/combustion unit* means a unit that produces gases, liquids, or solids through the heating of MSW, and the gases, liquids, or solids produced are combusted and emissions vented to the atmosphere. 


*Reconstruction* means rebuilding an MWC unit for which the cumulative costs of the construction over the life of the unit exceed 50 percent of the original cost of construction and installation of the unit (not including any cost of land purchased in connection with such construction or installation) updated to current costs (current dollars). 


*Refractory unit* or *refractory wall furnace* means a combustion unit having no energy recovery (e.g., via a waterwall) in the furnace (i.e., radiant heat transfer section) of the combustor. 


*Refuse-derived fuel* or *RDF* means a type of MSW produced by processing MSW through shredding and size classification.


This includes all classes of RDF including low density fluff RDF through densified RDF and RDF fuel pellets. 


*RDF stoker* means a steam generating unit that combusts RDF in a semi-suspension firing mode using air-fed distributors. 


*Same location* means the same or contiguous property that is under common ownership or control, including properties that are separated only by a street, road, highway, or other public right-of-way. Common ownership or control includes properties that are owned, leased, or operated by the same entity, parent entity, subsidiary, subdivision, or any combination thereof, including any municipality or other governmental unit, or any quasigovernmental authority (e.g., a public utility district or regional waste disposal authority). 


*Shift supervisor* means the person in direct charge and control of the operation of an MWC and who is responsible for on-site supervision, technical direction, management, and overall performance of the facility during an assigned shift. 


*Spreader stoker coal/refuse-derived fuel mixed fuel-fired combustor* or *spreader stoker coal/RDF mixed fuel-fired combustor* means a combustor that fires coal and refuse-derived fuel simultaneously, in which coal is introduced to the combustion zone by a mechanism that throws the fuel onto a grate from above. Combustion takes place both in suspension and on the grate. 


*Standard conditions* means a temperature of 20 °C (68 °F) and a pressure of 101.3 kilopascals (29.92 inches of mercury). 


*Twenty-four hour daily average* or *24-hour daily average* means the arithmetic or geometric mean (as specified in § 60.58a (e), (g), or (h) as applicable) of all hourly emission rates when the affected facility is operating and firing MSW measured over a 24-hour period between 12 midnight and the following midnight. 


*Untreated lumber* means wood or wood products that have been cut or shaped and include wet, air-dried, and kiln-dried wood products. Untreated lumber does not include wood products that have been painted, pigment-stained, or “pressure-treated.” Pressure-treating compounds include, but are not limited to, chromate copper arsenate, pentachlorophenol, and creosote. 


*Waterwall furnace* means a combustion unit having energy (heat) recovery in the furnace (i.e., radiant heat transfer section) of the combustor. 


*Yard waste* means grass, grass clippings, bushes, shrubs, and clippings from bushes and shrubs that are generated by residential, commercial/retail, institutional, and/or industrial sources as part of maintenance activities associated with yards or other private or public lands. Yard waste does not include construction, renovation, and demolition wastes, which are exempt from the definition of MSW in this section. Yard waste does not include clean wood, which is exempt from the definition of MSW in this section. 



---

[N] [56 FR 5507, Feb. 11, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 65384, Dec. 19, 1995; 65 FR 61753, Oct. 17, 2000]




