# § 907.3   Definitions.

(a) *CEQ Regulations* means the regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 as promulgated by the Council on Environmental Quality, Executive Office of the President, appearing at 40 CFR parts 1500-1509 (43 FR 55978-56007) and to which this part is a supplement.


(b) *The Act of October 27, 1972* or *Act* means the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation Act of 1972, Pub. L. 92-578, October 27, 1972, 86 Stat. 1266 (40 U.S.C. 871).


(c) *The Plan* means The Pennsylvania Avenue Plan—1974, prepared by the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation pursuant to the Act of October 27, 1972.


(d) *The Corporation* means the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation, a wholly owned government corporation of the United States created by the Act of October 27, 1972.


(e) *Board of Directors* means the governing body of the Corporation in which the powers and management of the Corporation are vested by the Act of October 27, 1972.


(f) *EIS* means an environmental impact statement as defined in § 1508.11 of the CEQ Regulations.


(g) *Final EIS* means The Final Environmental Impact Statement, dated September 1974, prepared by the Corporation on The Pennsylvania Avenue Plan—1974.


(h) *Development Area* means the area under the Corporation's jurisdiction as specified in section 2(f) of the Act of October 27, 1972 and for which The Plan has been prepared and will be implemented by the Corporation.


(i) *Decision Maker* means the Board of Directors, unless a delegation to the Chairman, a member or committee of the Board of Directors, or the Executive Director has been made by the Bylaws of the Corporation, a resolution of the Board of Directors, or an appropriate written delegation of authority.


(j) *Private Developer* means an individual, firm, joint venture, or other entity other than the Corporation which seeks to construct, reconstruct, rehabilitate, or restore real property within the development area.


(k) Other terms used in this part are defined in 40 CFR part 1508 of the CEQ Regulations.




