# ยง 130.600   Cooperative agreement.

(a) *Cooperative agreement provisions.* A recipient organization will incorporate into its SBDC sub-agreements and contracts the provisions of the cooperative agreement.


(b) *Sub-agreements.* SBA reserves the right to disapprove any sub-agreement entered into by recipient organizations with SBDC service center organizations, vendors, or contractors.


(c) *Goals and milestones.* (1) The AA/SBDC or designee will develop performance measurements for SBDC networks and include provisions for their achievement in the cooperative agreement.


(2) The AA/SBDC or designee will negotiate with the designated association and Lead Center to establish the annual goals, milestones, and activities for the cooperative agreement.


(3) Failure to meet the goals and milestones of the cooperative agreement may be considered in part of the determination for suspension, termination, or non-renewal in accordance with the dispute resolution procedures set forth in ยง 130.630.


(4) Agency loan goals may not be negotiated or incorporated into the cooperative agreement without the prior written approval of the AA/SBDC.


(d) *Procurement policies and procedures.* (1) Contracts and sub-agreements supported with funds provided under the cooperative agreement must comply with the procurement procedures of the recipient organization.


(2) Contracting procedures must encourage open competition among qualified vendors and promote the effective, efficient, and responsible use of program resources and OMB guidance.


(3) Contracting procedures should provide for domestic sourcing preferences to the greatest extent practicable, showing preference for the purchase, acquisition, or use of goods, products, or materials produced in the United States.



---

[N] [88 FR 76647, Nov. 7, 2023]








