# § 178.337-1   General requirements.

(a) *ASME Code construction.* Tanks must be—


(1) Seamless or welded construction, or a combination of both;


(2) Designed, constructed, certified, and stamped in accordance with Section VIII of the ASME Code (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter); 


(3) Made of steel or aluminum; however, if aluminum is used, the cargo tank must be insulated and the hazardous material to be transported must be compatible with the aluminum (see §§ 178.337-1(e)(2), 173.315(a) table, and 178.337-2(a)(1) of this subchapter); and


(4) Covered with a steel jacket if the cargo tank is insulated and used to transport a flammable gas (see § 173.315(a) table Note 11 of this subchapter).


(b) *Design pressure.* The design pressure of a cargo tank authorized under this specification shall be not less than the vapor pressure of the commodity contained therein at 115 °F. or as prescribed for a particular commodity in § 173.315(a) of this subchapter, except that in no case shall the design pressure of any cargo tank be less than 100 p.s.i.g. nor more than 500 p.s.i.g.


(c) *Openings.* (1) Excess pressure relief valves shall be located in the top of the cargo tank or heads.


(2) A chlorine cargo tank shall have only one opening. That opening shall be in the top of the cargo tank and shall be fitted with a nozzle that meets the following requirements:


(i) On a cargo tank manufactured on or before December 31, 1974, the nozzle shall be protected by a dome cover plate which conforms to either the standard of The Chlorine Institute, Inc., Dwg. 103-3, dated January 23, 1958, or to the standard specified in paragraph (c) (2) (ii) of this section.


(ii) On a cargo tank manufactured on or after January 1, 1975, the nozzle shall be protected by a manway cover which conforms to the standard of The Chlorine Institute, Inc., Dwg. 103-4, dated September 1, 1971.


(d) *Reflective design.* Every uninsulated cargo tank permanently attached to a cargo tank motor vehicle shall, unless covered with a jacket made of aluminum, stainless steel, or other bright nontarnishing metal, be painted a white, aluminum or similar reflecting color on the upper two-thirds of area of the cargo tank.


(e) *Insulation.* (1) Each cargo tank required to be insulated must conform with the use and performance requirements contained in §§ 173.315(a) table and 178.337-1 (a)(3) and (e)(2) of this subchapter.


(2) Each cargo tank intended for chlorine; carbon dioxide, refrigerated liquid; or nitrous oxide, refrigerated liquid service must have suitable insulation of such thickness that the overall thermal conductance is not more than 0.08 Btu per square foot per °F differential per hour. The conductance must be determined at 60 °F. Insulation material used on cargo tanks for nitrous oxide, refrigerated liquid must be noncombustible. Insulating material used on cargo tanks for chlorine must be corkboard or polyurethane foam, with a minimum thickness of 4 inches, or 2 inches minimum thickness of ceramic fiber/fiberglass of 4 pounds per cubic foot minimum density covered by 2 inches minimum thickness of fiber.


(f) *Postweld heat treatment.* Postweld heat treatment must be as prescribed in the ASME Code except that each cargo tank constructed in accordance with Part UHT of Section VIII of the ASME Code must be postweld heat treated. Each chlorine cargo tank must be fully radiographed and postweld heat treated in accordance with the provisions in Section VIII of the ASME Code under which it is constructed. Where postweld heat treatment is required, the cargo tank must be treated as a unit after completion of all the welds in and/or to the shells and heads. The method must be as prescribed in Section VIII of the ASME Code. Welded attachments to pads may be made after postweld heat treatment. A cargo tank used for anhydrous ammonia must be postweld heat treated. The postweld heat treatment must be as prescribed in Section VIII of the ASME Code, but in no event at less than 1,050 °F cargo tank metal temperature.


(g) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply to §§ 178.337-1 through 178.337-18:


*Emergency discharge control* means the ability to stop a cargo tank unloading operation in the event of an unintentional release. Emergency discharge control can utilize passive or off-truck remote means to stop the unloading operation. A passive means of emergency discharge control automatically shuts off the flow of product without the need for human intervention within 20 seconds of an unintentional release caused by a complete separation of the liquid delivery hose. An off-truck remote means of emergency discharge control permits a qualified person attending the unloading operation to close the cargo tank's internal self-closing stop valve and shut off all motive and auxiliary power equipment at a distance from the cargo tank motor vehicle.


*Excess flow valve, integral excess flow valve, or excess flow feature* means a component that will close automatically if the flow rate of a gas or liquid through the component reaches or exceeds the rated flow of gas or liquid specified by the original valve manufacturer when piping mounted directly on the valve is sheared off before the first valve, pump, or fitting downstream from the valve.


*Internal self-closing stop valve* means a primary shut off valve installed in a product discharge outlet of a cargo tank and designed to be kept closed by self-stored energy.


*Primary discharge control system* means a primary shut-off installed at a product discharge outlet of a cargo tank consisting of an internal self-closing stop valve that may include an integral excess flow valve or an excess flow feature, together with linkages that must be installed between the valve and remote actuator to provide manual and thermal on-truck remote means of closure.



---

[N] [Order 59-B, 30 FR 579, Jan. 16, 1965. Redesignated at 32 FR 5606, Apr. 5, 1967]


