# ยง 229.914   (Item 914) Pro forma financial statements: selected financial data.

(a) In addition to the information required by ยง 229.302 (Item 302 of Regulation S-K), for each partnership proposed to be included in a roll-up transaction provide: cash and cash equivalents, total assets at book value, total assets at the value assigned for purposes of the roll-up transaction (if applicable), total liabilities, general and limited partners' equity, net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents, net cash provided by operating activities, distributions; and per unit data for net income (loss), book value, value assigned for purposes of the roll-up transaction (if applicable), and distributions (separately identifying distributions that represent a return of capital). This information must be provided for the previous two fiscal years. Additional or other information must be provided if material to an understanding of each partnership proposed to be included in a roll-up transaction.


(b) Provide pro forma financial information (including oil and gas reserves and cash flow disclosure, if appropriate), assuming:


(1) All partnerships participate in the roll-up transaction; and


(2) Participation in a roll-up transaction of those partnerships that on a combined basis have the lowest combined net cash provided by operating activities for the last fiscal year of such partnerships, *provided* participation by such partnerships satisfies all conditions to consummation of the roll-up transaction. If the combination of all partnerships proposed to be included in a roll-up transaction results in such lowest combined net cash provided by operating activities, this shall be noted and no separate pro forma financial statements are required.


(c) The pro forma financial statements required by paragraph (b) of this Item (ยง 229.914) shall disclose the effect of the roll-up transaction on the successor's:


(1) Balance sheet as of the later of the end of the most recent fiscal year or the latest interim period;


(2) Statement of income (with separate line items to reflect income (loss) excluding and including the roll-up expenses and payments), earnings per share amounts, and ratio of earnings to fixed charges for the most recent fiscal year and the latest interim period;


(3) Statement of cash flows for the most recent fiscal year and the latest interim period; and


(4) Book value per share as of the later of the end of the most recent fiscal year or the latest interim period.



---

[N] [56 FR 57247, Nov. 8, 1991, as amended at 86 FR 2128, Jan. 11, 2021]




