# ยง 106.57   Parental, family, or marital status; pregnancy or related conditions.

(a) *Status generally.* A recipient must not adopt or implement any policy, practice, or procedure, or take any employment action, on the basis of sex:


(1) Concerning the current, potential, or past parental, family, or marital status of an employee or applicant for employment, which treats persons differently; or


(2) That is based upon whether an employee or applicant for employment is the head of household or principal wage earner in such employee's or applicant's family unit.


(b) *Pregnancy or related conditions.* A recipient must not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment on the basis of current, potential, or past pregnancy or related conditions.


(c) *Comparable treatment to other temporary medical conditions.* A recipient must treat pregnancy or related conditions as any other temporary medical conditions for all job-related purposes, including commencement, duration and extensions of leave; payment of disability income; accrual of seniority and any other benefit or service; and reinstatement; and under any fringe benefit offered to employees by virtue of employment.


(d) *Voluntary leaves of absence.* In the case of a recipient that does not maintain a leave policy for its employees, or in the case of an employee with insufficient leave or accrued employment time to qualify for leave under such a policy, a recipient must treat pregnancy or related conditions as a justification for a voluntary leave of absence without pay for a reasonable period of time, at the conclusion of which the employee shall be reinstated to the status held when the leave began or to a comparable position, without decrease in rate of compensation or loss of promotional opportunities, or any other right or privilege of employment.


(e) *Lactation time and space.* (1) A recipient must provide reasonable break time for an employee to express breast milk or breastfeed as needed.


(2) A recipient must ensure that an employee can access a lactation space, which must be a space other than a bathroom that is clean, shielded from view, free from intrusion from others, and may be used by an employee for expressing breast milk or breastfeeding as needed.



---

[N] [89 FR 33896, Apr. 29, 2024]










