# § 19.289   Production gauge.

(a) *General requirements for production gauges.* A proprietor must gauge all spirits by determining the quantity and proof as soon as reasonably possible after production is completed. Except as otherwise provided in this section, a proprietor may determine the quantity by volume or by weight, by an accurate mass flow meter, or when approved by the appropriate TTB officer, by other devices or methods that accurately determine the quantities. If caramel is added to brandy or rum, the proof of the spirits must be determined after the addition. Spirits in each receiving tank will be gauged before any reduction in proof and both before and after each removal of spirits. The gauges must be recorded in the records required by § 19.585.


(b) *Tax to be determined on production gauge.* If the tax is to be determined based on the production gauge, all transaction records must be marked “Withdrawal on Production Gauge.” A proprietor may determine the tax based on the production gauge if the spirits are:


(1) Weighed into bulk conveyances or metered using an accurate mass flow meter;


(2) Uniformly filled by weight or an accurate mass flow meter into metal packages; or


(3) Filled by weight or an accurate mass flow meter into packages for immediate withdrawal from bonded premises with the details recorded on a package gauge record in accordance with § 19.619.


(c) *Tax not to be determined on production gauge.* If spirits are drawn from the production system into barrels, drums, or similar portable containers of the same rated capacity and the containers are filled to capacity, and the tax is not to be determined on the basis of the production gauge, the gauge may be made by:


(1) Weighing in a tank, converting the weight into proof gallons, and determining the average content of each container;


(2) Measuring volumetrically, in a calibrated tank, converting the wine gallons determined into proof gallons, and determining the average content of each container;


(3) Converting the rated capacity into proof gallons to determine the average content of each container. Rated capacity will be determined from specifications of the manufacturer. The proprietor will determine the rated capacity of used cooperage; or


(4) Determining by an accurate mass flow meter or a device or method approved under paragraph (a) of this section, the total quantity filled into containers, and determining the average content of each container.


(d) *Records of production gauge.* For the production gauge, fractional proof gallons will be rounded to the nearest one-tenth and the average content and the number of packages filled will be used in computing the quantity produced. The actual proof gallons in each remnant container must be shown. As provided in § 19.618, a separate gauge record will be prepared for each lot of packages filled (see § 19.485) and for each removal by pipeline or bulk conveyance for deposit in bond on the same plant premises. The gauge record will show “Deposit in storage” or “Deposit in processing.” If spirits are to be transferred in bond or withdrawn from bond, the production gauge will be made on the form or record required by this part (accompanied by a package gauge record, if required).


