# § 618.610   Criteria for approval of training.

The State must consult the trade-affected worker's assessment results and IEP, if available, as described respectively under §§ 618.345 and 618.350, before approving an application for training. Training must be approved for a trade-affected worker if the State determines that all of the criteria in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section are met:


(a) *Criterion 1.* There is no suitable employment available for the trade-affected worker.


(1) There is no suitable employment available for a trade-affected worker in either the commuting area or another area outside the commuting area to which the worker intends to relocate, and there is no reasonable prospect of such suitable employment becoming available for the worker in the foreseeable future.


(2) If a training program, or an application for training, is denied under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the State must document the availability of suitable employment through traditional and real-time labor market information including, but not limited to, projections data, job postings, and job vacancy surveys.


(b) *Criterion 2.* The trade-affected worker would benefit from appropriate training.


(1) The worker would benefit from appropriate training when training, skills training, or remedial education would increase the likelihood of obtaining employment. Appropriate training should improve the worker's chances of obtaining employment at higher wages than in the absence of training or place the worker on a pathway to do so.


(2) The worker must have the knowledge, skills, and abilities to undertake, make satisfactory progress in, and complete the training program.


(c) *Criterion 3.* There is a reasonable expectation of employment following completion of such training. Given the labor market conditions expected to exist at the time of the completion of the training program, a reasonable expectation, fairly and objectively considered, exists that the trade-affected worker is likely to find employment, using the skills and education acquired while in training, upon completion of approved training. The labor market conditions considered must be limited to those in the worker's commuting area, or in the area where the worker intends to relocate.


(1) “A reasonable expectation of employment” does not require that employment opportunities for the worker be available, or offered, immediately upon the completion of the approved training program. When initially approving such training, there must be a projection, based on labor market information, of employment opportunities expected to exist at the time of completion of the training program.


(2) The State must measure expected job market conditions using pertinent labor market data, including but not limited to job order activity, short-term projections data, job vacancy surveys, business visitation programs, and local and regional strategic plans. This labor market information should be documented in the trade-affected worker's case file. The State should also work with the LWDBs and their one-stop partners, especially business team members, to understand current labor market conditions and opportunities for work-based learning.


(3) When a worker desires to relocate within the United States, but outside the worker's present commuting area, upon completion of training, the State must document the labor market information, described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, for the area of the planned relocation.


(4) A reasonable expectation of employment may exist in a limited demand occupation for a single, trained worker in the worker's commuting area or in an area to which the worker desires to relocate. A limited demand for such an occupation does not preclude the approval of training in an occupation where the State has determined that there is a reasonable expectation that the worker can secure employment in that occupation. States must verify with businesses in the commuting area or in the area of intended relocation that demand exists for an individual with such training. These efforts must be documented in the trade-affected workers case file. Before approving training in occupations with limited demand, the State must consider the number of individuals currently enrolled in training that are likely to meet that demand before enrolling additional workers in training for that occupation.


(5) A State may approve a training program in an occupation if it finds that there is a reasonable expectation that the training will lead to self-employment in the occupation for which the worker requests training and that such self-employment will provide the worker with wages or earnings at or near the worker's wages in adversely affected employment.


(6) Training programs that consist solely of OJT or contain an OJT component are not approvable if they are not expected to lead to suitable employment, with the employer providing the OJT, in compliance with section 236(c)(1)(B)(i) of the Act.


(d) *Criterion 4.* Training is reasonably available to the trade-affected worker. In determining whether training is reasonably available, States must first consider training opportunities available within the worker's commuting area. States may approve training outside the commuting area if none is available at the time in the worker's commuting area. Whether the training is in or outside the commuting area, the training program must be available at a reasonable cost as prescribed in paragraph (f) of this section.


(e) *Criterion 5.* The trade-affected worker is qualified to undertake and complete such training. States must ensure the following:


(1) The worker's knowledge, skills, abilities, educational background, work experience, and financial resources are adequate to undertake and complete the specific training program being considered.


(2) Any initial assessment, comprehensive and specialized assessment, and IEP developed under subpart C of this part must be consulted to support the trade-affected worker's ability to undertake and complete the training program.


(3) Where the worker's remaining available weeks of UI and TRA payments will not equal or exceed the duration of the training program, that the worker will have sufficient financial resources to support completion of the training program within the time limits noted in § 618.615(d). In making this determination, the State must consider:


(i) The worker's remaining weeks of UI and TRA payments in relation to the duration of the proposed training program;


(ii) Other sources of income support available to the worker, including severance, earnings of other family members, and other family resources;


(iii) Other fixed financial obligations and expenses of the worker and family;


(iv) The availability of Federal student financial assistance or any State-funded student financial assistance or any private funding designated for student financial assistance including, but not limited to, nongovernmental scholarships, awards, or grants; and


(v) Whether or not the worker is employed while attending training.


(4) The State must document whether or not the trade-affected worker has sufficient financial resources to complete the training program that exceeds the duration of UI and TRA payments.


(5) If a worker has insufficient financial resources to complete the worker's proposed training program that exceeds the duration of UI and TRA payments, then the State must not approve that training program and must instead consider other training opportunities available to the worker.


(f) *Criterion 6.* Such training is suitable for the trade-affected worker and available at a reasonable cost.


(1) *Suitable for the worker.* The training program being considered must address the criteria set out in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section and be determined by the State to be appropriate given the worker's knowledge, skills and abilities, background, and experience relative to the worker's employment goal, and criteria set out in paragraph (c) of this section.


(2) *Available at a reasonable cost.* (i) Costs of a training program may include, but are not limited to, tuition and related expenses (e.g., books, tools, computers and other electronic devices, internet access, uniforms and other training-related clothing such as goggles and work boots, laboratory fees, and other academic fees required as part of the approved training program) as well as supplemental assistance (subsistence expenses and transportation expenses as described in § 618.640(c) and (d)). States must pay the costs of initial licensing and certification tests and fees where a license or certification is required for employment.


(A) The State must ensure and document that the training program costs are reasonable by researching costs for similar training programs, whether it is classroom or work-based training.


(B) Related expenses must be necessary for the worker to complete the training program. Other options should be explored before purchasing equipment or related materials.


(ii) Available at a reasonable cost means that training must not be approved at one provider when, all costs being considered, training better or substantially similar in quality, content, and results can be obtained from another provider at a lower total cost within a similar time frame. Training must not be approved when the costs of the training are unreasonably high in comparison with the average costs of training other workers in similar occupations at other providers. The State may approve a higher cost training if that training is reasonably expected to result in a higher likelihood of employment, employment retention, or greater earnings, or to return the worker to employment in a significantly shorter duration.


(iii) Training at facilities outside the worker's commuting area requiring transportation or subsistence payments that add substantially to the total cost of the training program may not be approved if other appropriate training is available in the commuting area at a lower cost, unless the exception described in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section applies.


(iv) Approval of training under paragraph (f) of this section (Criterion 6) is also subject to the provisions of § 618.650.




