# § 405.956   Notice of a redetermination.

(a) *Notification to parties*—(1) *General rule.* Written notice of a redetermination affirming, in whole or in part, the initial determination must be mailed or otherwise transmitted to all parties at their last known addresses in accordance with the time frames established in § 405.950. Written notice of a redetermination fully reversing the initial determination must be mailed or otherwise transmitted to the appellant in accordance with the time frames established in § 405.950. If the redetermination results in issuance of supplemental payment to a provider or supplier, the Medicare contractor must also issue an electronic or paper RA notice to the provider or supplier.


(2) *Overpayment cases involving multiple beneficiaries who have no liability.* In an overpayment case involving multiple beneficiaries who have no liability, the contractor may issue a written notice only to the appellant.


(b) *Content of the notice for affirmations, in whole or in part.* For decisions that are affirmations, in whole or in part, of the initial determination, the redetermination must be written in a manner calculated to be understood by a beneficiary, and contain—


(1) A clear statement indicating the extent to which the redetermination is favorable or unfavorable;


(2) A summary of the facts, including, as appropriate, a summary of the clinical or scientific evidence used in making the redetermination;


(3) An explanation of how pertinent laws, regulations, coverage rules, and CMS policies apply to the facts of the case;


(4) A summary of the rationale for the redetermination in clear, understandable language;


(5) Notification to the parties of their right to a reconsideration and a description of the procedures that a party must follow in order to request a reconsideration, including the time frame within which a reconsideration must be requested;


(6) A statement of any specific missing documentation that must be submitted with a request for a reconsideration, if applicable;


(7) A statement that all evidence the appellant wishes to introduce during the claim appeals process should be submitted with the request for a reconsideration;


(8) Notification that evidence not submitted to the QIC as indicated in paragraph (b)(6) of this section, is not considered at the OMHA level or further appeal, unless the appellant demonstrates good cause as to why that evidence was not provided previously; and


(9) The procedures for obtaining additional information concerning the redetermination, such as specific provisions of the policy, manual, or regulation used in making the redetermination.


(10) Any other requirements specified by CMS.


(c) *Content of the notice for a full reversal.* For decisions that are full reversals of the initial determination, the redetermination must be in writing and contain—


(1) A clear statement indicating that the redetermination is wholly favorable;


(2) Any other requirements specified by CMS.


(d) *Exception for beneficiary appeal requests.* (1) The notice must inform beneficiary appellants that the requirements of paragraph (b)(8) of this section are not applicable for purposes of beneficiary appeals.


(2) This exception does not apply for appeal requests from beneficiaries who are represented by providers or suppliers.



---

[N] [70 FR 11472, Mar. 8, 2005, as amended at 82 FR 5107, Jan. 17, 2017]




