# § 515.585   Certain transactions in third countries.

(a) Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized to provide goods and services to a Cuban national located in a third country who is an individual, provided that the transaction does not involve a commercial exportation, directly or indirectly, of goods or services to or from Cuba.


(b)(1) *Opening and maintaining bank accounts.* Banking institutions, as defined in § 515.314, are authorized to open and maintain accounts, including the deposit of funds in such accounts by wire transfer, for a Cuban national located in a third country who is an individual, provided that such accounts are used only while the Cuban national is located outside of Cuba and may not be used for transactions that involve a commercial exportation of goods or services to or from Cuba.


(2) *Closing bank accounts.* Banking institutions, as defined in § 515.314, are authorized to close an account opened pursuant to the authorization in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(c) Individuals who are persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction who are present in a third country are authorized to purchase or acquire merchandise subject to the prohibitions in § 515.204, including Cuban-origin goods, and to receive or obtain services in which Cuba or a Cuban national has an interest that are ordinarily incident to travel and maintenance within that country.


(d) Individuals who are persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized to import into the United States as accompanied baggage merchandise subject to the prohibitions in § 515.204, including Cuban-origin goods, that is purchased or acquired in a third country, provided that the merchandise is imported for personal use only. This paragraph does not apply to the importation into the United States of Cuban-origin alcohol or tobacco products.





---

[N] [80 FR 2302, Jan. 16, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 56926, Sept. 21, 2015; 81 FR 13994, Mar. 16, 2016; 81 FR 71378, Oct. 17, 2016; 85 FR 60072, Sept. 24, 2020]




