# § 983.56   Environmental review.

(a) *HUD environmental regulations.* (1) HUD environmental regulations at 24 CFR parts 50 and 58 apply to activities under the PBV program, except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) For projects or proposals that were selected in accordance with the site selection standards at § 983.55 in effect on or after June 6, 2024, no environmental review is required to be undertaken before entering into a HAP contract for existing housing, except to the extent a Federal environmental review is required by law or regulation relating to funding other than PBV housing assistance payments.


(b) *Who performs the environmental review?* Under 24 CFR part 58, the unit of general local government within which the project is located that exercises land use responsibility, the county, or the State (the “responsible entity” or “RE”), is responsible for the Federal environmental review under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 *et seq.*) and related applicable Federal laws and authorities in accordance with 24 CFR 58.5 and 58.6. If a PHA objects in writing to having the RE perform the Federal environmental review, or if the RE declines to perform it, then HUD may perform the review itself (24 CFR 58.11). 24 CFR part 50 governs HUD performance of the review.


(c) *Notice of applicability.* When an environmental review is required, if such a review has not been conducted prior to the proposal or project selection date, then the PHA's written notice of proposal or project selection must state that the selection is subject to completion of a favorable environmental review and that the project may be rejected based on the results of the environmental review.


(d) *Environmental review limitations.* When an environmental review is required, a PHA may not execute an Agreement or HAP contract with an owner, and the PHA, the owner, and its contractors may not acquire, rehabilitate, convert, lease, repair, dispose of, demolish, or construct real property or commit or expend program or local funds for these activities, until one of the following occurs:


(1) The responsible entity has determined that the activities to be undertaken are exempt under 24 CFR 58.34(a) or categorically excluded and not subject to compliance with environmental laws under 24 CFR 58.35(b);


(2) The responsible entity has completed the environmental review procedures required by 24 CFR part 58, and HUD has approved the PHA's Request for Release of Funds and Certification (form HUD-7015.15). HUD approves the Request for Release of Funds and Certification by issuing a Letter to Proceed or form HUD-7015.16, thereby authorizing the PHA to execute an Agreement or HAP contract, as applicable; or


(3) HUD has performed an environmental review under 24 CFR part 50 and has notified the PHA in writing of environmental clearance.


(e) *Environmental review restrictions.* HUD will not issue a Letter to Proceed or form HUD-7015.16 to the PHA or provide environmental clearance if the PHA, the owner, or its contractors have undertaken any of the activities described in paragraph (d) of this section.


(f) *Mitigating measures.* The PHA must document any mitigating measures or other conditions as provided in 24 CFR part 50 or 58, as applicable, and must complete or require the owner to carry out such measures and conditions.


(g) *PHA duty to supply information.* The PHA must supply all available, relevant information necessary for the RE (or HUD, if applicable) to perform the required environmental review.






