# ยง 173.280   Solvent extraction process for citric acid.

A solvent extraction process for recovery of citric acid from conventional *Aspergillus niger* fermentation liquor may be safely used to produce food-grade citric acid in accordance with the following conditions:


(a) The solvent used in the process consists of a mixture of *n-*octyl alcohol meeting the requirements of ยง 172.864 of this chapter, synthetic isoparaffinic petroleum hydrocarbons meeting the requirements of ยง 172.882 of this chapter, and tridodecyl amine.


(b) The component substances are used solely as a solvent mixture and in a manner that does not result in formation of products not present in conventionally produced citric acid.


(c) The citric acid so produced meets the polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbon specifications of ยง 173.165 and the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 7th ed. (2010), pp. 226-227, which is incorporated by reference. The Director of the Office of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain copies from the United States Pharmacopeial Convention, 12601 Twinbrook Pkwy., Rockville, MD 20852 (Internet address *http://www.usp.org*). Copies may be examined at the Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, Rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, 240-402-7500, between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030 or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.*

(d) Residues of *n-*octyl alcohol and synthetic isoparaffinic petroleum hydrocarbons are removed in accordance with good manufacturing practice. Current good manufacturing practice results in residues not exceeding 16 parts per million (ppm) *n-*octyl alcohol and 0.47 ppm synthetic isoparaffinic petroleum hydrocarbons in citric acid.


(e) Tridodecyl amine may be present as a residue in citric acid at a level not to exceed 100 parts per billion.



---

[N] [42 FR 14491, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 10106, Mar. 19, 1984; 78 FR 71466, Nov. 29, 2013; 88 FR 17722, Mar. 24, 2023]




