# § 1.77   Arrangement of application elements.

(a) The elements of the application, if applicable, should appear in the following order:


(1) Utility application transmittal form.


(2) Fee transmittal form.


(3) Application data sheet (see § 1.76).


(4) Specification.


(5) Drawings.


(6) The inventor's oath or declaration.


(b) The specification should include the following sections in order:


(1) Title of the invention, which may be accompanied by an introductory portion stating the name, citizenship, and residence of the applicant (unless included in the application data sheet).


(2) Cross-reference to related applications.


(3) Statement regarding federally sponsored research or development.


(4) The names of the parties to a joint research agreement.


(5) An incorporation by reference statement regarding the material in:


(i) One or more ASCII plain text files, submitted via the USPTO patent electronic filing system or on one or more read-only optical discs (*see* § 1.52(e)(8)), identifying the names of each file, the date of creation of each file, and the size of each file in bytes, for the following document types:


(A) A “Computer Program Listing Appendix” (*see* § 1.96(c));


(B) A “Sequence Listing” (*see* § 1.821(c)); or


(C) “Large Tables” (*see* § 1.58(c)).


(ii) An XML file for a “Sequence Listing XML” (*see* § 1.831(a)), submitted via the USPTO patent electronic filing system or on one or more read-only optical discs (*see* § 1.52(e)(8)), identifying the names of each file, the date of creation of each file, and the size of each file in bytes.


(6) Statement regarding prior disclosures by the inventor or a joint inventor.


(7) Background of the invention.


(8) Brief summary of the invention.


(9) Brief description of the several views of the drawing.


(10) Detailed description of the invention.


(11) A claim or claims.


(12) Abstract of the disclosure.


(13) “Sequence Listing,” required by § 1.821(c), that is submitted as a Portable Document Format (PDF) file (as set forth in § 1.821(c)(2)) via the USPTO patent electronic filing system or on physical sheets of paper (as set forth in § 1.821(c)(3)).


(c) The text of the specification sections defined in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(12) of this section, if applicable, should be preceded by a section heading in uppercase and without underlining or bold type.



---

[N] [65 FR 54668, Sept. 8, 2000, as amended at 70 FR 1823, Jan. 11, 2005; 77 FR 48820, Aug. 14, 2012; 78 FR 11055, Feb. 14, 2013; 86 FR 57047, Oct. 14, 2021; 86 FR 73985, Dec. 29, 2021; 87 FR 30817, May 20, 2022]








