# § 1090.155   Fuel additive manufacturers.

This section provides an overview of general requirements applicable to a fuel additive manufacturer. A gasoline additive manufacturer must comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. A diesel fuel additive manufacturer must comply with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. A certified ethanol denaturant producer must comply with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.


(a) *Gasoline additive manufacturers.* A gasoline additive manufacturer must meet the following requirements:


(1) *Gasoline additive standards.* A gasoline additive manufacturer must produce gasoline additives that comply with subpart C of this part.


(2) *Certification.* A gasoline additive manufacturer must certify the gasoline additives they produce under subpart K of this part.


(3) *PTDs.* On each occasion when a gasoline additive manufacturer transfers custody of or title to any gasoline additive, the transferor must provide to the transferee PTDs under subpart L of this part.


(4) *Gasoline detergent manufacturers.* A gasoline detergent manufacturer must comply with the following requirements:


(i) *Part 79 registration and LAC determination.* A gasoline detergent manufacturer must register gasoline detergent(s) under 40 CFR 79.21 at a concentration that is greater than or equal to the LAC reported by the gasoline detergent manufacturer under 40 CFR 79.21(j). Note: EPA provides a list on EPA's website of detergents that have been certified by the gasoline detergent manufacturer as meeting the deposit control requirement (Search for “List of Certified Detergent Additives”).


(ii) *Gasoline detergent standards.* Report the LAC determined under § 1090.260(b) and provide specific composition information as part of the gasoline detergent manufacturer's registration of the detergent under 40 CFR 79.21(j).


(iii) *PTDs.* On each occasion when a gasoline detergent manufacturer transfers custody of or title to any gasoline detergent, the transferor must provide to the transferee PTDs under subpart L of this part.


(iv) *Sampling, testing, and retention requirements.* A gasoline detergent manufacturer that registers detergents must conduct sampling, testing, and sample retention in accordance with subpart N of this part.


(b) *Diesel fuel additive manufacturers.* A diesel fuel additive manufacturer must meet the following requirements:


(1) *Diesel fuel additive standards.* A diesel fuel additive manufacturer must produce diesel fuel additives that comply with subpart D of this part.


(2) *Certification.* A diesel fuel additive manufacturer must certify the diesel fuel additives they produce under subpart K of this part.


(3) *PTDs.* On each occasion when a diesel fuel additive manufacturer transfers custody of or title to any diesel additive, the transferor must provide to the transferee PTDs under subpart L of this part.


(c) *Certified ethanol denaturant producers and importers.* A certified ethanol denaturant producer or importer must meet the following requirements:


(1) *Certification.* A certified ethanol denaturant producer or importer must certify that certified ethanol denaturant meets the requirements in § 1090.275 using the procedures specified at § 1090.1000(g).


(2) *Registration.* A certified ethanol denaturant producer or importer must register with EPA under subpart I of this part.


(3) *PTDs.* On each occasion when a certified ethanol denaturant producer transfers custody or title to any fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock, the transferor must provide to the transferee PTDs under subpart L of this part.




