# ยง 136.75   Equipment and requirements.

(a) *Flotation equipment.* No person may conduct an air tour in Hawaii in a single-engine rotorcraft beyond the shore of any island, regardless of whether the rotorcraft is within gliding distance of the shore, unless:


(1) The rotorcraft is amphibious or is equipped with floats adequate to accomplish a safe emergency ditching and approved flotation gear is easily accessible for each occupant; or


(2) Each person on board the rotorcraft is wearing approved flotation gear.


(b) *Performance plan.* Each operator must complete a performance plan that meets the requirements of this paragraph (b) before each air tour flight conducted in a rotorcraft.


(1) The performance plan must be based on information from the current approved aircraft flight manual for that aircraft, considering the maximum density altitude for which the operation is planned to determine the following:


(i) Maximum gross weight and center of gravity (CG) limitations for hovering in ground effect;


(ii) Maximum gross weight and CG limitations for hovering out of ground effect; and


(iii) Maximum combination of weight, altitude, and temperature for which height-velocity information from the performance data is valid.


(2) The pilot in command (PIC) must comply with the performance plan.


(c) *Operating limitations.* Except for approach to and transition from a hover, and except for the purpose of takeoff and landing, the PIC of a rotorcraft may only operate such aircraft at a combination of height and forward speed (including hover) that would permit a safe landing in event of engine power loss, in accordance with the height-speed envelope for that rotorcraft under current weight and aircraft altitude.


(d) *Minimum flight altitudes.* Except when necessary for takeoff and landing, or operating in compliance with an air traffic control clearance, or as otherwise authorized by the Administrator, no person may conduct an air tour in Hawaii:


(1) Below an altitude of 1,500 feet above the surface over all areas of the State of Hawaii;


(2) Closer than 1,500 feet to any person or property; or


(3) Below any altitude prescribed by Federal statute or regulation.


(e) *Passenger briefing.* Before takeoff, each PIC of an air tour flight of Hawaii with a flight segment beyond the ocean shore of any island shall ensure that each passenger has been briefed on the following, in addition to requirements set forth in ยง 91.107, ยง 121.571, or ยง 135.117 of this chapter:


(1) Water ditching procedures;


(2) Use of required flotation equipment; and


(3) Emergency egress from the aircraft in event of a water landing.



---

[N] [Docket No. FAA-2022-1563, Amdt. No. 136-2, 88 FR 48092, July 26, 2023, as amended by FAA-2023-1275, Amdt. No. 136-4, 89 FR 92488, Nov. 21, 2024]








