# § 515.421   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

(a) Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:


(1) A transaction by or with a prohibited official of the Government of Cuba, as defined in § 515.337, or a prohibited member of the Cuban Communist Party, as defined in § 515.338, where the terms of the applicable general or specific license expressly exclude transactions with such persons;


(2) A transaction involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property that is not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license;


(3) A transaction prohibited by § 515.208; 


(4) In the case of export or reexport-related transactions authorized by § 515.533(a), payment or financing that is not authorized by § 515.533 or § 515.584(f); 


(5) A direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209, where the terms of the applicable general or specific license expressly exclude such a transaction; 


(6) Lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210, where the terms of the applicable general or specific license expressly exclude such a transaction; or


(7) A transaction relating to the collection, forwarding, or receipt of remittances involving any entity or subentity identified on the Cuba Restricted List, as published in the _Federal Register_ and maintained by the State Department and available at *https://www.state.gov/cuba-sanctions/cuba-restricted-list/,* where the terms of the applicable general or specific license expressly exclude any such transactions.


(b) *Examples.* (1) A specific license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Cuban Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part, also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks.


(2) A general license authorizing a person to import certain goods from independent private sector entrepreneurs also authorizes funds transfers or payments that are ordinarily incident to the importation, including payments made using online payment platforms.



---

[N] [80 FR 56919, Sept. 21, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 4584, Jan. 27, 2016; 81 FR 71374, Oct. 17, 2016; 82 FR 52000, Nov. 9, 2017; 85 FR 60070, Sept. 24, 2020; 85 FR 67989, Oct. 27, 2020; 89 FR 46324, May 29, 2024]




