# § 1060.501   Definitions.

For purposes of this part—


(a) *Counselor* means the General Counsel of the Department or the General Counsel of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or their delegates, as appropriate.


(b) *Designated official* means (1) a principal departmental officer, (2) an individual who is appointed to a position in the Department by the President of the United States with the advice and consent of the Senate, (3) the Administrator of a power administration, or (4) the head of a Field Organization.


(c) *DOE* or *Department* means the Department of Energy established by the Department of Energy Organization Act, section 201, Pub. L. 95-91 (42 U.S.C. 7131).


(d) *Employee* means—


(1) An employee as defined by 5 U.S.C. 2105;


(2) A special Government employee as defined in 18 U.S.C. 202(a);


(3) A member of a Uniformed Service.


(e) *Handicapped individual* means a person who has a physical or mental disability or health impairment, and includes an individual who is temporarily incapacitated because of illness or injury.


(f) *Principal departmental officer* means the Secretary, Deputy Secretary, or Under Secretary, or, in the case of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Chairman or Executive Director of the Commission.


(g) *Relative* means, with respect to a DOE employee, an individual who is related to the employee, by blood, marriage, or operation of law, as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, grandchild, grandparent, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, or half sister, and shall also include the grandparent of an employee's spouse, an employee's fiance or fiancee, or any person residing in the employee's household. 














