# ยง 266.634   Reinstatement of the contract of insurance.

(a) *Conditions for reinstatement.* After the initial claim payment, HUD may reinstate the contract of insurance on the following conditions: 


(1) The HFA has not acquired the project; 


(2) The mortgagor has cured the default; and 


(3) The HFA requests that HUD reinstate the contract of insurance. 


(b) *Notification of reinstatement.* If reinstatement is acceptable to HUD, HUD shall notify the HFA of the date the contract of insurance will be reinstated and shall advise the HFA of the payment needed to reinstate the contract of insurance. 


(c) *Payment.* Within 30 calendar days of the date of the notice under paragraph (b) of this section, the HFA shall pay HUD an amount equal to the initial claim amount, as determined under ยง 266.628(a)(1), plus an amount equal to the accrued and unpaid interest on the HFA Debenture through the reinstatement date, plus an amount equal to the mortgage insurance premium for the period from the date of reinstatement of the contract of insurance to the next anniversary date for payment of the mortgage insurance premium. 


(d) *Cancellation of debenture.* Upon receipt from the HFA of the amount specified in paragraph (c) of this section, HUD shall return the HFA debenture for cancellation. 


(e) *Continuation of contract of insurance.* Upon reinstatement, the contract of insurance shall continue as if the default had not occurred. 



---

[N] [59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83445, Dec. 22, 2020] 




