# § 1792.102   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, the following terms have the following meaning:


*Administrator*— Administrator of RUS or the Governor of the Rural Telephone Bank or his or her designee.


*Borrower*—An entity which borrows or seeks to borrow money from, or arranges financing with the assistance of RUS through guarantees, lien accommodations or lien subordinations.


*Building*—Any structure, fully or partially enclosed, used or intended for sheltering persons or property.


*Federally assisted*—The provision of financing assistance by RUS through loans, loan guarantees, grants, and lien accommodations and subordinations.


*Grant recipient*—Any entity which receives a grant from RUS.


*Lien accommodation*—The consensual sharing of the government's (RUS's) lien on property or the release of government's lien on property.


*Lien subordination*—Agreement that the government's (RUS) lien on property will rank below the lien of another entity.


*Model Code*—A building code developed for the adoption of local or state authorities or to be used as the basis of a local or state building code.


*NEHRP*—National Earthquake Hazards Reduction Program.


*Registered*—A person licensed by the State(s) or Authority(ies) to perform architectural or engineering services in the State(s) where construction occurs.


*RUS*—Rural Utilities Service, and for the purposes of this subpart, shall include the Rural Telephone Bank. For the purposes of RTB borrowers, as used in this subpart, RUS means RTB and Administrator means Governor. 


*State*—Each of the 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, and territories and possessions of the United States which are authorized to receive loans, loan guarantees, or grants from RUS.



---

[N] [58 FR 32437, June 10, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 66440, Dec. 27, 1994; 65 FR 76916, Dec. 8, 2000; 69 FR 23642, Apr. 30, 2004]




