# § 133.190   Spiced cheeses.

(a) *Description.* (1) Spiced cheeses are cheeses for which specifically applicable definitions and standards of identity are not prescribed by other sections of this part. The food is prepared by the procedure set forth in paragraph (a)(3) of this section or by any other procedure which produces a finished cheese having the same physical and chemical properties. The minimum milkfat content is 50 percent by weight of the solids, as determined by the method described in § 133.5. The food contains spices, in a minimum amount of 0.015 ounce per pound of cheese, and may contain spice oils. If the dairy ingredients are not pasteurized, the cheese is cured at a temperature of not less than 35 °F for at least 60 days.


(2) The phenol equivalent of 0.25 gram of spiced cheese is not more than 3 micrograms, as determined by the method described in § 133.5. 


(3) One or more of the dairy ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be warmed and is subjected to the action of a harmless lactic acid-producing bacterial culture. One or more of the clotting enzymes specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is added to set the dairy ingredients to a semisolid mass. The mass is divided into smaller portions and so handled by stirring, heating, and diluting with water or salt brine as to promote and regulate the separation of whey and curd. The whey is drained off. The curd is removed and may be further drained. The curd is then shaped into forms, and may be pressed. At some time during the procedure, spices are added so as to be evenly distributed throughout the finished cheese. One or more of the other optional ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section may be added during the procedure.


(b) *Optional ingredients.* The following safe and suitable ingredients may be used:


(1) *Dairy ingredients.* Milk, nonfat milk, or cream, as defined in § 133.3, or corresponding products of goat or sheep origin, used alone or in combination.


(2) *Clotting enzymes.* Rennet and/or other clotting enzymes of animal, plant, or microbial origin.


(3) *Other optional ingredients.* (i) Coloring.


(ii) Calcium chloride in an amount not more than 0.02 percent (calculated as anhydrous calcium chloride) of the weight of the dairy ingredients, used as a coagulation aid.


(iii) Salt.


(iv) Spice oils which do not, alone or in combination with other ingredients, simulate the flavor of cheese of any age or variety.


(v) Enzymes of animal, plant, or microbial origin, used in curing or flavor development.


(vi) Antimycotic agents, applied to the surface of slices or cuts in consumer-sized packages.


(c) *Nomenclature.* The name of the food is “spiced cheese”. The following terms shall accompany the name of the food, as appropriate:


(1) The specific common or usual name of the spiced cheese, if any such name has become generally recognized; or


(2) An arbitrary or fanciful name that is not false or misleading in any particular.


(d) *Label declaration.* Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter, except that:


(1) Enzymes of animal, plant, or microbial origin may be declared as “enzymes”; and


(2) The dairy ingredients may be declared, in descending order of predominance, by the use of the terms “milkfat and nonfat milk” or “nonfat milk and milkfat”, or “milkfat from goat's milk and nonfat goat's milk”, etc., as appropriate.



---

[N] [54 FR 32059, Aug. 4, 1989, as amended at 58 FR 2895, Jan. 6, 1993]




