# ยง 61-300.11   When and how should Federal contractors and subcontractors file VETS-4212 Reports?

(a) The VETS-4212 Report must be used to report the information on veterans' employment required in paragraph (a) of the contract clause set forth in ยง 61-300.10. The VETS-4212 Report requires contractors and subcontractors to provide the total number of employees in their workforces by job category and hiring location; the total number of such employees, by job category and hiring location, who are protected veterans; the total number of new hires during the period covered by the report; the total number of new hires during the period covered by the report who are protected veterans; and the maximum and minimum number of employees of such contractor or subcontractor during the period covered by the report. Contractors and subcontractors must complete a VETS-4212 Report for each hiring location in the manner described in the instructions published on the VETS Web site and included in the paper version of the VETS-4212 Report.


(b) VETS-4212 Reports must be filed between August 1 and September 30 of each year following a calendar year in which a contractor or subcontractor held a contract or subcontract.


(c)(1) *Electronic filing.* Instructions for e-filing the VETS-4212 Report are found on the Federal Contractor Reporting page on the VETS Web site at: *http://www.dol.gov/vets/.*

(i) *Single hiring location.* Contractors and subcontractors doing business at one hiring location may complete and submit a single VETS-4212 Report using the web-based filing system.


(ii) *Multiple hiring locations.* Contractors and subcontractors doing business at more than 10 locations must submit their VETS-4212 Reports in the form of an electronic data file in accordance with the instructions for filing the VETS-4212 Report. In these cases, state consolidated reports count as one location each. Contractors and subcontractors may submit VETS-4212 Reports in the form of electronic data files through the web-based filing system. Electronic data files also may be transmitted electronically as an email attachment (if they do not exceed the size stated in the specifications), or submitted on compact discs or other electronic storage media.


(2) *Alternative filing methods.* (i) Contractors and subcontractors with 10 or fewer hiring locations may file their VETS-4212 Report in paper format. Contractors and subcontractors may download a version of the VETS-4212 Report from the VETS Web site or send a written request for the paper version of the VETS-4212 Report to: Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue NW., Room S-1325, Washington, DC 20210, Attn: VETS-4212 Report Form Request.


(ii) VETS-4212 Reports in paper format or electronic data files on compact discs or other electronic storage media may be delivered by U.S. mail or courier delivery service to the addresses set forth in the instructions for completing the report. Paper copies of the VETS-4212 Reports and electronic data files (if they do not exceed the size stated in the specifications) also may be sent as email attachments to the address indicated in the instructions.




