# § 280.32   How is priority given to applicants?

(a) *How priority is given.* In addition to the points awarded under § 280.31, the Secretary gives priority to the factors listed in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section by awarding additional points for these factors. The Secretary indicates in the application notice published in the _Federal Register_ how these additional points will be distributed. 


(b) *Need for assistance.* The Secretary evaluates the applicant's need for assistance under this part, by considering— 


(1) The costs of fully implementing the magnet schools project as proposed; 


(2) The resources available to the applicant to carry out the project if funds under the program were not provided; 


(3) The extent to which the costs of the project exceed the applicant's resources; and 


(4) The difficulty of effectively carrying out the approved plan and the project for which assistance is sought, including consideration of how the design of the magnet school project—e.g., the type of program proposed, the location of the magnet school within the LEA—impacts on the applicant's ability to successfully carry out the approved plan. 


(c) *New or revised magnet schools projects.* The Secretary determines the extent to which the applicant proposes to carry out new magnet schools projects or significantly revise existing magnet schools projects. 


(d) *Selection of students.* The Secretary determines the extent to which the applicant proposes to select students to attend magnet schools by methods such as lottery, rather than through academic examination. 



---

[N] [57 FR 61510, Dec. 24, 1992, as amended at 60 FR 14866, Mar. 20, 1995; 63 FR 8020, Feb. 17, 1998; 69 FR 4997, Feb. 2, 2004]




