# ยง 724.813   The recommendation of the NDRB president.

(a) *General.* The president of the NDRB may forward cases for consideration by the Secretarial Review Authority (SRA). There is no requirement that the president submit a recommendation when a case is forwarded to the SRA. If the president makes a recommendation with respect to the character of or reason for discharge, however, the recommendation shall be prepared under the guidance in ยง 724.813b.


(b) *Format for recommendation.* If a recommendation is provided, it shall contain the president's view whether there should be a change in the character of or reason for discharge (or both). If the president recommends such a change, the particular change to be made shall be specified. The recommendation shall set forth the president's position on decisional issues and issues submitted by the applicant under the following guidance:


(1) *Adoption of the NDRB's decisional document.* The recommendation may state that the president has adopted the decisional document prepared by the majority. The president shall ensure that the decisional document meets the requirements of this enclosure.


(2) *Adoption of the specific statements from the majority.* If the President adopts the views of the majority only in part, the recommendation shall cite the specific matter adopted from the majority. If the president modifies a statement submitted by the majority, the recommendation shall set forth the modification.


(3) *Response to issues not included in matter adopted from the majority.* The recommendation shall set forth the following if not adopted in whole or in part from the majority:


(i) The issues on which the president's recommendation is based. Each such decisional issue shall be addressed by the president.


(ii) The president's response to items submitted as issues by the applicant.


(iii) Reasons for rejecting the conclusion of the majority with respect to the decisional document which, if resolved in the applicant's favor, would have resulted in greater relief for the applicant than that afforded by the president's recommendation. Such issues shall be addressed under the principles in ยง 724.806.




