# ยง 777.25   Additional rules for replacement housing payments.

(a) *Multiple Owners.* When a single family dwelling is owned by more than one person and occupied by only some of the 180 day owners (for example, when the dwelling is owned by an estate and only one of the heirs is in occupancy), the occupant(s) is (are) eligible to receive a maximum total price differential which is the lesser of:


(1) The difference between (i) the reasonable cost of a comparable replacement dwelling, as determined under ยง 777.24(c) and (ii) the acquisition cost of the displacement dwelling; or 


(2) The difference between (i) the occupant's share of the acquisition cost of the displacement dwelling and (ii) the purchase price of a decent, safe, and sanitary replacement dwelling actually purchased and occupied by the displaced person.


(b) *Multiple Occupants of One Displacement Dwelling.* If two or more occupants of the displacement dwelling move to separate replacement dwellings, each occupant is entitled to a reasonable prorated share, as determined by the Postal Service, of any relocation payments that would have been made if the occupants moved together to a comparable replacement dwelling. However, if the Postal Service determines that two or more occupants maintained separate households within the same dwelling, such occupants have separate entitlements to relocation payments.


(c) *Mixed Use and Multi-Family Properties Acquired.* If the displacement dwelling was part of a property that contained another dwelling unit or space used for non-residential purposes, or if it is located on a lot larger than that typical for residential purposes, only that portion of the acquisition payment which is actually attributable to the displacement dwelling and site can be considered its acquisition cost when computing the price differential.


(d) *Disaster-Related Insurance Proceeds.* To the extent necessary to avoid duplicate compensation, the amount of any insurance proceeds received by a person in connection with a disaster related loss to the displacement dwelling must be included in the acquisition cost of the displacement dwelling when computing the price differential.


(e) *Inspection of Replacement Dwelling.* Before making a replacement housing payment or releasing a payment from escrow, the Postal Service must inspect the replacement dwelling and determine that it is a decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling.


(f) *Purchase of Replacement Dwelling.* A displaced person is considered to have met the requirement to purchase a replacement dwelling if the person has purchased an existing dwelling; purchased and rehabilitated or moved and restored an existing dwelling; or constructed a new dwelling, provided in each instance the dwelling is determined to be decent, safe and sanitary.


(g) *Conversion of Payment.* A displaced person who initially rents a replacement dwelling and receives a rental assistance payment may, within the required 12 month eligibility period, purchase a decent, safe and sanitary replacement dwelling. In such case, he or she is eligible to revise his or her original claim, and claim any additional assistance for which he or she was originally eligible. However, any portion of the rental assistance payment that has been disbursed must be deducted from the resultant replacement housing payment or downpayment assistance payment.


(h) *Payment After Death.* A replacement housing payment is personal to the displaced person. Upon his or her death, the undisbursed portion of any such payment shall not be paid to the heirs or assigns, except that:


(1) The amount attributable to the displaced person's period of actual occupancy of the replacement housing will be paid.


(2) The full payment must be disbursed in any case in which a member of a displaced family dies and other family members continue to occupy the replacement dwelling selected in accordance with these regulations.


(3) Any portion of a replacement housing payment necessary to satisfy the legal obligation of an estate in connection with the selection of a replacement dwelling by or on behalf of a deceased person must be disbursed to the estate.


(i) *180 Day Owner Retention of Displacement Dwelling.* If a 180 day owner occupant retains ownership of his or her dwelling or the right to move his or her dwelling from the displacement site, and he or she moves it and reoccupies it on a replacement site, the cost of the actual replacement dwelling to be computed for purposes of ยง 777.24(b)(1)(i)(A) (not to exceed the purchase price of a comparable replacement dwelling) will be the sum of:


(1) The expenses of moving and restoring the retained dwelling to a condition comparable to that prior to the move; and


(2) The salvage or other value deducted from the acquisition cost for the retained ownership; and


(3) Additional costs, if necessary, incurred to make the unit a decent, safe, and sanitary replacement dwelling; and


(4) The cost of the replacement site, not to exceed the cost of a comparable available and suitable replacement site.


(j) *90 Day Owner/Retention of Displacement Dwelling.* A 90 day owner occupant who retains ownership of his or her dwelling or the right to remove his or her dwelling may receive the benefits as if he or she were a 180 day owner occupant subject, however, to a limitation of $5,250 on maximum benefits in lieu of the $22,500 limitation set out in paragraph ยง 777.24(b)(2).



---

[N] [51 FR 6983, Feb. 27, 1986, as amended at 54 FR 10668, Mar. 15, 1989]




