# § 184.1784   Sodium propionate.

(a) Sodium propionate (C_3_H_5_NaO_2_, CAS Reg. No. 137-40-6) is the sodium salt of propionic acid. It occurs as colorless, transparent crystals or a granular crystalline powder. It is odorless, or has a faint acetic-butyric acid odor, and is deliquescent. It is prepared by neutralizing propionic acid with sodium hydroxide.


(b) The ingredients meets the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), p. 296, which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) In accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) as a direct human food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:


(1) The ingredient is used as an antimicrobial agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(2) of this chapter and a flavoring agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(12) of this chapter.


(2) The ingredient is used in the following foods at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice: baked goods as defined in § 170.3(n)(1) of this chapter; nonalcoholic beverages as defined in § 170.3(n)(3) of this chapter; cheeses as defined in § 170.3(n)(5) of this chapter; confections and frostings as defined in § 170.3(n)(9) of this chapter; gelatins, puddings, and fillings as defined in § 170.3(n)(22) of this chapter; jams and jellies as defined in § 170.3(n)(28) of this chapter; meat products as defined in § 170.3(n)(29) of this chapter; and soft candy as defined in § 170.3(n)(38) of this chapter.


(d) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.



---

[N] [49 FR 13142, Apr. 3, 1984]




