# § 174.255   Restricted service.

This section applies to each liftboat unable to comply with § 174.250 and limited to restricted service as defined by § 125.160 of this chapter. 


(a) *Intact stability.* (1) Each liftboat must be shown by design calculations to meet, under each condition of loading and operation afloat, the following requirements: 


(i) Those imposed by § 174.045, given a “K” value of at least 1.4. 


(ii) A range of positive stability of at least 10 degrees extending from the angle of the first intercept of the curves of righting moment and wind heeling moment, either to the angle of the second intercept of those curves or to the angle of heel at which downflooding would occur, whichever angle is less. 


(iii) A residual righting energy of at least 0.003 meter radians (5 foot-degrees) between the angle of the first intercept of the curves of righting moment and wind heeling moment, either to the angle of the second intercept of those curves or to the angle of heel at which downflooding would occur, whichever angle is less. 


(2) For this section, each wind heeling moment must be calculated as prescribed by § 174.055 of this part using winds of 60 knots for normal conditions of operation afloat and of 70 knots for severe-storm conditions of operation afloat. 


(3) For paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the initial metacentric height must be at least 300 millimeters (1 foot) for each leg position encountered while afloat including the full range of leg positions encountered while jacking. 


(b) *Damaged stability.* (1) Each liftboat must be designed so that, while it is in each of its normal operating conditions, its final equilibrium waterline will remain below the lowest edge of any opening through which additional flooding can occur if the liftboat is subjected simultaneously to— 


(i) Damage causing flooding described by paragraph (b)(4) of this section; and 


(ii) A wind heeling moment calculated in compliance with § 174.055(b) using a wind speed of 50 knots. 


(2) Each liftboat must have a means of closing off each pipe, ventilation system, and trunk in each compartment described by paragraph (b)(4) of this section if any part of the pipe, ventilation system, or trunk is within 760 millimeters (30 inches) of the hull. 


(3) For compliance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, no compartment on the liftboat may be ballasted or pumped out to compensate for the flooding described by paragraph (b)(4) of this section. 


(4) For compliance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, each compartment within 760 millimeters (30 inches) of the hull, excluding the bottom of the liftboat, between two adjacent main watertight bulkheads and the uppermost continuous deck or first superstructure deck where superstructures are fitted must be assumed subject to simultaneous flooding. 


(5) In the calculations required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the permeability of a floodable space must be as listed by Table 174.205(d). 


(c) *On-bottom stability.* Each liftboat must be shown by design calculations to exert a continuous downward force on each footing when the vessel is supported on the bottom with footings and is subjected to the forces of waves, currents, and winds of 70 knots under normal conditions of operation, and winds of 100 knots under severe-storm conditions of operation when elevated in a safe place, if this place is other than a harbor of safe refuge. The waves and currents must be appropriate for the winds and place. 




