# § 15b.3   Definitions.

As used in this part, the term or phrase: 


(a) *The Act* means the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Public Law 93-112, 87 Stat. 390 (1973), as amended by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1974, Public Law 93-651, 89 Stat. 2 (1974) and Public Law 93-516, 88 Stat. 1617 (1974) and the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978, Public Law 95-602, 92 Stat. 2955 (1978). The Act appears at 29 U.S.C. 701-794. 


(b) *Section 504* means section 504 of the Act, 29 U.S.C. 794. 


(c) *Education of the Handicapped Act* means the Education of the Handicapped Act, Public Law 92-230, Title VI, 84 Stat. 175 (1970), as amended by the Education of the Handicapped Amendments of 1974, Public Law 93-380, Title VI, 88 Stat. 576 (1974), the Education for All Handicapped Children Act of 1975, Public Law 94-142, 89 Stat. 773 (1975), and the Education of the Handicapped Amendments of 1977, Public Law 95-49, 91 Stat. 230 (1977). The Education of the Handicapped Act appears at 20 U.S.C. 1401-1461. 


(d) *Department* means the Department of Agriculture and includes each of its operating agencies and other organizational units. 


(e) *Secretary* means the Secretary of Agriculture or any officer or employee of the Department to whom the Secretary has delegated or may delegate the authority to act under the regulations of this part. 


(f) *Recipient* means any State or its political subdivision, any instrumentality of a State or its political subdivision, any public or private agency, institution, organization, or other entity, or any person to which Federal financial assistance is extended directly or through another recipient, including any successor, assignee, or transferee of a recipient, but excluding the ultimate beneficiary of the assistance.


(g) *Federal financial assistance* or *assistance* means any grant, contract (other than a procurement contract or a contract of insurance or guaranty), cooperative agreement, formula allocation, loan, or any other arrangement by which the Department provides or otherwise makes available assistance in the form of: 


(1) Funds; 


(2) Services of Federal personnel; 


(3) Real and personal Federal property or any interest in Federal property, including: 


(i) A sale, transfer, lease or use (on other than a casual or transient basis) of Federal property for less than fair market value, for reduced consideration or in recognition of the public nature of the recipient's program or activity; and


(ii) Proceeds from a subsequent sale, transfer or lease of Federal property if the Federal share of its fair market value is not returned to the Federal Government.


(4) Any other thing of value.


(h) *Facility* means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, or other real or personal property or interest in such property.


(i) *Handicapped person* means any person who has a physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment.


(j) *Physical or mental impairment* means (1) any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or (2) any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities. The term *physical or mental impairment* includes, but is not limited to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech, and hearing impairments; cerebral palsy; epilepsy; muscular dystrophy; multiple sclerosis, cancer; heart disease; diabetes; mental retardation; emotional illness; and drug addiction and alcoholism.


(k) *Major life activities* means functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning and working.


(l) *Has a record of such an impairment* means has a history of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.


(m) *Is regarded as having an impairment* means (1) has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but that is treated by a recipient as constituting such a limitation; (2) has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others towards such impairments, or (3) has none of the impairments defined in paragraph (j) of this section but is treated by a recipient as having such an impairment.


(n) *Qualified handicapped person* (used synonymously with *otherwise qualified handicapped individual*) means:


(1) With respect to employment, a handicapped person who, with reasonable accommodation, can perform the essential functions of the job in question, but the term does not include any individual who is an alcoholic or drug abuser whose current use of alcohol or drugs prevents such individual from performing the duties of the job in question or whose employment, by reason of such current alcohol or drug abuse, would constitute a direct threat to property or the safety of others;


(2) With respect to public preschool, elementary, secondary, or adult educational services, a handicapped person, (i) of an age during which non-handicapped persons are provided such services, (ii) of an age during which it is mandatory under State law to provide such services to handicapped persons, or (iii) to whom a State is required to provide a free appropriate public education under section 612 of the Education of the Handicapped Act; and 


(3) With respect to postsecondary and vocational education services, a handicapped person who meets all academic and technical standards requisite to admission or participation in the recipient's education program or activity;


(4) With respect to other services, a handicapped person who meets the essential eligibility requirements for the receipt of such services.


(o) *Handicap* means any condition or characteristic that renders a person a handicapped person as defined in paragraph (i) of this section.


(p) For purposes of § 15b.18(d), *Historic Preservation Programs* are those that receive Federal financial assistance that has preservation of historic properties as a primary purpose.


(q) For purposes of § 15b.18(e), *Historic properties* means those buildings or facilities that are eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places, or such properties designated as historic under a statute of the appropriate State or local government body.


(r) For purposes of § 15b.18(d), *Substantial impairment* means a significant loss of the integrity of finished materials, design quality or special character which loss results from a permanent alteration.


(s) *Program or activity* means all of the operations of any entity described in paragraphs (s)(1) through (4) of this section, any part of which is extended Federal financial assistance:


(1)(i) A department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a State or of a local government; or


(ii) The entity of such State or local government that distributes such assistance and each such department or agency (and each other State or local government entity) to which the assistance is extended, in the case of assistance to a State or local government;


(2)(i) A college, university, or other postsecondary institution, or a public system of higher education; or


(ii) A local educational agency (as defined in 20 U.S.C. 7801), system of vocational education, or other school system;


(3)(i) An entire corporation, partnership, or other private organization, or an entire sole proprietorship—


(A) If assistance is extended to such corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship as a whole; or


(B) Which is principally engaged in the business of providing education, health care, housing, social services, or parks and recreation; or


(ii) The entire plant or other comparable, geographically separate facility to which Federal financial assistance is extended, in the case of any other corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship; or


(4) Any other entity which is established by two or more of the entities described in paragraph (s)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.



---

[N] [47 FR 25470, June 11, 1982, as amended at 55 FR 52139, Dec. 19, 1990; 68 FR 51342, Aug. 26, 2003]




