# § 1235.42   What specifications and standards for transfer apply to audiovisual records, cartographic, and related records?

In general the physical types described below comprise the minimum record elements that are needed for future preservation, duplication, and reference for audiovisual records, cartographic records, and related records.


(a) *Motion pictures.* (1) Agency-sponsored or produced motion picture films (e.g., public information films) whether for public or internal use:


(i) Original negative or color original plus separate optical sound track;


(ii) Intermediate master positive or duplicate negative plus optical track sound track; and,


(iii) Sound projection print and video recording, if they exist.


(2) Agency-acquired motion picture films: Two projection prints in good condition or one projection print and one videotape.


(3) Unedited footage, outtakes, and trims (the discards of film productions) that are properly arranged, labeled, and described and show unstaged, unrehearsed events of historical interest or historically significant phenomena:


(i) Original negative or color original; and


(ii) Matching print or videotape.


(b) *Video recordings.* (1) For videotape, the original or earliest generation videotape and a copy for reference. Agencies must comply with requirements in § 1237.12(d) of this subchapter for original videotapes, although VHS copies can be transferred as reference copies.


(2) For video discs, the premaster videotape used to manufacture the video disc and two copies of the disc. Agencies must consult NARA, by mail at National Archives and Records Administration; Special Media Records Division (RDS); 8601 Adelphi Road; College Park, MD 20740-6001, or by email at *mopix.accessions@nara.gov,* before initiating transfers of video discs that depend on interactive software and nonstandard equipment.


(c) *Still pictures.* (1) For analog black-and-white photographs, an original negative and a captioned print. The captioning information may be maintained in another file such as a database if the file number correlation is clear. If the original negative is nitrate, unstable acetate, or glass based, the agency must also transfer a duplicate negative on a polyester base.


(2) For analog color photographs, the original color negative, color transparency, or color slide; a captioned print (or captioning information maintained in another file if the file number correlation is clear); and a duplicate negative, or slide, or transparency, if they exist.


(3) For slide sets, the original and a reference set, and the related audio recording (in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section) and script.


(4) For other pictorial records such as posters, original art work, and filmstrips, the original and a reference copy.


(d) *Digital photographic records.* See 36 CFR 1235.48(e) and 1235.50(e) for transfer requirements for digital photographic records.


(e) *Sound recordings*—(1) *Disc recordings.*

(i) For electronic recordings, the origination recording regardless of form and two compact discs (CDs) or digital video disks (DVDs).


(ii) For analog disc recordings, the master tape and two disc pressings of each recording, typically a vinyl copy for playback at 33
1/3 revolutions per minute (rpm).


(2) For analog audio recordings on magnetic tape (open reel, cassette, or cartridge), the original tape, or the earliest available generation of the recording, and a subsequent generation copy for reference. Agencies must comply with the requirements in 36 CFR 1237.12(c) of this subchapter for audio recordings.


(f) *Finding aids and production documentation.* The following records must be transferred to the National Archives of the United States with the audiovisual records to which they pertain:


(1) Existing finding aids such as data sheets, shot lists, continuities, review sheets, catalogs, indexes, list of captions, and other documentation that are needed or useful to identify or retrieve audiovisual records. Agencies must consult NARA, by mail at National Archives and Records Administration; Special Media Records Division (RDS); 8601 Adelphi Road; College Park, MD 20740-6001, or by email at *mopix.accessions@nara.gov* (for audiovisual records) and *stillpix.accessions@nara.gov* (for photographic records), about transferring finding aids that do not meet the requirements of this part for electronic records.


(2) Production case files or similar files that include copies of production contracts, scripts, transcripts, and appropriate documentation bearing on the origin, acquisition, release, and ownership of the production.


(g) *Maps and charts.* (1) Manuscript maps; printed and processed maps on which manuscript changes, additions, or annotations have been made for record purposes or which bear manuscript signatures to indicate official approval; and single printed or processed maps that have been attached to or interfiled with other documents of a record character or in any way made an integral part of a record.


(2) Master sets of printed or processed maps issued by the agency. A master set must include one copy of each edition of a printed or processed map issued.


(3) Paper copies of computer-related and computer-plotted maps that can no longer be reproduced electronically.


(4) Index maps, card indexes, lists, catalogs, or other finding aids that may be helpful in using the maps transferred.


(5) Records related to preparing, compiling, editing, or printing maps, such as manuscript field notebooks of surveys, triangulation and other geodetic computations, and project folders containing agency specifications for creating the maps.


(h) *Aerial photography and remote sensing imagery, including:* (1) Vertical and oblique negative aerial film created using conventional aircraft.


(2) Annotated copy negatives, internegatives, rectified negatives, and glass plate negatives from vertical and oblique aerial film created using conventional aircraft.


(3) Annotated prints from aerial film created using conventional aircraft.


(4) Infrared, ultraviolet, multispectral (multiband), video, imagery radar, and related tapes, converted to a film base.


(5) Indexes and other finding aids in the form of photo mosaics, flight line indexes, coded grids, and coordinate grids.


(i) *Architectural and related engineering drawings, including:*

(1) Design drawings, preliminary and presentation drawings, and models that document the evolution of the design of a building or structure.


(2) Master sets of drawings that document both the initial design and construction and subsequent alterations of a building or structure. This category includes final working drawings, “as-built” drawings, shop drawings, and repair and alteration drawings.


(3) Drawings of repetitive or standard details of one or more buildings or structures.


(4) “Measured” drawings of existing buildings and original or photocopies of drawings reviewed for approval.


(5) Related finding aids and specifications to be followed.


(j) *Digital geospatial data records.* See § 1235.48(c) for transfer requirements for digital geospatial data records.



---

[N] [74 FR 51014, Oct. 2, 2009, as amended at 83 FR 13656, Mar. 30, 2018]




