# ยง 46.4   Reservation of authority.

(a) *Generally.* The OCC may require a national bank or Federal savings association not otherwise subject to this part to comply with the stress test requirements of this part. With respect to any national bank or Federal savings association subject to the stress test requirements of this part pursuant to ยง 46.3(a), the OCC may modify or delay some or all of the requirements of this part which include:


(1) *Timing of stress test.* The OCC may accelerate or extend any specified deadline for stress testing, reporting, or publication of disclosures of the stress test results.


(2) *Stress tests.* The OCC may require additional stress tests not otherwise required by this part or may require or permit different or additional analytical techniques and methods, different scenarios, or different assumptions, as appropriate for the covered institution to use in meeting the stress test requirements of this part. In addition, the OCC may specify a different as-of date for any or all categories of financial data used by the stress test. The OCC may also exempt one or more covered institutions from the requirement to conduct a stress test in a particular reporting year.


(3) *Reporting and disclosures.* The OCC may modify the reporting date or any reporting requirement of a report required by this part, or may require any additional reports relating to stress testing as may be appropriate. The OCC may delay or otherwise modify the publication requirements of this part if the disclosure of stress test results under this part would not provide sufficiently meaningful or useful information to the public. In addition, the OCC may require different or additional disclosures not otherwise required by this part, if the existing disclosures do not adequately address one or more material elements of the stress test.


(b) *Factors considered.* Any exercise of authority under this section by the OCC will be in writing and will consider the nature and level of the activities, complexity, risks, operations, and regulatory capital of the national bank or Federal savings association, in addition to any other relevant factors.


(c) *Notice and comment procedures.* In making a determination under paragraph (a) of this section, the OCC will apply notice and response procedures, in the same manner and to the same extent as the notice and response procedures in 12 CFR 3.404.



---

[N] [77 FR 61246, Oct. 9, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 11313, Feb. 28, 2014; 84 FR 54476, Oct. 10, 2019]




