# § 725.270   EPA review of the TERA.

General procedures for review of all submissions under this part are contained in §§ 725.28 through 725.60. In addition, the following procedures apply to EPA review of applications submitted under this subpart:


(a) *Length of the review period.* (1) The review period for the TERA will be 60 days from the date the Document Control Officer for the Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics receives a complete TERA, or the date EPA determines the TERA is complete under § 725.33, unless EPA finds good cause for an extension under § 725.56.


(2) A submitter shall not proceed with the research and development activity described in the TERA unless and until EPA provides written approval of the TERA. A submitter may receive early approval if a review is completed in less than 60 days.


(b) *EPA decision regarding proposed TERA activity.* (1) A decision concerning a TERA under this subpart will be made by the Administrator, or a designee.


(2) If EPA determines that the proposed research and development activity for the microorganism does not present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment, EPA will notify the submitter that the TERA is approved and that the submitter can proceed with the proposed research and development activity described in the TERA.


(3) EPA may include requirements and conditions in its approval of the TERA that would be stated in the TERA approval under paragraph (c) of this section.


(4) If EPA concludes that it cannot determine that the proposed research and development activity described in the TERA will not present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment, EPA will deny the TERA and will provide reasons for the denial in writing.


(c) *TERA approval.* (1) A TERA approval issued by EPA under this section is legally binding on the TERA submitter. 


(2) When EPA approves a TERA, the submitter must conduct the research and development activity only as described in the TERA and in accordance with any requirements and conditions prescribed by EPA in its approval of the TERA. 


(3) Any person who fails to conduct the research and development activity as described in the TERA and in accordance with any requirements and conditions prescribed by EPA in its approval of the TERA under this section, shall be in violation of sections 5 and 15 of the Act and be subject to civil and criminal penalties under section 16 of the Act.




