# ยง 2627.2   Grant for University of Alaska.

(a) *Statutory authority.* The Act of January 21, 1929 (45 Stat. 1091), as supplemented July 7, 1958 (72 Stat. 339, 343; 43 U.S.C. 852 note), grants to the State of Alaska, for the exclusive use and benefit of the University of Alaska, the unsatisfied portion of 100,000 acres of vacant, surveyed, unreserved public lands in said State, to be selected by the State, under the direction and subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, and subject to the conditions and limitations expressed in the act. 


(b) *Applications for selection.* (1) Applications to select lands under the grant made to Alaska by the Act of January 21, 1929, will be made by the proper selecting agent of the State and will be filed in the proper office of the district in which such selected lands are situated. Such selections must be made in accordance with the law and with the applicable regulations governing selection of lands by States as set forth in part 2620. 


(2) Notice of selection and publication is required as provided by ยง 2627.5 (b) and (c). 


(3) Each list of selections must contain a reference to the act under which the selections are made and must be accompanied by a certificate of the selecting agent showing the selections are made under and pursuant to the laws of the State of Alaska. 


(4) The selections in any one list must not exceed 6,400 acres. 


(5) Each list must be accompanied by a certification of the selecting agent stating that the acreage selected together with the cumulative acreage total of all prior sales for lists pending and finally approved for clear-listing or patenting does not exceed 100,000 acres. 


(c) *Statement with application.* Every application for selection under the Act of January 21, 1929, must be accompanied by a duly corroborated statement making the following showing as to the lands sought to be selected. 


(1) That no portion of the land is occupied for any purpose by the United States and that to the best of his knowledge and belief the land is unoccupied, unimproved, and unappropriated by any person claiming the same other than the applicant; and that at the date of the application no part of the land was claimed under the mining laws. 


(2) That the land applied for does not extend more than 160 rods along the shore of any navigable water or that such restriction has been or should be waived. (See ยง 2094.2 of this chapter.) 


(3) All facts relative to medicinal or hot springs or other waters upon the lands must be stated. 




