# ยง 422.602   Request for an ALJ hearing.

(a) *How and where to file a request.* A party must file a written request for a hearing with the entity specified in the IRE's reconsideration notice.


(b) *When to file a request.* (1) Except when an ALJ or attorney adjudicator extends the time frame as provided in part 405 of this chapter, a party must file a request for a hearing within 60 calendar days of receipt of the notice of a reconsidered determination. The time and place for a hearing before an ALJ will be set in accordance with ยง 405.1020 of this chapter.


(2) For purposes of this section, the date of receipt of the reconsideration is presumed to be 5 calendar days after the date of the notice of the reconsidered determination, unless there is evidence to the contrary.


(c) *Parties to a hearing.* The parties to a hearing are the parties to the reconsideration, the MA organization, and any other person or entity whose rights with respect to the reconsideration may be affected by the hearing, as determined by the ALJ.


(d) *Insufficient amount in controversy.* (1) If a request for a hearing clearly shows that the amount in controversy is less than that required under ยง 422.600, the ALJ dismisses the request.


(2) If, after a hearing is initiated, the ALJ finds that the amount in controversy is less than the amount required under ยง 422.600, the ALJ discontinues the hearing and does not rule on the substantive issues raised in the appeal.



---

[N] [63 FR 35107, June 26, 1998, as amended at 70 FR 4740, Jan. 28, 2005; 82 FR 5125, Jan. 17, 2017]




