# § 714.1   Annual declaration requirements for plant sites that produce a Schedule 3 chemical in excess of 30 metric tons.

(a) *Declaration of production of Schedule 3 chemicals for purposes not prohibited by the CWC*—(1) *Production quantities that trigger the declaration requirement.* You must complete the appropriate forms specified in paragraph (b) of this section if you have produced or anticipate producing a Schedule 3 chemical (see supplement no. 1 to this part) as follows:


(i) *Annual declaration on past activities.* You produced at one or more plants on your plant site in excess of 30 metric tons of any single Schedule 3 chemical during the previous calendar year.


(ii) *Annual declaration on anticipated activities.* You anticipate that you will produce at one or more plants on your plant site in excess of 30 metric tons of any single Schedule 3 chemical in the next calendar year.


(2) *Schedule 3 chemical production.* (i) For the purpose of determining Schedule 3 production, you must include all steps in the production of a chemical in any units within the same plant through chemical reaction, including any associated processes (e.g., purification, separation, extraction, distillation, or refining) in which the chemical is not converted into another chemical. The exact nature of any associated process (e.g., purification, etc.) is not required to be declared.


(ii) For the purpose of determining if a Schedule 3 chemical is subject to declaration, you must declare an intermediate Schedule 3 chemical, but not a transient intermediate Schedule 3 chemical.


(3) *Mixtures containing a Schedule 3 chemical*—(i) *When you must count the quantity of a Schedule 3 chemical in a mixture for declaration purposes.* The quantity of each Schedule 3 chemical contained in a mixture must be counted for declaration purposes only if the concentration of each Schedule 3 chemical in the mixture is 80% or more by volume or by weight, whichever yields the lesser percent.


(ii) *How to count the amount of a Schedule 3 chemical in a mixture.* If your mixture contains 80% or more concentration of a Schedule 3 chemical, you must count only the amount (weight) of the Schedule 3 chemical in the mixture, not the total weight of the mixture.


(b) *Types of declaration forms to be used*—(1) *Annual declaration on past activities.* You must complete the Certification Form and Forms 3-1, 3-2, 3-3, and Form A if one or more plants on your plant site produced in excess of 30 metric tons of any single Schedule 3 chemical during the previous calendar year. Form B is optional.


(2) *Annual declaration on anticipated activities.* You must complete the Certification Form, and Forms 3-1 and 3-3 if you anticipate that you will produce at one or more plants on your plant site in excess of 30 metric tons of any single Schedule 3 chemical in the next calendar year.


(c) *Quantities to be declared*—(1) *Production of a Schedule 3 chemical in excess of 30 metric tons.* If your plant site is subject to the declaration requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, you must declare the range within which the production at your plant site falls (30 to 200 metric tons, 200 to 1,000 metric tons, etc.) as specified on Form 3-3. When specifying the range of production for your plant site, you must aggregate the production quantities of all plants on the plant site that produced the Schedule 3 chemical in amounts greater than 30 metric tons. Do not aggregate amounts of production from plants on the plant site that did not individually produce a Schedule 3 chemical in amounts greater than 30 metric tons. You must complete a separate Form 3-3 for each Schedule 3 chemical for which production at your plant site exceeds 30 metric tons.


(2) *Rounding.* To determine the production range into which your plant site falls, add all the production of the declared Schedule 3 chemical during the calendar year from all plants on your plant site that produced the Schedule 3 chemical in amounts exceeding 30 metric tons, and round to the nearest ten metric tons.


(d) *“Declared” Schedule 3 plant site.* A plant site that submitted a declaration pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section is a “declared” Schedule 3 plant site.


(e) *Routine inspections of declared Schedule 3 plant sites.* A “declared” Schedule 3 plant site is subject to routine inspection by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (see part 716 of the CWCR) if:


(1) The declared plants on your plant site produced in excess of 200 metric tons aggregate of any Schedule 3 chemical during the previous calendar year; or


(2) You anticipate that the declared plants on your plant site will produce in excess of 200 metric tons aggregate of any Schedule 3 chemical during the next calendar year. 




