# ยง 700.50   General provisions.

(a) Once a priority rating has been authorized pursuant to this part, further action by the Department of Commerce generally is not needed. However, it is anticipated that from time-to-time problems will occur. In this event, a person should immediately contact the appropriate contract administration officer or the Department of Commerce for guidance or assistance. Special priorities assistance is a service provided to alleviate problems that do arise.


(1) If additional formal aid is needed for a rated order placed by a Delegate Agency, special priorities assistance should be sought from the Delegate Agency through the contract administration officer. If the Delegate Agency is unable to resolve the problem or to authorize the use of a priority rating and believes additional assistance is warranted, the Delegate Agency may forward the request to the Department of Commerce for action.


(2) If additional formal aid is needed for a rated order placed by other authorized persons, special priorities assistance should be sought from the Department of Commerce.


(b) Special priorities assistance may be provided for any reason consistent with this part, such as assisting in obtaining timely deliveries of items needed to satisfy rated orders or authorizing the use of priority ratings on orders to obtain items not otherwise ratable under this part. If the Department of Commerce is unable to resolve the problem or to authorize the use of a priority rating and believes additional assistance is warranted, the Department of Commerce may forward the request to another agency, identified in ยง 700.10(c), as appropriate, for action.


(c) A request for special priorities assistance must be submitted on Form BIS-999 (OMB control number 0694-0057) to the local contract administration representative or to the Department of Commerce. Form BIS-999 may be obtained from the Delegate Agency representative or from the Department of Commerce. A sample Form BIS-999 is attached at appendix I. A fillable Form BIS-999 may be obtained on the following website: *https://www.bis.doc.gov/.*


---

[N] [89 FR 58973, July 22, 2024]




