# ยง 49.27   Access and fees.

(a) *Fair, open and equal access.* (1) A swap data repository, consistent with Section 21 of the Act, shall provide its services to market participants, including but not limited to designated contract markets, swap execution facilities, derivatives clearing organizations, swap dealers, major swap participants and any other counterparties, on a fair, open and equal basis. For this purpose, a swap data repository shall not provide access to its services on a discriminatory basis but is required to provide its services to all market participants for swaps it accepts in an asset class.


(2) Consistent with the principles of open access set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a swap data repository shall not tie or bundle the offering of mandated regulatory services with other ancillary services that a swap data repository may provide to market participants.


(b) *Fees.* (1) Any fees or charges imposed by a swap data repository in connection with the reporting of SDR data and any other supplemental or ancillary services provided by such swap data repository shall be equitable and established in a uniform and non-discriminatory manner. Fees or charges shall not be used as an artificial barrier to access to the swap data repository. Swap data repositories shall not offer preferential pricing arrangements to any market participant on any basis, including volume discounts or reductions unless such discounts or reductions apply to all market participants uniformly and are not otherwise established in a manner that would effectively limit the application of such discount or reduction to a select number of market participants.


(2) All fees or charges are to be fully disclosed and transparent to market participants. At a minimum, the swap data repository shall provide a schedule of fees and charges that is accessible by all market participants on its Web site.


(3) The Commission notes that it will not specifically approve the fees charged by swap data repositories. However, any and all fees charged by swap data repositories must be consistent with the principles set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.



---

[N] [76 FR 54575, Sept. 1, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 75662, Nov. 25, 2020]




