# § 92.504   Participating jurisdiction responsibilities; written agreements; on-site inspection.

(a) *Responsibilities.* The participating jurisdiction is responsible for managing the day-to-day operations of its HOME program, ensuring that HOME funds are used in accordance with all program requirements and written agreements, and taking appropriate action when performance problems arise. The use of State recipients, subrecipients, or contractors does not relieve the participating jurisdiction of this responsibility. The performance and compliance of each contractor, State recipient, and subrecipient must be reviewed at least annually. The participating jurisdiction must have and follow written policies, procedures, and systems, including a system for assessing risk of activities and projects and a system for monitoring entities consistent with this section, to ensure that the requirements of this part are met.


(b) *Executing a written agreement.* Before disbursing any HOME funds to any entity, the participating jurisdiction must enter into a written agreement with that entity. Before disbursing any HOME funds to any entity, a State recipient, subrecipient, or contractor which is administering all or a part of the HOME program on behalf of the participating jurisdiction, must also enter into a written agreement with that entity. The written agreement must ensure compliance with the requirements of this part. 


(c) *Provisions in written agreements.* The contents of the agreement may vary depending upon the role the entity is asked to assume or the type of project undertaken. This section details basic requirements by role and the minimum provisions that must be included in a written agreement. 


(1) *State recipient.* The provisions in the written agreement between the State and a State recipient will depend on the program functions that the State specifies the State recipient will carry out in accordance with § 92.201(b). In accordance with § 92.201, the written agreement must either require the State recipient to comply with the requirements established by the State or require the State recipient to establish its own requirements to comply with this part, including requirements for income determinations and underwriting subsidy layering guidelines, rehabilitation standards, refinancing guidelines, homebuyer program policies, and affordability.


(i) *Use of the HOME funds.* The agreement must describe the amount and use of the HOME funds to administer one or more programs to produce affordable housing, provide downpayment assistance, or provide tenant-based rental assistance, including the type and number of housing projects to be funded (e.g. the number of single- family homeowner loans to be made or number of homebuyers to receive downpayment assistance), tasks to be performed, a schedule for completing the tasks (including a schedule for committing funds to projects that meet the deadlines established by this part), a budget for each program, and any requirement for matching contributions. These items must be in sufficient detail to provide a sound basis for the State to effectively monitor performance under the agreement.


(ii) *Affordability.* The agreement must require housing assisted with HOME funds to meet the affordability requirements of § 92.252 or § 92.254, as applicable, and must require repayment of the funds if the housing does not meet the affordability requirements for the specified time period. The agreement must state if repayment of HOME funds or recaptured HOME funds must be remitted to the State or retained by the State recipient for additional eligible activities.


(iii) *Program income.* The agreement must state if program income is to be remitted to the State or to be retained by the State recipient for additional eligible activities. 


(iv) *Uniform administrative requirements.* The agreement must require the State recipient to comply with applicable uniform administrative requirements, as described in § 92.505. 


(v) *Project requirement.* The agreement must require compliance with project requirements in subpart F of this part, as applicable in accordance with the type of project assisted. 


(vi) *Other program requirements.* The agreement must require the State recipient to carry out each activity in compliance with all Federal laws and regulations described in subpart H of this part, except that the State recipient does not assume the State's responsibilities for release of funds under § 92.352 and the intergovernmental review process in § 92.357 does not apply to the State recipient. If HOME funds are provided for development of rental housing or provision of tenant-based rental assistance, the agreement must set forth all obligations the State imposes on the State recipient in order to meet the VAWA requirements under § 92.359, including notice obligations and any obligations with respect to the emergency transfer plan (including whether the State recipient must develop its own plan or follow the State's plan).


(vii) *Affirmative marketing.* The agreement must specify the State recipient's affirmative marketing responsibilities in accordance with § 92.351.


(viii) *Requests for disbursement of funds.* The agreement must specify that the State recipient may not request disbursement of HOME funds under this agreement until the funds are needed for payment of eligible costs. The amount of each request must be limited to the amount needed. Program income must be disbursed before the State recipient requests funds from the State. 


(ix) *Records and reports.* The agreement must specify the particular records that must be maintained and the information or reports that must be submitted in order to assist the State in meeting its recordkeeping and reporting requirements. 


(x) *Enforcement of the agreement.* The agreement must provide for a means of enforcement of affordable housing requirements by the State or the intended beneficiaries, if the State recipient will be the owner at project completion of the affordable housing. The means of enforcement may include liens on real property, deed restrictions, or covenants running with the land. The affordability requirements in § 92.252 must be enforced by deed restriction. In addition, the agreement must specify remedies for breach of the HOME requirements. The agreement must specify that, in accordance with 2 CFR 200.338, suspension or termination may occur if the State recipient materially fails to comply with any term of the agreement. The State may permit the agreement to be terminated in whole or in part in accordance with 2 CFR 200.339. 


(xi) *Written agreement.* Before the State recipient provides funds to for-profit owners or developers, nonprofit owners or developers or sponsors, subrecipients, homeowners, homebuyers, tenants (or landlords) receiving tenant-based rental assistance, or contractors who are providing services to the State recipient, the State recipient must have a written agreement with such entities that meets the requirements of this section.


(xii) *Duration of the agreement.* The duration of the agreement will depend on which functions the State recipient performs (e.g., whether the State recipient or the State has responsibility for monitoring rental projects for the period of affordability) and which activities are funded under the agreement. 


(xiii) *Fees.* The agreement must prohibit the State recipient and its subrecipients and community housing development organizations from charging servicing, origination, processing, inspection, or other fees for the costs of administering a HOME program, except as permitted by § 92.214(b)(1).


(2) *Subrecipient.* A subrecipient is a public agency or nonprofit organization selected by the participating jurisdiction to administer all or some of the participating jurisdiction's HOME programs to produce affordable housing, provide downpayment assistance, or provide tenant-based rental assistance. The agreement must set forth and require the subrecipient to follow the participating jurisdiction's requirements, including requirements for income determinations, underwriting and subsidy layering guidelines, rehabilitation standards, refinancing guidelines, homebuyer program policies, and affordability requirements. The agreement between the participating jurisdiction and the subrecipient must include:


(i) *Use of the HOME funds.* The agreement must describe the amount and use of the HOME funds for one or more programs, including the type and number of housing projects to be funded (e.g., the number of single-family homeowners loans to be made or the number of homebuyers to receive downpayment assistance), tasks to be performed, a schedule for completing the tasks (including a schedule for committing funds to projects in accordance with deadlines established by this part), a budget, any requirement for matching contributions and the period of the agreement. These items must be in sufficient detail to provide a sound basis for the participating jurisdiction to effectively monitor performance under the agreement.


(ii) *Program income.* The agreement must state if program income is to be remitted to the participating jurisdiction or to be retained by the subrecipient for additional eligible activities. 


(iii) *Uniform administrative requirements.* The agreement must require the subrecipient to comply with applicable uniform administrative requirements, as described in § 92.505. 


(iv) *Other program requirements.* The agreement must require the subrecipient to carry out each activity in compliance with all Federal laws and regulations described in subpart H of this part, except that the subrecipient does not assume the participating jurisdiction's responsibilities for environmental review under § 92.352 and the intergovernmental review process in § 92.357 does not apply. The agreement must set forth the requirements the subrecipient must follow to enable the participating jurisdiction to carry environmental review responsibilities before HOME funds are committed to a project. If HOME funds are being provided to develop rental housing or provide tenant-based rental assistance, the agreement must set forth all obligations the participating jurisdiction imposes on the subrecipient in order to meet the VAWA requirements under § 92.359, including notice obligations and obligations under the emergency transfer plan.


(v) *Affirmative marketing.* The agreement must specify the subrecipient's affirmative marketing responsibilities in accordance with § 92.351.


(vi) *Requests for disbursement of funds.* The agreement must specify that the subrecipient may not request disbursement of funds under the agreement until the funds are needed for payment of eligible costs. The amount of each request must be limited to the amount needed. Program income must be disbursed before the subrecipient requests funds from the participating jurisdiction. 


(vii) *Reversion of assets.* The agreement must specify that upon expiration of the agreement, the subrecipient must transfer to the participating jurisdiction any HOME funds on hand at the time of expiration and any accounts receivable attributable to the use of HOME funds. 


(viii) *Records and reports.* The agreement must specify the particular records that must be maintained and the information or reports that must be submitted in order to assist the participating jurisdiction in meeting its recordkeeping and reporting requirements. 


(ix) *Enforcement of the agreement.* The agreement must specify remedies for breach of the provisions of the agreement. The agreement must specify that, in accordance with 2 CFR 200.338, suspension or termination may occur if the subrecipient materially fails to comply with any term of the agreement. The participating jurisdiction may permit the agreement to be terminated in whole or in part in accordance with 2 CFR 200.339. 


(x) *Written agreement.* Before the subrecipient provides HOME funds to for-profit owners or developers, nonprofit owners or developers or sponsors, subrecipients, homeowners, homebuyers, tenants (or landlords) receiving tenant-based rental assistance, or contractors, the subrecipient must have a written agreement that meets the requirements of this section. The agreement must state if repayment of HOME funds or recaptured HOME funds must be remitted to the participating jurisdiction or retained by the subrecipient for additional eligible activities.


(xi) *Fees.* The agreement must prohibit the subrecipient and any community housing development organizations from charging servicing, origination, or other fees for the costs of administering the HOME program, except as permitted by § 92.214(b)(1).


(3) *For-profit or nonprofit housing owner, sponsor, or developer (other than single-family owner-occupant).* The participating jurisdiction may preliminarily award HOME funds for a proposed project, contingent on conditions such as obtaining other financing for the project. This preliminary award is not a commitment to a project. The written agreement committing the HOME funds to the project must meet the requirements of “commit to a specific local project” in the definition of “commitment” in § 92.2 and contain the following:


(i) *Use of the HOME funds.* The agreement between the participating jurisdiction and a for-profit or nonprofit housing owner, sponsor, or developer must describe the address of the project or the legal description of the property if a street address has not been assigned to the property, the use of the HOME funds and other funds for the project, including the tasks to be performed for the project, a schedule for completing the tasks and the project, and a complete budget. These items must be in sufficient detail to provide a sound basis for the participating jurisdiction to effectively monitor performance under the agreement to achieve project completion and compliance with the HOME requirements.


(ii) *Affordability.* The agreement must require housing assisted with HOME funds to meet the affordability requirements of § 92.252 or § 92.254, as applicable, and must require repayment of the funds if the housing does not meet the affordability requirements for the specified time period. The affordability requirements in § 92.252 must be imposed by deed restrictions, covenants running with the land, use restrictions, or other mechanisms approved by HUD under which the participating jurisdiction has the right to require specific performance.


(A) If the owner or developer is undertaking rental projects, the agreement must establish the initial rents, the procedures for rent increases pursuant to § 92.252(f)(2), the number of HOME units, the size of the HOME units, and the designation of the HOME units as fixed or floating, and include the requirement that the owner or developer provide the address (e.g., street address and apartment number) of each HOME unit no later than the time of initial occupancy.


(B) If the owner or developer is undertaking a homeownership project for sale to homebuyers in accordance with § 92.254(a), the agreement must set forth the resale or recapture requirements that must be imposed on the housing, the sales price or the basis upon which the sales price will be determined, and the disposition of the sales proceeds. Recaptured funds must be returned to the participating jurisdiction.


(iii) *Project requirements.* The agreement must require compliance with project requirements in subpart F of this part, as applicable in accordance with the type of project assisted. The agreement may permit the owner to limit eligibility or give a preference to a particular segment of the population in accordance with § 92.253(d).


(iv) *Property standards.* The agreement must require the housing to meet the property standards in § 92.251, upon project completion. The agreement must also require owners of rental housing assisted with HOME funds to maintain the housing compliance with § 92.251 for the duration of the affordability period.


(v) *Other program requirements.* The agreement must require the owner, developer or sponsor to carry out each project in compliance with the following requirements of subpart H of this part: 


(A) The agreement must specify the owner or developer's affirmative marketing responsibilities as enumerated by the participating jurisdiction in accordance with § 92.351.


(B) The federal requirements and nondiscrimination established in § 92.350. 


(C) Any displacement, relocation, and acquisition requirements imposed by the participating jurisdiction consistent with § 92.353. 


(D) The labor requirements in § 92.354. 


(E) The conflict of interest provisions prescribed in § 92.356(f).


(F) If HOME funds are being provided to develop rental housing, the agreement must set forth all obligations the participating jurisdiction imposes on the owner in order to meet the VAWA requirements under § 92.359, including the owner's notice obligations and owner obligations under the emergency transfer plan.


(vi) *Records and reports.* The agreement must specify the particular records that must be maintained and the information or reports that must be submitted in order to assist the participating jurisdiction in meeting its recordkeeping and reporting requirements. The owner of rental housing must annually provide the participating jurisdiction with information on rents and occupancy of HOME-assisted units to demonstrate compliance with § 92.252. If the rental housing project has floating HOME units, the owner must provide the participating jurisdiction with information regarding unit substitution and filling vacancies so that the project remains in compliance with HOME rental occupancy requirements. The agreement must specify the reporting requirements (including copies of financial statements) to enable the participating jurisdiction to determine the financial condition (and continued financial viability) of the rental project.


(vii) *Enforcement of the agreement.* The agreement must provide for a means of enforcement of the affordable housing requirements by the participating jurisdiction and the intended beneficiaries. This means of enforcement may include liens on real property, deed restrictions, or covenants running with the land. The affordability requirements in § 92.252 must be imposed by deed restrictions, covenants running with the land, use restrictions, or other mechanisms approved by HUD under which the participating jurisdiction has the right to require specific performance. In addition, the agreement must specify remedies for breach of the provisions of the agreement.


(viii) *Requests for disbursement of funds.* The agreement must specify that the developer may not request disbursement of funds under the agreement until the funds are needed for payment of eligible costs. The amount of each request must be limited to the amount needed. 


(ix) *Duration of the agreement.* The agreement must specify the duration of the agreement. If the housing assisted under this agreement is rental housing, the agreement must be in effect through the affordability period required by the participating jurisdiction under § 92.252. If the housing assisted under this agreement is homeownership housing, the agreement must be in effect at least until completion of the project and ownership by the low-income family. 


(x) *Community housing development organization provisions.* If the nonprofit owner or developer is a community housing development organization and is using set-aside funds under § 92.300, the agreement must include the appropriate provisions under §§ 92.300, 92.301, and 92.303. If the community development organization is receiving HOME funds as a developer of homeownership housing, the agreement must specify if the organization may retain proceeds from the sale of the housing and whether the proceeds are to be used for HOME-eligible or other housing activities to benefit low-income families. Recaptured funds are subject to the requirements of § 92.503. If the community housing development organization is receiving assistance for operating expenses, see paragraph (c)(6) of this section.


(xi) *Fees.* The agreement must prohibit project owners from charging fees that are not customarily charged in rental housing such as laundry room access fees, and other fees. However, rental project owners may charge reasonable application fees to prospective tenants may charge parking fees to tenants only if such fees are customary for rental housing projects in the neighborhood; and may charge fees for services such as bus transportation or meals, as long as such services are voluntary. The agreement must also prohibit the developer that is undertaking a homeownership project from charging servicing, origination, processing, inspection, or other fees for the costs of providing homeownership assistance.


(4) *Contractor.* The participating jurisdiction selects a contractor through applicable procurement procedures and requirements. The contractor provides goods or services in accordance with a written agreement (the contract). For contractors who are administering all or some of the participating jurisdiction's HOME programs or specific services for one or more programs, the contract must include at a minimum the following provisions:


(i) *Use of the HOME funds.* The agreement must describe the use of the HOME funds, including the tasks to be performed, a schedule for completing the tasks, a budget, and the length of the agreement. 


(ii) *Program requirements.* The agreement must provide that the contractor is subject to the requirements in part 92 that are applicable to the participating jurisdiction, except §§ 92.505 and 92.506 do not apply, and the contractor cannot assume the participating jurisdiction responsibilities for environmental review, decisionmaking, and action under § 92.352. Where the contractor is administering only a portion of the program, the agreement must list the requirements applicable to the activities the contractor is administering. If applicable to the work under the contract, the agreement must set forth all obligations the participating jurisdiction imposes on the contractor in order to meet the VAWA requirements under § 92.359, including any notice obligations and any obligations under the emergency transfer plan.


(iii) *Duration of agreement.* The agreement must specify the duration of the contract. Generally, the duration of a contract should not exceed two years. 


(5) *Homebuyer, homeowner or tenant receiving tenant-based rental or security deposit assistance.* When a participating jurisdiction provides assistance to a homebuyer, homeowner or tenant the written agreement may take many forms depending upon the nature of assistance. As appropriate, it must include as a minimum: 


(i) For homebuyers, the agreement must conform to the requirements in § 92.254(a), the value of the property, principal residence, lease-purchase, if applicable, and the resale or recapture provisions. The agreement must specify the amount of HOME funds, the form of assistance, e.g., grant, amortizing loan, deferred payment loan, the use of the funds (e.g., down-payment, closing costs, rehabilitation) and the time by which the housing must be acquired. 


(ii) For homeowners, the agreement must conform to the requirements in § 92.254(b) and specify the amount and form of HOME assistance, rehabilitation work to be undertaken, date for completion, and property standards to be met. 


(iii) For tenants, the rental assistance contract or the security deposit contract must conform to §§ 92.209 and 92.253. 


(6) *Community housing development organization receiving assistance for operating expenses.* The agreement must describe the use of HOME funds for operating expenses; e.g., salaries, wages, and other employee compensation and benefits; employee education, training, and travel; rent; utilities; communication costs; taxes; insurance; equipment; and materials and supplies. If the community housing development organization is not also receiving funds for a housing project to be developed, sponsored, or owned by the community housing development organization, the agreement must provide that the community housing development organization is expected to receive funds for a project within 24 months of the date of receiving the funds for operating expenses, and must specify the terms and conditions upon which this expectation is based and the consequences of failure to receive funding for a project.


(7) *Community housing development organization receiving assistance for project-specific technical assistance and site control loans or project-specific seed money loans.* The agreement must identify the specific site or sites and describe the amount and use of the HOME funds (in accordance with § 92.301), including a budget for work, a period of performance, and a schedule for completion. The agreement must also set forth the basis upon which the participating jurisdiction may waive repayment of the loans, consistent with § 92.301, if applicable.


(8) *Technical assistance provider to develop the capacity of community housing development organizations in the jurisdiction.* The agreement must identify the specific nonprofit organization(s) to receive capacity building assistance. The agreement must describe the amount and use (scope of work) of the HOME funds, including a budget, a period of performance, and a schedule for completion.


(d) *On-site inspections and financial oversight.* (1) *Inspections.* The participating jurisdiction must inspect each project at project completion and during the period of affordability to determine that the project meets the property standards of § 92.251.


(i) *Completion inspections.* Before completing the project in the disbursement and information system established by HUD, the participating jurisdiction must perform an on-site inspection of HOME-assisted housing to determine that all contracted work has been completed and that the project complies with the property standards of § 92.251.


(ii) *Ongoing periodic inspections of HOME-assisted rental housing.* During the period of affordability, the participating jurisdiction must perform on-site inspections of HOME-assisted rental housing to determine compliance with the property standards of § 92.251 and to verify the information submitted by the owners in accordance with the requirements of § 92.252. The inspections must be in accordance with the inspection procedures that the participating jurisdiction establishes to meet the inspection requirements of § 92.251.


(A) The on-site inspections must occur within 12 months after project completion and at least once every 3 years thereafter during the period of affordability.


(B) If there are observed deficiencies for any of the inspectable items in the property standards established by the participating jurisdiction, in accordance with the inspection requirements of § 92.251, a follow-up on-site inspection to verify that deficiencies are corrected must occur within 12 months. The participating jurisdiction may establish a list of non-hazardous deficiencies for which correction can be verified by third party documentation (e.g., paid invoice for work order) rather than re-inspection. Health and safety deficiencies must be corrected immediately, in accordance with § 92.251. The participating jurisdiction must adopt a more frequent inspection schedule for properties that have been found to have health and safety deficiencies.


(C) The property owner must annually certify to the participating jurisdiction that each building and all HOME- assisted units in the project are suitable for occupancy, taking into account State and local health, safety, and other applicable codes, ordinances, and requirements, and the ongoing property standards established by the participating jurisdiction to meet the requirements of § 92.251.


(D) Inspections must be based on a statistically valid sample of units appropriate for the size of the HOME-assisted project, as set forth by HUD through a document published in the _Federal Register._ For projects with one-to-four HOME-assisted units, a participating jurisdiction must inspect all of the HOME-assisted units and all inspectable areas for each building with HOME-assisted units.


(iii) *Annual inspections.* Tenant-based rental assistance (TBRA). All housing occupied by tenants receiving HOME tenant-based rental assistance must meet the property standards of § 92.251. The participating jurisdiction must perform annual on-site inspections of rental housing occupied by tenants receiving HOME-assisted TBRA to determine compliance with these standards.


(2) *Financial oversight.* During the period of affordability, the participating jurisdiction must examine at least annually the financial condition of HOME-assisted rental projects with 10 units or more to determine the continued financial viability of the housing and must take actions to correct problems, to the extent feasible.



---

[N] [61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 50224, Sept. 15, 1999; 67 FR 61757, Oct. 1, 2002; 68 FR 56404, Sept. 30, 2003; 78 FR 44680, July 24, 2013; 80 FR 75935, Dec. 7, 2015; 81 FR 80804, Nov. 16, 2016; 81 FR 86952, Dec. 2, 2016; 88 FR 30497, May 11, 2023]




