# ยง 2886.18   How will I know that BLM intends to suspend or terminate my grant or TUP?

(a) *Grants.* When BLM determines that it will suspend or terminate your grant under ยง 2886.17 of this subpart, it will send you a written notice of this determination. The determination will provide you a reasonable opportunity to correct the violation, start your use, or resume your use of the right-of-way, as appropriate. In the notice BLM will state the date by which you must correct the violation or start or resume use of the right-of-way.


(1) If you have not corrected the violation or started or resumed use of the right-of-way by the date specified in the notice, BLM will refer the matter to the Office of Hearings and Appeals. An ALJ in the Office of Hearings and Appeals will provide an appropriate administrative proceeding under 5 U.S.C. 554 and determine whether grounds for suspension or termination exist. No administrative proceeding is required where the grant by its terms provides that it terminates on the occurrence of a fixed or agreed upon condition, event, or time.


(2) BLM will suspend or terminate the grant if the ALJ determines that grounds exist for suspension or termination and the suspension or termination is justified.


(b) *TUPs.* When BLM determines that it will suspend or terminate your TUP, it will send you a written notice and provide you a reasonable opportunity to correct the violation or start or resume use of the TUP area. The notice will also provide you information on how to file a written request for reconsideration.


(1) You may file a written request with the BLM office that issued the notice, asking for reconsideration of the determination to suspend or terminate your TUP. BLM must receive this request within 10 business days after you receive the notice.


(2) BLM will provide you with a written decision within 20 business days after receiving your request for reconsideration. The decision will include a finding of fact made by the next higher level of authority than that who made the suspension or termination determination. The decision will also inform you whether BLM suspended or terminated your TUP or cancelled the notice made under paragraph (b) of this section.


(3) If the decision is adverse to you, you may appeal it under ยง 2881.10 of this part.




