# § 390.2   Application for an agreement.

(a) *In general*—(1) *Application instructions.* The Maritime Administrator has adopted instructions for making application for an agreement. These instructions are contained in appendix I to this part. MARAD will accept electronic options (such as facsimile and Internet) for transmission of required information to MARAD, if practicable.


(2) *General eligibility requirements.* Chapter 535 specifies who is eligible for a fund and the application instructions specify what information is required to establish such eligibility. An applicant must:


(i) Be a citizen of the United States within the meaning of 46 U.S.C. 50501, as amended (46 U.S.C. 802, 803). See part 355 of this title for requirements for establishing United States citizenship;


(ii) Own or be the lessee of one or more eligible vessels or share thereof as defined in 46 U.S.C. 53501, or be party to a contract for the construction of one or more eligible vessels, or share thereof, as defined in paragraph (b) of § 390.5;


(iii) Have a program which furthers the purposes of the Act (see § 390.3 relating to policy considerations) and provides for the acquisition, construction or reconstruction of a qualified vessel, as defined in 46 U.S.C. 53501(5). Such provisions state that the vessel will be operated in the United States foreign, Great Lakes, noncontiguous domestic, or short sea transportation trade as defined in 46 U.S.C. 53501 and 46 U.S.C. 109(b); and 


(iv) Demonstrate the financial capabilities to accomplish the program.


(b) *Information which may be required in conjunction with the application.* An applicant must provide such facts, documents and materials as the Maritime Administrator may require in considering whether to enter into an agreement. An applicant should be ready to make available such applicable materials, including, but not limited to: Design plans, data concerning the reasonableness of the cost of the program, construction contracts, financial statements, certificates of incorporation, bylaws, articles of partnership, stock ownership data and other information including judgments and pending litigation which would affect the proposed program. The specific information required is set forth in the instructions.



---

[N] [41 FR 4265, Jan. 29, 1976, as amended at 47 FR 25530, June 14, 1982; 68 FR 62539, Nov. 5, 2003; 69 FR 61452, Oct. 19, 2004; 73 FR 56740, Sept. 30, 2008]




