# § 721.11248   1,2-Cyclohexanedi carboxylic acid, 1-(phenylmethyl) ester, ester with 2,2,4-trimethyl-1,3-pentanediol mono(2-methylpropanoate).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,2-Cyclohexanedi carboxyliccyclohexane dicarboxylic acid, 1-(phenylmethyl) ester, ester with 2,2,4-trimethyl-1,3-pentanediol mono(2-methylpropanoate) (P-16-422, CAS No. 1661012-65-2) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* It is a significant new use to use the substance involving an application method that results in inhalation exposures. It is a significant new use to release a manufacturing, processing, or use stream associated with any use of the substance, other than releases from the confidential polymer additive use described in the PMN, into the waters of the United States exceeding a surface water concentration of 12 part per billion (ppb) using the methods described in § 721.91.


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, including importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.



---

[N] [85 FR 15957, Mar. 20, 2020]




