# § 573.1000   Verxite.

The food additive verxite may be safely used in animal feed in accordance with the following prescribed conditions: 


(a) The additive is a magnesium-aluminum-iron silicate conforming to one of the following: 


(1)(i) Verxite granules: The additive contains a minimum of 98 percent of hydrobiotite; it is thermally expanded and has a bulk density of from 5 to 9 pounds per cubic foot. 


(ii) It is used or intended for use: 


(*a*) In poultry feed at a level not to exceed 5 percent of the weight of the finished feed as a nonnutritive bulking agent for restricting calorie intake in pullet replacement feeds. 


(*b*) As an anticaking or blending agent, pelleting aid, or nonnutritive carrier for the incorporation of nutrients in poultry, swine, dog, or ruminant feeds, in an amount not to exceed that necessary to accomplish its intended effect and in no case to exceed 1.5 percent of the dog feed or 5 percent of the final feed for other animals. 


(2)(i) Verxite flakes: The additive contains a minimum of 98 percent of hydrobiotite; it has a bulk density of from 20 to 30 pounds per cubic foot. 


(ii) It is used or intended for use as an anticaking or blending agent in ruminant feeds in an amount not to exceed that necessary to accomplish its intended effect and in no case to exceed 1 percent by weight of the final feed for ruminants. 


(3)(i) Verxite grits: The additive contains a minimum of 80 percent of hydrobiotite; it has a bulk density of from 40 to 50 pounds per cubic foot. 


(ii) It is used or intended for use as a partial roughage replacement in ruminant feeds in an amount not to exceed that necessary to accomplish its intended effect and in no case to exceed 1 percent by weight of the final feed. 


(b) To assure safe use of the additive, the label of any feed additive supplement, feed additive concentrate, feed additive premix, or complete feed prepared therefrom shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the Act, the name of the additive (verxite granules, verxite flakes, or verxite grits), adequate directions for use, and, when the additive is present in excess of 1 percent, a statement of the quantity of the additive contained therein and the term “nonnutritive” in juxtaposition therewith. 




