# § 55.13   Federal requirements that apply to OCS sources.

(a) The requirements of this section shall apply to OCS sources as set forth below. In the event that a requirement of this section conflicts with an applicable requirement of § 55.14 of this part and a source cannot comply with the requirements of both sections, the more stringent requirement shall apply.


(b) In applying the requirements incorporated into this section:


(1) *New Source* means new OCS source; and


(2) *Existing Source* means existing OCS source; and


(3) *Modification* means a modification to an OCS source.


(4) For requirements adopted prior to promulgation of this part, language in such requirements limiting the applicability of the requirements to onshore sources or to sources within State boundaries shall not apply.


(c) 40 CFR part 60 (NSPS) shall apply to OCS sources in the same manner as in the COA, except that any source determined to be an existing source pursuant to § 55.3(e) of this part shall not be considered a “new source” for the purpose of NSPS adopted before December 5, 1991.


(d) 40 CFR 52.21 (PSD) shall apply to OCS sources:


(1) Located within 25 miles of a State's seaward boundary if the requirements of 40 CFR 52.21 are in effect in the COA;


(2) Located beyond 25 miles of States' seaward boundaries.


(e) 40 CFR part 61, together with any other provisions promulgated pursuant to section 112 of the Act, shall apply if rationally related to the attainment and maintenance of Federal or State ambient air quality standards or the requirements of part C of title I of the Act.


(f) 40 CFR part 71 shall apply to OCS sources:


(1) Located within 25 miles of States' seaward boundaries if the requirements of 40 CFR part 71 are in effect in the COA.


(2) Located beyond 25 miles of States' seaward boundaries.


(3) When an operating permits program approved pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 is in effect in the COA and a Federal operating permit is issued to satisfy an EPA objection pursuant to 40 CFR 71.4(e).


(g) The provisions of 40 CFR 52.10, 40 CFR 52.24, and 40 CFR part 51 and accompanying appendix S shall apply to OCS sources located within 25 miles of States' seaward boundaries, if these requirements are in effect in the COA.


(h) If the Administrator determines that additional requirements are necessary to protect Federal and State ambient air quality standards or to comply with part C of title I, such requirements will be incorporated in this part.



---

[N] [57 FR 40806, Sept. 4, 1992, as amended at 61 FR 34228, July 1, 1996]




