# ยง 3172.12   Drilling abandonment.

(a) *Requirements.* The standards in paragraphs (a)(1) through (11) of this section apply to the abandonment of newly drilled dry or non- productive wells in accordance with ยง 3171.18 and 43 CFR 3162.3-4. Approval shall be obtained prior to the commencement of abandonment. All formations bearing usable-quality water, oil, gas, or geothermal resources, and/or a prospectively valuable deposit of minerals shall be protected. Approval may be given orally by the authorized officer before abandonment operations are initiated. This oral request and approval shall be followed by a written Notice of Intent to Abandon filed not later than the fifth business day following oral approval. Failure to obtain approval prior to commencement of abandonment operations shall result in immediate assessment of under 43 CFR 3163.1(b)(3). The hole shall be in static condition at the time any plugs are placed (this does not pertain to plugging lost circulation zones). Within 30 days of completion of abandonment, a subsequent report of abandonment shall be filed. Plugging design for an abandonment hole shall include the following:


(1) *Open hole.* (i) A cement plug shall be placed to extend at least 50 feet below the bottom (except as limited by total depth (TD) or plugged back total depth (PBTD)), to 50 feet above the top of:


(A) Any zone encountered during drilling which contains fluid or gas with a potential to migrate; and (B) Any prospectively valuable deposit of minerals.


(ii) All cement plugs, except the surface plug, shall have sufficient slurry volume to fill 100 feet of hole, plus an additional 10 percent of slurry for each 1,000 feet of depth.


(iii) No plug, except the surface plug, shall be less than 25 sacks without receiving specific approval from the authorized officer.


(iv) Extremely thick sections of a single formation may be secured by placing 100-foot plugs across the top and bottom of the formation, and in accordance with paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.


(v) In the absence of productive zones or prospectively valuable deposits of minerals which otherwise require placement of cement plugs, long sections of open hole shall be plugged at least every 3,000 feet. Such plugs shall be placed across in-gauge sections of the hole, unless otherwise approved by the authorized officer.


(B)[Reserved]




(2) *Cased hole.* A cement plug shall be placed opposite all open perforations and extend to a minimum of 50 feet below (except as limited by TD or PBTD) to 50 feet above the perforated interval. All cement plugs, except the surface plug, shall have sufficient slurry volume to fill 100 feet of hole, plus an additional 10 percent of slurry for each 1,000 feet of depth. In lieu of the cement plug, a bridge plug is acceptable, provided:


(i) The bridge plug is set within 50 feet to 100 feet above the open perforations; (ii) The perforations are isolated from any open hole below; and (iii) The bridge plug is capped with 50 feet of cement. If a bailer is used to cap this plug, 35 feet of cement shall be sufficient.


(3) *Casing removed from hole.* If any casing is cut and recovered, a cement plug shall be placed to extend at least 50 feet above and below the stub. The exposed hole resulting from the casing removal shall be secured as required in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(4) *Cement plug.* An additional cement plug placed to extend a minimum of 50 feet above and below the shoe of the surface casing (or intermediate string, as appropriate).


(5) *Annular space.* No annular space that extends to the surface shall be left open to the drilled hole below. If this condition exists, a minimum of the top 50 feet of annulus shall be plugged with cement.


(6) *Isolating medium.* Any cement plug which is the only isolating medium for a fresh water interval or a zone containing a prospectively valuable deposit of minerals shall be tested by tagging with the drill string. Any plugs placed where the fluid level will not remain static also shall be tested by either tagging the plug with the working pipe string, or pressuring to a minimum pump (surface) pressure of 1,000 psi, with no more than a 10 percent drop during a 15-minute period (cased hole only). If the integrity of any other plug is questionable, or if the authorized officer has specific concerns for which he/she orders a plug to be tested, it shall be tested in the same manner.


(7) *Silica sand or silica flour.* Silica sand or silica flour shall be added to cement exposed to bottom hole static temperatures above 230ยบ F to prevent heat degradation of the cement.


(8) *Surface plug.* A cement plug of at least 50 feet shall be placed across all annuluses. The top of this plug shall be placed as near the eventual casing cutoff point as possible.


(9) *Mud.* Each of the intervals between plugs shall be filled with mud of sufficient density to exert hydrostatic pressure exceeding the greatest formation pressure encountered while drilling such interval. In the absence of other information at the time plugging is approved, a minimum mud weight of 9 pounds per gallon shall be specified.


(10) *Surface cap.* All casing shall be cut-off at the base of the cellar or 3 feet below final restored ground level (whichever is deeper). The well bore shall then be covered with a metal plate at least 
1/4 inch thick and welded in place, or a 4-inch pipe, 10-feet in length, 4 feet above ground and embedded in cement as specified by the authorized officer. The well location and identity shall be permanently inscribed. A weep hole shall be left if a metal plate is welded in place.


(11) *Cellar.* The cellar shall be filled with suitable material as specified by the authorized officer and the surface restored in accordance with the instructions of the authorized officer.


(b) *Minimum standard.* All plugging orders shall be strictly adhered to.


