# ยง 711.3   Prohibitions.

(a) *Community.* A management official of a depository organization may not serve at the same time as a management official of an unaffiliated depository organization if the depository organizations in question (or a depository institution affiliate thereof) have offices in the same community. 


(b) *RMSA.* A management official of a depository organization may not serve at the same time as a management official of an unaffiliated depository organization if the depository organizations in question (or a depository institution affiliate thereof) have offices in the same RMSA and each depository organization has total assets of $50 million or more. 


(c) *Major assets.* A management official of a depository organization with total assets exceeding $2.5 billion (or any affiliate thereof) may not serve at the same time as a management official of an unaffiliated depository organization with total assets exceeding $1.5 billion (or any affiliate thereof), regardless of the location of the two depository organizations. The NCUA will adjust these thresholds, as necessary, based on year-to-year change in the average of the Consumer Price Index for the Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers, not seasonally adjusted, with rounding to the nearest $100 million. The NCUA will announce the revised thresholds by publishing a notice in the _Federal Register._


---

[N] [61 FR 50702, Sept. 27, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 66360, Nov. 26, 1999; 72 FR 58249, Oct. 15, 2007]




