# ยง 120.111   What conditions must an Eligible Passive Company satisfy?

An Eligible Passive Company must use loan proceeds only to acquire or lease, and/or improve or renovate, real or personal property (including eligible refinancing), that it leases to one or more Operating Companies for conducting the Operating Company's business, or to finance a change of ownership between the existing owners of the Eligible Passive Company. When the Operating Company is a co-borrower on the loan, loan proceeds also may be used by the Operating Company for working capital and/or the purchase of other assets, including intangible assets, for the Operating Company's use as provided in paragraph (a)(5) of this section. (References to Operating Company in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section mean each Operating Company.) In the 504 loan program, if the Eligible Passive Company owns assets in addition to the real estate or other eligible long-term fixed assets, loan proceeds may not be used to finance a change of ownership between existing owners of the Eligible Passive Company unless the additional assets owned by the Eligible Passive Company are directly related to the real estate or other eligible long-term fixed assets, the amount attributable to the additional assets is de minimis, and the additional assets are excluded from the Project financing. Any ownership structure or legal form may qualify as an Eligible Passive Company.


(a) Conditions that apply to all legal forms: 


(1) The Operating Company must be an eligible small business, and the proposed use of the proceeds must be an eligible use if the Operating Company were obtaining the financing directly; 


(2) The Eligible Passive Company (with the exception of a trust) and the Operating Company each must be small under the appropriate size standards in part 121 of this chapter; 


(3) The lease between the Eligible Passive Company and the Operating Company must be in writing and must be subordinate to SBA's mortgage, trust deed lien, or security interest on the property. The Eligible Passive Company (as landlord) must furnish as collateral for the loan an assignment of all rents paid under the lease. The rent or lease payments cannot exceed the amount necessary to make the loan payment to the lender, and an additional amount to cover the Eligible Passive Company's direct expenses of holding the property, such as maintenance, insurance and property taxes;


(4) The lease between the Eligible Passive Company and the Operating Company, including options to renew exercisable solely by the Operating Company, must have a remaining term at least equal to the term of the loan; 


(5) The Operating Company must be a guarantor or co-borrower with the Eligible Passive Company. In a 7(a) loan that includes working capital and/or the purchase of other assets, including intangible assets, for the Operating Company's use, the Operating Company must be a co-borrower.


(6) Each holder of an ownership interest constituting at least 20 percent of either the Eligible Passive Company or the Operating Company must guarantee the loan. The trustee shall execute the guaranty on behalf of any trust. When deemed necessary for credit or other reasons, SBA or, for a loan processed under an SBA Lender's delegated authority, the SBA Lender may require other appropriate individuals or entities to provide full or limited guarantees of the loan without regard to the percentage of their ownership interests, if any.


(b) *Additional conditions that apply to trusts.* The eligibility status of the trustor will determine trust eligibility. All donors to the trust will be deemed to have trustor status for eligibility purposes. A trust qualifying as an Eligible Passive Company may engage in other activities as authorized by its trust agreement. The trustee must warrant and certify that the trust will not be revoked or substantially amended for the term of the loan without the consent of SBA. The trustor must guarantee the loan. For purposes of this section, the trustee shall certify to SBA that: 


(1) The trustee has authority to act; 


(2) The trust has the authority to borrow funds, pledge trust assets, and lease the property to the Operating Company; 


(3) The trustee has provided accurate, pertinent language from the trust agreement confirming the above; and 


(4) The trustee has provided and will continue to provide SBA with a true and complete list of all trustors and donors. 



---

[N] [61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996; 61 FR 7986, Mar. 1, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 2117, Jan. 13, 1999; 77 FR 19533, Apr. 2, 2012; 82 FR 39502, Aug. 21, 2017; 87 FR 38908, June 30, 2022]




