# § 127.102   What are the definitions of the terms used in this part?

For purposes of this part:


*Applicant* means a firm applying for certification in the WOSB Certification Program.


*8(a) Business Development (8(a) BD) concern* means a concern that SBA has certified as an 8(a) BD program participant and whose term has not expired or otherwise left the 8(a) BD program early.


*AA/GC&BD* means SBA's Associate Administrator for Government Contracting and Business Development.


*Citizen* means a person born or naturalized in the United States. Resident aliens and holders of permanent visas are not considered to be citizens.


*Concern* means a firm that satisfies the requirements in § 121.105 of this chapter.


*Contracting officer* has the meaning given to that term in Section 27(f)(5) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (codified at 41 U.S.C. 423(f)(5)).


*D/GC* means SBA's Director for Government Contracting.


*Economically Disadvantaged WOSB (EDWOSB)* means a concern that is small pursuant to part 121 of this chapter and that is at least 51 percent owned and controlled by one or more women who are citizens and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with §§ 127.200, 127.201, 127.202 and 127.203. An EDWOSB automatically qualifies as a WOSB.


*EDWOSB requirement* means a Federal requirement for services or supplies for which a contracting officer has restricted competition or awarded a sole source contract or order to eligible EDWOSBs, including Multiple Award Contracts, partial set-asides, reserves, sole source awards, and orders set aside for EDWOSBs issued against a Multiple Award Contract.


*Immediate family member* means father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, stepchild, brother, sister, grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, and daughter-in-law.


*Interested party* means a concern certified as, or pending certification as, a WOSB or EDWOSB that submits an offer for a specific EDWOSB or WOSB contract (including Multiple Award Contracts) or order, or SBA.


*Primary industry classification* means the six-digit North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code designation that best describes the primary business activity of the concern. The NAICS code designations are described in the NAICS manual available via the Internet at *http://www.census.gov/NAICS.* In determining the primary industry in which a concern is engaged, SBA will consider the factors set forth in § 121.107 of this chapter.


*Same or similar line of business* means business activities within the same four-digit “Industry Group” of the NAICS Manual as the primary industry classification of the WOSB or EDWOSB.


*Substantial underrepresentation* is determined by a study using a reliable and relevant methodology.


*System for Award Management (SAM) (or any successor system)* means the primary Government repository for prospective Federal awardee and Federal awardee information and the centralized Government system for certain contracting, grants, and other assistance-related processes. It includes—


(1) Data collected from prospective Federal Awardees required for the conduct of business with the Government;


(2) Prospective contractor-submitted annual representations and certifications in accordance with FAR subpart 4.12 (48 CFR subpart 4.12); and


(3) Identification of those parties excluded from receiving Federal Contracts, certain subcontracts, and certain types of Federal financial and non-financial assistance and benefits.


*Underrepresentation* is determined by a study using a reliable and relevant methodology.




*Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB)* means a concern that qualifies as small pursuant to part 121 of this chapter under the size standard corresponding to any NAICS code listed in its SAM profile, and that is at least 51 percent owned and controlled by one or more women who are citizens in accordance with §§ 127.200, 127.201 and 127.202. This definition applies to any certification as to a concern's status as a WOSB, not solely to those certifications relating to a WOSB contract.


*WOSB requirement* means a Federal requirement for services or supplies for which a contracting officer has restricted competition or awarded a sole source contract or order to eligible WOSBs, including Multiple Award Contracts, partial set-asides, reserves, sole source awards, and orders set aside for WOSBs issued against a Multiple Award Contract.



---

[N] [75 FR 62282, Oct. 7, 2010, as amended at 78 FR 61146, Oct. 2, 2013; 80 FR 55022, Sept. 14, 2015; 88 FR 26214, Apr. 27, 2023; 89 FR 96093, Dec. 4, 2024]




