# ยง 3171.19   Operating on lands with non-Federal surface and Federal oil and gas.

(a) The operator must submit the name, address, and phone number of the surface owner, if known, in its APD. The BLM will invite the surface owner to the onsite inspection to assure that their concerns are considered. As provided in the oil and gas lease, the BLM may request that the applicant conduct surveys or otherwise provide information needed for the BLM's National Historic Preservation Act consultation with the State Historic Preservation Officer or Indian tribe or its Endangered Species Act consultation with the relevant fisheries agency. The Federal mineral lessee has the right to enter the property for the purpose set out in the preceding sentence, since it is a necessary prerequisite to development of the dominant mineral estate. Nevertheless, the lessee or operator should seek to reach agreement with the surface owner about the time and method by which any survey would be conducted.


(b) Likewise, in the case of actual oil and gas operations, the operator must make a good faith effort to notify the private surface owner before entry and make a good faith effort to obtain a Surface Access Agreement from the surface owner. This section also applies to lands with Indian trust surface and Federal minerals. In these cases, the operator must make a good faith effort to obtain surface access agreement with the tribe in the case of tribally owned surface, otherwise with the majority of the Indian surface owners who can be located with the assistance and concurrence of the BIA. The Surface Access Agreement may include terms or conditions of use, be a waiver, or an agreement for compensation. The operator must certify to the BLM that:


(1) It made a good faith effort to notify the surface owner before entry; and


(2) That an agreement with the surface owner has been reached or that a good faith effort to reach an agreement failed. If no agreement was reached with the surface owner, the operator must submit an adequate bond (minimum of $1,000) to the BLM for the benefit of the surface owner sufficient to:


(i) Pay for loss or damages; or


(ii) As otherwise required by the specific statutory authority under which the surface was patented and the terms of the lease.


(c) Surface owners have the right to appeal the sufficiency of the bond. Before the approval of the APD, the BLM will make a good faith effort to contact the surface owner to assure that they understand their rights to appeal.


(d) The BLM must comply with NEPA, the National Historic Preservation Act, the Endangered Species Act, and related Federal statutes when authorizing lease operations on split estate lands where the surface is not federally owned and the oil and gas is Federal. For split estate lands within FS administrative boundaries, the BLM has the lead responsibility, unless there is a local BLM/FS agreement that gives the FS this responsibility.


(e) The operator must make a good faith effort to provide a copy of their Surface Use Plan of Operations to the surface owner. After the APD is approved the operator must make a good faith effort to provide a copy of the Conditions of Approval to the surface owner. The APD approval is not contingent upon delivery of a copy of the Conditions of Approval to the surface owner.




