# ยง 134.26   Imported articles repacked or manipulated.

(a) *Certification requirements.* If an article subject to these requirements is intended to be repacked in retail containers (e.g., blister packs) after its release from Customs custody, or if the Center director has reason to believe such article will be repacked after its release, the importer shall certify to the Center director that: (1) If the importer does the repacking, he shall not obscure or conceal the country of origin marking appearing on the article, or else the new container shall be marked to indicate the country of origin of the article in accordance with the requirements of this part; or (2) if the article is intended to be sold or transferred to a subsequent purchaser or repacker, the importer shall notify such purchaser or transferee, in writing, at the time of sale or transfer, that any repacking of the article must conform to these requirements. The importer, or his authorized agent, shall sign the following statement.


(b) *Facsimile signatures.* The certification statement may be signed by means of an authorized facsimile signature.


(c) *Time of filing.* The certification statement shall be filed with the Center director at the time of entry summary. If the certification is not available at that time, a bond shall be given for its production in accordance with ยง 141.66, Customs Regulations (19 CFR 141.66). In case of repeated failure to timely file the certification required under this subsection, the Center director may decline to accept a bond for the missing document and demand redelivery of the merchandise under ยง 134.51, Customs Regulations (19 CFR 134.51).


(d) *Notice to subsequent purchaser or repacker.* If the article is sold or transferred to a subsequent purchaser or repacker the following notice shall be given to the purchaser or repacker:


(e) *Duties and penalties.* Failure to comply with the certification requirements in paragraph (a) may subject the importer to a demand for liquidated damages under ยง 134.54(a) and for the additional duty under 19 U.S.C. 1304. Fraud or negligence by any person in furnishing the required certification may also result in a penalty under 19 U.S.C. 1592.


(f) *Exceptions.* The requirements of this section do not apply to repackaging in a container that can readily be opened for inspection by the ultimate purchaser in the United States, unless such container bears a U.S. address or other potentially misleading marking.



---

[N] [T.D. 84-127, 49 FR 22795, June 1, 1984, as amended by CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93018, Dec. 20, 2016]




