# § 207.1   Purpose and scope of this part.

(a) *General.* This part implements section 711 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (12 U.S.C. 1831y). That section requires any nongovernmental entity or person, insured depository institution, or affiliate of an insured depository institution that enters into a covered agreement to—


(1) Make the covered agreement available to the public and the appropriate Federal banking agency; and 


(2) File an annual report with the appropriate Federal banking agency concerning the covered agreement. 


(b) *Scope of this part.* The provisions of this part apply to—


(1) State member banks and their subsidiaries; 


(2) Bank holding companies; 


(3) Savings and loan holding companies;


(4) Affiliates of bank holding companies and savings and loan holding companies, other than banks, savings associations and subsidiaries of banks and savings associations; and


(5) Nongovernmental entities or persons that enter into covered agreements with any company listed in paragraph (b)(1) through (4) of this section.


(c) *Relation to Community Reinvestment Act.* This part does not affect in any way the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (12 U.S.C. 2901 *et seq.*), the Board's Regulation BB (12 CFR part 228), or the Board's interpretations or administration of that Act or regulation. 


(d) *Examples.* (1) The examples in this part are not exclusive. Compliance with an example, to the extent applicable, constitutes compliance with this part. 


(2) Examples in a paragraph illustrate only the issue described in the paragraph and do not illustrate any other issues that may arise in this part. 



---

[N] [Reg. G, 66 FR 2092, Jan. 10, 2001, as amended at 76 FR 56530, Sept. 13, 2011]




