# § 63.7882   What site remediation sources at my facility does this subpart affect?

(a) This subpart applies to each new, reconstructed, or existing affected source for your Site Remediation as designated by paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) *Process vents.* The affected source is the entire group of process vents associated with the in-situ and ex-situ remediation processes used at your site to remove, destroy, degrade, transform, or immobilize hazardous substances in the remediation material subject to remediation. Examples of such in-situ remediation processes include, but are not limited to, soil vapor extraction and bioremediation processes. Examples of such ex-situ remediation processes include but are not limited to, thermal desorption, bioremediation, and air stripping processes. 


(2) *Remediation material management units.* Remediation material management unit means a tank, surface impoundment, container, oil-water separator, organic-water separator, or transfer system, as defined in § 63.7957, and is used at your site to manage remediation material. The affected source is the entire group of remediation material management units used for the site remediations at your site. For the purpose of this subpart, a tank or container that is also equipped with a vent that serves as a process vent, as defined in § 63.7957, is not a remediation material management unit, but instead this unit is considered to be a process vent affected source under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. 


(3) *Equipment leaks.* The affected source is the entire group of equipment components (pumps, valves, etc.) used to manage remediation materials and meeting both of the conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section. If either of these conditions do not apply to an equipment component, then that component is not part of the affected source for equipment leaks. 


(i) The equipment component contains or contacts remediation material having a concentration of total HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart equal to or greater than 10 percent by weight. 


(ii) The equipment component is intended to operate for 300 hours or more during a calendar year in remediation material service, as defined in § 63.7957. 


(4) *Pressure relief devices.* The affected source is any pressure relief device in remediation material service, as defined in § 63.7957. Pressure relief devices meeting the specifications of paragraph (a)(3) of this section are also part of an equipment leaks affected source.


(b) Each affected source for your site is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source before July 30, 2002. 


(c) Each affected source for your site is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or after July 30, 2002. An affected source is reconstructed if it meets the definition of reconstruction in § 63.2.


(d) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section:


(1) Each affected source for your site is considered an existing source if your site remediation commenced construction or reconstruction under the authority of the Comprehensive Environmental Response and Compensation Liability Act (CERCLA) as a remedial action or a non-time-critical removal action on or before May 13, 2016.


(2) Each affected source for your site is considered an existing source if your site remediation commenced construction or reconstruction under a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) corrective action conducted at a treatment, storage, and disposal facility (TSDF) that is either required by your permit issued by either the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or a state program authorized by the EPA under RCRA section 3006; required by orders authorized under RCRA; or required by orders authorized under RCRA section 7003 on or before May 13, 2016.


(3) Each affected source for your site is considered a new source if your site remediation commenced construction or reconstruction under the authority of CERCLA as a remedial action or a non-time-critical removal action after May 13, 2016.


(4) Each affected source for your site is considered a new source if your site remediation commenced construction or reconstruction under a RCRA corrective action conducted at a TSDF that is either required by your permit issued by either the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or a State program authorized by the EPA under RCRA section 3006; required by orders authorized under RCRA; or required by orders authorized under RCRA section 7003 after May 13, 2016.

 



---

[N] [68 FR 58190, Oct. 8, 2003, as amended at 85 FR 41702, July 10, 2020; 87 FR 78558, Dec. 22, 2022]










