# § 721.11773   Silane, halogenated (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as silane, halogenated (PMN P-21-94) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substance after they have been completely reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(3), (5), (6)(vii), (7) and (8), (b), and (c). For purposes of §  721.63(b), the concentration is set at 1.0%. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 1,000.


(A) As an alternative to the respirator requirements in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, a manufacture or processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provision listed in the TSCA Order for this substance. The NCEL is 0.05 mg/m
3 as an 8-hour time weighted average. Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as an alternative to § 721.63 respirator requirements may request to do so under § 721.30. Persons whose § 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are approved by EPA will be required to follow NCELs provisions comparable to those contained in the corresponding TSCA Order.


(B) [Reserved]


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (f), and (g)(1), (3)(iii) and (5). For purposes of §  721.72(e), the concentration is set at 1.0%. For purposes of § 721.72(g)(1), this substance may cause: skin corrosion; eye damage; specific target organ toxicity; pulmonary effects; developmental neurotoxicity. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* It is a significant new use to use the substance other than as a deposition precursor for the manufacture of electronic components.


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4), where N=3.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [88 FR 87351, Dec. 18, 2023]






