# § 144.41   Entry for rewarehouse.

(a) *Applicability.* When merchandise which has been withdrawn from warehouse for transportation to another port has arrived at the port of destination, it may be entered for rewarehouse by the consignee named in the withdrawal. 


(b) *Form of entry.* An entry for rewarehouse shall be made in duplicate on Customs Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent, and shall contain all of the statistical information as provided in § 141.61(e) of this chapter. The port director may require an extra copy or copies of Customs Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent, annotated “PERMIT,” for use in connection with the delivery of the merchandise to the warehouse. No declaration is required on the entry.


(c) *Combining separate shipments.* (1) Separate shipments consigned to the same consignee and received under separate withdrawals for transportation may be combined into one rewarehouse entry if the warehouse withdrawals are from the same original warehouse entry. 


(2) Shipments covered by multiple warehouse entries, and shipped from a single warehouse under separate withdrawals for transportation, via a single conveyance, may be combined into one rewarehouse entry if consigned to the same consignee and deposited into a single warehouse. With the exception of alcohol and tobacco products, this procedure shall not be allowed for merchandise which is in any way restricted (for example, quota/visa). The combined rewarehouse entry shall have attached either copies of each warehouse entry package which is being combined into the single rewarehouse entry or a summary with pertinent information, that is, the date of importation, commodity description, size, HTSUS and entry numbers, for all entries withdrawn for consolidation as one rewarehouse entry. Any combining of separate withdrawals into one rewarehouse entry shall result in the rewarehouse entry being assigned the import date of the oldest entry being combined into the rewarehouse entry. 


(3) Combining of separate shipments shall be prohibited in all other circumstances. 


(d) *Bond.* A bond on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter shall be filed before a permit is issued on Customs Form 7501 for sending the merchandise to the bonded warehouse. However, no bond shall be required if the merchandise is entered by the consignee named in the original bond filed at the original port of entry, or if it is entered by a transferee who has established his right to withdraw the merchandise and has filed a bond in accordance with subpart C of this part.


(e) *Value and classification.* The duties determined at the port where the original warehouse entry was filed shall be the duties chargeable under the rewarehouse entry, except in the cases provided for in §§ 159.7 (a) and (b) of this chapter, which pertain to certain classes of merchandise excluded from the liquidation of the original warehouse entry and merchandise on which rates of duty or tax are changed by an act of Congress or by a proclamation by the President. 


(f) *Examination.* Any examination necessary for identification of the merchandise, determination of shortages, or other purposes shall be made. 


(g) *Failure to enter.* If the rewarehouse entry is not filed within 15 calendar days after its arrival, the merchandise shall be disposed of in accordance with the applicable procedures in § 4.37 or § 122.50 or § 123.10 of this chapter. However, merchandise sent to a general order warehouse shall not be sold or otherwise disposed of as unclaimed until the expiration of the original 5-year period during which the merchandise may remain in warehouse under bond.


(h) *Protest.* A protest may be filed with CBP, either at the port of entry or electronically, against a liquidation made under § 159.7(a) or (b) of this chapter, or against a refusal to liquidate pursuant to said sections. In all other cases, any protest shall be filed against the original warehouse entry.



---

[N] [T.D. 73-175, 38 FR 17464, July 2, 1973, as amended by T.D. 82-204, 47 FR 49376, Nov. 1, 1982; T.D. 84-129, 49 FR 23168, June 5, 1984; T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41185, Oct. 19, 1984; T.D. 97-19, 62 FR 15842, Apr. 3, 1997; T.D. 98-74, 64 FR 15303, Mar. 31, 1999; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61290, Oct. 13, 2015; CBP Dec. No. 16-26, 81 FR 93020, Dec. 20, 2016] 




