# § 891.170   Repayment of capital advance.

(a) *Interest prohibition and repayment.* A capital advance provided under this part shall bear no interest and its repayment shall not be required so long as the housing project remains available for very low-income elderly families or persons with disabilities, as applicable, in accordance with this part. The capital advance may not be repaid to extinguish the requirements of this part. To ensure its interest in the capital advance, HUD shall require a note and mortgage, use agreement, capital advance agreement and regulatory agreement from the Owner in a form to be prescribed by HUD. 


(b) *Transfer of assets.* The transfer of physical and financial assets of any project under this part is prohibited, unless HUD gives prior written approval. Approval for transfer will not be granted unless HUD determines that the transfer to a private nonprofit corporation, consumer cooperative (under the Section 202 Program), a private nonprofit organization (under the Section 811 Program), or an organization meeting the definition of “mixed-finance owner” in § 891.805, is part of a transaction that will ensure the continued operation of the capital advance units for not less than 40 years (from the date of original closing) in a manner that will provide rental housing for very low-income elderly persons or persons with disabilities, as applicable, on terms at least as advantageous to existing and future tenants as the terms required by the original capital advance.



---

[N] [61 FR 11956, Mar. 22, 1996, as amended at 70 FR 54209, Sept. 13, 2005; 78 FR 37113, June 20, 2013]




