# § 721.6980   Dimer acids, polymer with polyalkylene glycol, bisphenol A-diglycidyl ether, and alkylenepolyols polyglycidyl ethers (generic name).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance dimer acids, polymer with polyalkylene glycol, bisphenol A-diglycidyl ether, and alkylenepolyols polyglycidyl ethers (PMN P-86-628) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1) and (a)(3), (b) [concentration set at 0.1 percent], and (c).


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) [concentration set at 0.1 percent], (f), and (g)(1)(vi) and (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i) and (g)(2)(v), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5). The provision of § 721.72(d) requiring that employees be provided with information on the location and availability of SDSs does not apply when a SDS was not required under § 721.72(c).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (k) and (y).


(iv) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85 (a)(1) and (a)(2) and (b)(1) and (b)(2).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance, as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (i).


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [55 FR 26109, June 26, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




