# § 369.2   Classification of carriers—for-hire, non-exempt motor carriers of property, household goods carriers, and dual property carriers.

(a) For-hire, non-exempt motor carriers of property are grouped into the following three classes:


*Class I.* Carriers having annual carrier operating revenues (including interstate and intrastate) of $10 million or more after applying the revenue deflator formula in Note A.


*Class II.* Carriers having annual carrier operating revenues (including interstate and intrastate) of at least $3 million but less than $10 million after applying the revenue deflator formula in Note A.


*Class III.* Carriers having annual carrier operating revenues (including interstate and intrastate) of less than $3 million after applying the revenue deflator formula in Note A.


(b)(1) The class to which any carrier belongs shall be determined by annual carrier operating revenues (excluding revenues from private carriage, compensated intercorporate hauling, and leasing vehicles with drivers to private carriers) after applying the revenue deflator formula in Note A. Upward and downward classification will be effective as of January 1 of the year immediately following the third consecutive year of revenue qualification.


(2) Any carrier which begins new operations by obtaining operating authority not previously held or extends its existing authority by obtaining additional operating rights shall be classified in accordance with a reasonable estimate of its annual carrier operating revenues after applying the revenue deflator formula shown in Note A.


(3) When a business combination occurs such as a merger, reorganization, or consolidation, the surviving carrier shall be reclassified effective as of January 1 of the next calendar year on the basis of the combined revenues for the year when the combination occurred after applying the revenue deflator formula shown in Note A.


(4) Carriers must notify the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) of any change in classification or any change in annual operating revenues that would cause a change in classification. The carrier may request a waiver or an exception from these regulations in unusual or extenuating circumstances, where the classification process will unduly burden the carrier, such as partial liquidation or curtailment or elimination of contracted services. The request must be in writing, specifying the conditions justifying the waiver or exception. FMCSA will notify the carriers of any change in classification.


(5) Carriers not required to file an Annual Report Form M may be required to file the Worksheet for Calculating Carrier Classification. All carriers will be notified of any classification changes.



---

[N] [52 FR 10383, Apr. 1, 1987, as amended at 59 FR 5111, Feb. 3, 1994; 59 FR 49848, Sept. 30, 1994. Redesignated at 63 FR 52193, Sept. 30, 1998, and amended at 64 FR 13921, 13922, Mar. 23, 1999; 68 FR 4719, Jan. 30, 2003. Redesignated at 71 FR 45742, Aug. 10, 2006, and amended at 71 FR 45743, Aug. 10, 2006; 78 FR 58478, Sept. 24, 2013; 81 FR 68345, Oct. 4, 2016]





