# ยง 1917.26   First aid and lifesaving facilities.

(a) Employers shall instruct employees to report every injury, regardless of severity, to the employer. 


(b) A first aid kit shall be available at the terminal, and at least one person holding a valid first aid certificate shall be at the terminal when work is in progress. 


(c) *First aid kit.* First aid kits shall be weatherproof and shall contain individual sealed packages for each item that must be kept sterile. The contents of each kit shall be determined by a person certified in first aid and cognizant of the hazards found in marine cargo handling operations. The contents shall be checked at intervals that allow prompt replacement of expended items. 


(d) *Stretchers.* (1) There shall be available for each vessel being worked one Stokes basket stretcher, or its equivalent, permanently equipped with bridles for attaching to the hoisting gear. 


(2) Stretchers shall be kept close to vessels and shall be positioned to avoid damage to the stretcher. 


(3) A blanket or other suitable covering shall be available. 


(4) Stretchers shall have at least four sets of effective patient restraints in operable condition. 


(5) Lifting bridles shall be of adequate strength, capable of lifting 1,000 pounds (454 kg) with a safety factor of five, and shall be maintained in operable condition. Lifting bridles shall be provided for making vertical patient lifts at container berths. Stretchers for vertical lifts shall have foot plates. 


(6) Stretchers shall be maintained in operable condition. Struts and braces shall be inspected for damage. Wire mesh shall be secured and have no burrs. Damaged stretchers shall not be used until repaired. 


(7) Stretchers in permanent locations shall be mounted to prevent damage and shall be protected from the elements if located out-of-doors. If concealed from view, closures shall be marked to indicate the location of the life saving equipment. 


(e) Telephone or equivalent means of communication shall be readily available. 


(f) A U.S. Coast Guard approved 30-inch (76.2 cm) life ring, with at least 90 feet (27.43m) of line attached, shall be available at readily accessible points at each waterside work area where the employees' work exposes them to the hazard of drowning. Employees working on any bridge or structure leading to a detached vessel berthing installation shall wear U.S. Coast Guard approved personal flotation devices except where protected by railings, nets, or safety belts and lifelines. A readily available portable or permanent ladder giving access to the water shall also be provided within 200 feet (61 m) of such work areas. 



---

[N] [48 FR 30909, July 5, 1983, as amended at 62 FR 40197, July 25, 1997; 65 FR 40938, June 30, 2000]




