# § 2604.305   Time limits.

(a)(1) *Initial request.* Following receipt of a request for records, the FOIA Officer will determine whether to comply with the request and will notify the requester in writing of the determination within 20 working days.


(2) *Tolling.* OGE may toll the 20-working day period once while awaiting a response to information reasonably requested from the requester. OGE may also toll the 20-working day period while awaiting a response to a request for clarification regarding fees. There is no limit on the number of times OGE may toll the statutory time period to request clarification regarding fees. In either case, the tolling period ends upon receipt of the requester's response to the request for information or clarification. If OGE does not receive a response to a request for clarification regarding fees within 30 calendar days, it will consider the request “closed.”


(3) *Request for expedited processing.* When a request for expedited processing under § 2604.301(e) is received, the FOIA Officer will respond within 10 calendar days from the date of receipt of the request, stating whether or not the request for expedited processing has been granted. If the request for expedited processing is denied, any appeal of that decision will be acted upon expeditiously.


(b) *Appeal.* A written determination on an appeal submitted in accordance with § 2604.304 will be issued within 20 working days after receipt of the appeal.


(c) *Extension of time limits.* When additional time is required for one of the reasons stated in paragraph (d) of this section, OGE will, within the statutory 20-working day period, issue written notice to the requester setting forth the reasons for the extension and the date on which a determination is expected to be made. If more than 10 additional working days are needed, the requester will be notified and provided an opportunity to limit the scope of the request or to arrange for an alternative time frame for processing the request or a modified request. To aid the requester, OGE will make available its FOIA Public Liaison to assist in the resolution of any disputes. Additionally, OGE will notify the requester of the right of the requester to seek dispute resolution services from OGIS.


(d) For the purposes of paragraph (c) of this section, *unusual circumstances* means that there is a need to:


(1) Search for and collect records from archives;


(2) Search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records which are demanded in a single request; or


(3) Consult with another agency having a substantial interest in the determination of the request, or consult with various OGE components that have substantial subject matter interest in the records requested.



---

[N] [80 FR 57073, Sept. 22, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 94216, Dec. 23, 2016]




