# § 622.405   Trap construction specifications and tending restrictions.

(a) *Construction specifications.* In the EEZ, a spiny lobster trap may be no larger in dimension than 3 feet by 2 feet by 2 feet (91.4 cm by 61.0 cm by 61.0 cm), or the volume equivalent. A trap constructed of material other than wood must have a panel constructed of wood, cotton, or other material that will degrade at the same rate as a wooden trap. Such panel must be located in the upper half of the sides or on top of the trap, so that, when removed, there will be an opening in the trap no smaller than the diameter found at the throat or entrance of the trap.


(b) *Tending restrictions.* (1) A spiny lobster trap in the EEZ may be pulled or tended during daylight hours only, that is, from 1 hour before official sunrise to 1 hour after official sunset.


(2) A spiny lobster trap in the EEZ may be pulled or tended only by the owner's vessel, except that permission to pull or work traps belonging to another person may be granted—


(i) For traps in the EEZ off Florida, by the Division of Law Enforcement, Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission, in accordance with the procedures in Rule 68B-24.006(9), Florida Administrative Code, in effect as of May 1, 2017 (incorporated by reference, see § 622.19).


(ii) For traps in the EEZ, other than off Florida, by the RA, as may be arranged upon written request.



---

[N] [78 FR 22952, Apr. 17, 2013, as amended at 84 FR 37152, July 31, 2019; 87 FR 56237, Sept. 13, 2022]




