# ยง 4279.72   Conditions of guarantee.

A loan guarantee under this part will be evidenced by a Loan Note Guarantee issued by the Agency. The provisions of this part and part 4287 of this chapter will apply to all outstanding guarantees. In the event of a conflict between the guarantee documents and these regulations as they exist at the time the documents are executed, these regulations will control.


(a) *Full faith and credit.* A guarantee under this part constitutes an obligation supported by the full faith and credit of the United States and is incontestable except for fraud or misrepresentation of which a lender or holder has actual knowledge at the time it becomes such lender or holder or which a lender or holder participates in or condones. The guarantee will be unenforceable by the lender to the extent that any loss is occasioned by a provision for interest on interest or default or penalty interest.



 In addition, the guarantee will be unenforceable by the lender to the extent any loss is occasioned by the violation of usury laws, use of loan proceeds for unauthorized purposes, negligent loan origination, negligent loan servicing, or failure to obtain or maintain the required security regardless of the time at which the Agency acquires knowledge thereof. Any losses occasioned will be unenforceable by the lender to the extent that loan funds were used for purposes other than those specifically approved by the Agency in its Conditional Commitment or amendment thereof in accordance with ยง 4279.173(b). The Agency may for cause terminate or reduce the Loan Note Guarantee at any time. The Agency will guarantee payment as follows:


(1) To any holder, 100 percent of any loss sustained by the holder on the guaranteed portion of the loan it owns and on interest due on such portion less any outstanding servicing fee. For those loans closed on or after August 2, 2016, the lender or the Agency will issue an interest termination letter to the holder(s) establishing the termination date for interest accrual. The guarantee will not cover interest to any holder accruing after the greater of: 90 days from the date of the most recent delinquency effective date as reported by the lender or 30 days from the date of the interest termination letter.


(2) To the lender, subject to the provisions of this part and subpart B of part 4287 of this chapter, the lesser of:


(i) Any loss sustained by the lender on the guaranteed portion, including principal and interest (for loans closed on or after August 2, 2016, the guarantee will not cover note interest to the lender accruing after 90 days from the most recent delinquency effective date) evidenced by the notes or assumption agreements and secured advances for protection and preservation of collateral made with the Agency's authorization; or


(ii) The guaranteed principal advanced to or assumed by the borrower and any interest due thereon. For loans closed on or after August 2, 2016, the guarantee will not cover note interest to the lender accruing after 90 days from the most recent delinquency effective date.


(b) *Rights and liabilities.* When a guaranteed portion of a loan is sold to a holder, the holder will succeed to all rights of the lender under the Loan Note Guarantee to the extent of the portion purchased. The full, legal interest in the note must remain with the lender, and the lender will remain bound to all obligations under the Loan Note Guarantee, Lender's Agreement, and Agency program regulations. A guarantee and right to require purchase will be directly enforceable by a holder notwithstanding any fraud or misrepresentation by the lender or any unenforceability of the guarantee by the lender, except for fraud or misrepresentation of which the holder had actual knowledge at the time it became the holder or in which the holder participates in or condones. The lender will reimburse the Agency for any payments the Agency makes to a holder on the lender's guaranteed loan that, under the Loan Note Guarantee, would not have been paid to the lender had the lender retained the entire interest in the guaranteed loan and not conveyed an interest to a holder.


(c) *Payments.* A lender will receive all payments of principal and interest on account of the entire loan and must promptly remit to the holder its pro rata share thereof, determined according to its respective interest in the loan, less only the lender's servicing fee.



---

[N] [81 FR 35997, June 3, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 11634, Mar. 16, 2018]




