# ยง 3801.106   Outside employment.

(a) *Definition.* For purposes of this section, *outside employment* means any form of employment, business relationship or activity, involving the provision of personal services whether or not for compensation, other than in the discharge of official duties. It includes, but is not limited to, services as a lawyer, officer, director, trustee, employee, agent, consultant, contractor, or general partner. Speaking, writing and serving as a fact witness are excluded from this definition, so long as they are not combined with the provision of other services that do fall within this definition, such as the practice of law. Employees who wish to engage in compensated speaking and writing should review ยง 2635.807 of this title.


(b) *Prohibited outside employment.* (1) No employee may engage in outside employment that involves:


(i) The practice of law, unless it is uncompensated and in the nature of community service, or unless it is on behalf of himself, his parents, spouse, or children;


(ii) Any criminal or habeas corpus matter, be it Federal, State, or local; or


(iii) Litigation, investigations, grants or other matters in which the Department of Justice is or represents a party, witness, litigant, investigator or grant-maker.


(2) Where application of the restrictions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section will cause undue personal or family hardship; unduly prohibit an employee from completing a professional obligation entered into prior to Government service; or unduly restrict the Department from securing necessary and uniquely specialized services, the restrictions may be waived in writing based upon a determination that the activities covered by the waiver are not expected to involve conduct prohibited by statute or Federal regulation. Employees should refer to DOJ Order 1735.1 on obtaining waivers. The Order is available from the agency designee which, for purposes of this rule, shall be the Deputy Designated Agency Ethics Official for the component.


(c) *Prior approval for outside employment.* (1) An employee must obtain written approval before engaging in outside employment, not otherwise prohibited by paragraph (b) of this section that involves:


(i) The practice of law; or


(ii) A subject matter, policy,or program that is in his component's area of responsibility.


(2) Employees should refer to DOJ Order 1735.1 for procedures on obtaining prior approval. A waiver granted pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section will be sufficient to satisfy this prior approval requirement.


(3) Approval shall be granted only upon a determination that the outside employment is not expected to involve conduct that is prohibited by statute or Federal regulation.



---

[N] [62 FR 23942, May 2, 1997; 62 FR 31865, June 11, 1997]




