# § 721.4300   Hydrazinecarboxamide, 

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as hydrazinecarboxamide, *N,N′*-1,6-hexanediylbis [2,2-dimethyl- (P-87-1192)] is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), (a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).


(ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set a 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(3), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (f), (k) (any application which, if there are releases to water or discharges to land, will not result in releases to facilities with a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit), and (l).


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (b)(4), (c)(4), (where N = 30).


(A) Selling or transferring the substance to any person for use where the substance is released to surface waters without notifying in writing the parties listed in subparagraph (B) of the identities of all such persons. Such notification shall be sent within 15 days of the date of the first sale or transfer and shall contain the following information:


(*1*) The name and address (including shipment destination address, if different) of the person to whom the substance is sold or transferred.


(*2*) The date on which sale or transfer commenced.


(*3*) The chemical identity of the substance.


(*4*) The name of the stream or river into which the specific buyer or transferee is expected to discharge the substance.


(*5*) Notification that the substance is subject to a Significant New Use Rule issued under section 5 of the Toxic Substances Control Act.


(*6*) A summary of the water release restrictions contained in paragraph (a)(iv) of this section.


(*7*) A request that the party notify the following office of any information which indicates that the in-stream concentration of the PMN substance specified in paragraph (a)(iv) of this section has been exceeded: Chief, New Chemicals Branch, Chemical Control Division (7405), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Room E-447, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460.


(B) The parties to be notified are as follows.


(*1*) The Director, Water Management Division (or, in the case of Regions 5 and 10, Water Division) at the headquarters of the EPA region in which the specific buyer or transferee is located.


(*2*) The Agency, Department, or Office of the State or U.S. Territory with jurisdiction over point source water discharges in the State or Territory in which the specific buyer or transferee is located (EPA is available for consultation regarding the identity and address of the appropriate Agency, etc.)


(*3*) The Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW) authority, if any, expected to receive the discharge of the PMN substance from the specific buyer or transferee.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping requirements.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), (i), and records documenting notification to parties identified in § 721.90.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [56 FR 15792, Apr. 17, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 60 FR 34464, July 3, 1995]




