# § 247.2   Applicability.

(a)(1) This guideline applies to all procuring agencies and to all procurement actions involving items designated by EPA in this part, where the procuring agency purchases $10,000 or more worth of one of these items during the course of a fiscal year, or where the cost of such items or of functionally equivalent items purchased during the preceding fiscal year was $10,000 or more. 


(2) This guideline applies to Federal agencies, to State and local agencies using appropriated Federal funds to procure designated items, and to persons contracting with any such agencies with respect to work performed under such contracts. Federal procuring agencies should note that the requirements of RCRA section 6002 apply to them whether or not appropriated Federal funds are used for procurement of designated items. 


(3) The $10,000 threshold applies to procuring agencies as a whole rather than to agency subgroups such as regional offices or subagencies of a larger department or agency. 


(b) The term *procurement actions* includes: 


(1) Purchases made directly by a procuring agency and purchases made directly by any person (e.g., a contractor) in support of work being performed for a procuring agency, and 


(2) Any purchases of designated items made “indirectly” by a procuring agency, as in the case of procurements resulting from grants, loans, funds, and similar forms of disbursements of monies. 


(c)(1) This guideline does not apply to purchases of designated items which are unrelated to or incidental to Federal funding, i.e., not the direct result of a contract or agreement with, or a grant, loan, or funds disbursement to, a procuring agency. 


(2) This guideline also does not apply to purchases made by private party recipients (e.g., individuals, non-profit organizations) of Federal funds pursuant to grants, loans, cooperative agreements, and other funds disbursements. 


(d) RCRA section 6002(c)(1) requires procuring agencies to procure designated items composed of the highest percentage of recovered materials practicable, consistent with maintaining a satisfactory level of competition, considering such guidelines. Procuring agencies may decide not to procure such items if they are not reasonably available in a reasonable period of time; fail to meet reasonable performance standards; or are only available at an unreasonable price.



---

[N] [60 FR 21381, May 1, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 60973, Nov. 13, 1997]




