# § 232.9   Penalties and remedies.

(a) *Misdemeanor.* A creditor who knowingly violates 10 U.S.C. 987 as implemented by this part shall be fined as provided in title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.


(b) *Preservation of other remedies.* The remedies and rights provided under 10 U.S.C. 987 as implemented by this part are in addition to and do not preclude any remedy otherwise available under State or Federal law or regulation to the person claiming relief under the statute, including any award for consequential damages and punitive damages.


(c) *Contract void.* Any credit agreement, promissory note, or other contract with a covered borrower that fails to comply with 10 U.S.C. 987 as implemented by this part or which contains one or more provisions prohibited under 10 U.S.C. 987 as implemented by this part is void from the inception of the contract.


(d) *Arbitration.* Notwithstanding 9 U.S.C. 2, or any other Federal or State law, rule, or regulation, no agreement to arbitrate any dispute involving the extension of consumer credit to a covered borrower pursuant to this part shall be enforceable against any covered borrower, or any person who was a covered borrower when the agreement was made.


(e) *Civil liability*—(1) *In general.* A person who violates 10 U.S.C. 987 as implemented by this part with respect to any person is civilly liable to such person for:


(i) Any actual damage sustained as a result, but not less than $500 for each violation;


(ii) Appropriate punitive damages;


(iii) Appropriate equitable or declaratory relief; and


(iv) Any other relief provided by law.


(2) *Costs of the action.* In any successful action to enforce the civil liability described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the person who violated 10 U.S.C. 987 as implemented by this part is also liable for the costs of the action, together with reasonable attorney fees as determined by the court.


(3) *Effect of finding of bad faith and harassment.* In any successful action by a defendant under this section, if the court finds the action was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment, the plaintiff is liable for the attorney fees of the defendant as determined by the court to be reasonable in relation to the work expended and costs incurred.


(4) *Defenses.* A person may not be held liable for civil liability under paragraph (e) of this section if the person shows by a preponderance of evidence that the violation was not intentional and resulted from a bona fide error notwithstanding the maintenance of procedures reasonably adapted to avoid any such error. Examples of a bona fide error include clerical, calculation, computer malfunction and programming, and printing errors, except that an error of legal judgment with respect to a person's obligations under 10 U.S.C. 987 as implemented by this part is not a bona fide error.


(5) *Jurisdiction, venue, and statute of limitations.* An action for civil liability under paragraph (e) of this section may be brought in any appropriate United States district court, without regard to the amount in controversy, or in any other court of competent jurisdiction, not later than the earlier of:


(i) Two years after the date of discovery by the plaintiff of the violation that is the basis for such liability; or


(ii) Five years after the date on which the violation that is the basis for such liability occurs.




