# ยง 178.985   Vibration test.

(a) *General.* All rigid Large Packaging and flexible Large Packaging design types must be capable of withstanding the vibration test.


(b) *Test method.* (1) A sample Large Packaging, selected at random, must be filled and closed as for shipment. Large Packagings intended for liquids may be tested using water as the filling material for the vibration test.


(2) The sample Large Packaging must be placed on a vibrating platform that has a vertical or rotary double-amplitude (peak-to-peak displacement) of one inch. The Large Packaging must be constrained horizontally to prevent it from falling off the platform, but must be left free to move vertically and bounce.


(3) The sample Large Packaging must be placed on a vibrating platform that has a vertical double-amplitude (peak-to-peak displacement) of one inch. The Large Packaging must be constrained horizontally to prevent it from falling off the platform, but must be left free to move vertically and bounce.


(4) The test must be performed for one hour at a frequency that causes the package to be raised from the vibrating platform to such a degree that a piece of material of approximately 1.6-mm (0.063-inch) in thickness (such as steel strapping or paperboard) can be passed between the bottom of the Large Packaging and the platform. Other methods at least equally effective may be used (*see* ยง 178.801(i)).


(c) *Criterion for passing the test.* A Large Packaging passes the vibration test if there is no rupture or leakage.



---

[N] [75 FR 5400, Feb. 2, 2010, as amended at 75 FR 60339, Sept. 30, 2010]




