# § 217.173   Disclosures by certain advanced approaches Board-regulated institutions and Category III Board-regulated institutions.

(a)(1) An advanced approaches Board-regulated institution described in § 217.172(b) must make the disclosures described in Tables 1 through 12 to § 217.173.


(2) An advanced approaches Board-regulated institution and a Category III Board-regulated institution that is required to publicly disclose its supplementary leverage ratio pursuant to § 217.172(d) must make the disclosures required under Table 13 to this section unless the Board-regulated institution is a consolidated subsidiary of a bank holding company, savings and loan holding company, or depository institution that is subject to these disclosure requirements or a subsidiary of a non-U.S. banking organization that is subject to comparable public disclosure requirements in its home jurisdiction.


(3) The disclosures described in Tables 1 through 12 to § 217.173 must be made publicly available for twelve consecutive quarters beginning on January 1, 2014, or a shorter period, as applicable, for the quarters after the Board-regulated institution has completed the parallel run process and received notification from the Board pursuant to § 217.121(d). The disclosures described in Table 13 to § 217.173 must be made publicly available for twelve consecutive quarters beginning on January 1, 2015, or a shorter period, as applicable, for the quarters after the Board-regulated institution becomes subject to the disclosure of the supplementary leverage ratio pursuant to § 217.172(d) and § 217.173(a)(2).


(b) *General qualitative disclosure requirement.* For each separate risk area described in Tables 5 through 12 to § 217.173, the Board-regulated institution must describe its risk management objectives and policies, including:


(1) Strategies and processes;


(2) The structure and organization of the relevant risk management function;


(3) The scope and nature of risk reporting and/or measurement systems; and


(4) Policies for hedging and/or mitigating risk and strategies and processes for monitoring the continuing effectiveness of hedges/mitigants.


(c) Except as provided in § 217.172(b), a Board-regulated institution described in § 217.172(d) must make the disclosures described in Table 13 to § 217.173; provided, however, the disclosures required under this paragraph are required without regard to whether the Board-regulated institution has completed the parallel run process and has received notification from the Board pursuant to § 217.121(d). The Board-regulated institution must make these disclosures publicly available beginning on January 1, 2015.





---

[N] [Reg. Q, 78 FR 62157, 62285, Oct. 11, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 57746, Sept. 26, 2014; 80 FR 41421, July 15, 2015; 84 FR 4242, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 59272, Nov. 1, 2019; 85 FR 4428, Jan. 24, 2020]





