# § 503.13   Pollutant limits.

(a) *Sewage sludge.* (1) Bulk sewage sludge or sewage sludge sold or given away in a bag or other container shall not be applied to the land if the concentration of any pollutant in the sewage sludge exceeds the ceiling concentration for the pollutant in Table 1 of § 503.13.


(2) If bulk sewage sludge is applied to agricultural land, forest, a public contact site, or a reclamation site, either:


(i) The cumulative loading rate for each pollutant shall not exceed the cumulative pollutant loading rate for the pollutant in Table 2 of § 503.13; or


(ii) The concentration of each pollutant in the sewage sludge shall not exceed the concentration for the pollutant in Table 3 of § 503.13.


(3) If bulk sewage sludge is applied to a lawn or a home garden, the concentration of each pollutant in the sewage sludge shall not exceed the concentration for the pollutant in Table 3 of § 503.13.


(4) If sewage sludge is sold or given away in a bag or other container for application to the land, either:


(i) The concentration of each pollutant in the sewage sludge shall not exceed the concentration for the pollutant in Table 3 of § 503.13; or


(ii) The product of the concentration of each pollutant in the sewage sludge and the annual whole sludge application rate for the sewage sludge shall not cause the annual pollutant loading rate for the pollutant in Table 4 of § 503.13 to be exceeded. The procedure used to determine the annual whole sludge application rate is presented in appendix A of this part.


(b) *Pollutant concentrations and loading rates—sewage sludge*—(1) *Ceiling concentrations.*

(2) *Cumulative pollutant loading rates.*

(3) *Pollutant concentrations.*

(4) *Annual pollutant loading rates.*

(c) *Domestic septage.* The annual application rate for domestic septage applied to agricultural land, forest, or a reclamation site shall not exceed the annual application rate calculated using equation (1).



---

[N] [58 FR 9387, Feb. 19, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 9099, Feb. 25, 1994; 60 FR 54769, Oct. 25, 1995]




