# ยง 555.63   Explosives magazine changes.

(a) *General.* (1) The requirements of this section are applicable to magazines used for other than temporary (under 24 hours) storage of explosives.


(2) A magazine is considered suitable for the storage of explosives if the construction requirements of this part are met during the time explosives are stored in the magazine.


(3) A magazine is considered suitable for the storage of explosives if positioned in accordance with the applicable table of distances as specified in this part during the time explosives are stored in the magazine.


(4) For the purposes of this section, notification of the Director, Industry Operations may be by telephone or in writing. However, if notification of the Director, Industry Operations is in writing it must be at least three business days in advance of making changes in construction to an existing magazine or constructing a new magazine, and at least five business days in advance of using any reconstructed magazine or added magazine for the storage of explosives.


(b) *Exception.* Mobile or portable type 5 magazines are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, but must otherwise be in compliance with paragraphs (a) (2) and (3) of this section during the time explosives are stored in such magazines.


(c) *Changes in magazine construction.* A licensee or permittee who intends to make changes in construction of an existing magazine shall notify the Director, Industry Operations describing the proposed changes prior to making any changes. Unless otherwise advised by the Director, Industry Operations, changes in construction may commence after explosives are removed from the magazine. Explosives may not be stored in a reconstructed magazine before the Director, Industry Operations has been notified in accordance with paragraph (a)(4) of this section that the changes have been completed.


(d) *Magazines acquired or constructed after permit or license is issued.* A licensee or permittee who intends to construct or acquire additional magazines shall notify the Director, Industry Operations in accordance with paragraph (a)(4) of this section describing the additional magazines and the class and quantity of explosives to be stored in the magazine. Unless otherwise advised by the Director, Industry Operations, additional magazines may be constructed, or acquired magazines may be used for the storage of explosives. Explosives must not be stored in a magazine under construction. The Director, Industry Operations must be notified that construction has been completed.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-87, 46 FR 40384, Aug. 7, 1981, as amended by T.D. ATF-400, 63 FR 45002, Aug. 24, 1998; ATF 2013R-9F, 79 FR 46694, Aug. 11, 2014]




