# § 300.24   Prohibitions.

In addition to the prohibitions in § 300.4, it is unlawful for any person or vessel subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to: 


(a) Land any species of tuna during the closed season for that species in excess of the amount allowed by the Regional Administrator.


(b) [Reserved]


(c) Use tender vessels in the Convention Area.


(d) Transship purse seine-caught tuna at sea within the Convention Area.


(e) Fail to retain any bigeye, skipjack, or yellowfin tuna caught by a fishing vessel of the United States of class size 4-6 using purse seine gear in the Convention Area as required under § 300.27(a).




(f) When using purse seine gear to fish for tuna in the Convention Area, fail to release any fish species (excluding mobulid rays, tuna, tuna-like species, and those being retained for consumption aboard the vessel) as soon as practicable after being identified on board the vessel during the brailing operation as required in § 300.27(b).






(g) [Reserved]




(h) Fail to use the sea turtle handling, release, and resuscitation procedures in § 300.27(c).


(i) Fail to report information when requested by the Regional Administrator under § 300.22.


(j) Fail to provide written notification as described under § 300.22(b)(8) to the Regional Administrator at least 10 business days prior to submission of an application to transfer a purse seine vessel listed on the Vessel Register to foreign registry and flag, unless transfer of the vessel requires approval by the U.S. Maritime Administration.


(k) Use a U.S. fishing vessel over 24 meters in length to retain on board, transship, or land bigeye tuna caught by longline gear in the Convention Area or to fish in contravention of § 300.25(a)(4)(i) or (ii).


(l) Use a U.S. fishing vessel over 24 meters in overall length to fish with longline gear in the Pacific Ocean both inside and outside the Convention Area on the same fishing trip in contravention of § 300.25(a)(4)(iii).


(m) Fail to stow gear as required in § 300.25(a)(4)(iv) or (e)(6).






(n) Use a fishing vessel of class size 4-6 to fish with purse seine gear in the IATTC Convention Area in contravention of § 300.25(e).










(o) Use a U.S. longline or purse seine fishing vessel used to fish for HMS within one nautical mile of an anchored data buoy while the fishing vessel is in the Convention Area in contravention of § 300.25(f)(1).


(p) Use a U.S. fishing vessel used for fishing for HMS, or any gear, equipment, or watercraft deployed by such a fishing vessel, to interact with a data buoy in the Convention Area in contravention of § 300.25(f)(2).


(q) Remove from the water a data buoy and place it on board or tow a data buoy with a U.S. fishing vessel used for fishing for HMS while the vessel is in the Convention Area without authorization by the owner of the data buoy or the owner's authorized representative in contravention of § 300.25(f)(3).


(r) In the event of an entanglement of a data buoy with a U.S. fishing vessel, or its fishing gear, equipment, or associated watercraft, used for fishing for HMS in the Convention Area, fail to promptly remove the data buoy with as little damage to the data buoy and its mooring and anchor lines as possible, in contravention of § 300.25(f)(4).


(s) Fail to take all reasonable measures to avoid fishing gear entanglement or interaction with drifting data buoys in contravention of § 300.25(f)(5).


(t) Use a U.S. fishing vessel to fish for HMS in the Convention Area and retain on board, transship, land, store, sell, or offer for sale any part or whole carcass of an oceanic whitetip shark (*Carcharhinus longimanus*) or fail to release unharmed, to the extent practicable, all oceanic whitetip sharks when brought alongside the vessel in contravention of § 300.27(d).






(u) Use a United States commercial fishing vessel in the Convention Area to target, retain on board, transship, or land Pacific bluefin tuna in contravention of § 300.25(g)(2) through (6).












(v) Fail to maintain, submit, or ensure submission of a log that includes all the information required in § 300.22(a).


(w) Set or attempt to set a purse seine on or around a whale shark (*Rhincodon typus*) in contravention of § 300.27(g).


(x) Fail to release a whale shark encircled in a purse seine net of a fishing vessel as required in § 300.27(h).


(y) Fail to install, activate, or operate a VMS unit as required in § 300.26(c).




(z) In the event of VMS unit failure or interruption: fail to repair or replace a VMS unit; fail to notify the Assistant Director, NOAA Office of Law Enforcement, Pacific Islands Division (or designee) and follow the instructions provided; fail to manually report as required in § 300.26(c)(4)(ii); or otherwise fail to act as provided in § 300.26(c)(4).




(aa) Disable, destroy, damage or operate improperly a VMS unit installed under § 300.26, or attempt to do any of the same, or fail to ensure that its operation is not impeded or interfered with, as provided in § 300.26(e).


(bb) Fail to make a VMS unit installed under § 300.26 or the position data obtained from it available for inspection, as provided in § 300.26 (f) and (g).


(cc) To retain on board, transship, store, land, sell, or offer for sale any part or whole carcass of a mobulid ray, as described in § 300.27(i).


(dd) Fail to handle or release a mobulid ray as required in § 300.27(j).


(ee) Fail to ensure characters of a unique code are marked indelibly on a FAD deployed or modified on or after January 1, 2017, in accordance with § 300.28(a)(2).




(ff) Fail to provide information to an observer or record or report data on FADs as required in § 300.22(c).






(gg) Use a commercial purse seine or longline fishing vessel of the United States to retain on board, transship, store, or land any part or whole carcass of a silky shark (*Carcharhinus falciformis*) in contravention of § 300.27(e).


(hh) Fail to follow observer safety requirements as specified under § 300.29.




(ii) Fail to handle or release a shark as required in § 300.27(k).


(jj) Use a shark line in contravention of § 300.27(l).




(kk) When deploying a FAD, activate the satellite buoy attached to a FAD in a location other than on a purse seine vessel at sea as required in § 300.28(b).




(ll) Fail to activate a satellite buoy before deploying a FAD at sea as required in § 300.28(b).








(mm) Deploy a FAD in the IATTC Convention Area that is not an Active FAD.


(nn) Have more Active FADs than specified in § 300.28(c) in the IATTC Convention Area at any one time.


(oo) Deploy a FAD in the IATTC Convention Area during a period of 15 days prior to the start of the selected closure period in contravention of § 300.28(d)(1).


(pp) Fail to timely remove from the water a number of FADs in the IATTC Convention Area equal to the number of FADs set upon by the vessel during the 15 days prior to the start of the selected closure period as required in § 300.28(d)(2).


(qq) Deploy, or have onboard a vessel, a FAD in the IATTC Convention Area that fails to comply with the FAD design requirements in § 300.28(e).




(rr) Except for tuna purse seine vessels, when recovering FADs, performing maintenance and adjustments on deployed FADs, or deploying a FAD.


(ss) Deploy or redeploy a FAD in the IATTC Convention Area that fails to comply with the FAD design requirements in § 300.28(g) and (h).







---

[N] [61 FR 35550, July 5, 1996]




