# ยง 31.3401(a)(10)-1   Remuneration for services in delivery or distribution of newspapers, shopping news, or magazines.

(a) *Services of individuals under age 18.* Remuneration for services performed by an employee under the age of 18 in the delivery or distribution of newspapers, or shopping news, not including delivery or distribution (as, for example, by a regional distributor) to any point for subsequent delivery or distribution, is excepted from wages and hence is not subject to withholding. Thus, remuneration for services performed by an employee under the age of 18 in making house-to-house delivery or sale of newspapers or shopping news, including handbills and other similar types of advertising material, is excepted from wages. The remuneration is excepted irrespective of the form or method thereof. Remuneration for incidental services by the employee who makes the house-to-house delivery, such as services in assembling newspapers, is considered to be within the exception. The exception continues only during the time that the employee is under the age of 18.


(b) *Services of individuals of any age.* Remuneration for services performed by an employee in, and at the time of, the sale of newspapers or magazines to ultimate consumers under an arrangement under which the newspapers or magazines are to be sold by him at a fixed price, his remuneration being based on the retention of the excess of such price over the amount at which the newspapers or magazines are charged to him, is excepted from wages and hence is not subject to withholding. The remuneration is excepted whether or not the employee is guaranteed a minimum amount or remuneration, or is entitled to be credited with the unsold newspapers or magazines turned back. Moreover, the remuneration is excepted without regard to the age of the employee. Remuneration for services performed other than at the time of sale to the ultimate consumer is not within the exception. Thus, remuneration for services of a regional distributor which are antecedent to but not immediately part of the sale to the ultimate consumer is not within the exception. However, remuneration for incidental services by the employee who makes the sale to the ultimate consumer, such as services in assembling newspapers or in taking newspapers or magazines to the place of sale, is considered to be within the exception.




