# § 1000.14   What relocation and real property acquisition policies are applicable?

The following relocation and real property acquisition policies are applicable to programs developed or operated under NAHASDA:


(a) *Real Property acquisition requirements.* The acquisition of real property for an assisted activity is subject to 49 CFR part 24, subpart B. Whenever the recipient does not have the authority to acquire the real property through condemnation, it shall:


(1) Before discussing the purchase price, inform the owner:


(i) Of the amount it believes to be the fair market value of the property. Such amount shall be based upon one or more appraisals prepared by a qualified appraiser. However, this provision does not prevent the recipient from accepting a donation or purchasing the real property at less than its fair market value.


(ii) That it will be unable to acquire the property if negotiations fail to result in an amicable agreement.


(2) Request HUD approval of the proposed acquisition price before executing a firm commitment to purchase the property if the proposed acquisition payment exceeds the fair market value. The recipient shall include with its request a copy of the appraisal(s) and a justification for the proposed acquisition payment. HUD will promptly review the proposal and inform the recipient of its approval or disapproval.


(b) *Minimize displacement.* Consistent with the other goals and objectives of this part, recipients shall assure that they have taken all reasonable steps to minimize the displacement of persons (households, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and farms) as a result of a project assisted under this part.


(c) *Temporary relocation.* The following policies cover residential tenants and homebuyers who will not be required to move permanently but who must relocate temporarily for the project. Such residential tenants and homebuyers shall be provided:


(1) Reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation, including the cost of moving to and from the temporarily occupied housing and any increase in monthly housing costs (e.g., rent/utility costs).


(2) Appropriate advisory services, including reasonable advance written notice of:


(i) The date and approximate duration of the temporary relocation;


(ii) The location of the suitable, decent, safe and sanitary dwelling to be made available for the temporary period;


(iii) The terms and conditions under which the tenant may occupy a suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling in the building/complex following completion of the repairs; and


(iv) The provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(d) *Relocation assistance for displaced persons.* A displaced person (defined in paragraph (g) of this section) must be provided relocation assistance at the levels described in, and in accordance with the requirements of, the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended (URA) (42 U.S.C. 4601-4655) and implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24.


(e) *Appeals to the recipient.* A person who disagrees with the recipient's determination concerning whether the person qualifies as a “displaced person,” or the amount of relocation assistance for which the person is eligible, may file a written appeal of that determination with the recipient.


(f) *Responsibility of recipient.* (1) The recipient shall certify that it will comply with the URA, the regulations at 49 CFR part 24, and the requirements of this section. The recipient shall ensure such compliance notwithstanding any third party's contractual obligation to the recipient to comply with the provisions in this section.


(2) The cost of required relocation assistance is an eligible project cost in the same manner and to the same extent as other project costs. However, such assistance may also be paid for with funds available to the recipient from any other source.


(3) The recipient shall maintain records in sufficient detail to demonstrate compliance with this section.


(g) *Definition of displaced person.* (1) For purposes of this section, the term “displaced person” means any person (household, business, nonprofit organization, or farm) that moves from real property, or moves his or her personal property from real property, permanently, as a direct result of rehabilitation, demolition, or acquisition for a project assisted under this part. The term “displaced person” includes, but is not limited to:


(i) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling unit who moves from the building/complex permanently after the submission to HUD of an IHP that is later approved.


(ii) Any person, including a person who moves before the date described in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section, that the recipient determines was displaced as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for the assisted project.


(iii) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling unit who moves from the building/complex permanently after the execution of the agreement between the recipient and HUD, if the move occurs before the tenant is provided written notice offering him or her the opportunity to lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe and sanitary dwelling in the same building/complex, under reasonable terms and conditions, upon completion of the project. Such reasonable terms and conditions include a monthly rent and estimated average monthly utility costs that do not exceed the greater of:


(A) The tenant-occupant's monthly rent and estimated average monthly utility costs before the agreement; or


(B) 30 percent of gross household income.


(iv) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling who is required to relocate temporarily, but does not return to the building/complex, if either:


(A) The tenant-occupant is not offered payment for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation, including the cost of moving to and from the temporarily occupied unit, any increased housing costs and incidental expenses; or


(B) Other conditions of the temporary relocation are not reasonable.


(v) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling who moves from the building/complex after he or she has been required to move to another dwelling unit in the same building/complex in order to carry out the project, if either:


(A) The tenant-occupant is not offered reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the move; or


(B) Other conditions of the move are not reasonable.


(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (g)(1) of this section, a person does not qualify as a “displaced person” (and is not eligible for relocation assistance under the URA or this section), if:


(i) The person moved into the property after the submission of the IHP to HUD, but, before signing a lease or commencing occupancy, was provided written notice of the project, its possible impact on the person (e.g., the person may be displaced, temporarily relocated or suffer a rent increase) and the fact that the person would not qualify as a “displaced person” or for any assistance provided under this section as a result of the project.


(ii) The person is ineligible under 49 CFR 24.2(g)(2).


(iii) The recipient determines the person is not displaced as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for an assisted project. To exclude a person on this basis, HUD must concur in that determination.


(3) A recipient may at any time ask HUD to determine whether a specific displacement is or would be covered under this section.


(h) *Definition of initiation of negotiations.* For purposes of determining the formula for computing the replacement housing assistance to be provided to a person displaced as a direct result of rehabilitation or demolition of the real property, the term “initiation of negotiations” means the execution of the agreement covering the rehabilitation or demolition (See 49 CFR part 24).




