# ยง 1.2103   Competitive bidding design options.

(a) *Public notice of competitive bidding design options.* Prior to any competitive bidding for initial licenses, public notice shall be provided of the detailed procedures that may be used to implement auction design options.


(b) *Competitive bidding design options.* The public notice detailing competitive bidding procedures may establish procedures for collecting bids, assigning winning bids, and determining payments, including without limitation:


(1) *Procedures for collecting bids.* (i) Procedures for collecting bids in a single round or in multiple rounds.


(ii) Procedures allowing for bids for specific items, bids for generic items in one or more categories of items, or bids for one or more aggregations of items.


(iii) Procedures allowing for bids that specify a price, indicate demand at a specified price, or provide other information as specified by competitive bidding policies, rules, and procedures.


(iv) Procedures allowing for bids that are contingent on specified conditions, such as other bids being accepted or for packages of licenses being awarded.


(v) Procedures to collect bids in one or more stages, including procedures for transitions between stages.


(vi) Procedures for whether, when, and how bids may be modified during the auction.


(2) *Procedures for assigning winning bids.* (i) Procedures that take into account one or more factors in addition to the submitted bid amount, including but not limited to the amount of bids submitted in separate competitive bidding.


(ii) Procedures to assign specific items to bidders following bidding for quantities of generic items.


(iii) Procedures to incorporate public interest considerations into the process for assigning winning bids.


(3) *Procedures for determining payments.* Procedures to determine the amount of any payments made to or by winning bidders consistent with other auction design choices.



---

[N] [79 FR 48528, Aug. 15, 2014]




