# ยง 385.1005   Replies (Rule 1005).

(a) *By the Secretary.* Within 20 days of service of the petition for review, the Secretary will file with the Commission and serve on the petitioners and the other participants in prior proceedings on the contested order, a reply to the petition for review stating fully his or her position supported by arguments to the petition for review.


(b) *By other participants.* A person who participated in prior proceedings on the contested order may be a participant in the proceedings pursuant to this subpart and may make filings and submittals as determined by the presiding officer.


(c) *By interveners.* A person who was denied the opportunity to participate in prior proceedings on the contested order or who is aggrieved or adversely affected by the contested order may move to intervene in accordance with Rule 214 (intervention). In order that the motion be granted, the movant must show, as appropriate, that denial of participation in prior proceedings was wrongful or why he or she is aggrieved or adversely affected by the contested order. If the presiding officer grants the motion, the person submitting the motion to intervene may make filings and submittals as determined by the presiding officer.


(d) A participant may request interim relief in a proceeding pursuant to this subpart.


(e) The presiding officer may require such other filings by the participants as he or she deems necessary in the conduct of the proceedings.



---

[N] [Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 422, 50 FR 21600, May 28, 1985]




