# § 389.2   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part:


*Administrator* means the Maritime Administrator.


*Applicant* means the offshore development person, entity, or company as identified to the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement in its Development Production Plan (DPP) or Development Operations Coordination Document (DOCD), which has applied to the Maritime Administration for a waiver.


*Classed as a launch barge by a recognized classification Society* means that the vessel holds a current classification document to be used as a launch barge by at least one of the following classification societies: American Bureau of Shipping (ABS), Bureau Veritas (BV), Lloyd's Register (LR), Germanischer Lloyd (GL), Det Norske Veritas (DNV) or Registro Italiano Navale (RINA).


*Coastwise-qualified vessel* means a vessel that has been issued a certificate of documentation with a coastwise endorsement under 46 U.S.C. 12112.


*Coastwise Trade Laws* include:


(1) The Coastwise Endorsement Provision of the Vessel Documentation Laws (46 U.S.C. 12112);


(2) The Passenger Vessel Services Act, section 8 of the Act of June 19, 1886 (46 U.S.C. 55103);


(3) The Jones Act, section 27 of the Merchant Marine Act, 1920 (46 U.S.C. 55102); and


(4) Section 2(c) of the Shipping Act of 1916 (46 U.S.C. 50501).


*Foreign launch barge,* for the purpose of this part, means a non-coastwise-qualified launch barge that was built before December 31, 2000, and has a launch capacity of 12,000 long tons or more.


*Launch barge* means a vessel that is technically capable of transporting and, if needed, launching or installing an offshore drilling or production platform jacket, provided that a coastwise-qualified vessel may meet this definition even if it is not capable of launching such a platform jacket, and even if it requires the involvement of one or more other vessels in connection with the installation of such a platform jacket.


A *long ton* equals 2,240 pounds.


*Platform jacket* refers to a single physical component and includes any type of offshore exploration, development, or production structure or component thereof, including platform jackets, tension leg, or SPAR platform superstructures (including the deck, drilling rig and support utilities, and supporting structure), hull (including vertical legs and connecting pontoons or vertical cylinder), tower and base sections of a platform jacket, jacket structures, and deck modules (known as “topsides”).


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Maritime Administration.




