# ยง 10.26   Motions and other papers.

(a) *Presentation.* An application for a form of relief not otherwise specifically provided for in these rules shall be made by motion, filed with the Proceedings Clerk, which shall be in writing unless made on the record during a hearing. The motion shall state: (1) The relief sought; (2) the basis for relief; and (3) the authority relied upon. If a motion is supported by briefs, affidavits or other papers, they shall be served and filed with the motion. All motions and applications, unless otherwise provided in these rules, shall be directed to the Administrative Law Judge prior to the filing of an initial decision in a proceeding, and to the Commission after the initial decision has been filed.


(b) *Answers to motions.* Any party may serve and file a written response to a motion within ten days after service of the motion upon him or within such longer or shorter period as established by these rules or as the Administrative Law Judge or the Commission may direct. The absence of a response to a motion may be considered by the Administrative Law Judge or the Commission in deciding whether to grant the requested relief.


(c) *Motions for procedural orders.* Motions for procedural orders, including motions for extension of time, may be acted on at any time, without awaiting a response thereto. Any party adversely affected by such order may request reconsideration, vacation or modification of the order.


(d) *Dilatory motions.* Repetitive or numerous motions dealing with the same subject matter shall not be permitted.


(e) *Review by the Commission.* Interloctory review by the Commission of a ruling on a motion by an Administrative Law Judge may be sought in accordance with the procedures and under the circumstances set forth in ยง 10.101 of these rules.



---

[N] [41 FR 2511, Jan. 16, 1976, as amended at 60 FR 54802, Oct. 26, 1995; 63 FR 55791, Oct. 19, 1998]




