# 44.305-3   Withholding or withdrawing approval.

(a) The ACO shall withhold or withdraw approval of a contractor's purchasing system when there are major weaknesses or when the contractor is unable to provide sufficient information upon which to make an affirmative determination. The ACO may withdraw approval at any time on the basis of a determination that there has been a deterioration of the contractor's purchasing system or to protect the Government's interest. Approval shall be withheld or withdrawn when there is a recurring noncompliance with requirements, including but not limited to—


(1) Certified cost or pricing data (see 15.403);


(2) Implementation of cost accounting standards (see 48 CFR chapter 99);


(3) Advance notification as required by the clauses prescribed in 44.204; or


(4) Small business subcontracting (see subpart 19.7).


(b) When approval of the contractor's purchasing system is withheld or withdrawn, the ACO shall within 10 days after completing the in-plant review (1) inform the contractor in writing, (2) specify the deficiencies that must be corrected to qualify the system for approval, and (3) request the contractor to furnish within 15 days a plan for accomplishing the necessary actions. If the plan is accepted, the ACO shall make a follow-up review as soon as the contractor notifies the ACO that the deficiencies have been corrected.



---

[N] [48 FR 42388, Sept. 19, 1983, as amended at 59 FR 67043, Dec. 28, 1994; 62 FR 51271, Sept. 30, 1997; 75 FR 53150, Aug. 30, 2010l 85 FR 67615, Oct. 23, 2020]




