# § 13.43   Service and filing of pleadings, motions, and documents.

(a) *General rule.* A party must file all requests for hearing, pleadings, motions, and documents with the FAA Hearing Docket, and must serve a copy upon all parties to the proceedings.


(b) *Methods of filing.* Filing must be by email, personal delivery, expedited or overnight courier express service, mail, or fax.


(c) *Address for filing.* A person filing a document with the FAA Hearing Docket must use the address identified for the method of filing as follows:


(1) *If delivery is in person, or by expedited or overnight express courier service.* Federal Aviation Administration, 600 Independence Avenue SW, Wilbur Wright Building—Suite 2W100, Washington, DC 20597; Attention: FAA Hearing Docket, AGC-70.


(2) *If delivery is via U.S. mail, or U.S. certified or registered mail.* Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20591; Attention: FAA Hearing Docket, AGC-70, Wilbur Wright Building—Suite 2W100.


(3) *Contact information.* The FAA Office of Adjudication will make available on its website an email address and fax number for the FAA Hearing Docket, as well as other contact information.


(d) *Requirement to file an original document and number of copies.* A party must file an original document and one copy when filing by personal delivery or by mail. Only one copy must be filed if filing is accomplished by email or fax.


(e) *Filing by email.* A document that is filed by email must be attached as a Portable Document Format (PDF) file to an email. The document must be signed in accordance with § 13.207. The email message does not constitute a submission, but serves only to deliver the attached PDF file to the FAA Hearing Docket.


(f) *Methods of service*—(1) *General.* A person may serve any document by email, personal delivery, expedited or overnight courier express service, mail, or fax.


(2) *Service by email.* Service of documents by email is voluntary and requires the prior consent of the person to be served by email. A person may retract consent to be served by email by filing and serving a written retraction. A document that is served by email must be attached as a PDF file to an email message.


(g) *Certificate of service.* A certificate of service must accompany all documents filed with the FAA Hearing Docket. The certificate of service must be signed, describe the method of service, and state the date of service.


(h) *Date of filing and service.* If a document is sent by fax or email, the date of filing and service is the date the email or fax is sent. If a document is sent by personal delivery or by expedited or overnight express courier service, the date of filing and service is the date that delivery is accomplished. If a document is mailed, the date of filing and service is the date shown on the certificate of service, the date shown on the postmark if there is no certificate of service, or the mailing date shown by other evidence if there is no certificate of service or postmark.




