# § 1.809-5   Deductions.

(a) *Deductions allowed.* Section 809(d) provides the following deductions for purposes of determining gain or loss from operations under section 809(b) (1) and (2), respectively:


(1) *Death benefits, etc.* All claims and benefits accrued (less reinsurance recoverable), and all losses incurred (whether or not ascertained), during the taxable year on insurance and annuity contracts (including contracts supplementary thereto). The term *all claims and benefits accrued* includes, for example, matured endowments and amounts allowed on surrender. The term *losses incurred (whether or not ascertained)* includes a reasonable estimate of the amount of the losses (based upon the facts in each case and the company's experience with similar cases) incurred but not reported by the end of the taxable year as well as losses reported but where the amount thereof cannot be ascertained by the end of the taxable year.


(2) *Increases in certain reserves.* The net increase in reserves which is required by section 810 (b) and (d)(1) to be taken into account for the taxable year as a net increase for purposes of section 809(d)(2).


(3) *Dividends to policyholders.* The deduction for dividends to policyholders as determined under section 811(b) and § 1.811-2. 

(4) *Operations loss deduction.* The operations loss deduction as determined under section 812.


(5) *Certain nonparticipating contracts.* (i) An amount equal to the greater of:


(*a*) 10 percent of the increase for the taxable year in certain life insurance reserves for nonparticipating contracts (other than group contracts); or


(*b*) 3 percent of the premiums for the taxable year attributable to nonparticipating contracts (other than group contracts) which are issued or renewed for periods of 5 years or more.


(ii) For purposes of section 809(d)(5) and this subparagraph, the term *nonparticipating contracts* means those contracts which during the taxable year contain no right to participate in the divisible surplus of the company. For example, if at any time during the taxable year for which the deduction allowed under section 809(d)(5) and this subparagraph is claimed such contracts have rights to dividends or similar distributions (as defined in section 811(a) and paragraph (a) of § 1.811-2), such contracts shall no longer be deemed nonparticipating contracts and, therefore, no deduction shall be allowed. Thus, if a class of contracts having no right to participate in the divisible surplus of the company is in force for nine years and on March 10, 1958, it is announced that such contracts shall be accorded dividend rights as of August 1, 1958, no deduction shall be allowed under section 809(d)(5) and this subparagraph for the taxable year 1958 or any succeeding taxable year, whether or not dividends are actually paid on such contracts. However, if the announcement of March 10, 1958, states that such contracts shall be accorded dividend rights as of January 1, 1959, a deduction under section 809(d)(5) and this subparagraph shall be allowed for the taxable year 1958 but not for any succeeding taxable year.


(iii) For purposes of section 809(d)(5) and this subparagraph, the term *reserves for nonparticipating contracts* means such part of the life insurance reserves (as defined in section 801(b) and § 1.801-4), other than that portion of such reserves which is allocable to annuity features, as relates to nonparticipating contracts (as defined in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph). The amount of life insurance reserves taken into account shall be adjusted first as required by section 818(c) (relating to an election with respect to life insurance reserves computed on a preliminary term basis) and then as required by section 806(a) (relating to adjustments for certain changes in reserves and assets). In the case of the adjustments required by section 810(d) (relating to adjustment for change in computing reserves), the increase in life insurance reserves attributable to reserve strengthening shall be taken into account in accordance with the rules prescribed in section 810(d).


(iv) For purposes of section 809(d)(5) and this subparagraph, the term *premiums* means the net amount of the premiums and other consideration attributable to nonparticipating contracts (as defined in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph) which are taken into account under section 809(c)(1). For this purpose, premiums include only such amounts attributable to such contracts which are issued or renewed for periods of 5 years or more, but does not include that portion of the premiums which is allocable to annuity features. No portion of a premium shall be deemed allocable to annuity features solely because a contract, such as an endowment contract, provides that at maturity the insured shall have an option to take an annuity. The determination of whether a contract meets the 5-year requirement shall be made as of the date the contract is issued, or as of the date it is renewed, whichever is applicable. Thus, a 20-year nonparticipating endowment policy shall qualify for the deduction under section 809(d)(5), even though the insured subsequently dies at the end of the second year, since the policy is issued for a period of 5 years or more. However, a 1-year renewable term contract shall not qualify, since as of the date it is issued (or of any renewal date) it is not issued (or renewed) for a period of 5 years or more. In like manner, a policy originally issued for a 3-year period and subsequently renewed for an additional 3-year period shall not qualify. However, if this policy is renewed for a period of 5 years or more, the policy shall qualify for the deduction under section 809(d)(5) from the date it is renewed.


(v) The provisions of section 809(d)(5) and this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example:


(6) *Certain accident and health insurance and group life insurance.* (i) For taxable years beginning before January 1, 1963, an amount equal to two percent of the premiums for the taxable year attributable to group life insurance contracts, group accident and health insurance contracts, or group accident and health insurance contracts with a life feature. For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1962, the deduction shall be an amount equal to two percent of the premiums for the taxable year attributable to group life insurance contracts, accident and health insurance contracts (other than those to which section 809(d)(5) applies), or accident and health insurance contracts with a life feature (other than those to which section 809(d)(5) applies). For purposes of section 809(d)(6) and this subparagraph, the term “premiums” means the net amount of the premiums and other consideration attributable to such contracts taken into account under section 809(c)(1). The deduction allowed by section 809(d)(6) and this subparagraph for the taxable year and all preceding taxable years shall not exceed 50 percent of the net amount of the premiums attributable to such contracts for the taxable year. For example, assume that premiums attributable to group life insurance and group accident and health insurance contracts are $103,000 for the taxable year 1962. Assume further that there are $3,000 of return premiums attributable to such contracts for the taxable year. Under the provisions of section 809(d)(6) and this subparagraph, a deduction (determined without regard to section 809(f) of $2,000 (2 percent of $100,000 ($103,000−$3,000)) is allowed. Assuming that the company continues to receive net premiums of $100,000 attributable to such contracts for 15 years, the cumulative amount of these deductions is $30,000 ($2,000 for 15 years). If, in the sixteenth year, net premiums attributable to such contracts amount to $60,000, no deduction shall be allowed under section 809(d)(6) and this subparagraph since the cumulative amount of these deductions ($30,000) equals 50 percent of the current year's premiums ($60,000) from such contracts.


(ii) In computing the deduction under section 809(d)(6), the determination as to when the 50 percent limitation on such deduction has been reached shall be based upon the amount allowed as a deduction for the taxable year and all preceding taxable years after the application of the limitation provided in section 809(f). 


(iii) For purposes of determining whether the 50 percent limitation applies to any taxable year, the deduction provided by section 809(d)(6) for all preceding taxable years shall be taken into account, irrespective of whether or not the life insurance company claimed a deduction for these amounts for such preceding taxable years.


(7) *Assumption by another person of liabilities under insurance, etc., contracts.* (i) The consideration (other than consideration arising out of reinsurance ceded as defined in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of § 1.809-4) in respect of the assumption by another person of liabilities under insurance and annuity contracts (including contracts supplementary thereto) of the taxpayer.


(ii) For purposes of section 809(d)(7) and this subparagraph, the term *assumption reinsurance* means an arrangement whereby another person (the reinsurer) becomes solely liable to the policyholders on the contracts transferred by the taxpayer. Such term does not include indemnity reinsurance or reinsurance ceded (as defined in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of § 1.809-4).


(iii) The provisions of section 809(d)(7) and this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example:


(8) *Tax-exempt interest, dividends, etc.* (i) Each of the following items:


(*a*) The life insurance company's share of interest which under section 103 is excluded from gross income;


(*b*) The deduction for partially tax-exempt interest provided by section 242 (as modified by section 804(a)(3) and paragraph (d)(2)(i) of § 1.804-2) computed with respect to the life insurance company's share of such interest; and


(*c*) The deductions for dividends received provided by sections 243, 244, and 245 (as modified by section 809(d)(8)(B) and subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph) computed with respect to the life insurance company's share of the dividends received.


(ii) The modification contained in section 809(d)(8)(B) provides the method for applying section 246(b) (relating to limitation on aggregate amount of deductions for dividends received) for purposes of section 809(d)(8)(A)(iii) and subdivision (i)(*c*) of this subparagraph. Under this method, the sum of the deductions allowed by sections 243(a)(1) (relating to dividends received by corporations), 244(a) (relating to dividends received on certain preferred stock), and 245 (relating to dividends received from certain foreign corporations) shall be limited to 85 percent of the gain from operations computed without regard to:


(*a*) The deductions provided by section 809(d) (3), (5), and (6);


(*b*) The operations loss deductions provided by section 812; and


(*c*) The deductions allowed by sections 243(a)(1), 244(a), and 245.


(9) *Investment expenses, etc.* (i) The amount of investment expenses to the extent not allowed as a deduction under section 804(c)(1) in computing investment yield. For example, if a deduction in the amount of $100,000 is claimed for investment expenses, which amount includes general expenses assigned to or included in investment expenses, and due to the operation of the limitation provided by section 804(c)(1) only $85,000 is allowed, then the excess ($15,000) shall be allowed as a deduction under section 809(d)(9) and this subparagraph.


(ii) The amount (if any) by which the sum of the deductions allowable under section 804(c) exceeds the gross investment income. For example, if gross investment income under section 804(b) equals $400,000, and the sum of the deductions allowable under section 804(c) equals $425,000, then the excess ($25,000) shall be allowed as a deduction under section 809(d)(9) and this subparagraph.


(iii) In determining the amount of the deductions allowed under subdivisions (i) and (ii) of this subparagraph, a life insurance company shall first take such deductions to the full extent allowable under section 804(c)(1), and any amount which is allowed as a deduction under section 804(c) shall not again be allowed as a deduction under section 809(d)(9).


(10) *Small business deduction.* The small business deduction as determined under section 804(a)(4).


(11) [Reserved]


(12) *Other deductions.* Except as modified by section 809(e) and § 1.809-6, all other deductions allowed under subtitle A of the Code for purposes of computing taxable income to the extent not allowed as a deduction in computing investment yield. For example, a life insurance company shall be allowed a deduction under section 809(d)(12) and this subparagraph for amounts representing premiums charged itself with respect to liability for insurance and annuity benefits for its employees (including full-time life insurance salesmen within the meaning of section 7701(a)(20)) in accordance with the rules prescribed in sections 162 and 404 and the regulations thereunder, to the extent that a deduction for such amounts is not allowed under section 804(c)(1) and paragraph (b)(1) of § 1.804-4 or section 809(d)(9) and subparagraph (9) of this paragraph.


(b) *Denial of double deduction.* Nothing in section 809(d) shall permit the same item to be deducted more than once in determining gain or loss from operations. For example, if an item is allowed as a deduction for the taxable year by reason of its being a loss incurred within such taxable year (whether or not ascertained) under section 809(d)(1), such item, or any portion thereof, shall not also be allowed as a deduction for such taxable year under section 809(d)(2).



---

[N] [T.D. 6535, 26 FR 527, Jan. 20, 1961, as amended by T.D. 6610, 27 FR 8718, Aug. 31, 1962; T.D. 6886, 31 FR 8687, June 23, 1966; T.D. 6992, 34 FR 827, Jan. 18, 1969; 84 FR 9236, Mar. 14, 2019]




