# ยง 1.16   National application filing, search, and examination fees.

(a) Basic fee for filing each application under 35 U.S.C. 111 for an original patent, except design, plant, or provisional applications:


(b) Basic fee for filing each application under 35 U.S.C. 111 for an original design patent:


(c) Basic fee for filing each application for an original plant patent:


(d) Basic fee for filing each provisional application:


(e) Basic fee for filing each application for the reissue of a patent:


(f) Surcharge for filing the basic filing fee, search fee, examination fee, or the inventor's oath or declaration on a date later than the filing date of the application, an application that does not contain at least one claim on the filing date of the application, or an application filed by reference to a previously filed application under ยง 1.57(a), except provisional applications:




(g) Surcharge for filing the basic filing fee or cover sheet (ยง 1.51(c)(1)) on a date later than the filing date of the provisional application:




(h) In addition to the basic filing fee in an application, other than a provisional application, for filing or later presentation at any other time of each claim in independent form in excess of three:




(i) In addition to the basic filing fee in an application, other than a provisional application, for filing or later presentation at any other time of each claim (whether dependent or independent) in excess of 20 (note that ยง 1.75(c) indicates how multiple dependent claims are considered for fee calculation purposes):




(j) In addition to the basic filing fee in an application, other than a provisional application, that contains, or is amended to contain, a multiple dependent claim, per application:




(k) Search fee for each application filed under 35 U.S.C. 111 for an original patent, except design, plant, or provisional applications:




(l) Search fee for each application under 35 U.S.C. 111 for an original design patent:




(m) Search fee for each application for an original plant patent:


(n) Search fee for each application for the reissue of a patent:


(o) Examination fee for each application filed under 35 U.S.C. 111 for an original patent, except design, plant, or provisional applications:


(p) Examination fee for each application under 35 U.S.C. 111 for an original design patent:


(q) Examination fee for each application for an original plant patent:


(r) Examination fee for each application for the reissue of a patent:


(s) Application size fee for any application filed under 35 U.S.C.111 for the specification and drawings which exceed 100 sheets of paper, for each additional 50 sheets or fraction thereof:


(t) Non-electronic filing fee for any application under 35 U.S.C. 111(a) that is filed on or after November 15, 2011, other than by the USPTO patent electronic filing system, except for a reissue, design, or plant application:




(u) Additional fee for any application filed on or after January 17, 2024, under 35 U.S.C.111 for an original patent, except design, plant, or provisional applications, where the specification, claims, and/or abstract does not conform to the USPTO requirements for submission in DOCX format:





---

[N] [70 FR 3887, Jan. 27, 2005, as amended at 70 FR 30365, May 26, 2005; 72 FR 46901, Aug. 22, 2007; 73 FR 47540, Aug. 14, 2008; 76 FR 70653, Nov. 15, 2011; 77 FR 48812, Aug. 14, 2012; 77 FR 54365, Sept. 5, 2012; 78 FR 4284, Jan. 18, 2013; 78 FR 62395, Oct. 21, 2013; 80 FR 17954, Apr. 2, 2015; 82 FR 52813, Nov. 14, 2017; 85 FR 46985, Aug. 3, 2020; 86 FR 66193, Nov. 22, 2021; 87 FR 80073, Dec. 29, 2022; 88 FR 17154, Mar. 22, 2023; 88 FR 18053, Mar. 27, 2023; 88 FR 36957, June 6, 2023; 89 FR 92003, Nov. 20, 2024]






