# § 2.76   Amendment to allege use.

(a) *When to file an amendment to allege use.* (1) An application under section 1(b) of the Act may be amended to allege use of the mark in commerce under section 1(c) of the Act at any time between the filing of the application and the date the examiner approves the mark for publication. Thereafter, an allegation of use may be submitted only as a statement of use under § 2.88 after the issuance of a notice of allowance under section 13(b)(2) of the Act. An amendment to allege use filed outside the time period specified in this paragraph will not be reviewed.


(2)(i) For a trademark, service mark, collective trademark, collective service mark, and certification mark, an amendment to allege use may be filed only when the mark has been in use in commerce on or in connection with all the goods or services specified in the application for which the applicant will seek registration. For a collective membership mark, an amendment to allege use may be filed only when the mark has been in use in commerce to indicate membership in the collective organization specified in the application for which the applicant will seek registration.


(ii) An amendment to allege use may be accompanied by a request in accordance with § 2.87 to divide out from the application the goods, services, or classes not yet in use in commerce.


(b) *A complete amendment to allege use.* A complete amendment to allege use must include the following:


(1) A verified statement alleging:


(i) The applicant believes the applicant is the owner of the mark;


(ii) The mark is in use in commerce;


(iii) The date of first use of the mark anywhere on or in connection with the goods or services, and/or to indicate membership in the collective organization specified in the application, and the date of first use of the mark in commerce. If the amendment to allege use specifies more than one item of goods or services in a class, the dates of use are required for only one item of goods or services specified in that class;


(iv) The goods, services, and/or nature of the collective membership organization specified in the application; and


(v) For a collective mark and certification mark, the applicant is exercising legitimate control over the use in commerce of the mark.


(2) One specimen showing how the applicant, member, or authorized user uses the mark in commerce. See § 2.56 for the requirements for specimens;


(3) The fee per class required by § 2.6;


(4) For a collective mark, the requirements of § 2.44(a)(4)(i)(A);


(5) For a certification mark, the requirements of § 2.45(a)(4)(i)(A)-(C); and


(6) The title “Amendment to Allege Use” should appear at the top of the first page of the document, if not filed through TEAS.


(c) *Minimum filing requirements for a timely filed amendment to allege use.* The Office will review a timely filed amendment to allege use to determine whether it meets the following minimum requirements:


(1) The fee required by § 2.6 for at least one class;


(2) One specimen of the mark as used in commerce; and


(3) The verified statement in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.


(d) *Deficiency notification.* If the amendment to allege use is filed within the permitted time period but does not meet the minimum requirements specified in paragraph (c) of this section, the Office will notify the applicant of the deficiency. The deficiency may be corrected provided the mark has not been approved for publication. If an acceptable amendment to correct the deficiency is not filed prior to approval of the mark for publication, the amendment will not be examined, and the applicant must instead file a statement of use after the notice of allowance issues.


(e) *Notification of refusals and requirements.* A timely filed amendment to allege use that meets the minimum requirements specified in paragraph (c) of this section will be examined in accordance with §§ 2.61 through 2.69. If, as a result of the examination of the amendment to allege use, the applicant is found not entitled to registration for any reason not previously stated, the applicant will be notified and advised of the reasons and of any formal requirements or refusals. The notification shall restate or incorporate by reference all unresolved refusals or requirements previously stated. The amendment to allege use may be amended in accordance with §§ 2.59 and 2.71 through 2.75.


(f) *Withdrawal.* An amendment to allege use may be withdrawn for any reason prior to approval of a mark for publication.


(g) *Verification not filed within reasonable time.* If the verified statements in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) and, if applicable, (b)(1)(v) of this section are not filed within a reasonable time after they are signed, the Office may require the applicant to submit substitute verified statements attesting that the mark is in use in commerce, and, if applicable, the applicant is exercising legitimate control over the use of the mark in commerce.


(h) *An amendment to allege use is not a response but may include amendments.* The filing of an amendment to allege use does not constitute a response to any outstanding action by the examiner. *See* § 2.62. The amendment to allege use may include amendments in accordance with §§ 2.59 and 2.71 through 2.75.


(i) *If the application is amended to concurrent use under § 2.73,* the amendment to allege use must include a verified statement modified in accordance with § 2.33(f), § 2.44(d), or § 2.45(d).


(j) *Multiple-class application.* For the requirements of a multiple-class application, see § 2.86.



---

[N] [80 FR 33184, June 11, 2015]




