# § 85.1509   Final admission of modification and test vehicles.

(a) A motor vehicle or motor vehicle engine may be imported under this section by a certificate holder possessing a currently valid certificate of conformity only if—
















(1)(i) The vehicle or engine is six OP years old or older; or


(ii) The vehicle was owned, purchased and used overseas by military or civilian employees of the U.S. Government and


(A) An ICI does not hold a currently valid certificate for that particular vehicle; and


(B) The Federal agency employing the owner of such vehicle determines that such owner is stationed in an overseas area which either prohibits the importation of U.S.-certified vehicles or which does not have adequate repair facilities for U.S.-certified vehicles; and


(C) The Federal agency employing the personnel owning such vehicles determines that such vehicles are eligible for shipment to the United States at U.S. Government expense; and


(2) The certificate holder's name has not been placed on a currently effective EPA list of certificate holders ineligible to import such modification/test vehicles, as described in paragraph (j) of this section.


(b)-(f) [Reserved] 

(g) A motor vehicle or motor vehicle engine conditionally imported under this section may be finally admitted into the United States upon approval of the certificate holder's application to the Administrator. Such application shall be made either by completing EPA forms or, if the applicant chooses, by submitting the data electronically to EPA's computer, in accordance with EPA instructions. Such application shall contain:


(1) The identification information required in § 85.1504;


(2) An attestation by the certificate holder that the vehicle or engine has been modified and/emission tested in accordance with the FTP at a laboratory within the United States;


(3) The results of any FTP;


(4) The deterioration factor assigned by EPA;


(5) The FTP results adjusted by the deterioration factor;


(6) An attestation by the certificate holder that emission testing and development of fuel economy data as required by § 85.1510 was performed after the vehicle or engine had been modified to conform to Department of Transportation safety standards;


(7) All information required under § 85.1510;


(8) An attestation by the certificate holder that the certificate holder is responsible for the vehicle's or engine's compliance with Federal emission requirements, regardless of whether the certificate holder owns the vehicle or engine imported under this section.


(9) The name, address and telephone number of the person who the certification holder prefers to receive EPA notification under § 85.1509(i).


(10) For any vehicle imported in accordance with paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section, an attestation by the certificate holder that the vehicle is of the same make and fuel type as the vehicle covered by a qualifying certificate as described in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section, as applicable.


(11) Such other information as is deemed necessary by the Administrator.


(h) EPA approval for final admission of a vehicle or engine under this section shall be presumed not to have been granted if a vehicle's final FTP results, adjusted by the deterioration factor, if applicable, do not comply with applicable emission standards.


(i) Except as provided in § 85.1509(h), EPA approval for final admission of a vehicle or engine under this section shall be presumed to have been granted should the certificate holder not have received oral or written notice from EPA to the contrary within 15 working days of the date of EPA's receipt of the certificate holder's application under § 85.1509(g). Such EPA notice shall be made to an employee of the certificate holder. If application is made on EPA form, the date of a certified mail receipt shall be deemed to be the official date of notification to EPA. If application is made by submitting the data electronically, the date of acceptance by EPA's computer shall be deemed to be the official date of notification to EPA. During this 15 working day period, the vehicle or engine must be stored at a location where the Administrator will have reasonable access to inspect the vehicle or engine.


(j)  EPA shall maintain a current list of certificate holders who have been determined to be ineligible to import vehicles or engines under this section. Such determinations shall be made in accordance with the criteria and procedures in § 85.1513(e) of this subpart.


(k)  Prior to final entry, vehicles or engines imported under this section are subject to special inspections as described in § 85.1506 with these additional provisions:


(1) If a significant number of vehicles imported by a certificate holder fail to comply, in the judgment of the Administrator, with emission requirements upon inspection or retest, or if the certificate holder fails to comply with any provision of these regulations that pertain to vehicles imported pursuant to § 85.1509, the certificate holder may be placed on the EPA list of certificate holders ineligible to import vehicles under this section as specified in paragraph (j) of this section and § 85.1513(e);


(2) Individual vehicles or engines which fail an FTP retest or inspection must be repaired and retested, as applicable, to demonstrate compliance with emission requirements before final admission.


(3) Unless otherwise specified by EPA, the costs of all retesting under this subsection, including transportation, shall be borne by the certificate holder.


(l)  Vehicles or engines imported under this section may be tested or inspected by EPA at any time during the vehicle's or engine's useful life in accordance with § 85.1508 (a) and (b). If, in the judgment of the Administrator, a significant number of properly maintained and used vehicles or engines imported by the certificate holder fail to meet emission requirements, the name of the certificate holder may be placed on the EPA list of certificate holders ineligible to import vehicles under the modification/test provision as specified in paragraph (j) of this section and § 85.1513(e).





---

[N] [52 FR 36156, Sept. 25, 1987, as amended at 89 FR 28149, Apr. 18, 2024]










