# ยง 800.1103   Valuation.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the value of the transaction for purposes of determining the required fee amount in this subpart means the total value of all consideration that has been or will be provided in the context of the transaction by or on behalf of the foreign person that is a party to the transaction, including cash, assets, shares or other ownership interests, debt forgiveness, or services or other in-kind consideration.


(b) Determining the value of consideration:


(1) Where the consideration is or includes securities traded on a national securities exchange, the value of the securities is the closing price on the national securities exchange on which the securities are primarily traded on the trading day immediately prior to the date the parties file the formal written notice with the Committee under ยง 800.501(a), or if the securities were not traded on that day, the last published closing price.


(2) Where the consideration is or includes other non-cash assets, services, interests, or other in-kind consideration, the value of the assets, services, interests, or other in-kind consideration is their fair market value as of the date the parties file the formal written notice.


(3) Where the transaction is or includes a lending transaction, the consideration includes the cash value of the loan, or similar financing arrangement, made available or provided by or on behalf of the foreign person that is a party to the transaction.


(4) Where the transaction is or includes the conversion of a contingent equity interest previously acquired by a foreign person that is a party to the transaction, the consideration includes what was paid by or on behalf of the foreign person to initially acquire the contingent equity interest, in addition to any other consideration paid or to be paid in connection with the conversion.


(c) Exceptions:


(1) To the extent the consideration to be provided by the foreign person has not been or cannot reasonably be determined as of the date the parties file the notice, the value of the transaction includes, with respect to the interest for which consideration has not been determined, the fair market value of the interest being acquired in the transaction as of the date the parties file the formal written notice.


(2) Where the transaction involves a merger or the contribution of one or more U.S. businesses to a joint venture, the value of the transaction is the fair market value of the U.S. business(es) being merged or contributed.


(3) Where the value of a transaction is $5,000,000 or more, but the transaction includes one or more non-U.S. businesses, and the value of the interest acquired in the U.S. business is less than $5,000,000, the filing fee under ยง 800.1101(b) is applicable. The value of the U.S. business, for purposes of this paragraph, is the fair market value of the assets of the U.S. business.


(d) Fair market value means the price that would be received in exchange for sale of an interest, or paid to receive a service or to transfer liability, in an orderly transaction between market participants.


(1) In determining fair market value, parties shall make a good faith estimate and generally may rely on the last valuation as presented in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) or other widely recognized accounting principles, such as the International Financial Reporting Standards, or the valuation of an independent appraiser; provided, however, that if no valuation has occurred within the prior two fiscal quarters, or if there have been significant changes to the fair market value since the last valuation, the parties shall make a good faith estimate at the time of filing the formal written notice, or, if the parties are filing after the completion of the transaction, the completion date of the transaction.


(2) In determining the fair market value of services, the parties may rely upon the value of services determined by the parties as set forth in an executed written agreement, or make an estimate at the time of filing the formal written notice based upon rates charged to third parties or upon recent industry reports or other sources of comparable commercial data; provided, however, if such sources are unavailable, the parties shall make a good faith estimate. If the parties are filing after completion of the transaction, the parties shall make an estimate of the fair market value as of the completion date.


(3) The Staff Chairperson is not bound by the parties' characterization of the transaction and its value or the parties' good faith approximation provided to the Committee under ยง 800.502(c)(1)(viii).


(e) Multiple-phase and contingent equity interest transactions:


(1) Where a transaction will be effectuated in multiple phases, the value of the transaction includes the total value of the multiple phases, as may be reasonably determined as of the date the parties file the formal written notice.


(2) Where a transaction is or includes the acquisition of contingent equity interest, the value of the transaction includes the consideration that was paid by or on behalf of the foreign person to acquire the contingent equity interest, and, if the conditions that lead to conversion will occur imminently, the conditions are within the control of the acquiring party, and the consideration for the interest that would be acquired upon conversion or satisfaction of contingent conditions can be reasonably determined at the time of acquisition, any other consideration paid or to be paid in connection with the conversion.


(f) Examples:


(1) *Example 1.* Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to acquire all of the issued and outstanding shares of Corporation B, a U.S. business, in exchange for $100,000,000 in cash. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $100,000,000, and the filing fee is $75,000.


(2) *Example 2.* Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to acquire all of the issued and outstanding shares of Corporation B, a U.S. business, in a two-for-one stock swap transaction whereby a holder of a share of Corporation B's stock is entitled to receive two shares of Corporation A's stock. Corporation A's stock is listed on the NASDAQ, a national securities exchange. In aggregate, the holders of Corporation B's stock will receive 10,000,000 shares of Corporation A's stock in the transaction. On the trading day immediately prior to the filing of the formal written notice, the closing price of Corporation A's stock on NASDAQ was $20 per share. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $200,000,000, and the filing fee is $75,000.


(3) *Example 3.* Corporation B, a U.S. business, is issuing new shares that will represent 50 percent of its issued and outstanding shares. Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to acquire these shares. As consideration, Corporation A will contribute to Corporation B certain inventory, machines, and intellectual property. The parties to the transaction estimate in good faith, based on the most recent quarterly financial statements of Corporation A, which were prepared in accordance with GAAP, that the fair market value of the assets contributed as consideration is $40,000,000. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $40,000,000, and the filing fee is $7,500.


(4) *Example 4.* Corporation A and Corporation B are establishing a joint venture, JV Corp., which will be controlled by Corporation B, a foreign person. Corporation A contributes a U.S. business, the fair market value of which is $150,000,000, to JV Corp. Corporation B contributes $150,000,000 in cash to JV Corp. The value of the transaction is $150,000,000, which is equal to the value of the U.S. business being contributed. Assuming no other relevant facts, the filing fee is $75,000.


(5) *Example 5.* Corporation A, a foreign person, enters into a stock purchase agreement with Person Z to acquire 100 percent of the issued and outstanding shares of Corporation B, a U.S. business. The value of the consideration has not been determined because it will be payable only once Corporation B achieves certain development and sales milestones, and it will be 10 percent of Corporation B's revenue over a future five-year period. The parties estimate in good faith that the fair market value of 100 percent of the shares of Corporation B is $30,000,000 based on a number of factors, including application of well-known accounting standards such as Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement 157, a recent valuation conducted by a third-party auditor, and a proposal to acquire Corporation B made by another bidder for approximately $30,000,000 in cash. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $30,000,000, and the filing fee is $7,500.


(6) *Example 6.* Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to acquire 100 percent of the assets of Corporation B, a foreign person, for $100,000,000. Corporation B has subsidiaries in several countries, including Corporation C, a U.S. business. The fair market value of Corporation C's assets is $1,000,000. Assuming no other relevant facts, under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, a $750 filing fee is required.


(7) *Example 7.* Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to acquire 50 percent of the voting interest of Corporation B, a U.S. business. Under the terms of a stock purchase agreement, the transaction will be effectuated in two phases. First, Corporation A will acquire 25 percent of the voting interest of Corporation B in exchange for $30,000,000 (phase 1). Two months later, Corporation A will acquire the other 25 percent of the voting interest of Corporation B in exchange for another $30,000,000 (phase 2). Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the consideration is $60,000,000 (the total consideration for both phases), and the filing fee is $75,000.


(8) *Example 8.* Corporation A, a foreign person, pays $5,000,000 to acquire 100,000 shares and call options from Corporation B, a U.S. business. The call options can be exercised after 90 days, and if exercised, Corporation A will have the right to acquire another 60,000 shares of Corporation B in exchange for an additional $3,000,000. Because the options may be exercised imminently, conversion of the call options is in the control of Corporation A, and the consideration for the interest acquired as a result of conversion can be reasonably determined, the value of the transaction includes the consideration for the shares and the call options as well as the consideration paid to exercise the options. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the consideration is $8,000,000, and the filing fee is $7,500.


(g) The determination of the value of the transaction for purposes of calculating the filing fee in no way limits the Committee's jurisdiction or its authority to review, investigate, mitigate, impose penalties regarding, or take any other action regarding any covered transaction.




