# ยง 247.29   Reports and recordkeeping.

(a) *What recordkeeping requirements must State and local agencies meet?* State and local agencies must maintain accurate and complete records relating to the receipt, disposal, and inventory of USDA Foods, the receipt and disbursement of administrative funds and other funds, eligibility determinations, fair hearings, and other program activities. State and local agencies must also maintain records pertaining to liability for any improper distribution of, use of, loss of, or damage to USDA Foods, and the results obtained from the pursuit of claims arising in favor of the State or local agency. All records must be retained for a period of three years from the end of the fiscal year to which they pertain, or, if they are related to unresolved claims actions, audits, or investigations, until those activities have been resolved. All records must be available during normal business hours for use in management reviews, audits, investigations, or reports of the General Accounting Office.


(b) *What reports must State and local agencies submit to FNS?* State agencies must submit the following reports to FNS:


(1) *SF-425, Federal Financial Report.* The State agency must submit the SF-425, Federal Financial Report, to report the financial status of the program at the close of the fiscal year. This report must be submitted within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year. Obligations must be reported for the fiscal year in which they occur. Revised reports may be submitted at a later date, but FNS will not be responsible for reimbursing unpaid obligations later than one year after the end of the fiscal year in which they were incurred.


(2) *FNS-153, Monthly Report of the Commodity Supplemental Food Program and Quarterly Administrative Financial Status Report.* The State agency must submit the FNS-153 on a monthly basis. FNS may permit the data contained in the report to be submitted less frequently, or in another format. The report must be submitted within 30 days after the end of the reporting period. On the FNS-153, the State agency reports:


(i) The number of program participants;


(ii) The receipt and distribution of USDA Foods, and beginning and ending inventories, as well as other USDA Foods data; and


(iii) On a quarterly basis, the cumulative amount of administrative funds expended and obligated, and the amount remaining unobligated.


(3) *FNS-191, Racial/Ethnic Group Participation.* Local agencies must submit a report of racial/ethnic participation each year, using the FNS-191.


(c) *Is there any other information that State and local agencies must provide to FNS?* FNS may require State and local agencies to provide data collected in the program to aid in the evaluation of the effect of program benefits on the low-income populations served. Any such requests for data will not include identification of particular individuals.



---

[N] [70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 24184, May 2, 2007; 79 FR 38751, July 9, 2014; 85 FR 68722, Oct. 30, 2020; 89 FR 87247, Oct. 31, 2024]




