# § 1.513-3   Qualified convention and trade show activity.

(a) *Introduction*—(1) *In general.* Section 513(d) and § 1.513-3(b) provide that convention and trade show activities carried on by a qualifying organization in connection with a qualified convention or trade show will not be treated as unrelated trade or business. Consequently, income from qualified convention and trade show activities, derived by a qualifying organization that sponsors the qualified convention or trade show, will not be subject to the tax imposed by section 511. Section 1.513-3(c) defines qualifying organizations and qualified conventions or trade shows. Section 1.513-3(d) concerns the treatment of income derived from certain activities, including rental of exhibition space at a qualified convention or trade show where sales activity is permitted, and the treatment of supplier exhibits at qualified conventions and trade shows.


(2) *Effective date.* This section is effective for taxable years beginning after October 4, 1976.


(b) *Qualified activities not unrelated.* A convention or trade show activity, as defined in section 513(d)(3)(A) and § 1.513-3(c)(4), will not be considered unrelated trade or business if it is conducted by a qualifying organization described in section 513(d)(3)(C) and § 1.513-3(c)(1), in conjunction with a qualified convention or trade show, as defined in section 513(d)(3)(B) and § 1.513-3(c)(2), sponsored by the qualifying organization. Such an activity is a qualified convention or trade show activity. A convention or trade show activity which is conducted by an organization described in section 501(c) (5) or (6), but which otherwise is not so qualified under this section, will be considered unrelated trade or business.


(c) *Definitions*—(1) *Qualifying organization.* Under section 513(d)(3)(C), a qualifying organization is one which:


(i) Is described in either section 501(c) (5) or (6), and


(ii) Regularly conducts as one of its substantial exempt purposes a qualified convention or trade show.


(2) *Qualified convention or trade show.* For purposes of this section, the term *qualified convention or trade show* means a show that meets the following requirements:


(i) It is conducted by a qualifying organization described in section 513(d)(3)(C);


(ii) At least one purpose of the sponsoring organization in conducting the show is the education of its members, or the promotion and stimulation of interest in, and demand for, the products or services of the industry (or segment thereof) of the members of the qualifying organization; and


(iii) The show is designed to achieve that purpose through the character of a significant portion of the exhibits or the character of conferences and seminars held at a convention or meeting.


(3) *Show.* For purposes of this section, the term *show* includes an international, national, state, regional, or local convention, annual meeting or show.


(4) *Convention and trade show activity.* For purposes of this section, convention and trade show activity means any activity of a kind traditionally carried on at shows. It includes, but is not limited to—


(i) Activities designed to attract to the show members of the sponsoring organization, members of an industry in general, and members of the public, to view industry products or services and to stimulate interest in, and demand for such products or services;


(ii) Activities designed to educate persons in the industry about new products or services or about new rules and regulations affecting the industry; and


(iii) Incidental activities, such as furnishing refreshments, of a kind traditionally carried on at such shows.


(d) *Certain activities*—(1) *Rental of exhibition space.* The rental of display space to exhibitors (including exhibitors who are suppliers) at a qualified trade show or at a qualified convention and trade show will not be considered unrelated trade or business even though the exhibitors who rent the space are permitted to sell or solicit orders.


(2) *Suppliers defined.* For purposes of subparagraph (1), a supplier's exhibit is one in which the exhibitor displays goods or services that are supplied to, rather than by, the members of the qualifying organization in the conduct of such members' own trades or businesses.


(e) *Example.* The provisions of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:



---

[N] [T.D. 7896, 48 FR 23817, May 27, 1983]




