# § 158.27   Review of applications.

(a) *General.* This section describes the process for review of all applications filed under § 158.25 of this part. 


(b) *Determination of completeness.* Within 30 days after receipt of an application by the FAA Airports office, the Administrator determines whether the application substantially complies with the requirements of § 158.25. 


(c) *Process for substantially complete application.* If the Administrator determines the application is substantially complete, the following procedures apply: 


(1) The Administrator advises the public agency by letter that its application is substantially complete. 


(2) The Administrator may opt to publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ advising that the Administrator intends to rule on the application and inviting public comment, as set forth in paragraph (e) of this section. If the Administrator publishes a notice, the Administrator will provide a copy of the notice to the public agency.


(3) If the Administrator publishes a notice, the public agency— 


(i) Shall make available for inspection, upon request, a copy of the application, notice, and other documents germane to the application, and 


(ii) May publish the notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the area where the airport covered by the application is located. 


(4) After reviewing the application and any public comments received from a _Federal Register_ notice, the Administrator issues a final decision approving or disapproving the application, in whole or in part, before 120 days after the FAA Airports office received the application.


(d) *Process for applications not substantially complete.* If the Administrator determines an application is not substantially complete, the following procedures apply: 


(1) The Administrator notifies the public agency in writing that its application is not substantially complete. The notification will list the information required to complete the application. 


(2) Within 15 days after the Administrator sends such notification, the public agency shall advise the Administrator in writing whether it intends to supplement its application. 


(3) If the public agency declines to supplement the application, the Administrator follows the procedures for review of an application set forth in paragraph (c) of this section and issues a final decision approving or disapproving the application, in whole or in part, no later than 120 days after the application was received by the FAA Airports office. 


(4) If the public agency supplements its application, the original application is deemed to be withdrawn for purposes of applying the statutory deadline for the Administrator's decision. Upon receipt of the supplement, the Administrator issues a final decision approving or disapproving the supplemented application, in whole or in part, no later than 120 days after the supplement was received by the FAA Airports office. 


(e) *The Federal Register notice.* The _Federal Register_ notice includes the following information: 


(1) The name of the public agency and the airport at which the PFC is to be imposed; 


(2) A brief description of the PFC project, the level of the proposed PFC, the proposed charge effective date, the proposed charge expiration date and the total estimated PFC revenue; 


(3) The address and telephone number of the FAA Airports office at which the application may be inspected; 


(4) The Administrator's determination on whether the application is substantially complete and any information required to complete the application; and 


(5) The due dates for any public comments. 


(f) *Public comments.* (1) Interested persons may file comments on the application within 30 days after publication of the Administrator's notice in the _Federal Register._

(2) Three copies of these comments shall be submitted to the FAA Airports office identified in the _Federal Register_ notice. 


(3) Commenters shall also provide one copy of their comments to the public agency. 


(4) Comments from air carriers and foreign air carriers may be in the same form as provided to the public agency under § 158.23. 



---

[N] [Doc. No. 26385, 56 FR 24278, May 29, 1991; 56 FR 30867, July 8, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 158-3, 70 FR 14936, Mar. 23, 2005]




