# ยง 1.6109-2A   Furnishing identifying number of income tax return preparer.

(a) *Furnishing identifying number.* For returns or claims for refund filed prior to January 1, 2000, each return of tax under subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code or claim for refund of tax under subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code prepared by one or more income tax return preparers must bear the identifying number of the preparer required by ยง 1.6695-1(b) to sign the return or claim for refund. In addition, it there is a partnership or employment arrangement between two or more preparers, the identifying number of the partnership or the person who employs (or engages) one or more other persons to prepare for compensation the return or claim for refund shall also appear on the return or claim for refund. If the preparer is:


(1) An individual (not described in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph (a) who is a citizen or resident of the United States such preparer's social security account number shall be affixed; and


(2) A person (whether an individual, corporation, or partnership) who employs (or engages) one or more persons to prepare the return or claim for refund (other than for the person), or who is not a citizen or resident of the United States and also is not employed or engaged by another preparer, such preparer's employer identification number shall be affixed.


(b) *Furnishing address.* (1) Each return or claim for refund which is prepared by one or more income tax return preparers shall bear the street address, city, State, and postal ZIP code of that preparer's place of business where the preparation of the return or claim for refund was completed. However, if this place of business is not maintained on a year-round basis, the return or claim for refund shall bear the street address, city, State, and postal ZIP code of such preparer's principal office or business location which is maintained on a yearround basis, or it none, that preparer's residence.


(2) For purposes of satisfying the requirement of the first sentence of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and income tax return preparer, may, on returns and claims for refund, disclose only the postal ZIP code of the described place of business as a satisfactory address, but only if the preparer first by written notice advises each affected Internal Revenue Service Center that he intends to follow this practice.


(c) *Penalty.* For the civil penalty for failure to furnish an identifying number as required under paragraph (a) of this section, see section 6695(c) and ยง 1.6695-1(c).


(d) *Effective date.* Paragraph (a) of this section and this paragraph (d) apply to returns or claims for refund filed prior to January 1, 2000. For returns or claims for refund filed after December 31, 1999, see ยง 1.6109-2(a).



---

[N] [T.D. 7519, 42 FR 59967, Nov. 23, 1977, as amended by T.D. 8835, 64 FR 43911, Aug. 12, 1999. Redesignated and amended by T.D. 9014, 67 FR 52863, Aug. 14, 2002]




