# § 56.6133   Powder chests.

(a) Powder chests (day boxes) shall be—


(1) Structurally sound, weather-resistant, equipped with a lid or cover, and with only nonsparking material on the inside; 


(2) Posted with the appropriate United States Department of Transportation placards or other appropriate warning signs that indicate the contents and are visible from each approach; 


(3) Located out of the blast area once loading has been completed; 


(4) Locked or attended when containing explosive material; and 


(5) Emptied at the end of each shift with the contents returned to a magazine or other storage facility, or attended.


(b) Detonators shall be kept in chests separate from explosives or blasting agents, unless separated by 4 inches of hardwood or equivalent, or a laminated partition. When a laminated partition is used, operators must follow the provisions of the Institute of Makers of Explosives (IME) Safety Library Publication No. 22, “Recommendations for the Safe Transportation of Detonators in a Vehicle with Other Explosive Materials” (May 1993), and the “Generic Loading Guide for the IME-22 Container” (October 1993). The IME is located at 1120 19th Street NW., Suite 310, Washington, DC 20036-3605; 202-429-9280; *https://www.ime.org.* This incorporation by reference has been approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; and at all Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Offices, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*


---

[N] [50 FR 4054, Jan. 29, 1985, as amended at 67 FR 38385, June 4, 2002; 80 FR 52987, Sept. 2, 2015]




