# § 95.303   Definitions.

The following terms and definitions apply only to the rules in this part.


*Antenna.* A device that converts radio frequency electrical energy from a transmitter to radiated electromagnetic energy.


*Authorized bandwidth.* The maximum permissible occupied bandwidth of an emission.


*Automatic control.* Operational control of a Personal Radio Services station by automated means, such that the operator does not have to be located at a control point and monitoring communications in order to share channels and avoid interference and rule violations.


*Base station.* A station at a fixed location that communicates directly with mobile stations and other base stations.


*Carrier power output.* The average power supplied at the radio frequency output of a transmitter during one radio frequency cycle, measured under the condition of no modulation.


*Certified transmitter.* A transmitter of a type for which a grant of equipment certification, pursuant to part 2, subpart J of this chapter, has been issued for the Personal Radio Service(s) in which it is intended to be operated.


*Citizens band radio service.* Pursuant to 47 U.S.C. 307(e)(3), the term “citizens band radio service” means any radio service or other specific classification of radio stations used primarily for wireless telecommunications for which the FCC has determined that it serves the public interest, convenience and necessity to authorize by rule the operation of radio stations in that service or class, without individual licenses, pursuant to 47 U.S.C. 307(e)(1).


*Citizens Broadband Radio Service.* The rules for this service, including technical rules, are contained in part 96 of this chapter. Only Citizens Broadband Radio Service Devices authorized on a General Authorized Access basis, as those terms are defined in section 96.3, are considered part of the Citizens Band Radio Services.


*Communications Act.* The Communications Act of 1934, as amended; 47 U.S.C. 151 *et. seq.*

*Control point.* Any location where the operator of a Personal Radio Services station may reliably operate that station.


*Control station.* A station at a fixed location that communicates with mobile stations and other control stations through repeater stations, and may also be used to control the operation of repeater stations.


*dB.* Decibels.


*EIRP.* Equivalent Isotropically Radiated Power. Antenna input power times gain for free-space, or in-tissue measurement configurations required by MedRadio, expressed in Watts, where the gain is referenced to an isotropic radiator.


*Emergency messages.* Communications concerning the immediate safety of life or protection of property.


*Emission.* Radiated electromagnetic energy from a station.


*External radio frequency power amplifier.* Any device which, when used with a transmitter as a signal source, is capable of amplification of that signal, and is not an integral part of a radio transmitter as manufactured. *See* § 2.815 of this chapter.


*FCC.* The Federal Communications Commission.


*Feedline.* A cable or transmission line that conveys radio frequency electrical energy from a transmitter to an antenna.


*Fixed station.* A station at a fixed location that directly communicates with other fixed stations only.


*Frequency accuracy.* A technical requirement comprising the frequency tolerance, frequency stability, or both.


*Frequency tolerance.* A design requirement specifying the maximum amount that carrier frequencies of newly manufactured transmitters may normally differ from the frequency or frequencies set forth in the FCC rules.


*Frequency stability.* A design requirement specifying the maximum amount that carrier frequencies of transmitters may normally change from their nominal value as a result of changes in ambient temperature, power supply voltages, or other external factors.


*Hand-held portable unit.* A physically small mobile station that can be operated while being held in the operator's hand.


*Harmful interference.* Any transmission, radiation, or induction that endangers the functioning of a radionavigation service or of other safety services or seriously degrades, obstructs, or repeatedly interrupts a radiocommunication service operating in accordance with applicable laws, treaties, and regulations.


*Individual.* A human being, e.g., one man or one woman.


*Individual license.* An authorization to operate a Personal Radio Service station, granted by the FCC to a specific person.


*Interference.* The effect of unwanted energy due to one or a combination of emissions, radiations, or inductions upon reception in a radiocommunication system, manifested by any performance degradation, misinterpretation, or loss of information which could be extracted in the absence of such unwanted energy.


*Licensee.* A person that has been granted an individual license by the FCC.


*Mean power output.* The average power supplied at the radio frequency output of a transmitter during a time interval of at least 0.1 seconds, taken under normal operating conditions.


*Mobile station.* A station, intended to be used while in motion or during halts at unspecified locations, that communicates directly with base stations and other mobile stations, and with control stations and other mobile stations through repeater stations.


*Modulation.* A process of altering the amplitude, frequency and/or phase of a radio frequency carrier wave generated within a Personal Radio Service transmitter, for the purpose of impressing onto the carrier wave information to be transmitted.


*Necessary bandwidth.* For a given class of emission, the width of the frequency band which is just sufficient to ensure the transmission of information at the rate and with the quality required under specified conditions.


*Occupied bandwidth.* For an emission, the width of a frequency band such that, below the lower and above the upper frequency limits, the mean powers emitted are each equal to 0.5% of the total mean power of the emission.


*One-way communications.* Communications where information always flows in one pre-arranged direction through a communications channel.


*Operate.* Control the functioning of a Personal Radio Service station; in particular, cause a Personal Radio Service station to begin, continue or cease transmitting.


*Operator.* An individual who operates a Personal Radio Service station.


*Out-of-band emissions.* Unwanted emissions that result from the modulation process and whose frequencies are immediately outside of the necessary bandwidth.


*Person.* An individual, a corporation, a partnership, an association, a joint stock company, a trust, a state, territorial or local government unit, or other legal entity.


*Personal Radio Services station.* Any transmitter, with or without an incorporated antenna or receiver, which is certified by the FCC to be operated in one or more of the Personal Radio Services.


*Personal Radio Services.* The Personal Radio Services are the citizens band radio services, radio control radio services, the 218-219 MHz Service and individually licensed services comprising all of the radio services and other classifications of radio stations governed by the rules in this part (47 CFR part 95).


*Plain language voice communications.* Voice communications without codes or coded messages intended to provide a hidden meaning. Foreign languages and commonly known radio operating words and phrases, such as “ten four” and “roger,” not intended to provide a hidden meaning, are not considered codes or coded messages.


*Radio control radio service.* Pursuant to 47 U.S.C. 307(e)(3), the term “radio control radio service” means any radio service or other specific classification of radio stations used primarily for wireless telecommand and/or wireless telemetry purposes, for which the FCC has determined that it serves the public interest, convenience and necessity to authorize by rule the operation of radio stations in that service or class, without individual licenses, pursuant to 47 U.S.C. 307(e)(1).


*Remote control.* Operation of a Personal Radio Services station from a location that is not in the immediate vicinity of the transmitter. Operation of a Personal Radio Services station from any location on the premises, vehicle or craft where the transmitter is located is not considered to be remote control.


*Repeater station.* A station in a fixed location used to extend the communications range of mobile stations, hand-held portable units and control stations by receiving their signals on one channel (the input channel) and simultaneously retransmitting these signals on another channel (the output channel), typically with higher transmitting power from a favorable antenna location (typically high above the surrounding terrain).


*Spurious emissions.* Unwanted emissions, the level of which may be reduced without affecting the corresponding transmission of information, including harmonic emissions, parasitic emissions, intermodulation products and frequency conversion products, but excluding out-of-band emissions.


*Network connection.* Connection of a Personal Radio Services station to the public switched network, so that operators of other stations in that service are able to make (and optionally to receive) telephone calls through the connected station.


*Transmit.* Radiate electromagnetic energy.


*Transmitter.* A device which supplies radio frequency electrical energy to an antenna, either directly or through a feedline.


*Transmitter type.* A sample transmitter submitted for testing to evaluate compliance with the technical and design rules in this part, for the purpose of FCC certification pursuant to part 2, subpart J of this chapter. The sample transmitter is identical to (as defined in § 2.908 of this chapter) and representative of all other transmitters of the same type.


*Two-way communications.* Communications where information flows in both directions through a communications channel, either simultaneously (duplex operation) or alternately (simplex operation).


*Unwanted emissions.* Emissions whose frequencies are outside of the necessary bandwidth; comprising out-of-band emissions and spurious emissions.


*User.* Any person who uses or benefits from the operation of a Personal Radio Service station.


*Voice obscuring feature.* A feature incorporated into a Personal Radio Service telephony transmitter that alters the sound of the user's voice in such a way that the communications are intended to be understandable only to individuals using a similar unit that reverses the process on the receiving end, so that the voice again becomes intelligible.




