# § 4.10   Meaning of terms.

As used in this part, unless the context otherwise requires, terms shall have the meaning ascribed in this part.




*Added brandy.* Brandy or wine spirits for use in fortification of wine as permitted by internal revenue law.


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC.


*Advertisement.* See § 4.61 for meaning of term as used in subpart G of this part.


*Alcohol.* Ethyl alcohol distilled at or above 190° proof.


*American.* The several States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico; “State” includes the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.


*Appropriate TTB officer.* An officer or employee of the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) authorized to perform any functions relating to the administration or enforcement of this part by TTB Order 1135.4, Delegation of the Administrator's Authorities in 27 CFR Part 4, Labeling and Advertising of Wine.


*Bottler.* Any person who places wine in containers of four liters or less. (See meaning for “containers” and “packer”.)


*Brand label.* The label carrying, in the usual distinctive design, the brand name of the wine.


*Certificate of label approval (COLA).* A certificate issued on form TTB F 5100.31 that authorizes the bottling of wine, distilled spirits, or malt beverages, or the removal of bottled wine, distilled spirits, or malt beverages from customs custody for introduction into commerce, as long as the product bears labels identical to the labels appearing on the face of the certificate, or labels with changes authorized by TTB on the certificate or otherwise (such as through the issuance of public guidance available on the TTB website at *www.ttb.gov*).


*Container.* Any bottle, barrel, cask, or other closed receptacle irrespective of size or of the material from which made for use for the sale of wine at retail. (See meaning for “bottler” and “packer”.)


*Customs officer.* An officer of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) or any agent or other person authorized by law to perform the duties of such an officer.


*Gallon.* A U.S. gallon of 231 cubic inches of alcoholic beverages at 60 °F.


*Interstate or foreign commerce.* Commerce between any State and any place outside thereof, or commerce within any Territory or the District of Columbia, or between points within the same State but through any place outside thereof.


*Liter or litre.* (a) A metric unit of capacity equal to 1,000 cubic centimeters and equivalent to 33.814 U.S. fluid ounces. For purposes of this part, a liter is subdivided into 1,000 milliliters (ml).


(b) For purposes of regulation, one liter of wine is defined as that quantity (mass) of wine occupying a one-liter volume at 20 °Celsius (68 °F).


*Packer.* Any person who places wine in containers in excess of four liters. (See meaning for “container” and “bottler”.)


*Percent or percentage.* Percent by volume.


*Permittee.* Any person holding a basic permit under the Federal Alcohol Administration Act.


*Person.* Any individual, partnership, joint-stock company, business trust, association, corporation, or other form of business enterprise, including a receiver, trustee, or liquidating agent, and including an officer or employee of any agency of a State or political subdivision thereof.


*Pure condensed must.* The dehydrated juice or must of sound, ripe grapes, or other fruit or agricultural products, concentrated to not more than 80° (Balling), the composition thereof remaining unaltered except for removal of water.




*Restored pure condensed must.* Pure condensed must to which has been added an amount of water not exceeding the amount removed in the dehydration process.


*Sugar.* Pure cane, beet, or dextrose sugar containing, respectively, not less than 95 percent of actual sugar calculated on a dry basis.


*Total solids.* The degrees Brix of the dealcoholized wine restored to its original volume.


*Trade buyer.* Any person who is a wholesaler or retailer.


*United States.* The several States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico; the term “State” includes the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.


*Use of other terms.* Any other term defined in the Federal Alcohol Administration Act and used in this part shall have the same meaning assigned to it by the Act.


*Wine.* (1) Wine as defined in section 610 and section 617 of the Revenue Act of 1918 (26 U.S.C. 5381-5392), only if for nonindustrial use and containing not less than 7 percent and not more than 24 percent of alcohol by volume; and


(2) Other alcoholic beverages not so defined, but made in the manner of wine, including sparkling and carbonated wine, wine made from condensed grape must, wine made from other agricultural products than the juice of sound, ripe grapes, imitation wine, compounds sold as wine, vermouth, cider, perry, and sake, only if for nonindustrial use and containing not less than 7 percent and not more than 24 percent of alcohol by volume.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-48, 43 FR 13532, Mar. 31, 1978, as amended by T.D. ATF-49, 43 FR 19848, May 9, 1978; T.D. ATF-53, 43 FR 37675, Aug. 23, 1978; 44 FR 55838, Sept. 29, 1979; T.D. ATF-66, 45 FR 40544, June 13, 1980; T.D. ATF-94, 46 FR 55095, Nov. 6, 1981; T.D. ATF-299, 55 FR 24988, June 19, 1990; T.D. ATF-425, 65 FR 11891, Mar. 7, 2000; T.D. TTB-44, 71 FR 16921, Apr. 4, 2006; T.D. TTB-91, 76 FR 5476, Feb. 1, 2011; T.D. TTB-145, 81 FR 94196, Dec. 22, 2016; T.D. TTB-158, 85 FR 18721, Apr. 2, 2020; T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87935, Nov. 6, 2024]




