# § 2700.7   Service.

(a) *Generally.* A copy of each document filed with the Commission shall be served on all parties. Whenever a party is represented by an attorney or other authorized representative who has entered an appearance on behalf of such party pursuant to § 2700.3, service thereafter shall be made upon the attorney or other authorized representative. In addition, a copy of a notice of contest of a citation or order, a petition for assessment of penalty, a discrimination complaint, a complaint for compensation, and an application for temporary relief shall be served upon the representative of miners, if known.


(b) *Posting.* A copy of an order, citation, notice, or decision required under section 109 of the Act, 30 U.S.C. 819, to be posted on a mine bulletin board shall, upon receipt, be immediately posted on such bulletin board by the operator.


(c) *Manner of service.* Unless otherwise provided for in the Act, these rules, or by order:


(1) *Methods of service.* Documents may be served in person, by U.S. Postal Service, by third-party commercial carrier, by facsimile transmission, or by electronic transmission (email). For documents filed pursuant to §§ 2700.9(a), 2700.24, 2700.45, 2700.70(f), 2700.75(f), and subpart F (applications for temporary relief), the method of service used must be no less expeditious than that used for filing, except that if service by electronic transmission (email) is impossible, the filing party must serve in person, by third party commercial carrier, or facsimile transmission, resulting in same-day delivery.


(2) *Effective date of service.* When service is by U.S. Postal service, service is effective upon mailing. When service is in person, by third-party commercial carrier, by facsimile transmission, or by electronic transmission (email), service is effective upon successful receipt by the party intended to be served.


(d) *Proof of service.* All pleadings and other filed documents shall be accompanied by a certification setting forth the date, method of service, and all contact information used.



---

[N] [78 FR 77357, Dec. 23, 2013]




