# § 88.9   Application process—WTC survivors.

(a) *Application for status as a screening-eligible survivor.* An application to the WTC Health Program based on the criteria in § 88.8(a) must be submitted with documentation of the applicant's location, presence or residence, and/or work activity during the relevant time period.


(1) Documentation may include but is not limited to: Proof of residence, such as a lease or utility bill; attendance roster at a school or daycare; or pay stub, other employment documentation, or written statement, under penalty of perjury, by an employer indicating employment location during the relevant time period; or similar documentation. The applicant must also attest to symptoms of a WTC-related health condition.


(2) An applicant who is unable to submit the required documentation must instead offer a written explanation of how he or she tried to obtain proof of location, presence, or residence, and/or work activity and why the attempt was unsuccessful. The applicant must attest, under penalty of perjury, that he or she meets the criteria specified in § 88.8.


(3) The applicant will be notified of any deficiencies in the application or the supporting documentation.


(b) *Status as a certified-eligible survivor.* No additional application is required for status as a certified-eligible survivor. If, based upon the screening-eligible survivor's initial health evaluation (*see* § 88.11), the WTC Health Program certifies the diagnosis of a WTC-related health condition, then the survivor will automatically receive the status of a certified-eligible survivor.




