# ยง 650.20   Powers and duties of the receiver.

(a) *General.* (1) Upon appointment as receiver, the receiver shall take possession of the Corporation in order to wind up the business operations of the Corporation, collect the debts owed to the Corporation, liquidate its property and assets, pay its creditors, and distribute the remaining proceeds to stockholders. The receiver is authorized to exercise all powers necessary to the efficient termination of the Corporation's operation as provided for in this part. 


(2) Upon its appointment as receiver, the receiver automatically succeeds to: 


(i) All rights, titles, powers, and privileges of the Corporation and of any stockholder, officer, or director of the Corporation with respect to the Corporation and the assets of the Corporation; and 


(ii) Title to the books, records, and assets of the Corporation in the possession of any other legal custodian of the Corporation. 


(3) The receiver of the Corporation serves as the trustee of the receivership estate and conducts its operations for the benefit of the creditors and stockholders of the Corporation. 


(b) *Specific powers.* The receiver may: 


(1) Exercise all powers as are conferred upon the officers and directors of the Corporation under law and the charter, articles, and bylaws of the Corporation. 


(2) Take any action the receiver considers appropriate or expedient to carry on the business of the Corporation during the process of liquidating its assets and winding up its affairs. 


(3) Borrow funds in accordance with section 8.41(f) of the Act to meet the ongoing administrative expenses or other liquidity needs of the receivership. 


(4) Pay any sum the receiver deems necessary or advisable to preserve, conserve, or protect the Corporation's assets or property or rehabilitate or improve such property and assets. 


(5) Pay any sum the receiver deems necessary or advisable to preserve, conserve, or protect any asset or property on which the Corporation has a lien or in which the Corporation has a financial or property interest, and pay off and discharge any liens, claims, or charges of any nature against such property. 


(6) Investigate any matter related to the conduct of the business of the Corporation, including, but not limited to, any claim of the Corporation against any individual or entity, and institute appropriate legal or other proceedings to prosecute such claims. 


(7) Institute, prosecute, maintain, defend, intervene, and otherwise participate in any legal proceeding by or against the Corporation or in which the Corporation or its creditors or stockholders have any interest, and represent in every way the Corporation, its stockholders and creditors. 


(8) Employ attorneys, accountants, appraisers, and other professionals to give advice and assistance to the receivership generally or on particular matters, and pay their retainers, compensation, and expenses, including litigation costs. 


(9) Hire any agents or employees necessary for proper administration of the receivership. 


(10) Execute, acknowledge, and deliver, in person or through a general or specific delegation, any instrument necessary for any authorized purpose, and any instrument executed under this paragraph shall be valid and effective as if it had been executed by the Corporation's officers by authority of its board of directors. 


(11) Sell for cash or otherwise any mortgage, deed of trust, chose in action, note, contract, judgment or decree, stock, or debt owed to the Corporation, or any property (real or personal, tangible or intangible). 


(12) Purchase or lease office space, automobiles, furniture, equipment, and supplies, and purchase insurance, professional, and technical services necessary for the conduct of the receivership. 


(13) Release any assets or property of any nature, regardless of whether the subject of pending litigation, and repudiate, with cause, any lease or executory contract the receiver considers burdensome. 


(14) Settle, release, or obtain release of, for cash or other consideration, claims and demands against or in favor of the Corporation or receiver. 


(15) Pay, out of the assets of the Corporation, all expenses of the receivership (including compensation to personnel employed to represent or assist the receiver) and all costs of carrying out or exercising the rights, powers, privileges, and duties as receiver. 


(16) Pay, out of the assets of the Corporation, all approved claims of indebtedness in accordance with the priorities established in this part. 


(17) Take all actions and have such rights, powers, and privileges as are necessary and incident to the exercise of any specific power. 


(18) Take such actions, and have such additional rights, powers, privileges, immunities, and duties as the Farm Credit Administration Board authorizes by order or by amendment of any order or by regulation. 




