# ยง 78.25   Scoring criteria for awarding grants.

VA will score applicants who are applying for a suicide prevention services grant. VA will set forth specific point values to be awarded for each criterion in the NOFO. VA will use the following criteria to score these applicants:


(a) VA will award points based on the background, qualifications, experience, and past performance of the applicant, and any community partners identified by the applicant in the suicide prevention services grant application, as demonstrated by the following:


(1) *Background and organizational history.* (i) Applicant's, and any identified community partners', background and organizational history are relevant to the program.


(ii) Applicant, and any identified community partners, maintain organizational structures with clear lines of reporting and defined responsibilities.


(iii) Applicant, and any identified community partners, have a history of complying with agreements and not defaulting on financial obligations.


(2) *Staff qualifications.* (i) Applicant's staff, and any identified community partners' staff, have experience providing services to, or coordinating services for, eligible individuals and their families.


(ii) Applicant's staff, and any identified community partners' staff, have experience administering programs similar to SSG Fox SPGP.


(3) *Organizational qualifications and past performance, including experience with veterans services.* (i) Applicant, and any identified community partners, have organizational experience providing suicide prevention services to, or coordinating suicide prevention services for, eligible individuals and their families.


(ii) Applicant, and any identified community partners, have organizational experience coordinating services for eligible individuals and their families among multiple organizations, and Federal, State, local and tribal governmental entities.


(iii) Applicant, and any identified community partners, have organizational experience administering a program similar in type and scale to SSG Fox SPGP to eligible individuals and their families.


(iv) Applicant, and any identified community partners, have organizational experience working with veterans and their families.


(b) VA will award points based on the applicant's program concept and suicide prevention services plan, as demonstrated by the following:


(1) *Need for program.* (i) Applicant has shown a need amongst eligible individuals and their families in the area where the program will be based.


(ii) Applicant demonstrates an understanding of the unique needs for suicide prevention services of eligible individuals and their families.


(2) *Outreach and screening plan.* (i) Applicant has a feasible plan for outreach, consistent with ยง 78.45, and referral to identify and assist individuals and their families that may be eligible for suicide prevention services and are most in need of suicide prevention services.


(ii) Applicant has a feasible plan to process and receive participant referrals.


(iii) Applicant has a feasible plan to assess and accommodate the needs of incoming participants.


(3) *Program concept.* (i) Applicant's program concept, size, scope, and staffing plan are feasible.


(ii) Applicant's program is designed to meet the needs of eligible individuals and their families.


(4) *Program implementation timeline.* (i) Applicant's program will be implemented in a timely manner and suicide prevention services will be delivered to participants as quickly as possible and within a specified timeline.


(ii) Applicant has a feasible staffing plan in place to meet the applicant's program timeline or has existing staff to meet such timeline.


(5) *Coordination with VA.* Applicant has a feasible plan to coordinate outreach and services with local VA facilities.


(6) *Ability to meet VA's requirements, goals, and objectives for SSG Fox SPGP.* Applicant demonstrates commitment to ensuring that its program meets VA's requirements, goals, and objectives for SSG Fox SPGP as identified in this part and the NOFO.


(7) *Capacity to undertake program.* Applicant has sufficient capacity, including staff resources, to undertake the program.


(c) VA will award points based on the applicant's quality assurance and evaluation plan, as demonstrated by the following:


(1) *Program evaluation.* (i) Applicant has created clear, realistic, and measurable goals that reflect SSG Fox SPGP's aim of reducing and preventing suicide among veterans against which the applicant's program performance can be evaluated.


(ii) Applicant has a clear plan to continually assess the program.


(2) *Monitoring.* (i) Applicant has adequate controls in place to regularly monitor the program, including any community partners, for compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, and guidelines.


(ii) Applicant has adequate financial and operational controls in place to ensure the proper use of suicide prevention services grant funds.


(iii) Applicant has a feasible plan for ensuring that the applicant's staff and any community partners are appropriately trained and stay informed of SSG Fox SPGP policy, evidence-informed suicide prevention practices, and the requirements of this part.


(3) *Remediation.* Applicant has an appropriate plan to establish a system to remediate non-compliant aspects of the program if and when they are identified.


(4) *Management and reporting.* Applicant's program management team has the capability and a system in place to provide to VA timely and accurate reports at the frequency set by VA.


(d) VA will award points based on the applicant's financial capability and plan, as demonstrated by the following:


(1) *Organizational finances.* Applicant, and any identified community partners, are financially stable.


(2) *Financial feasibility of program.* (i) Applicant has a realistic plan for obtaining all funding required to operate the program for the time period of the suicide prevention services grant.


(ii) Applicant's program is cost-effective and can be effectively implemented on-budget.


(e) VA will award points based on the applicant's area linkages and relations, as demonstrated by the following:


(1) *Area linkages.* Applicant has a feasible plan for developing or relying on existing linkages with Federal (including VA), State, local, and tribal government agencies, and private entities for the purposes of providing additional services to participants within a given geographic area.


(2) *Past working relationships.* Applicant (or applicant's staff), and any identified community partners (or community partners' staff), have fostered similar and successful working relationships and linkages with public and private organizations providing services to veterans or their families in need of services.


(3) *Local presence and knowledge.* (i) Applicant has a presence in the area to be served by the applicant.


(ii) Applicant understands the dynamics of the area to be served by the applicant.


(4) *Integration of linkages and program concept.* Applicant's linkages to the area to be served by the applicant enhance the effectiveness of the applicant's program.



---

[N] [87 FR 13835, Mar. 10, 2022; 87 FR 16101, Mar. 22, 2022]






