# § 31.3406(d)-1   Manner required for furnishing a taxpayer identification number.

(a) *Requirement to backup withhold.* Withholding under section 3406(a)(1)(A) applies to a reportable payment (as defined in section 3406(b)) if the payee does not furnish the payee's taxpayer identification number to the payor in the manner required by this section. The period for which withholding is required is described in § 31.3406(e)-1(b). See § 31.3406(d)-3(a) and (b) for special rules when an account is established directly with, or an instrument is acquired directly from, the payor by electronic transmission or by mail, or an instrument is sold through a broker by electronic transmission or by mail. See § 31.3406(d)-4 for special rules applicable to readily tradable instruments acquired through a broker. See § 31.3406(h)-3(e) for the rules on when a payor may rely on a Form W-9. See also § 31.3406(g)-3 for rules regarding a payee awaiting receipt of a taxpayer identification number. See the applicable information reporting sections and section 6109 and the regulations thereunder to determine whose taxpayer identification number should be provided.


(b) *Reportable interest or dividend account*—(1) *Manner required for furnishing a taxpayer identification number with respect to a pre-1984 account or instrument.* A payee must furnish the payee's taxpayer identification number to the payor with respect to any obligation, deposit, certificate, share, membership, contract, investment, account, or other relationship or instrument established or acquired on or before December 31, 1983 (a pre-1984 account) and with respect to which the payor makes a reportable interest or dividend payment (as defined in section 3406(b)(2)). The manner of determining whether an account or an instrument is a pre-1984 account is described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The payee of a pre-1984 account may furnish the payee's taxpayer identification number to the payor orally or in writing. The payee is not required to certify under penalties of perjury that the taxpayer identification number is correct.


(2) *Determination of pre-1984 account or instrument*—(i) *In general.* An account that is in existence before January 1, 1984, will be considered a pre-1984 account, regardless of whether additional deposits are made to the account on or after January 1, 1984. An account established as an expansion of a credit union prime account in existence prior to January 1, 1984, constitutes a pre-1984 account. If funds taken from one account in existence prior to January 1, 1984, are used to create a new account on or after that date, however, the new account does not constitute a pre-1984 account except as provided in the preceding sentence. An instrument acquired prior to January 1, 1984, is a pre-1984 account. Regardless of when an instrument was acquired, if it is negotiated in a window transaction as defined in § 31.3406(b)(2)-3(b), it is treated as an instrument acquired after December 31, 1983. An obligation in bearer form and subject to reporting under section 6045, whenever acquired, is not a pre-1984 account. Any instrument, whenever acquired, that is held in a brokerage account is considered a pre-1984 account if the brokerage account is not a post-1983 brokerage account (as described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section). If shares of a corporation are held before January 1, 1984 (or considered held before that date by operation of this paragraph (b)(2)), and additional shares are acquired by the holder, irrespective of whether the shares are received by reason of a stock dividend, investing new cash, or otherwise, the new shares, in the discretion of the payor, may be considered a pre-1984 account. In the case of a qualified employee trust that distributes instruments in kind, any instrument distributed from the trust is considered a pre-1984 account with respect to employees who were participants in the trust before 1984. Similarly, when a payor offers participants in a plan the opportunity to purchase stock of the payor after a specified time, using the money that the payee invested during that period of time, the stock so purchased after December 31, 1983, is considered a pre-1984 account with respect to participants in the plan who either owned shares or invested money in the plan before January 1, 1984.


(ii) *Account or instrument automatically acquired on the maturity or termination of an account.* When an account is opened, or an instrument is acquired, automatically on the maturity or termination of an account that was in existence or an instrument that was held before January 1, 1984 (or considered to have been in existence or held before that date by operation of this paragraph (b)(2)(ii)), without the participation of the payee, the new account or instrument, in the discretion of the payor, may be considered a pre-1984 account. For purposes of the preceding sentence, a payee is not considered to have participated in the acquisition of the new account or instrument solely because the payee failed to exercise a right to withdraw funds at the maturity or termination of the old account or instrument.


(iii) *Insurance policies.* In the case of insurance policies in effect on December 31, 1983, the election of a dividend accumulation option pursuant to which interest is paid (as defined in § 1.6049-5(a)(4) of this chapter), or the creation of an account in which proceeds of a policy are held for the policy beneficiary, may, in the payor's discretion, be treated as a pre-1984 account.


(iv) *Acquisitions of accounts and instruments*—(A) *Pre-1984 or post-1983 status known.* If a payor acquires accounts or instruments of another payor (including through a tax-free reorganization under section 368), the acquiring payor must treat the persons specified in this paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(A) as having the same requirement to furnish a taxpayer identification number in the manner required under this paragraph (b) to the acquiring payor for information reporting, withholding, and related tax provisions as existed with respect to the payor whose accounts or instruments were acquired. Persons specified in this paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(A) are persons who held accounts or instruments in the other payor immediately before the acquisition and who receive an account or instrument in the acquiring payor immediately after the acquisition. 


(B) *Pre-1984 or post-1983 status unknown.* If the acquiring payor, as described in paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(A) of this section, is unable to identify from the business records of the other payor whether any or all of the accounts or instruments of the persons specified in paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(A) of this section are pre-1984 (or post-1983) accounts or instruments, then the acquiring payor may treat these unidentified accounts or instruments as pre-1984 accounts or instruments.


(C) *Cross reference.* See § 31.3406(g)-2(g) for the limited exception from withholding under section 3406(a)(1)(A) on accounts or instruments described in paragraphs (b)(2)(iv) (A) and (B) of this section for which the payor does not have a taxpayer identification number.


(3) *Manner required for furnishing a taxpayer identification number with respect to an account or instrument that is not a pre-1984 account.* A payee who receives reportable interest or dividend payments (as defined in section 3406(b)(2)) from a payor must certify under penalties of perjury that the taxpayer identification number the payee furnishes to the payor is the payee's correct taxpayer identification number. The payee must make the certification only with respect to an account or instrument that is not a pre-1984 account (as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section). See § 31.3406(h)-3 for a description of the certificate on which the certification must be made. See § 31.3406(d)-2 for the requirement that the payee must certify under penalties of perjury that the payee is not subject to withholding due to notified payee underreporting. See § 31.3406(d)-3(a) with respect to an account established directly with, or an instrument acquired directly from, the payor by electronic transmission or by mail. See § 31.3406(d)-4 for the rules applicable to readily tradable instruments acquired through a broker.


(4) *Special rule with respect to the acquisition of a readily tradable instrument in a transaction between certain parties acting without the assistance of a broker.* If a payee, at any time, acquires a readily tradable instrument without the assistance of a broker, and no party to the acquisition is a broker or an agent of the payor, the payee must furnish the payee's taxpayer identification number to the payor prior to the time reportable payments are made on the instrument. The payee is not required to certify under penalties of perjury that the number is correct. See § 31.3406(d)-2 for the rule that a payee is not subject to withholding due to notified payee underreporting with respect to a readily tradable instrument acquired in the manner described in this paragraph (b)(4). A broker is considered to provide assistance in the acquisition of an instrument if the person effecting the acquisition would be required to make an information return under section 6045 if such person were to sell the instrument. See § 31.3406(d)-4 for rules relating to an acquisition of a readily tradable instrument when a broker is involved.


(c) *Brokerage account*—(1) *Manner required for furnishing a taxpayer identification number with respect to a brokerage relationship that is not a post-1983 brokerage account*—(i) *In general.* With respect to any instrument, investment, or deposit made through a brokerage account that is not a post-1983 brokerage account, a payee must furnish the payee's taxpayer identification number to the broker either orally or in writing. The payee is not required to certify under penalties of perjury that the taxpayer identification number is correct. See paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section for the rule that any instrument, whenever acquired, that is held in a brokerage account that is not a post-1983 brokerage account, is considered held in an account that is not a post-1983 brokerage account. For example, in 1983 a payee established and acquired a readily tradable instrument from a brokerage account; no activity took place through that account until the payee purchased a readily tradable instrument in 1995. That readily tradable instrument is not held in a post-1983 brokerage account; therefore, the payee need not certify under penalties of perjury that the payee's taxpayer identification number is correct.


(ii) *Definition of a brokerage account that is not a post-1983 brokerage account.* A brokerage account that was established by a payee before January 1, 1984, through which during 1983 the broker either bought or sold securities for the payee or held securities on behalf of the payee as a nominee (i.e., in street name), is an account that is not a post-1983 brokerage account.


(2) *Manner required for furnishing a taxpayer identification number with respect to a post-1983 brokerage account*—(i) *In general.* With respect to a post-1983 brokerage account, the payee must furnish the payee's taxpayer identification number to the broker and certify under penalties of perjury that the taxpayer identification number furnished is correct, except as provided in § 31.3406(d)-3(b).


(ii) *Definition of a post-1983 brokerage account.* A brokerage account established after December 31, 1983 (or before January 1, 1984, through which during 1983 the broker neither bought nor sold securities nor held securities on behalf of the payee as a nominee (i.e., in street name)), is a post-1983 brokerage account.


(d) *Rents, commissions, nonemployee compensation, certain fishing boat operators, and payment card and third party network transactions, etc.—Manner required for furnishing a taxpayer identification number.* For accounts, contracts, or relationships subject to information reporting under section 6041 (relating to information reporting at source on rents, royalties, salaries, etc.), section 6041A(a) (relating to information reporting of payments for nonemployee services), section 6050A (relating to information reporting by certain fishing boat operators), section 6050N (relating to information reporting of payments of royalties), or section 6050W (relating to information reporting for payment card and third party network transactions), the payee must furnish the payee's taxpayer identification number to the payor either orally or in writing. Except as provided in § 31.3406(d)-5, the payee is not required to certify under penalties of perjury that the taxpayer identification number is correct regardless of when the account, contract, or relationship is established.



---

[N] [T.D. 8637, 60 FR 66123, Dec. 21, 1995, as amended by T.D. 9496, 75 FR 49835, Aug. 16, 2010]




