# § 60.700   Applicability and designation of affected facility.

(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to each affected facility designated in paragraph (b) of this section that is part of a process unit that produces any of the chemicals listed in § 60.707 as a product, co-product, by-product, or intermediate, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. 


(b) The affected facility is any of the following for which construction, modification, or reconstruction commenced after June 29, 1990, and on or before April 25, 2023: 


(1) Each reactor process not discharging its vent stream into a recovery system. 


(2) Each combination of a reactor process and the recovery system into which its vent stream is discharged. 


(3) Each combination of two or more reactor processes and the common recovery system into which their vent streams are discharged. 


(c) Exemptions from the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section are as follows: 


(1) Any reactor process that is designed and operated as a batch operation is not an affected facility. 


(2) Each affected facility that has a total resource effectiveness (TRE) index value greater than 8.0 is exempt from all provisions of this subpart except for §§ 60.702(c); 60.704 (d), (e), and (f); and 60.705 (g), (l)(1), (l)(6), and (t). 


(3) Each affected facility in a process unit with a total design capacity for all chemicals produced within that unit of less than 1 gigagram per year (1,100 tons per year) is exempt from all provisions of this subpart except for the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in § 60.705 (i), (l)(5), and (n). 


(4) Each affected facility operated with a vent stream flow rate less than 0.011 scm/min is exempt from all provisions of this subpart except for the test method and procedure and the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in §§ 60.704(g) and 70.705 (h), (l)(4), and (o). 


(5) If the vent stream from an affected facility is routed to a distillation unit subject to subpart NNN of this part or subpart NNNa of this part, and has no other releases to the air except for a pressure relief valve, the facility is exempt from all provisions of this subpart except for § 60.705(r). 


(6) Any reactor process operating as part of a process unit which produces beverage alcohols, or which uses, contains, and produces no VOC is not an affected facility. 


(7) Any reactor process that is subject to the provisions of subpart DDD is not an affected facility. 


(8) Each affected facility operated with a concentration of total organic compounds (TOC) (less methane and ethane) in the vent stream less than 300 ppmv as measured by Method 18 of appendix A-6 to this part or ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) as specified in § 60.704(b)(4), or a concentration of TOC in the vent stream less than 150 ppmv as measured by Method 25A of appendix A-7 to this part is exempt from all provisions of this subpart except for the test method and procedure and the reporting and recordkeeping requirements in §§ 60.704(h) and 60.705(j), (l)(8), and (p).


(d) *Alternative means of compliance*—(1) *Option to comply with part 65.* Owners or operators of process vents that are subject to this subpart may choose to comply with the provisions of 40 CFR part 65, subpart D, to satisfy the requirements of §§ 60.702 through 60.705 and 60.708. The provisions of 40 CFR part 65 also satisfy the criteria of paragraphs (c)(2), (4), and (8) of this section. Other provisions applying to an owner or operator who chooses to comply with 40 CFR part 65 are provided in 40 CFR 65.1. 


(2) *Part 60, subpart A.* Owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart D, must also comply with §§ 60.1, 60.2, 60.5, 60.6, 60.7(a)(1) and (4), 60.14, 60.15, and 60.16 for those process vents. All sections and paragraphs of subpart A of this part that are not mentioned in this paragraph (d)(2) do not apply to owners or operators of process vents complying with 40 CFR part 65, subpart D, except that provisions required to be met prior to implementing 40 CFR part 65 still apply. Owners and operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart D, must comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart A. 


(3) *Compliance date.* Owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart D at initial startup shall comply with paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section for each vent stream on and after the date on which the initial performance test is completed, but not later than 60 days after achieving the maximum production rate at which the affected facility will be operated, or 180 days after the initial startup, whichever date comes first. 


(4) *Initial startup notification.* Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart that chooses to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart D, at initial startup shall notify the Administrator of the specific provisions of 40 CFR 65.63(a)(1), (2), or (3), with which the owner or operator has elected to comply. Notification shall be submitted with the notifications of initial startup required by 40 CFR 65.5(b). 


(e) Owners and operators of flares that are subject to the flare related requirements of this subpart and flare related requirements of any other regulation in this part or 40 CFR part 61 or 63, may elect to comply with the requirements in § 60.709a in lieu of all flare related requirements in any other regulation in this part or 40 CFR part 61 or 63.



---

[N] [58 FR 45962, Aug. 31, 1993, as amended at 60 FR 58238, Nov. 27, 1995; 65 FR 78279, Dec. 14, 2000; 89 FR 43128, May 16, 2024; 89 FR 74136, Sept. 12, 2024]






