# § 3900.2   Definitions.

As used in this part and parts 3910 through 3930 of this chapter, the term:


*Acquired lands* means lands which the United States obtained through purchase, gift, or condemnation, including mineral estates associated with lands previously disposed of under the public land laws, including the mining laws.


*Act* means the Mineral Leasing Act of 1920, as amended and supplemented (30 U.S.C. 181 *et seq.*).


*BLM* means the Bureau of Land Management and includes the individual employed by the Bureau of Land Management authorized to perform the duties set forth in this part and parts 3910 through 3930.


*Commercial quantities* means production of shale oil quantities in accordance with the approved Plan of Development for the proposed project through the research, development, and demonstration activities conducted on the research, development, and demonstration (R, D and D) lease, based on, and at the conclusion of which, there is a reasonable expectation that the expanded operation would provide a positive return after all costs of production have been met, including the amortized costs of the capital investment.


*Department* means the Department of the Interior.


*Diligent development* means achieving or completing the prescribed milestones listed in § 3930.30 of this chapter.


*Entity* means a person, association, or corporation, or any subsidiary, affiliate, corporation, or association controlled by or under common control with such person, association, or corporation.


*Exploration* means drilling, excavating, and geological, geophysical or geochemical surveying operations designed to obtain detailed data on the physical and chemical characteristics of Federal oil shale and its environment including:


(1) The strata below the Federal oil shale;


(2) The overburden;


(3) The strata immediately above the Federal oil shale; and


(4) The hydrologic conditions associated with the Federal oil shale.


*Exploration license* means a license issued by the BLM that allows the licensee to explore unleased oil shale deposits to obtain geologic, environmental, and other pertinent data concerning the deposits. An exploration license confers no preference to a lease to develop oil shale.


*Exploration plan* means a plan prepared in sufficient detail to show the:


(1) Location and type of exploration to be conducted;


(2) Environmental protection procedures to be taken;


(3) Present and proposed roads, if any; and


(4) Reclamation and abandonment procedures to be followed upon completion of operations.


*Fair market value (FMV)* means the monetary amount for which the oil shale deposit would be leased by a knowledgeable owner willing, but not obligated, to lease to a knowledgeable purchaser who desires, but is not obligated, to lease the oil shale deposit.


*Federal lands* means any lands or interests in lands, including oil shale interests underlying non-Federal surface, owned by the United States, without reference to how the lands were acquired or what Federal agency administers the lands.


*Infrastructure* means all support structures necessary for the production or development of shale oil, including, but not limited to:


(1) Offices;


(2) Shops;


(3) Maintenance facilities;


(4) Pipelines;


(5) Roads;


(6) Electrical transmission lines;


(7) Well bores;


(8) Storage tanks;


(9) Ponds;


(10) Monitoring stations;


(11) Processing facilities—retorts; and


(12) Production facilities.


*In situ operation* means the processing of oil shale in place.


*Interest in a lease, application, or bid* means any:


(1) Record title interest;


(2) Overriding royalty interest;


(3) Working interest;


(4) Operating rights or option or any agreement covering such an interest; or


(5) Participation or any defined or undefined share in any increments, issues, or profits that may be derived from or that may accrue in any manner from a lease based on or under any agreement or understanding existing when an application was filed or entered into while the lease application or bid is pending.


*Kerogen* means the solid, organic substance in sedimentary rock that yields oil when it undergoes destructive distillation.


*Lease* means a Federal lease issued under the mineral leasing laws, which grants the exclusive right to explore for and extract a designated mineral.


*Lease bond* means the bond or equivalent security given to the Department to assure performance of all obligations associated with all lease terms and conditions.


*Maximum economic recovery* (MER) means the prevention of wasting of the resource by recovering the maximum amount of the resource that is technologically and economically possible.


*Mining waste* means all tailings, dumps, deleterious materials, or substances produced by mining, retorting, or in-situ operations.


*MMS* means the Minerals Management Service.


*Oil shale* means a fine-grained sedimentary rock containing:


(1) Organic matter which was derived chiefly from aquatic organisms or waxy spores or pollen grains, which is only slightly soluble in ordinary petroleum solvents, and of which a large proportion is distillable into synthetic petroleum; and


(2) Inorganic matter, which may contain other minerals. This term is applicable to any argillaceous, carbonate, or siliceous sedimentary rock which, through destructive distillation, will yield synthetic petroleum.


*Permit* means any of the required approvals that are issued by Federal, state, or local agencies.


*Plan of development (POD)* means the plan created for oil shale operations that complies with the requirements of the Act and that details the plans, equipment, methods, and schedules to be used in oil shale development.


*Production* means:


(1) The extraction of shale oil, shale gas, or shale oil by-products through surface retorting or in situ recovery methods; or


(2) The severing of oil shale rock through surface or underground mining methods.


*Proper BLM office* means the Bureau of Land Management office having jurisdiction over the lands under application or covered by a lease or exploration license and subject to the regulations in this part and in parts 3910 through 3930 of this chapter (see subpart 1821 of part 1820 of this chapter for a list of BLM state offices).


*Public lands* means lands, i.e., surface estate, mineral estate, or both, which:


(1) Never left the ownership of the United States, including minerals reserved when the lands were patented;


(2) Were obtained by the United States in exchange for public lands;


(3) Have reverted to the ownership of the United States; or


(4) Were specifically identified by Congress as part of the public domain.


*Reclamation* means the measures undertaken to bring about the necessary reconditioning of lands or waters affected by exploration, mining, in situ operations, onsite processing operations or waste disposal in a manner which will meet the requirements imposed by the BLM under applicable law.


*Reclamation bond* means the bond or equivalent security given to the BLM to assure performance of all obligations relating to reclamation of disturbed areas under an exploration license or lease.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior.


*Shale gas* means the gaseous hydrocarbon-bearing products of surface retorting of oil shale or of in situ extraction that is not liquefied into shale oil. In addition to hydrocarbons, shale gas might include other gases such as carbon dioxide, nitrogen, helium, sulfur, other residual or specialty gases, and entrained hydrocarbon liquids.


*Shale oil* means synthetic petroleum derived from the destructive distillation of oil shale.


*Sole party in interest* means a party who alone is or will be vested with all legal and equitable rights and responsibilities under a lease, bid, or application for a lease.


*Surface management agency* means the Federal agency with jurisdiction over the surface of federally-owned lands containing oil shale deposits.


*State Director* means an employee of the Bureau of Land Management designated as the chief administrative officer of one of the BLM's 12 administrative areas administered by a state office.


*Surface retort* means the above-ground facility used for the extraction of kerogen by heating mined shale.


*Surface retort operation* means the extraction of kerogen by heating mined shale in an above-ground facility.


*Synthetic petroleum* means synthetic crude oil manufactured from shale oil and suitable for use as a refinery feedstock or for petrochemical production. 




