# § 12a.10   Utilization and enforcement.

(a) *Sanctions.* For instances of noncompliance relating to surplus property transfers, HHS may impose, after providing an opportunity to cure to the transferee, any or all of the following sanctions in its sole discretion, as applicable:


(1) Where property or any portion thereof was not used or is not being used for the purposes for which transferred, or is sold, leased or subleased, encumbered, disposed of, or used for purposes other than those in the approved program and plan of use, without the prior written consent of HHS, HHS may require the transferee to—


(i) Place the property into immediate use for an approved purpose and extend the period of restriction in the transfer document for an additional term as determined by HHS;


(ii) Hold in trust all revenues and the reasonable value of other benefits received by the transferee directly or indirectly from that use for the United States subject to the direction and control of HHS;


(iii) Return title to such property to the United States or to relinquish any leasehold interest therein;


(iv) Abrogate the conditions and restrictions of the transfer, as set forth in § 12a.12;


(v) Make cash payments to the United States, as directed by HHS, equivalent to the current fair market rental value of the surplus property, as transferred, for each month during which the program and plan of use has not been implemented and continues to not be implemented; or


(vi) Any other remedy that HHS determines appropriate or necessary.


(2) Where the transferee desires to place the property into temporary use to assist the homeless other than that for which the property was transferred, written approval from HHS must be obtained, and will be conditioned upon HHS's authority to permit the use and such terms as HHS may impose.


(3) If HHS or the landholding agency determines that a lessee or sublessee of a transferee is in noncompliance with a term or condition of the lease, or if the lessee voluntarily surrenders the premises, HHS may require termination of the lease and impose sanctions described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, as appropriate.


(b) *Reversion.* When HHS recommends reversion of the property for noncompliance, HHS will seek GSA's concurrence. GSA will respond to HHS's concurrence request within 30 days of its receipt. If GSA concurs, GSA will work with HHS to complete the reversion of the property. If GSA does not concur to the reversion recommendation, GSA will issue, to HHS, a written determination: stating the reason(s) for the disapproval; and acknowledging that HHS has recommended reversion and, therefore, the property is no longer within HHS's Title V program. The Federal Government will implement a response to the noncompliance that is in its best interests.






