# § 25.132   Verification of earth station antenna performance.

(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, applications for transmitting earth stations in the FSS, including feeder-link stations, must include a certification that the applicant has reviewed the results of a series of radiation pattern tests performed by the antenna manufacturer on representative equipment in representative configurations, and the test results demonstrate that the equipment meets relevant off-axis gain standards in § 25.209, measured in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Applicants and licensees must be prepared to submit the radiation pattern measurements to the Commission on request.


(2) Applicants that specify off-axis EIRP density pursuant to § 25.115(g)(1) are exempt from the certification requirement in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(b)(1) For purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section and § 25.115(g)(1), the following measurements on a production antenna performed on calibrated antenna range must be made at the top and bottom of each frequency band assigned for uplink transmission:


(i)(A) Co-polarized gain in the azimuth plane must be measured across a range extending to 180° on each side of the main-lobe axis, and the measurements must be represented in two plots: one across the entire angular range of ±180° from the main-lobe axis and the other across ±10° from the main-lobe axis.


(B) Co-polarized gain must be measured from 0° to 30° from beam peak in the elevation plane.


(ii) Cross-polarization gain must be measured across a range of plus and minus 7° from beam peak in the azimuth and elevation planes.


(iii) Main beam gain.


(iv) For antennas with asymmetric apertures or beams, where the minor axis of the antenna beam (major axis of the antenna aperture) will not always be aligned parallel to the plane tangent to the GSO arc, the measurements in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section must be made over the angular ranges specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A) and (B) of this section in two orthogonal planes, with the antenna oriented at the maximum skew angle at which it will operate.


(2) The relevant envelope specified in § 25.209 must be superimposed on each measured pattern.


(c) The tests specified in paragraph (b) of this section are normally performed at the manufacturer's facility; but for those antennas that are very large and only assembled on-site, on-site measurements may be used for product qualification data. If on-site data is to be used for qualification, the test frequencies and number of patterns should follow, where possible, the recommendations in paragraph (b) of this section, and the test data is to be submitted in the same manner as described in paragraph (a) of this section.


(d) For each new or modified transmitting antenna over 3 meters in diameter, the following on-site verification measurements must be completed at one frequency on an available transponder in each frequency band of interest and submitted to the Commission.


(1) Co-polarized patterns in the elevation plane, plus and minus 7 degrees, in the transmit band.


(2) Co-polarized patterns in the azimuth and elevation planes, plus and minus 7 degrees, in the receive band.


(3) *System cross-polarization discrimination on-axis.* The FCC envelope specified in § 25.209 shall be superimposed on each pattern. The transmit patterns are to be measured with the aid of a co-operating earth station in coordination with the satellite system control center under the provisions of § 25.272.


(e) Certification that the tests required by paragraph (c) of this section have been satisfactorily performed shall be provided to the Commission in notification that construction of the facilities has been completed as required by § 25.133.


(f) Antennas less than 3 meters in diameter and antennas on simple (manual) drive mounts that are operated at a fixed site are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section provided that a detailed technical showing is made that confirms proper installation, pointing procedures, and polarization alignment and manufacturing quality control. These showing must also include a plan for periodic testing and field installation procedures and precautions.


(g) Records of the results of the tests required by this section must be maintained at the antenna site or the earth station operator's control center and be available for inspection.



---

[N] [58 FR 13419, Mar. 11, 1993, as amended at 69 FR 5710, Feb. 6, 2004; 70 FR 32253, June 2, 2005; 72 FR 50028, Aug. 29, 2007; 74 FR 47102, Sept. 15, 2009; 74 FR 57098, Nov. 4, 2009; 78 FR 14926, Mar. 8, 2013; 79 FR 8318, Feb. 12, 2014; 81 FR 55330, Aug. 18, 2016; 84 FR 53654, Oct. 8, 2019]




