# ยง 22.5   Conditions governing investigations.

(a) One complete detector, with assembly and detail drawings that show the construction of the device and the materials of which it is made, should be forwarded prepaid to the U.S. Department of Labor, Mine Safety and Health Administration, Approval and Certification Center, 765 Technology Drive, Triadelphia, WV 26059, at the time the application for tests is made.


(b) When this has been inspected by MSHA, the applicant will be notified as to the amount of material that will be required for the tests. The manufacturer will be notified of the date on which the tests will be started and will be given an opportunity to witness the tests. 


(c) *Observers at formal investigations and demonstrations.* No one shall be present during any part of the formal investigation conducted by MSHA which leads to approval for permissibility except the necessary Government personnel, representatives of the applicant, and such other persons as may be mutually agreed upon by the applicant and MSHA. Upon granting approval for permissibility, MSHA will announce that such approval has been granted to the device and may thereafter conduct, from time to time in its discretion, public demonstrations of the tests conducted on the approved device. Those who attend any part of the investigation, or any public demonstration, shall be present solely as observers; the conduct of the investigation and of any public demonstration shall be controlled by MSHA. Results of chemical analyses of material and all information contained in the drawings, specifications, and instructions shall be deemed confidential and their disclosure will be appropriately safeguarded by MSHA. 



---

[N] [Sched. 8C, Oct. 31, 1935, as amended by Supp. 1, 20 FR 2575, Apr. 19, 1955; 43 FR 12315, Mar. 24, 1978; 60 FR 35694, July 11, 1995; 73 FR 52212, Sept. 9, 2008]




