# § 52.1006   Color.

(a) (*A*) *classification.* Whole or pitted dates that possess a good color may be given a score of 18 to 20 points. “Good color” means that the color of the dates is practically uniform; and, with respect to dates that are predominantly light amber in color, there may be not more than 5 percent by count of dates that are dark amber in color; and, with respect to dates that are predominantly dark amber in color, there may be not more than 5 percent by count of dates that are light amber in color.


(b) (*B*) *classification.* If the whole or pitted dates or whole dry dates for processing possess a reasonably good color, a score of 16 or 17 points may be given. Dates that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade B or U.S. Choice or U.S. Grade B (Dry) or U.S. Choice (Dry), whichever is applicable, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Reasonably good color” means that the color of the whole or pitted dates or whole dry dates for processing is reasonably uniform for the type; and, with respect to dates that are predominantly light amber in color, there may be not more than 10 percent by count of dates that are dark amber in color; and, with respect to dates that are predominantly dark amber in color, there may be not more than 10 percent by count of dates that are light amber in color.


(c) (*C*) *classification.* If the whole or pitted dates, whole dry dates for processing, date pieces, or macerated dates possess a fairly good color, a score of 14 or 15 points may be given. Dates that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade C or U.S. Standard or U.S. Grade C (Dry) or U.S. Standard (Dry), whichever is applicable, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Fairly good color” has the following meanings with respect to the following styles:


(1) *Whole; pitted.* The color of the whole or pitted dates or whole dry dates for processing is fairly uniform for the type; and, with respect to dates that are predominantly light amber in color, there may be not more than 20 percent by count of dates that are dark amber in color; and, with respect to dates that are predominantly dark amber in color, there may be not more than 20 percent by count of dates that are light amber in color.


(2) *Pieces; macerated.* The color may be variable throughout the units or mass, may be slightly dull but not off-color, and is typical of properly prepared dates of these styles.


(d) (*SStd*) *classification.* Dates that fail to meet the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section may be given a score of 0 to 13 points and shall not be graded above Substandard, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule).




