# § 18.7   Lading for exportation; notice and proof of exportation; verification.

(a) *Exportation*—(1) *Notice.* Within two business days after the arrival at the port of exportation of any portion of an in-bond shipment, CBP must be notified via a CBP approved EDI of the arrival of the merchandise pursuant to § 18.1(j). Failure to report the arrival of bonded merchandise within the prescribed period will constitute an irregular delivery.


(2) *Time to export.* Within 15 calendar days after arrival of the last portion of a shipment arriving at the port of exportation under a transportation and exportation entry, the entire shipment of merchandise must be exported. On the 16th day the merchandise will become subject to general order requirements under § 4.37, § 122.50, or § 123.10 of this chapter, as applicable.


(3) *Notice and proof of exportation.* Within two business days after exportation, the in-bond record must be updated via a CBP approved EDI system to reflect that the merchandise has been exported. The principal on any bond filed to guarantee exportation may be required by the port director to provide evidence of exportation in accordance with § 113.55 of this chapter.


(b) *Supervision.* The port director will require such supervision of the lading for exportation of merchandise covered by an entry or withdrawal for exportation or for transportation and exportation only as is reasonably necessary to satisfy the port director that the merchandise has been laden on the exporting conveyance.


(c) *Verification.* CBP may verify export entries and withdrawals against the records of the exporting carriers. Such verification may include an examination of the carrier's records of claims and settlement of export freight charges and any other records that may relate to the transaction. The exporting carrier must maintain these records for five years from the date of exportation of the merchandise.




