# § 217.5   Data collected (data elements).

(a) Within each of the service classifications prescribed in § 217.4, data shall be reported in applicable traffic elements. 


(b) The statistical data to be reported on Schedule T-100(f) are: 


(1) *Air carrier.* The name and code of the air carrier reporting the data. The carrier code is assigned by DOT. The Office of Airline Information (OAI'S) will confirm the assigned code upon request; OAI's address is in appendix A of this part.


(2) *Reporting period date.* The year and month to which the reported data are applicable.


(3) *Origin airport code.* This code represents the industry designator as described in appendix A of this part. A common private industry source of these industry designator codes is the *Official Airline Guides* (OAG). Where none exists, OAI will furnish a code upon request. OAI's address is in appendix A of this part. 


(4) *Destination airport code.* This represents the industry designator, from the source described in § 217.5(b)(3).


(5) *Service class code.* For scheduled and other services, the applicable service class prescribed in § 217.4 of this part shall be reported.


(6) *Aircraft type code.* This code represents the aircraft type, as specified in appendix A of this part. Where none exists, OAI will furnish a code upon request.


(7) *Revenue aircraft departures performed (Code 510).* The number of revenue aircraft departures performed. 


(8) *Revenue passengers transported (Code 130).* The total number of revenue passengers on board over a flight stage, including those already on the aircraft from previous flight stages. Includes both local and through passengers on board the aircraft.


(9) *Revenue freight transported (kilograms) (Code 237).* The volume, expressed in kilograms, of revenue freight that is transported. As used in this part, “Freight” means revenue cargo other than passengers or mail. 


(10) *Total revenue passengers in market (Code 110).* The total number of revenue passengers enplaned in a market, boarding the aircraft for the first time. While passengers may be transported over several flight stages in a multi-segment market, this data element (code 110) is an unduplicated count of passengers originating within the market. 


(11) *Total revenue freight in market (kilograms) (Code 217).* The amount of revenue freight cargo (kilograms) that is enplaned in a market, loaded on the aircraft for the first time. 


(12) *Available capacity-payload* (*Code 270*). The available capacity is collected in kilograms. This figure shall reflect the available load (see load, available in 14 CFR part 241 Section 03) or total available capacity for passengers, mail and freight applicable to the aircraft with which each flight stage is performed.


(13) *Available seats* (*Code 310*). The number of seats available for sale. This figure reflects the actual number of seats available, excluding those blocked for safety or operational reasons. Report the total available seats in item 310.



---

[N] [53 FR 46294, Nov. 16, 1988 and 53 FR 52404, Dec. 28, 1988, as amended at 54 FR 7183, Feb. 17, 1989; 60 FR 66722, Dec. 26, 1995; 62 FR 6718, Feb. 13, 1997; Doc. No. DOT-OST-2014-0140, 84 FR 15926, Apr. 16, 2019]




