# ยง 36.2   Definitions.

The following definitions apply in this part. 


*Applicant* An individual, partnership, company, corporation, association, or other organization, that designs, manufactures, assembles, or controls the assembly and that seeks a certificate of approval or preliminary testing of mobile diesel-powered transportation equipment as permissible. 


*Certificate of approval.* A formal document issued by MSHA stating that the complete assembly has met the requirements of this part for mobile diesel-powered transportation equipment and authorizing the use and attachment of an official approval plate so indicating. 


*Component.* A piece, part, or fixture of mobile diesel-powered transportation equipment that is essential to its operation as a permissible assembly. 


*Diesel engine.* A compression-ignition, internal-combustion engine that utilizes diesel fuel. 


*Explosion proof.* A component or subassembly that is so constructed and protected by an enclosure and/or flame arrester (s) that if a flammable mixture of gas is ignited within the enclosure it will withstand the resultant pressure without damage to the enclosure and/or flame arrester(s). Also the enclosure and/or flame arrester(s) shall prevent the discharge of flame or ignition of any flammable mixture that surrounds the enclosure. 


*Flame arrester.* A device so constructed that flame or sparks from the diesel engine cannot propagate an explosion of a flammable mixture through it. 


*Flammable mixture.* A mixture of gas, such as methane, natural gas, or similar hydrocarbon gas with normal air, that will propagate flame or explode violently when initiated by an incendive source. 


*Fuel-air ratio.* The composition of the mixture of fuel and air in the combustion chamber of the diesel engine expressed as weight-pound of fuel per pound of air. 


*MSHA.* The United States Department of Labor, Mine Safety and Health Administration. 


*Mobile diesel-powered transportation equipment.* Equipment that is: 


(1) Used for transporting the product being mined or excavated, or for transporting materials and supplies used in mining or excavating operations; 


(2) Mounted on wheels or crawler treads (tracks); and 


(3) Powered by a diesel engine as the prime mover. 


*Normal operation.* When each component and the entire assembly of the mobile diesel-powered transportation equipment performs the functions for which they were designed. 


*Permissible.* As applied to mobile diesel-powered transportation equipment, this means that the complete assembly conforms to the requirements of this part, and that a certificate of approval to that effect has been issued. 


*Subassembly.* A group or combination of components. 



---

[N] [61 FR 55525, Oct. 25, 1996]




