# ยง 279.43   Used oil transportation.

(a) *Deliveries.* A used oil transporter must deliver all used oil received to:


(1) Another used oil transporter, provided that the transporter has obtained an EPA identification number;


(2) A used oil processing/re-refining facility who has obtained an EPA identification number;


(3) An off-specification used oil burner facility who has obtained an EPA identification number; or


(4) An on-specification used oil burner facility.


(b) *DOT Requirements.* Used oil transporters must comply with all applicable requirements under the U.S. Department of Transportation regulations in 49 CFR parts 171 through 180. Persons transporting used oil that meets the definition of a hazardous material in 49 CFR 171.8 must comply with all applicable regulations in 49 CFR parts 171 through 180.


(c) *Used oil discharges.* (1) In the event of a discharge of used oil during transportation, the transporter must take appropriate immediate action to protect human health and the environment (e.g., notify local authorities, dike the discharge area).


(2) If a discharge of used oil occurs during transportation and an official (State or local government or a Federal Agency) acting within the scope of official responsibilities determines that immediate removal of the used oil is necessary to protect human health or the environment, that official may authorize the removal of the used oil by transporters who do not have EPA identification numbers.


(3) An air, rail, highway, or water transporter who has discharged used oil must:


(i) Give notice, if required by 49 CFR 171.15, to the National Response Center (800-424-8802 or 202-426-2675); and


(ii) Report in writing as required by 49 CFR 171.16 to the Director, Office of Hazardous Materials Regulations, Materials Transportation Bureau, Department of Transportation, Washington, DC 20590.


(4) A water transporter who has discharged used oil must give notice as required by 33 CFR 153.203.


(5) A transporter must clean up any used oil discharge that occurs during transportation or take such action as may be required or approved by federal, state, or local officials so that the used oil discharge no longer presents a hazard to human health or the environment.



---

[N] [57 FR 41612, Sept. 10, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 26425, May 3, 1993; 71 FR 40280, July 14, 2006]




