# ยง 158.613   Salary range.

(a) *Range.* The salary range provides the boundaries of the salary system described in ยง 158.610. The salary range comprises a standard range and an extended range, and the standard range applies unless the Secretary or designee invokes the extended range under paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) *Standard range.* The upper limit of the standard range is equal to the amount of total annual compensation payable to the Vice President under 3 U.S.C. 104.


(c) *Extended range.* The upper limit of the extended range is 150 percent of the annual rate of basic pay for level I of the Executive Schedule (150% of EX-I). Only DHS-CS employees serving in renewable appointments may receive a salary amount in the extended range, and only if the Secretary or designee invokes the extended range for those employees as described in this paragraph (c).


(1) The Secretary or designee may invoke the extended range for a DHS-CS employee when the Secretary or designee determines, based on the compensation strategy in ยง 158.601, that the employee's qualifications, the employee's mission impact, and mission-related requirements warrant adjusting the employee's salary beyond the standard range. The Secretary or designee must approve the salary adjustment of each such employee by name, and to receive a salary in the extended range the employee must either already be in a renewable appointment or accept a renewable appointment. While the employee is receiving a salary in an amount in the extended range, the Department may not change that employee's appointment to a continuing appointment.


(2) The Secretary or designee may invoke the extended range for an individual selected for appointment to a qualified position when the Secretary or designee determines, based on the compensation strategy in ยง 158.601, that the individual's qualifications, the individual's anticipated mission impact, and mission-related requirements warrant setting the individual's salary beyond the standard range. The Secretary or designee must approve the appointment of each such individual to a qualified position by name, and the individual must be appointed to a renewable appointment only. While that individual is receiving a salary under this part in an amount in the extended range, the Department may not change that individual's appointment to a continuing appointment at any time.


(d) *Maximum.* No DHS-CS employee may receive a salary under this part in excess of 150% of EX-I.






