# ยง 23.56   What U.S. CITES document conditions do I need to follow?

(a) *General conditions.* The following general conditions apply to all U.S. CITES documents:


(1) You must comply with the provisions of part 13 of this subchapter as conditions of the document, as well as other applicable regulations in this subchapter, including, but not limited to, any that require permits. You must comply with all applicable local, State, Federal, tribal, and foreign wildlife or plant conservation laws.




(2) For export and re-export of live wildlife and plants, transport conditions must comply with the *International Air Transport Association Live Animals Regulations* (for animals) (incorporated by reference, see ยง 23.9) or the *International Air Transport Association Perishable Cargo Regulations* (for plants) (incorporated by reference, see ยง 23.9) or, in the case of non-air transport of species that may require transport conditions in addition to or different from the *Live Animals Regulations* or the *Perishable Cargo Regulations,* the *CITES Guidelines for the non-air transport of live wild animals and plants* (incorporated by reference, see ยง 23.9).










(3) You must return the original CITES document to the issuing office if you do not use it, it expires, or you request renewal or amendment.


(4) When appropriate, a Management Authority may require that you identify Appendix-II and -III wildlife or plants with a mark. All live Appendix-I wildlife must be securely marked or uniquely identified. Such mark or identification must be made in a way that the border official can verify that the specimen and CITES document correspond. If a microchip is used, we may, if necessary, ask the importer, exporter, or re-exporter to have equipment on hand to read the microchip at the time of import, export, or re-export.


(b) *Standard conditions.* You must comply with the standard conditions provided in this part for specific types of CITES documents.


(c) *Special conditions.* We may place special conditions on a CITES document based on the needs of the species or the proposed activity. You must comply with any special conditions contained in or attached to a CITES document.



---

[N] [72 FR 48448, Aug. 23, 2007, as amended at 79 FR 30426, May 27, 2014; 87 FR 10080, Feb. 23, 2022]




