# § 32.69   Wyoming.

The following refuge units are open for hunting and/or fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional refuge-specific regulations.


(a) *Bamforth National Wildlife Refuge.* (1) [Reserved]


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of chukar, grey partridge, pheasant, rabbit, sharp-tailed grouse, and turkey on designated areas of the refuge.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of pronghorn antelope, mule deer, and white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge.


(4) [Reserved]


(b) *Cokeville Meadows National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of dove, duck, dark goose, coot, merganser, light goose, snipe, Virginia rail, Sora rail, sandhill crane, and mourning dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.


(ii) Hunters may only access the refuge 1 hour before legal sunrise until 1 hour after legal sunset.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of blue grouse, ruffed grouse, chukar partridge, gray partridge, cottontail rabbit, snowshoe hare, squirrel (red, gray, and fox), red fox, raccoon, and striped skunk on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The condition set forth at paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section applies.


(ii) We allow the use of dogs to find and retrieve legally harvested upland game birds, cottontail rabbits, and squirrels. You may not use dogs to chase red fox, raccoon, striped skunk, or any other species not specifically allowed in this paragraph (b)(2)(ii).


(iii) Licensed migratory bird, big game, or upland/small game hunters may harvest red fox, raccoon, and striped skunk on the refuge from September 1 until the end of the last open big game, upland bird, or small game season. You must possess, and remove from the refuge, all red fox, raccoon, and striped skunk that you harvest on the refuge.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of elk, mule deer, white-tailed deer, pronghorn, and moose subject to the following condition: The condition set forth at paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section applies.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge.


(c) *Hutton Lake National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow youth hunting of goose, duck, coot, and merganser on designated areas of the refuge during the Wyoming Zone C2 “special youth waterfowl hunting days” subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.


(ii) We prohibit the cleaning of game on the refuge.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of chuker, grey partridge, pheasant, rabbit, sharp-tailed grouse, and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow hunting November 1 through March 1.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of pronghorn antelope and mule deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We allow hunting November 1 through March 1.


(4) [Reserved]


(d) *National Elk Refuge.* (1)-(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of elk, pronghorn, white-tailed deer, and bison on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require refuge permits (issued by State of Wyoming).


(ii) We prohibit shooting from or across refuge roads and parking areas.


(iii) We allow hunting of pronghorn with a firearm in Pronghorn Hunt Area 1 from September 10 through October 31, and in Pronghorn Hunt Area 2 from October 1 through 31.


(iv) We allow archery hunting of pronghorn in Pronghorn Hunt Area 1 in accordance with State seasons and regulations.


(v) We allow hunting of white-tailed deer with a firearm in the White-tailed Deer Hunt Area from September 15 through October 30.


(vi) We allow archery hunting of white-tailed deer in the White-tailed Deer Hunt Area in accordance with State seasons and regulations.


(vii) The refuge hunt brochure will specify the type of ammunition approved for hunting on the refuge.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge.


(e) *Pathfinder National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) (1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of dove, goose, duck, and coot on designated areas of the refuge.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of sage grouse and cottontail rabbit on designated areas of the refuge.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of pronghorn antelope and deer on designated areas of the refuge.


(4) [Reserved] 


(f) *Seedskadee National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of dark goose, duck, coot, merganser, dove, snipe, and rail on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We open the refuge to the general public from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise to 
1/2 hour after legal sunset. Waterfowl hunters may enter the refuge 1 hour before legal shooting hours to set up decoys and blinds.


(ii) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.


(iii) You must only use portable blinds or blinds constructed from dead and downed wood.


(iv) You must remove portable blinds, tree stands, decoys, and other personal equipment from the refuge after each day's hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of sage grouse, cottontail rabbit, jackrabbit, raccoon, fox, and skunk on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: The conditions set forth at paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of pronghorn, mule deer, white-tailed deer, elk, and moose on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: The condition set forth at paragraph (f)(1)(i) section applies.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The condition set forth at paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section applies.


(ii) We prohibit taking of mollusk, crustacean, reptile, and amphibian from the refuge (see § 27.21 of this chapter).



---

[N] [84 FR 47675, Sept. 10, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 54144, Aug. 31, 2020; 86 FR 48883, Aug. 31, 2021]




