# § 147.2300   State-administered program.

The UIC program for all classes of wells in the State of Vermont, except those wells on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Vermont Department of Environmental Conservation, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the FR on June 22, 1984; the effective date of this program is July 6, 1984. This program consists of the following elements: 


(a) *Incorporation by reference.* The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Vermont. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register July 6, 1984.


(1) Vt. Stat. Ann. tit. 10, sections 1251, 1259, 1263 (1973 and Supp. 1981), Effective date: July 1, 1982.


(2) Vermont Department of Water Resources and Environmental Engineering, Chapter 13 Water Pollution Control Regulations, Subchapter 13.UIC—Underground Injection Control, Discharges to Injection Wells, Effective Date: June 21, 1984.


(b) *Other laws.* The following statutes and regulations although not incorporated by reference, also are part of the approved State-administered program:


(1) Vt. Stat. Ann. tit. 10, sections 1251 through 1283 (1973 and Supp. 1981).


(2) Vt. Stat. Ann. tit. 10, sections 901 through 911 (1973 and Supp. 1981).


(3) Vt. Stat. Ann. tit. 3, sections 801 through 847 (1973 and Supp. 1981).


(c)(1) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region I and the Vermont Agency of Environmental Conservation signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on January 16, 1984.


(d) *Statement of legal authority.* (1) “Vermont Attorney General's Statement for Classes I, II, III, IV and V Injection Wells,” signed by Attorney General John J. Easton, Jr., as submitted with Vermont Application for Primary Enforcement Responsibility to Administer the Underground Water Source Protection Program Pursuant to the Safe Drinking Water Act and 40 CFR 145.21 through 145.24 (December 20, 1983).


(e) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the original application or as supplements thereto.



---

[N] [49 FR 25634, June 22, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43091, Oct. 25, 1988; 56 FR 9420, Mar. 6, 1991]




