# ยง 242.19   Fees on increases.

(a) *Increase in commitment prior to endorsement.* An application, filed prior to initial endorsement, for an increase in the amount of an outstanding commitment, shall be accompanied by an additional application fee of $1.50 per thousand dollars computed on the amount of the increase requested. Any increase in the amount of a commitment shall be subject to the payment of an additional commitment fee which, when added to the additional application fee, will aggregate $3 per thousand dollars of the amount of the increase. The additional commitment fee shall be paid within 30 days after the date of the amended commitment. If the additional commitment fee is not paid within 30 days, the commitment novation providing for the increased amount will automatically terminate and the previous commitment will be reinstated. If an inspection fee was required in the original commitment, an additional inspection fee shall be paid in an amount not to exceed $5 per thousand dollars of the amount of increase in commitment. The additional inspection fee shall be paid at the time of initial endorsement.


(b) *Increase in mortgage between initial and final endorsement.* Upon an application, filed between initial and final endorsement, for an increase in the amount of the mortgage, either by amendment, consolidation agreement, or by substitution of a new mortgage, an additional application fee of $1.50 per thousand dollars computed on the amount of the increase requested shall accompany the application. The approval of any increase in the amount of the mortgage shall be subject to the payment of an additional commitment fee which, when added to the additional application fee, will aggregate $3 per thousand dollars of the amount of the increase granted. If an inspection fee was required in the original commitment, an additional inspection fee shall be paid in an amount not to exceed $5 per thousand dollars of the amount of the increase granted. The additional commitment and inspection fees shall be paid within 30 days after the date that the increase is granted.




