# § 1037.510   Duty-cycle exhaust testing.

This section applies for powertrain testing, cycle-average engine fuel mapping, certain off-cycle testing under § 1037.610, and the advanced-technology provisions of § 1037.615.


(a) Measure emissions by testing the powertrain on a powertrain dynamometer with the applicable duty cycles. Each duty cycle consists of a series of speed commands over time—variable speeds for the transient test and constant speeds for the highway cruise tests. None of these cycles include vehicle starting or warmup.


(1) Perform testing for Phase 1 vehicles as follows to generate credits or adjustment factors for off-cycle or advanced technologies:


(i) *Transient cycle.* The transient cycle is specified in appendix A to this part. Warm up the vehicle. Start the duty cycle within 30 seconds after concluding the preconditioning procedure. Start sampling emissions at the start of the duty cycle.


(ii) *Cruise cycle.* For the 55 mi/hr and 65 mi/hr highway cruise cycles, warm up the vehicle at the test speed, then sample emissions for 300 seconds while maintaining vehicle speed within ±1.0 mi/hr of the speed setpoint; this speed tolerance applies instead of the approach specified in 40 CFR 1066.425(b)(1) and (2).


(2) Perform cycle-average engine fuel mapping for Phase 2 and later vehicles as described in 40 CFR 1036.540. For powertrain testing under 40 CFR 1036.545 or § 1037.555, perform testing as described in this paragraph (a)(2) to generate GEM inputs for each simulated vehicle configuration, and test runs representing different idle conditions. Perform testing as follows:


(i) *Transient cycle.* The transient cycle is specified in appendix A to this part.


(ii) *Highway cruise cycles.* The grade portion of the route corresponding to the 55 mi/hr and 65 mi/hr highway cruise cycles is specified in appendix D to this part. Maintain vehicle speed between -1.0 mi/hr and 3.0 mi/hr of the speed setpoint; this speed tolerance applies instead of the approach specified in 40 CFR 1066.425(b)(1) and (2).


(iii) *Drive idle.* Perform testing at a loaded idle condition for Phase 2 vocational vehicles. For engines with an adjustable warm idle speed setpoint, test at the minimum warm idle speed and the maximum warm idle speed; otherwise simply test at the engine's warm idle speed. Warm up the powertrain as described in 40 CFR 1036.520(d). Within 60 seconds after concluding the warm-up, linearly ramp the powertrain down to zero vehicle speed over 20 seconds. Apply the brake and keep the transmission in drive (or clutch depressed for manual transmission). Stabilize the powertrain for (60±1) seconds and then sample emissions for (30±1) seconds.


(iv) *Parked idle.* Perform testing at a no-load idle condition for Phase 2 vocational vehicles. For engines with an adjustable warm idle speed setpoint, test at the minimum warm idle speed and the maximum warm idle speed; otherwise simply test at the engine's warm idle speed. Warm up the powertrain as described in 40 CFR 1036.520(d). Within 60 seconds after concluding the warm-up, linearly ramp the powertrain down to zero vehicle speed in 20 seconds. Put the transmission in park (or neutral for manual transmissions and apply the parking brake if applicable). Stabilize the powertrain for (180±1) seconds and then sample emissions for (600±1) seconds.


(3) Where applicable, perform testing on a chassis dynamometer as follows:


(i) *Transient cycle.* The transient cycle is specified in appendix A to this part. Warm up the vehicle by operating over one transient cycle. Within 60 seconds after concluding the warm up cycle, start emission sampling and operate the vehicle over the duty cycle.


(ii) *Highway cruise cycle.* The grade portion of the route corresponding to the 55 mi/hr and 65 mi/hr highway cruise cycles is specified in appendix D to this part. Warm up the vehicle by operating it at the appropriate speed setpoint over the duty cycle. Within 60 seconds after concluding the preconditioning cycle, start emission sampling and operate the vehicle over the duty cycle, maintaining vehicle speed within ±1.0 mi/hr of the speed setpoint; this speed tolerance applies instead of the approach specified in 40 CFR 1066.425(b)(1) and (2).


(b) Calculate the official emission result from the following equation:


*Example:* Class 7 vocational vehicle meeting the Phase 2 standards based on the Regional duty cycle.


(c) Weighting factors apply for each type of vehicle and for each duty cycle as follows:


(1) GEM applies weighting factors for specific types of tractors as shown in table 1 to paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(2) GEM applies weighting factors for vocational vehicles as shown in table 1 to paragraph (c)(3) of this section. Modeling for Phase 2 vocational vehicles depends on characterizing vehicles by duty cycle to apply proper weighting factors and average speed values. Select either Urban, Regional, or Multi-Purpose as the most appropriate duty cycle for modeling emission results with each vehicle configuration, as specified in §§ 1037.140 and 1037.150.


(3) Table 1 to this paragraph (c)(3) follows:


(d) For highway cruise and transient testing, compare actual second-by-second vehicle speed with the speed specified in the test cycle and ensure any differences are consistent with the criteria as specified in 40 CFR 1036.545(g)(1). If the speeds are not consistent with the criteria as specified in 40 CFR 1036.545(g)(1), the test is not valid and must be repeated.


(e) Run test cycles as specified in 40 CFR part 1066. For testing vehicles equipped with cruise control over the highway cruise cycles, you may use the vehicle's cruise control to control the vehicle speed. For vehicles equipped with adjustable vehicle speed limiters, test the vehicle with the vehicle speed limiter at its highest setting.


(f) For Phase 1, test the vehicle using its adjusted loaded vehicle weight, unless we determine this would be unrepresentative of in-use operation as specified in 40 CFR 1065.10(c)(1).


(g) For hybrid vehicles, correct for the net energy change of the energy storage device as described in 40 CFR 1066.501(a)(3).



---

[N] [81 FR 74048, Oct. 25, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 34465, June 29, 2021; 87 FR 45264, July 28, 2022; 88 FR 4641, Jan. 24, 2023; 89 FR 29778, Apr. 22, 2024]






