# § 117.15   Procedure for effecting compliance.

(a) *General.* (1) If there appears to be a failure or threatened failure to comply with this part by an applicant or recipient and if the noncompliance or threatened noncompliance cannot be resolved by informal means, compliance with this part may be effected by suspending, terminating, or refusing any financial assistance approved but not yet disbursed to an applicant. In the case of loans partially or fully disbursed, compliance with this part may be effected by calling, canceling, terminating, accelerating repayment, or suspending in whole or in part the Federal financial assistance provided. The determination of the recipient's violation may be made only after a recipient has had an opportunity for a hearing on the record before an administrative law judge.


(2) In addition, compliance may be effected by any other means authorized by law. Such other means may include, but are not limited to:


(i) Action by SBA to accelerate the maturity of the recipient's obligation;


(ii) Referral to the Department of Justice with a recommendation that appropriate proceedings be brought to enforce any rights of the United States under any law of the United States or obligations of the recipient created by the Act or this part; and


(iii) Use of any requirement of or referral to any Federal, State or local government agency that will have the effect of correcting a violation of the Act or these regulations.


(3) If there appears to be a failure or threatened failure to comply with this part by an SBA office or official, the Assistant Administrator, Office of Equal Employment Opportunity & Civil Rights Compliance, will recommend appropriate corrective action to the Administrator. Any resulting adverse action against an SBA employee shall follow Office of Personnel Management and SBA procedures for such action.


(b) *Noncompliance with §§ 117.7 and 117.9.* If an applicant fails or refuses to furnish an assurance required under § 117.7, or fails to provide information or allow SBA access to information under § 117.9 or otherwise fails or refuses to comply with a requirement imposed by or pursuant to those sections, Federal financial assistance may be deferred for a period not to exceed 60 days after the applicant has received a notice for an opportunity for hearing under § 117.16, or unless a hearing has begun within that time, or the time for beginning the hearing has been extended by mutual consent of the recipient and the Agency, for purposes of determining what constitutes mutual consent, the Agency shall be deemed to have consented to any extension requested by the recipient and granted by the administrative law judge (hearing officer), whether or not the Agency initially approved the extension. A deferral may not continue for more than 30 days after the close of the hearing, unless the hearing results in a finding against the applicant or recipient.


(c) SBA will not take action toward accelerating repayment, suspending, terminating, or refusing financial assistance until:


(1) SBA has advised the applicant or recipient of the failure to comply and has determined that compliance cannot be secured by voluntary means;


(2) There has been an express finding on the record, after an opportunity for hearing, of a failure by the applicant or recipient to comply with a requirement imposed by or pursuant to this part;


(3) The action has been approved by the Administrator of SBA pursuant to § 117.17; and 


(4) The expiration of 30 days after SBA has filed with the committee of the House and the committee of the Senate having legislative jurisdiction over the form of financial assistance involved, a full written report of the circumstances and the grounds for such action.


(d) Other means authorized by law. No action to effect compliance by any other means authorized by law shall be taken until:


(1) SBA has determined that compliance cannot be secured by voluntary means;


(2) The action has been approved by the Administrator or designee;


(3) The expiration of 30 days after SBA has filed with the committee of the House and the committee of the Senate having legislative jurisdiction over the form of financial assistance involved, a full written report of the circumstances and the grounds for such action;


(4) The applicant or recipient has been notified of the failure to comply, and of the action to be taken to effect compliance; and


(5) The expiration of at least 10 days from the mailing of such notice to the applicant or recipient or other person. During this period of at least 10 days from the mailing of such notice to the applicant or recipient or other person, additional efforts shall be made to persuade the applicant or recipient to comply with this part and to take such corrective action as may be appropriate.



---

[N] [50 FR 41648, Oct. 11, 1985, as amended at 72 FR 50038, Aug. 30, 2007]




