# § 151.79   Runway paving: Second runway; wind conditions.

(a) *All airports.* Paving a second runway on the basis of wind conditions is eligible for inclusion in a project only if the sponsor shows that—


(1) The airport meets the applicable standards of paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section; 


(2) The operational experience, and the economic factors of air traffic at the location, justify an additional runway for the airport; and 


(3) The second runway is oriented with the existing paved runway to achieve the maximum wind coverage, with due consideration to the airport noise factor, topography, soil conditions, and other pertinent factors affecting the economy and efficiency of the runway development. 


(b) *Airports serving large and small aircraft.* The airport serves both large and small aircraft and the existing paved runway is subject to a crosswind component of more than 15 miles per hour (13 knots) more than 5 percent of the time. 


(c) *Airports serving small aircraft only.* The airport serves small aircraft exclusively, and—


(1) The airport has 10,000, or more, aircraft operations each year; and 


(2) The existing paved runway is subject to a crosswind component of more than 12 miles per hour (10.5 knots) more than 5 percent of the time. 


(d) *Airports serving aircraft of less than 8,000 pounds only.* The airport serves small aircraft of less than 8,000 pounds maximum certificated takeoff weight exclusively and—


(1) The airport has 5,000, or more, aircraft operations each year; and 


(2) The existing paved runway is subject to a crosswind component of more than 12 miles per hour (10.5 knots) more than 5 percent of the time. 



---

[N] [Amdt. 151-17, 31 FR 16525, Dec. 28, 1966, as amended by Amdt. 151-28, 34 FR 551, Jan. 15, 1969]




