# § 515.575   Humanitarian projects.

(a) *General license.* Transactions, including the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c), that are related to the humanitarian projects in or related to Cuba that are designed to directly benefit the Cuban people as set forth in paragraph (b) are authorized, provided that the traveler's schedule of activities does not include free time or recreation in excess of that consistent with a full-time schedule.


(b) *Authorized humanitarian projects.* The following projects are authorized by paragraph (a) of this section: Medical and health-related projects; construction projects intended to benefit legitimately independent civil society groups; disaster preparedness, relief, and response; historical preservation; environmental projects; projects involving formal or non-formal educational training, within Cuba or off-island, on the following topics: Entrepreneurship and business, civil education, journalism, advocacy and organizing, adult literacy, or vocational skills; community-based grassroots projects; projects suitable to the development of small-scale private enterprise; projects that are related to agricultural and rural development that promote independent activity; microfinancing projects, except for loans, extensions of credit, or other financing prohibited by § 515.208; and projects to meet basic human needs.


(c) An entire group does not qualify for the general license in paragraph (a) of this section merely because some members of the group qualify individually.


(d) *Certain travel-related transactions restricted.* Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.


(e) *Specific licenses.* Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to humanitarian projects that do not qualify for the general license under paragraph (a) of this section.



---

[N] [80 FR 2300, Jan. 16, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 56924, Sept. 21, 2015; 81 FR 4586, Jan. 27, 2016; 81 FR 13994, Mar. 16, 2016; 81 FR 71377, Oct. 17, 2016; 85 FR 60072, Sept. 24, 2020]




