# § 721.805   Benzenamine, 4,4′-[1,3-phenylenebis(1-methylethyl idene)]bis[2,6-dimethyl-.

(a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to reporting. (1) The chemical substance benzenamine, 4,4′-[1,3-phenylenebis(1-methyl ethylidene)]bis[2,6-dimethyl- (CAS Registry Number 2716-12-3; PMN P-86-501) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are: 


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv) through (a)(5)(xv), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). 


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(l). 


(iv) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85 (a)(1), (b)(1), (c)(1), (a)(2), (b)(2), and (c)(2). 


(v) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(2)(vi), (b)(2)(vi), and (c)(2)(vi). 


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping requirements.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of these substances .


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [57 FR 31330, July 15, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




