# ยง 414.1680   Frequency limitations.

(a) *General rule.* With the exception of replacements of items that are lost, stolen, or irreparably damaged, or if needed due to a change in the patient's medical or physical condition, no payment may be made for gradient compression garments or wraps with adjustable straps furnished other than at the frequencies established in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.


(b) *Initial furnishing of lymphedema compression treatment items.* The following frequency limitations apply to items initially furnished to the beneficiary if determined to be reasonable and necessary for the treatment of lymphedema:


(1) Three units of daytime gradient compression garments or wraps with adjustable straps per affected extremity or part of the body.


(2) Two garments for nighttime use per affected extremity or part of the body.


(c) *Replacements of lymphedema compression treatment items.* The following frequency limitations apply to replacements of lymphedema compression treatment items if determined to be reasonable and necessary for the treatment of lymphedema:


(1) Payment for the replacement of gradient compression garments or wraps with adjustable straps per each affected extremity or part of the body can be made once every 6 months.


(2) Payment for the replacement of nighttime garments per each affected extremity or part of the body can be made once every 2 years.


(d) *Replacements of lymphedema compression bandaging systems or supplies.* Specific frequency limitations are not established for these items. Determinations regarding the quantity of compression bandaging supplies needed by each beneficiary are made by the DME MAC that processes the claims for the supplies.






