# § 173.472   Requirements for exporting DOT Specification Type B and fissile packages.

(a) Any offeror who exports a DOT Specification Type B or fissile material package authorized by § 173.416 or § 173.417 shall comply with paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section.


(b) The shipment must be made in accordance with the conditions of the U.S. Certificate of Competent Authority.


(c) The outside of each package must be durably and legibly marked with the package identification marking indicated in the U.S. Competent Authority Certificate.


(d) Each shipping paper related to the shipment of the package must bear the package identification marking indicated in the U.S. Competent Authority Certificate.


(e) Before export of the package, the offeror shall obtain a U.S. Competent Authority Certificate for that package design, or if one has already been issued, the offeror shall register in writing (including a description of the quality assurance program required by 10 CFR part 71, subpart H, or 49 CFR 173.474 and 173.475) with the U.S. Competent Authority as a user of the certificate. Upon registration, the offeror will be furnished with a copy of the certificate. The offeror shall then submit a copy of the U.S. Competent Authority Certificate applying to that package design to the national competent authority of each country into or through which the package will be transported, unless the offeror has documentary evidence that a copy has already been furnished.


(f) Each request for a U.S. Competent Authority Certificate as required by the IAEA regulations must be submitted in writing to the Associate Administrator. The request must be in triplicate and must include a description of the quality assurance program required by 10 CFR part 71, subpart H, or 49 CFR 173.474 and 173.475, and a reproducible 22 cm × 30 cm (8.5″ × 11″) drawing showing the make-up of the package. A copy of the USNRC quality assurance program approval will satisfy the requirement for describing the quality assurance program. The request and accompanying documentation may be sent by mail or other delivery service. Alternatively, the request with any attached supporting documentation submitted in an appropriate format may be sent by facsimile (fax) to (202) 366-3753 or (202) 366-3650, or by electronic mail (e-mail) to “*ramcert@dot.gov.*” Each request is considered in the order in which it is received. To allow sufficient time for consideration, requests must be received at least 90 days before the requested effective date. 



---

[N] [Amdt. 173-244, 60 FR 50307, Sept. 28, 1995, as amended at 66 FR 45379, Aug. 28, 2001; 67 FR 61014, Sept. 27, 2002]




