# § 710.27   Activities for which notification is not required.

(a) *In general.* The following activities do not trigger notification requirements under this subpart:


(1) The manufacturing or processing of a chemical substance in small quantities solely for research and development.


(2) The import or processing of a chemical substance as part of an article.


(3) The manufacturing or processing of a chemical substance as described in § 720.30(g) or (h).


(4) The manufacturing or processing of a chemical substance solely for export from the United States as described in § 720.30(e) or § 721.3, except where the Administrator has made a finding described in TSCA section 12(a)(2).


(5) The manufacturing or processing of a chemical substance solely for test marketing purposes.


(b) *Manufacturing or processing naturally occurring chemical substances.* The following activities do not trigger notification requirements under this subpart:


(1) The manufacture of a naturally occurring chemical substance, as described in § 710.4(b). Some chemical substances can be manufactured both as described in § 710.4(b) and by means other than those described in § 710.4(b). If a person manufactures a chemical substance by means other than those described in § 710.4(b), this exemption is inapplicable, regardless of whether the chemical substance also could have been produced as described in § 710.4(b). This exemption does not cover the manufacture of a chemical substance from a naturally occurring chemical substance.


(2) The processing of a naturally occurring chemical substance only by manual, mechanical, or gravitational means; by dissolution in water; by flotation; or by heating solely to remove water.




