# § 526.1696   Penicillin G procaine.

(a) *Specifications.* Each single-dose, 10-milliliter syringe contains penicillin G procaine equivalent to 100,000 units of penicillin G.


(b) See Nos. 042791 and 061133 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(c) *Related tolerances.* See § 556.510 of this chapter.


(d) *Conditions of use in lactating cows*—(1) *Amount*. Infuse the contents of one 10-milliliter syringe (equivalent to 100,000 units penicillin G) into each infected quarter. Treatment may be repeated at 12-hour intervals for not more than 3 doses, as indicated by clinical response.


(2) *Indications for use.* For the treatment of mastitis caused by *Streptococcus agalactiae, S. dysgalactiae,* and *S. uberus* in lactating cows.


(3) *Limitations.* For intramammary infusion in lactating cows only. Discard all milk for 60 hours (5 milkings) after the latest treatment. Animals intended for human consumption must not be slaughtered within 3 days of latest treatment. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(e) *Conditions of use in dry cows*—(1) *Amount*. Infuse the contents of one 10-milliliter syringe (equivalent to 100,000 units penicillin G) into each infected quarter at time of drying-off.


(2) *Indications for use.* For the treatment of mastitis caused by *Streptococcus agalactiae* in dry cows.


(3) *Limitations.* For intramammary infusion in dry cows only. Animals intended for human consumption must not be slaughtered within 14 days of last treatment. Discard all milk for 72 hours (6 milkings) following calving, or later as indicated by the marketable quality of the milk. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.



---

[N] [86 FR 13187, Mar. 8, 2021, as amended at 86 FR 57998, Oct. 20, 2021; 88 FR 27700, May 3, 2023; 88 FR 55567, Aug. 16, 2023]




