# § 1.7001   Scope and content of filed reports.

(a) *Definitions.* Terms used in this subpart have the following meanings:


(1) *Broadband connection.* A wired line, wireless channel, or satellite service that terminates at an end user location or mobile device and enables the end user to receive information from and/or send information to the internet at information transfer rates exceeding 200 kilobits per second (kbps) in at least one direction.


(2) *Facilities-based provider.* An entity is a *facilities-based provider* of a service if it supplies such service using facilities that satisfy any of the following criteria:


(i) Physical facilities that the entity owns and that terminate at the end-user premises;


(ii) Facilities that the entity has obtained the right to use from other entities, such as dark fiber or satellite transponder capacity as part of its own network, or has obtained;


(iii) Unbundled network element (UNE) loops, special access lines, or other leased facilities that the entity uses to complete terminations to the end-user premises;


(iv) Wireless spectrum for which the entity holds a license or that the entity manages or has obtained the right to use via a spectrum leasing arrangement or comparable arrangement pursuant to subpart X of this Part (§§ 1.9001-1.9080); or


(v) Unlicensed spectrum.


(3) *End user.* A residential, business, institutional, or government entity that subscribes to a service, uses that service for its own purposes, and does not resell that service to other entities.


(4) *Local telephone service.* Telephone exchange or exchange access service (as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(20 and (54)) provided by a common carrier or its affiliate (as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(2)).


(5) *Mobile telephony service.* Mobile telephony (as defined in § 20.15 of this chapter) provided to end users by a commercial mobile radio service (CMRS) provider.


(6) *Broadband internet access service.* Has the meaning given the term in § 8.1(b) of this chapter.


(7) *Broadband map.* The map created by the Commission under 47 U.S.C. 642(c)(1)(A).


(8) *Cell edge probability.* The likelihood that the minimum threshold download and upload speeds with respect to broadband internet access service will be met or exceeded at a distance from a base station that is intended to indicate the ultimate edge of the coverage area of a cell.


(9) *Cell loading.* The percentage of the available air interface resources of a base station that are used by consumers with respect to broadband internet access service.


(10) *Clutter.* A natural or man-made surface feature that affects the propagation of a signal from a base station.


(11) *Fabric.* The Broadband Serviceable Location Fabric established under 47 U.S.C. 642(b)(1)(B).


(12) *FCC Form 477.* Form 477 of the Commission relating to local telephone competition and broadband reporting.


(13) *Indian Tribe.* Has the meaning given the term “Indian tribe” in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).


(14) *Mobility Fund Phase II.* The second phase of the proceeding to provide universal service support from the Mobility Fund (WC Docket No. 10-90; WT Docket No. 10-208).


(15) *Propagation model.* A mathematical formulation for the characterization of radio wave propagation as a function of frequency, distance, and other conditions. 


(16) *Provider.* A facilities-based provider of fixed or mobile broadband internet access service.


(17) *Quality of service.* With respect to broadband internet access service, the download and upload speeds, and latency if applicable, with respect to that service, as determined by, and to the extent otherwise collected by, the Commission.


(18) *Shapefile.* A digital storage format containing geospatial or location-based data and attribute information regarding the availability of broadband internet access service and that can be viewed, edited, and mapped in geographic information system software.


(19) *Standard broadband installation.* The initiation by a provider of fixed broadband internet access service in an area in which the provider has not previously offered that service, with no charges or delays attributable to the extension of the network of the provider, and includes the initiation of fixed broadband internet access service through routine installation that can be completed not later than 10 business days after the date on which the service request is submitted.


(20) *H3 standardized geospatial indexing system.* A system developed by Uber Technologies, Inc., that overlays the Earth with hexagonal cells of different sizes at various resolutions. The smallest hexagonal cells are at resolution 15, in which the average hexagonal cell has an area of approximately 0.9 square meters, and the largest are at resolution 0, in which the average hexagonal cell has an area of approximately 4.25 million square kilometers. Hexagonal cells across different resolutions are referred to as a “hex-n” cell, where n is the resolution (*e.g.,* “hex-15” for the smallest size hexagonal cell). The H3 standardized geospatial indexing system employs a nested cell structure wherein a lower resolution hexagonal cell (the “parent”) contains approximately seven hexagonal cells at the next highest resolution (its “children”). That is, a hex-1 cell is the “parent” of seven hex-2 cells, each hex-2 cell is the parent of seven hex-3 cells, and so on.


(b) The following entities shall file with the Commission a completed FCC Form 477, in accordance with the Commission's rules and the instructions to the FCC Form 477:


(1) Facilities-based providers of broadband service;


(2) Providers of local telephone service;


(3) Facilities-based providers of mobile telephony service; and


(4) Providers of Interconnected Voice over internet Protocol (VoIP) service (as defined in § 9.3 of this chapter) to end users.


(c) Respondents identified in paragraph (b) of this section shall include in each report a certification signed by an appropriate official of the respondent (as specified in the instructions to FCC Form 477) and shall report the title of their certifying official.


(d) Disclosure of data contained in FCC Form 477 will be addressed as follows:


(1) Emergency operations contact information contained in FCC Form 477 is information that should not be routinely available for public inspection pursuant to section 0.457 of this chapter, in addition to other information that should not be routinely available for public inspection pursuant to § 0.457.


(2)(i) Respondents may request that provider-specific subscription information in FCC Form 477 filings be treated as confidential and be withheld from public inspection by so indicating on Form 477 at the time that they submit such data.


(ii) The Commission will release the following information in FCC Form 477 filings to the public, and respondents may not request confidential treatment of such information:


(A) Provider-specific mobile deployment data;


(B) Data regarding minimum advertised or expected speed for mobile broadband services; and


(C) Location information that is necessary to permit accurate broadband mapping, including crowdsourcing or challenge processes.


(3) Respondents seeking confidential treatment of any other data contained in FCC Form 477 must submit a request that the data be treated as confidential with the submission of their Form 477 filing, along with their reasons for withholding the information from the public, pursuant to § 0.459 of this chapter.


(4) The Commission shall make all decisions regarding non-disclosure of provider-specific information, except that the Chiefs of the Office of International Affairs, Space Bureau, Wireless Telecommunications Bureau, Wireline Competition Bureau, or Office of Economics and Analytics may release provider-specific information to:




(i) A state commission, provided that the state commission has protections in place that would preclude disclosure of any confidential information,


(ii) “Eligible entities,” as those entities are defined in the Broadband Data Improvement Act, in an aggregated format and pursuant to confidentiality conditions prescribed by the Commission, and


(iii) Others, to the extent that access to such data can be accomplished in a manner that addresses concerns about the competitive sensitivity of the data and precludes public disclosure of any confidential information.


(e) Respondents identified in paragraph (b) of this section shall file a revised version of FCC Form 477 if and when they discover a significant error in their filed FCC Form 477. For counts, a difference amounting to 5 percent of the filed number is considered significant. For percentages, a difference of 5 percentage points is considered significant. 


(f) Failure to file the FCC Form 477 in accordance with the Commission's rules and the instructions to the Form 477 may lead to enforcement action pursuant to the Act and any other applicable law. 



---

[N] [65 FR 19684, Apr. 12, 2000; 65 FR 24654, Apr. 27, 2000, as amended at 67 FR 13224, Mar. 21, 2002; 69 FR 77938, Dec. 29, 2004; 69 FR 72027, Dec. 10, 2004; 73 FR 37881, July 2, 2008; 78 FR 45470, July 29, 2013; 78 FR 49148, Aug. 13, 2013; 84 FR 43723, Aug. 22, 2019; 85 FR 838, Jan. 8, 2020; 85 FR 50907, Aug. 18, 2020; 86 FR 18159, Apr. 7, 2021; 87 FR 21509, Apr. 11, 2022; 88 FR 21435, Apr. 10, 2023]








