# ยง 600.710   Fiscal policies and accountability.

The BHP administering agency must assure the fiscal policies and accountability set forth in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section. This assurance must be reflected in the BHP Blueprint.


(a) *Accounting records.* Maintain an accounting system and supporting fiscal records to assure that the BHP trust funds are maintained and expended in accord with applicable Federal requirements, such as OMB Circulars A-87 and A-133.


(b) *Annual certification.* Obtain an annual certification from the BHP trustees, the State's chief financial officer, or designee, certifying all of the following:


(1) The State's BHP trust fund financial statements for the fiscal year.


(2) The BHP trust funds are not being used as the non-Federal share for purposes of meeting any matching or expenditure requirement of any Federally-funded program.


(3) The use of BHP trust funds is in accordance with Federal requirements consistent with those specified for the administration and provision of the program.


(c) *Independent audit.* Conduct an independent audit of BHP trust fund expenditures, consistent with the standards set forth in chapter 3 of the Government Accountability Office's Government Auditing Standards, over a 3-year period to determine that the expenditures made during the 3-year period were allowable as described in ยง 600.705(b) and in accord with other applicable Federal requirements. The independent audit may be conducted as a sub-audit of the single state audit conducted in accordance with OMB Circular A-133, and must follow the cost accounting principles in OMB Circular A-87.


(d) *Annual reports.* Publish annual reports on the use of funds, including a separate line item that tracks the use of funds described in ยง 600.705(e) to further reduce premiums and cost sharing, or for the provision of additional benefits within 10 days of approval by the trustees. If applicable for the reporting year, the annual report must also contain the findings for the audit conducted in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.


(e) *Restitution.* Establish and maintain BHP trust fund restitution procedures.


(f) *Record retention.* Retain records for 3 years from date of submission of a final expenditure report.


(g) *Record retention related to audit findings.* If any litigation, claim, financial management review, or audit is started before the expiration of the 3-year period, the records shall be retained until all litigation, claims or audit findings involving the records have been resolved and final action taken.




