# § 520.38b   Albendazole paste.

(a) *Specifications.* The product contains 30 percent albendazole. 


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 054771 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter. 


(c) *Related tolerances.* See § 556.34 of this chapter. 


(d) *Conditions of use in cattle*—(1) *Amount.* Equivalent to 4.54 milligrams per 1 pound of body weight (10 milligrams per kilogram). 


(2) *Indications for use.* For removal and control of the following internal parasites of cattle: adult liver flukes (*Fasciola hepatica*); heads and segments of tapeworms (*Moniezia benedeni, M. expansa*); adult and 4th stage larvae of stomach worms (brown stomach worms including 4th stage inhibited larvae (*Ostertagia ostertagi*); barberpole worm (*Haemonchus contortus, H. placei*); small stomach worm (*Trichostrongylus axei*)); adult and 4th stages larvae of intestinal worms (thread-necked intestinal worm (*Nematodirus spathiger, N. helvetianus*); small intestinal worm (*Cooperia punctata* and *C. oncophora*)); adult stages of intestinal worms (hookworm (*Bunostomum phlebotmum*); bankrupt worm (*Trichostrongylus colubriformis*), nodular worm (*Oesophagostomum radiatum*)); adult and 4th stage larvae of lungworms (*Dictyocaulus viviparus*). 


(3) *Limitations.* Administer as a single oral dose. Do not slaughter within 27 days of last treatment. Do not use in female dairy cattle of breeding age. Do not administer to female cattle during first 45 days of pregnancy or for 45 days after removal of bulls. Consult your veterinarian for assistance in the diagnosis, treatment, and control of parasitism.



---

[N] [54 FR 51385, Dec. 15, 1989, as amended at 56 FR 50653, Oct. 8, 1991; 60 FR 55658, Nov. 2, 1995. Redesignated at 78 FR 66264, Nov. 5, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 28816, May 20, 2014]




