# ยง 107.620   Requirements to obtain information from Portfolio Concerns.

All the information required by this section is subject to the requirements of ยง 107.600 and must be in English. 


(a) *Information for initial Financing decision.* Before extending any Financing, you must require the applicant to submit such financial statements, plans of operation (including intended use of financing proceeds), cash flow analyses and projections as are necessary to support your investment decision. The information submitted must be consistent with the size and type of the business and the amount of the proposed Financing. 


(b) *Updated financial information.* (1) The terms of each Financing must require the Portfolio Concern to provide, at least annually, sufficient financial information to enable you to perform the following required procedures: 


(i) Evaluate the financial condition of the Portfolio Concern for the purpose of valuing your investment; 


(ii) Determine the continued eligibility of the Portfolio Concern; and 


(iii) Verify the use of Financing proceeds.


(2) Demographic information on the Portfolio Concern's ownership is requested for reporting purposes only and is on a voluntary basis. 


(3) The information submitted to you must be certified by the president, chief executive officer, treasurer, chief financial officer, general partner, or proprietor of the Portfolio Concern. 


(4) For financial and valuation purposes, you may accept a complete copy of the Federal income tax return filed by the Portfolio Concern (or its proprietor) in lieu of financial statements, but only if appropriate for the size and type of the business involved. 


(5) The requirements in this paragraph (b) do not apply when you acquire securities from an underwriter in a public offering (see ยง 107.825). In that case, you must keep copies of all reports furnished by the Portfolio Concern to the holders of its securities. 


(c) *Information required for examination purposes.* You must obtain any information requested by SBA's examiners for the purpose of verifying the certifications made by a Portfolio Concern under ยง 107.610. In this regard, your Financing documents must contain provisions requiring the Portfolio Concern to give you and/or SBA's examiners access to its books and records for such purpose.



---

[N] [61 FR 3189, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 88 FR 46010, July 18, 2023] 




