# ยง 308.1   Self-assessment implementation methodology.

(a) The IV-D agency must ensure the review meets Federal requirements and must maintain responsibility for and control of the results produced and contents of the annual report. 


(b) *Sampling.* A State must either review all of its cases or conduct sampling which meets the following conditions: 


(1) The sampling methodology maintains a minimum confidence level of 90 percent for each criterion; 


(2) The State selects statistically valid samples of cases from the IV-D program universe of cases; and 


(3) The State establishes a procedure for the design of samples and assures that no portions of the IV-D case universe are omitted from the sample selection process. 


(c) *Scope of review.* A State must conduct an annual review covering all of the required criteria in Sec. 308.2. 


(d) *Review period.* Each review period must cover a 12-month period. The first review period shall begin no later than 12 months after the effective date of the final rule and subsequent reviews shall each cover the same 12-month period thereafter. 


(e) *Reporting.* (1) The State must provide a report of the results of the self-assessment review to the appropriate OCSE Regional Office, with a copy to the Commissioner of OCSE, no later than 6 months after the end of the review period. 


(2) The report must include, but is not limited to: 


(i) An executive summary, including a summary of the mandatory program criteria findings; 


(ii) A description of optional program areas covered by the review; 


(iii) A description of sampling methodology used, if applicable; 


(iv) The results of the self-assessment reviews; and 


(v) A description of the corrective actions proposed and/or taken. 




