# § 6a.103A-3   Qualified veterans' mortgage bonds.

(a) *In general.* A qualified veterans' mortgage bond shall not be treated as a mortgage subsidy bond, and the interest shall be exempt from Federal income taxation.


(b) *Qualified veterans' mortgage bond.* (1) With respect to obligations issued prior to July 19, 1984, the term “qualified veterans' mortgage bond” means any issue of obligations—


(i) Which meets the requirements of § 6a.103A-1, § 6a.103A-2(j) (1) and (2), and this section;


(ii) Substantially all of the proceeds of which are to be used to provide financing for single-family, owner-occupied residences (which meet the requirements of § 6a.103A-1(b)(6) and § 6a.103A-2(d)) for veterans; and


(iii) Payment of the principal and interest on which is secured by a pledge of the full faith and credit of the issuing State.


(2) With respect to obligations issued after July 18, 1984, the term “qualified veterans' mortgage bond” means any issue of obligations—


(i) Which meets the requirements of § 6.103A-1, § 6a.103A-2(d) (relating to residence requirements), (j) (1) and (2) (relating to new mortgage requirement), and (k) (relating to information reporting requirement), and this section;


(ii) Substantially all of the proceeds of which are to be used to provide financing for qualified veterans; and


(iii) Payment of the principal and interest on which is secured by a pledge of the full faith and credit of the issuing State.


(c) *Qualified veteran.* (1) An issue meets the requirements of this paragraph only if each of the mortgagors to whom owner financing is provided is a qualified veteran.


(2) With respect to obligations issued prior to July 19, 1984, the term “qualified veteran” means any veteran.


(3) With respect to obligations issued after July 18, 1984, the term “qualified veteran” means any veteran who—


(i) Served on active duty at some time before January 1, 1977, and


(ii) Applied for financing before the later of—


(A) The date 30 years after the date on which such veteran left active service, or


(B) January 1, 1985.


(4) The term “veteran” shall have the same meaning as in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), that is, a person who served in the active military, naval, or air service, and who was discharged or released therefrom under conditions other than dishonorable.


(d) *Husband and wife.* For purposes of this section, if a residence is to be owned by a husband and wife as joint tenants, as tenants by the entirety, or as community property, and if one spouse is a veteran, then both spouses shall be treated as satisfying the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.


(e) *Substantially all.* For purposes of this section, the term “substantially all” shall have the same meaning as in § 1.103-8.


(f) *Qualified home improvement loan.* The term “qualified home improvement loan” means the financing (whether or not secured by a mortgage) of alterations, repairs, and improvements on, or in connection with, an existing single-family, owner-occupied residence by a veteran who is the owner thereof. The alterations, repairs, and improvements, however, must substantially protect or improve the basic livability or energy efficiency of the property, such as the renovation of plumbing or electric systems, the installation of improved heating or air conditioning systems, the addition of living space, or the renovation of a kitchen area. Items that will not be considered to substantially protect or improve the basic livability of the property include swimming pools, tennis courts, saunas, or other recreational or entertainment facilities.


(g) *Volume limitation*—(1) *In general.* In the case of obligations issued after June 22, 1984, an issue meets the requirements of this paragraph only if the aggregate amount of obligations issued pursuant thereto, when added to the aggregate amount of qualified veterans' mortgage bonds previously issued by the State during the calendar year, does not exceed the State veterans limit for such calendar year. In determining the aggregate amount of qualified veterans' mortgage bonds issued in calendar year 1984, obligations issued prior to June 23, 1984, shall not be taken into account.


(2) *State veterans limit.* (i) The State veterans limit for any State is the amount equal to—


(A) The aggregate amount of qualified veterans' mortgage bonds issued by the State during the period beginning on January 1, 1979, and ending on June 22, 1984 (not including the amount of any qualified veterans' mortgage bonds actually issued during the calendar year, or the applicable portion of 1984, in such period for which the amount of such bonds was the lowest), divided by


(B) The number (not to exceed 5) of calendar years after 1978 and before 1985 during which the State issued qualified veterans' mortgage bonds.


(ii) In the case of any obligation which has a term of 1 year or less and which was issued to provide financing for property taxes, the amount taken into account under this paragraph with respect to such obligation shall be 
1/15 of its principal amount.


(3) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of this paragraph:


(h) *Good faith compliance efforts*—(1) *Mortgage eligibility requirements.* An issue of qualified veterans' mortgage bonds issued after July 18, 1984, which fails to meet the requirements of section 103A(o)(1), § 6a.103A-2(d) relating to residence requirements), and § 6a.103A-2(j) (1) and (2) (relating to new mortgage requirements) shall be treated as meeting such requirements if each of the following provisions is complied with:


(i) The issuer in good faith attempted to meet all such requirements before the mortgages were executed. Good faith requires that the trust indenture, participation agreements with loan originators, and other relevant instruments contain restrictions that permit the financing of residences only in accordance with such requirements. In addition, the issuer must establish reasonable procedures to ensure compliance with such requirements. Such procedures include reasonable investigations by the issuer to satisfy such requirements.


(ii) Ninety-five percent or more of the lendable proceeds (as defined in § 6a.103A-2(b)(1)) that were devoted to owner-financing were devoted to residences with respect to which, at the time the mortgages were executed, all such requirements were met. In determining whether a person is a qualified veteran the issuer may rely on copies of the mortgagor's certificate of discharge indicating that the mortgagor served on active duty at some time before January 1, 1977, and stating the date on which the mortgagor left active service provided that neither the issuer nor its agent knows or has reason to believe that such affidavit is false. Where a particular mortgage fails to meet more than one of these requirements, the amount of the mortgage will be taken into account only once in determining whether the 95-percent requirement is met. However, all of the defects in the mortgage must be corrected pursuant to subdivision (iii).


(iii) Any failure to meet such requirements is corrected within a reasonable period after such failure is discovered. For example, failures can be corrected by calling the nonqualifying mortgage or by replacing the nonqualifying mortgage with a qualifying mortgage.


(2) *Nonmortgage eligibility requirements.* An issue of qualified veterans' mortgage bonds issued after July 18, 1984, which fails to meet the requirements of paragraph (g) of this section shall be treated as meeting such requirements if each of the requirements of § 6a.103A-2(c)(2) (i) and (ii) is met.



---

[N] [T.D. 7780, 46 FR 34314, July 1, 1981; 46 FR 37890, July 23, 1981, as amended by T.D. 7995, 49 FR 48297, Dec. 12, 1984]




