# § 4219.17   Filings with PBGC.

(a) *Filing requirements*—(1) *In general.* The plan sponsor shall file with PBGC a notice that a mass withdrawal has occurred and separate certifications that determinations of redetermination liability and reallocation liability have been made and notices provided to employers in accordance with this subpart. 


(2) *Method of filing.* The PBGC applies the rules in subpart A of part 4000 of this chapter to determine permissible methods of filing with the PBGC under this subpart. 


(3) *Computation of time.* The PBGC applies the rules in subpart D of part 4000 of this chapter to compute any time period under this subpart for filing with the PBGC.


(b) *Who shall file.* The plan sponsor or a duly authorized representative acting on behalf of the plan sponsor shall sign and file the notice and the certifications. 


(c) *When to file.* A notice of mass withdrawal for a plan from which substantially all employers withdraw pursuant to an agreement or arrangement to withdraw shall be filed with the PBGC no later than 30 days after the mass withdrawal valuation date. A notice of mass withdrawal termination shall be filed within the time prescribed for the filing of that notice in part 4041A, subparts A and B, of this chapter. Certifications of liability determinations shall be filed with the PBGC no later than 30 days after the date on which the plan sponsor is required to have provided employers with notices pursuant to § 4219.16. 


(d) *Where to file.* See § 4000.4 of this chapter for information on where to file. 


(e) *Date of filing.* The PBGC applies the rules in subpart C of part 4000 of this chapter to determine the date that a submission under this subpart was filed with the PBGC.


(f) *Contents of notice of mass withdrawal.* If a plan terminates by the withdrawal of every employer, a notice of termination filed in accordance with part 4041A, subparts A and B, of this chapter shall satisfy the requirements for a notice of mass withdrawal under this subpart. If substantially all employers withdraw from a plan pursuant to an agreement or arrangement to withdraw, the notice of mass withdrawal shall contain the following information: 


(1) The name of the plan. 


(2) The name, address and telephone number of the plan sponsor and of the duly authorized representative, if any, of the plan sponsor. 


(3) The nine-digit Employer Identification Number (EIN) assigned by the IRS to the plan sponsor and the three-digit Plan Identification Number (PIN) assigned by the plan sponsor to the plan, and, if different, the EIN or PIN last filed with the PBGC. If no EIN or PIN has been assigned, the notice shall so indicate. 


(4) The mass withdrawal valuation date. 


(5) A description of the facts on which the plan sponsor has based its determination that a mass withdrawal has occurred, including the number of contributing employers withdrawn and the number remaining in the plan, and a description of the effect of the mass withdrawal on the plan's contribution base. 


(g) *Contents of certifications.* Each certification shall contain the following information: 


(1) The name of the plan. 


(2) The name, address and telephone number of the plan sponsor and of the duly authorized representative, if any, of the plan sponsor. 


(3) The nine-digit Employer Identification Number (EIN) assigned by the IRS to the plan sponsor and the three-digit Plan Identification Number (PIN) last assigned by the plan sponsor to the plan, and, if different, the EIN or PIN filed with the PBGC. If no EIN or PIN has been assigned, the notice shall so indicate. 


(4) Identification of the liability determination to which the certification relates. 


(5) A certification, signed by the plan sponsor or a duly authorized representative, that the determinations have been made and the notices given in accordance with this subpart. 


(6) For reallocation liability certifications— 


(i) A certification, signed by the plan's actuary, that the determination of unfunded vested benefits has been done in accordance with part 4281, subpart B; and 


(ii) A copy of plan rules, if any, adopted pursuant to § 4219.15(d). 


(h) *Additional information.* In addition to the information described in paragraph (g) of this section, the PBGC may require the plan sponsor to submit any other information the PBGC determines it needs in order to monitor compliance with this subpart. 



---

[N] [61 FR 34102, July 1, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 61355, Oct. 28, 2003]




