# § 120.1600   General procedures for formal enforcement actions against SBA Lenders, SBA Supervised Lenders, Other Regulated SBLCs, Management Officials, Other Persons, and Intermediaries.

(a) *In general.* Except as otherwise set forth for the formal enforcement actions listed in paragraphs (a)(6), (b), and (c) of this section and in § 120.465, SBA will follow the procedures listed in this section.


(1) *SBA's notice of formal enforcement action.* (i) When undertaking an immediate suspension under § 120.1500(a)(4), or prior to undertaking a formal enforcement action set forth in § 120.1500(a), (b), and (e) and § 120.1540, SBA will issue a written notice to the affected SBA Lender or Intermediary identifying the proposed formal enforcement action or notifying it of an immediate suspension. The notice will set forth in reasonable detail the underlying facts and reasons for the proposed action or immediate suspension. If the notice is for a proposed or immediate suspension, SBA will also state the scope and term of the proposed or immediate suspension.


(ii) If a proposed formal enforcement action or immediate suspension is based upon information obtained from a third party other than the SBA Lender, Intermediary, or SBA, SBA's notice of proposed action or immediate suspension will provide copies of documentation received from such third party, or the name of the third party in case of oral information, unless SBA determines that there are compelling reasons not to provide such information. If compelling reasons exist, SBA will provide a summary of the information it received to the SBA Lender or Intermediary.


(2) *SBA Lender's or Intermediary's opportunity to object.* (i) An SBA Lender or Intermediary that desires to contest a proposed formal enforcement action or an immediate suspension must file, within 30 calendar days of its receipt of the notice or within some other term established by SBA in its notice, a written objection with the appropriate Office of Capital Access official in accordance with Delegations of Authority or other SBA official identified in the notice. Notice will be presumed to have been received within five days of the date of the notice unless the SBA Lender or Intermediary can provide compelling evidence to the contrary.


(ii) The objection must set forth in detail all grounds known to the SBA Lender or Intermediary to contest the proposed action or immediate suspension and all mitigating factors, and must include documentation that the SBA Lender or Intermediary believes is most supportive of its objection. An SBA Lender or Intermediary must exhaust this administrative remedy in order to preserve its objection to a proposed formal enforcement action or an immediate suspension.


(iii) If an SBA Lender or Intermediary can show legitimate reasons as determined by SBA in SBA's discretion why it does not understand the reasons given by SBA in its notice of the action, the Agency will provide clarification. SBA will provide the requested clarification in writing to the SBA Lender or Intermediary or notify the SBA Lender or Intermediary in writing that SBA has determined that such clarification is not necessary. SBA, in its discretion, will further advise in writing whether the SBA Lender or Intermediary may have additional time to present its objection to the notice. Requests for clarification must be made to the appropriate Office of Capital Access official in accordance with Delegations of Authority in writing and received by SBA within the 30 day timeframe or the timeframe given by the notice for response.


(iv) An SBA Lender or Intermediary may request additional time to respond to SBA's notice if it can show that there are compelling reasons why it is not able to respond within the 30 day timeframe or the response timeframe given by the notice. If such requests are submitted to the Agency, SBA may, in its discretion, provide the SBA Lender or Intermediary with additional time to respond to the notice of proposed action or immediate suspension. Requests for additional time to respond must be made in writing to the appropriate Office of Capital Access official in accordance with Delegations of Authority or other official identified in the notice and received by SBA within the 30 day timeframe or the response timeframe given by the notice.


(v) Prior to the issuance of a final agency decision by SBA, if an SBA Lender or Intermediary can show that there is newly discovered material evidence which, despite the SBA Lender's or Intermediary's exercise of due diligence, could not have been discovered within the timeframe given by SBA to respond to a notice, or that there are compelling reasons beyond the SBA Lender's or Intermediary's control as to why it was not able to present a material fact or argument to SBA, and that the SBA Lender or Intermediary has been prejudiced by not being able to present such information, the SBA Lender or Intermediary may submit such information to SBA and request that the Agency consider such information in its final agency decision.


(3) *SBA's notice of final agency decision on a formal enforcement action where an SBA Lender or Intermediary filed objection to the proposed action or immediate suspension.* (i) If the affected SBA Lender or Intermediary files a timely written objection to a proposed formal enforcement action other than an immediate suspension in accordance with this section, SBA must issue a written notice of final agency decision to the affected SBA Lender or Intermediary advising whether SBA is undertaking the proposed formal enforcement action and setting forth the grounds for the decision. SBA will issue such a notice of decision within 90 days of either receiving the objection or from when additional information is provided under paragraph (a)(2)(v) or (a)(3)(iii) of this section, whichever is later, unless SBA provides notice that it requires additional time.


(ii) If the affected SBA Lender or Intermediary files a timely written objection to a notice of immediate suspension, SBA must issue a written notice of final agency decision to the affected SBA Lender or Intermediary within 30 days of receiving the objection advising whether SBA is continuing with the immediate suspension, unless SBA provides notice that it requires additional time. If the SBA Lender or Intermediary submits additional information to SBA (under paragraph (a)(2)(v) or (a)(3)(iii) of this section) after submitting its objection but before SBA issues its final agency decision, SBA must issue its final agency decision within 30 days of receiving such information, unless SBA provides notice that it requires additional time.


(iii) Prior to issuing a notice of decision, SBA in its discretion can request additional information from the affected SBA Lender or Intermediary or other partiesand conduct any other investigation it deems appropriate. If SBA determines, in its discretion, to consider an untimely objection, it must issue a notice of final agency decision pursuant to this paragraph (a)(3).


(4) *SBA's notice of final agency decision on a formal enforcement action where no filed objection or untimely objection not considered.* If SBA chooses not to consider an untimely objection or if the affected SBA Lender or Intermediary fails to file a written objection to a proposed formal enforcement action or an immediate suspension, and if SBA continues to believe that such proposed formal enforcement action or immediate suspension is appropriate, SBA must issue a written notice of final agency decision to the affected SBA Lender or Intermediary that SBA is undertaking one or more of the proposed formal enforcement actions against the SBA Lender or Intermediary or that an immediate suspension of the SBA Lender or Intermediary will continue. Such a notice of final agency decision need not state any grounds for the action other than to reference the SBA Lender's or Intermediary's failure to file a timely objection, and represents the final agency decision.


(5) *Appeals.* An SBA Lender or Intermediary may appeal the final agency decision to the appropriate Federal district court. Alternatively, 7(a) Lenders may appeal such decisions (except for decisions against SBA Supervised Lenders that are covered by procedures in § 120.1600(b) or (c) or § 120.465) to SBA's Office of Hearings and Appeals (“OHA”) within 30 calendar days of the date of the decision, and in the event of such an appeal, OHA will issue its decision in accordance with part 134 of this title. The enforcement action will remain in effect pending resolution of the appeal, if any.


(6) *Receiverships of Certified Development Companies and/or other relief.* If SBA undertakes the appointment of a receiver for a Certified Development Company and/or injunctive or other equitable relief, paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section will not apply and SBA will follow the applicable procedures under Federal law to obtain such remedies and to enforce the Certified Development Company's consent and waiver in advance to those remedies.


(b) *Procedures for certain formal enforcement actions against SBA Supervised Lenders (except Other Regulated SBLCs) and, where applicable, Management Officials and Other Persons*—(1) *Suspension and revocation actions and cease and desist orders.* If SBA seeks to suspend or revoke loan program authority (including, the authority to make, service, liquidate, or litigate SBA loans), or issue a cease and desist order to an SBA Supervised Lender or, as applicable, Other Person, SBA will follow the procedures below in lieu of those in paragraph (a) of this section.


(i) *Show cause order and hearing.* The Administrator will serve upon the SBA Supervised Lender or Other Person an order to show cause why an order suspending or revoking the authority or why a cease and desist order should not be issued. The show cause order will contain a statement of the matters of fact and law asserted by SBA, as well as the legal authority and jurisdiction under which an administrative hearing will be held, and will set forth the place and time of the administrative hearing. The hearing will be conducted by an administrative law judge in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 554-557, 15 U.S.C. 650, and applicable sections of part 134 of this chapter. The Administrative Law Judge will issue a recommended decision based on the record.


(ii) *Witnesses.* The party calling witnesses will pay the witness the same fees and mileage paid witnesses for their appearance in U.S. courts.


(iii) *Administrator finding and order issuance.* If after the administrative hearing, or the SBA Supervised Lender's or Other Person's waiver of the administrative hearing, the Administrator determines that the order should be issued, the Administrator will issue an order to suspend or revoke authority or a cease and desist order, as applicable. The order will include a statement of findings, the grounds and reasons, and will specify the order's effective date. SBA will serve the order on the SBA Supervised Lender or Other Person. The Administrator may delegate the power to issue a cease and desist order or to suspend or revoke loan program authority only if the Administrator is unavailable and only to the Deputy Administrator.


(iv) *Judicial review.* The order constitutes a final agency action. The SBA Supervised Lender or Other Person will have 20 days from the order issuance date to file an appeal in the appropriate federal district court.


(2) *Immediate suspension or immediate cease and desist order.* If SBA undertakes an immediate suspension of authority to participate in the 7(a) loan program or immediate cease and desist order against an SBA Supervised Lender or, as applicable, Other Person, SBA will within two business days follow the procedures set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(3) *Removal of Management Official.* If SBA undertakes the removal of a Management Official of an SBA Supervised Lender, SBA will follow the procedures below in lieu of those in paragraph (a) of this section.


(i) *Notice and hearing.* SBA will serve upon the Management Official and the SBA Supervised Lender written notice of intention to remove that includes a statement of the facts constituting the grounds and the date, time, and place for an administrative hearing. The administrative hearing will be held between 30 and 60 days from the date notice is served, unless an earlier or later date is set at the request of the Management Official for good cause shown or at the request of the Attorney General. The hearing will be conducted in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 554-557, 15 U.S.C. 650 and applicable sections of part 134 of this chapter. Failure of the Management Official to appear at the administrative hearing will constitute consent to the removal order. SBA will serve on the SBA Supervised Lender a copy of each notice that is served on a Management Official.


(ii) *Suspension from office or prohibition in participation, pending removal.* The suspension or prohibition will take effect upon service of intention to remove the Management Official or such subsequent time as the Administrator or his/her delegate deems appropriate and serves notice. It will remain in effect pending the completion of the administrative proceedings to remove and until such time as either SBA dismisses the charges in the removal notice or, if an order to remove or prohibit participation is issued, until the effective date of an order to remove or prohibit. In the case of suspension or prohibition following criminal charges, it may remain in effect until the information, indictment, or complaint is finally disposed of, or until the suspension is terminated by SBA or by order of a district court. A Management Official may appeal to the appropriate federal district court for a stay of the suspension or prohibition pending completion of the administrative hearing not later than 10 days from the suspension or prohibition's effective date.


(iii) *Decision.* SBA may issue the order of removal if the Management Official consents or is convicted of the criminal charges and the judgment is not subject to further judicial review (not including writ of habeas corpus), or if upon a record of a hearing, SBA finds that any of the notice grounds have been established. After the hearing, in the latter case, and within 30 days after SBA has notified the parties that the case has been submitted for final decision, SBA will render a decision (which includes findings of fact upon which the decision is predicated) and issue and serve an order upon each party to the proceeding. The decision will constitute final agency action.


(iv) *Effective date and judicial review.* The removal order will take effect 30 days after date of service upon the SBA Supervised Lender and the Management Official except in case of consent which will be effective at the time specified in the order or in case of removal for conviction on criminal charges the order will be effective upon removal order service on the SBA Supervised Lender and the Management Official. The order will remain effective and enforceable, except to the extent it is stayed, modified, terminated, or set aside by Administrator or a reviewing court. The adversely affected party will have 20 days from the order issuance date to seek judicial review in the appropriate federal district court.


(4) *Receiverships, transfer of assets and servicing activities.* If SBA undertakes the appointment of a receiver for, or the transfer of assets or servicing rights of an SBA Supervised Lender and/or injunctive or other equitable relief, SBA will follow the applicable procedures under Federal law to obtain such remedies and to enforce the SBA Supervised Lender's consent and waiver in advance to those remedies.


(5) *Civil penalties for report filing failure.* If SBA seeks to impose civil penalties against an SBA Supervised Lender for failure to file a report in accordance with SBA regulations or written directive, SBA will follow the procedures set forth for enforcement actions in § 120.465.


(c) *Additional procedures for certain formal enforcement actions against SBLCs. Capital directive*—(1) *Notice of intent to issue capital directive.* SBA will notify an SBLC in writing of its intention to issue a directive. The notice will state:


(i) Reasons for issuance of the directive and


(ii) The proposed contents of the directive.


(2) *Response to notice.* (i) An SBLC may respond to the notice by stating why a capital directive should not be issued and/or by proposing alternative contents for the capital directive or seeking other appropriate relief. The response must include any information, mitigating circumstances, documentation, or other relevant evidence that supports its position. The response may include a plan for achieving the minimum capital requirement applicable to the SBLC. The response must be in writing and delivered to the SBA within 30 days after the date on which the SBLC received the notice. In its discretion, SBA may extend the time period for good cause. SBA may shorten the 30-day time period:


(A) When, in the opinion of SBA, the condition of the SBLC so requires, provided that the SBLC will be informed promptly of the new time period;


(B) With the consent of the SBLC; or


(C) When the SBLC already has advised SBA that it cannot or will not achieve its applicable minimum capital requirement.


(ii) Failure to respond within 30 days or such other time period as may be specified by SBA will constitute a waiver of any objections to the proposed capital directive.


(3) *Decision.* After the closing date of the SBLC's response period, or receipt of the SBLC's response, if earlier, SBA may seek additional information or clarification of the response. Thereafter, SBA will determine whether or not to issue a capital directive, and if one is to be issued, whether it should be as originally proposed or in modified form.


(4) *Issuance of a capital directive.* (i) A capital directive will be served by delivery to the SBLC. It will include, or be accompanied by, a statement of reasons for its issuance.


(ii) A capital directive is effective immediately upon its receipt by the SBLC, or upon such later date as may be specified therein, and will remain effective and enforceable until it is stayed, modified, or terminated by SBA.


(5) *Reconsideration based on change in circumstances.* Upon a change in circumstances, an SBLC may request SBA to reconsider the terms of its capital directive or may propose changes in the plan to achieve the SBLC's applicable minimum capital requirement. SBA also may take such action on its own initiative. SBA may decline to consider requests or proposals that are not based on a significant change in circumstances or are repetitive or frivolous. Pending a decision on reconsideration, the capital directive and plan will continue in full force and effect.


(6) *Relation to other administrative actions.* A capital directive may be issued in addition to, or in lieu of, any other action authorized by law, including cease and desist proceedings. SBA also may, in its discretion, take any action authorized by law, in lieu of a capital directive, in response to an SBLC's failure to achieve or maintain the applicable minimum capital requirement.


(7) *Appeals.* The capital directive constitutes a final agency action. An SBLC may appeal the final agency decision only in the appropriate federal district court.



---

[N] [73 FR 75521, Dec. 11, 2008, as amended at 82 FR 39506, Aug. 21, 2017; 85 FR 14784, Mar. 16, 2020]




