# § 955.13   Optional Small Claims (Expedited) and Accelerated Procedures.

(a) *The Small Claims (Expedited) Procedure.* (1) The Expedited Procedure is available solely at the election of the appellant. Such election requires decision of the appeal, whenever possible, within 120 days after the Board receives written notice of the appellant's election to utilize this procedure.


(2) The appellant may elect this procedure when:


(i) There is a monetary amount in dispute and that amount is $50,000 or less, or


(ii) There is a monetary amount in dispute and that amount is $150,000 or less and the appellant is a small business concern (as that term is defined in the Small Business Act and regulations promulgated under the Act).


(3) In cases proceeding under the Expedited Procedure, the respondent shall file with the Board a copy of the contract, the contracting officer's final decision, and the appellant's claim letter or letters, if any, within ten days from the respondent's first receipt from either the appellant or the Board of a copy of the appellant's notice of election of the Expedited Procedure. If either party requests an oral hearing in accordance with § 955.9, the Board shall promptly schedule such a hearing for a mutually convenient time consistent with administrative due process and the 120-day limit for a decision, at a place determined under § 955.18. If a hearing is not requested by either party, the appeal shall be deemed to have been submitted under § 955.12 without a hearing.


(4) Promptly after receipt of the appellant's election of the Expedited Procedure, the Board shall establish a schedule of proceedings that will allow for the timely resolution of the appeal. Pleadings, discovery, and other prehearing activities may be restricted or eliminated at the Board's discretion as necessary to enable the Board to decide the appeal within 120 days after the Board has received the appellant's notice of election of the Expedited Procedure. In so doing, the Board may reserve whatever time it considers necessary for preparation of the decision.


(5) Written decisions by the Board in cases processed under the Expedited Procedure will be short and contain only summary findings of fact and conclusions. Decisions will be rendered for the Board by a single Judge. If there has been a hearing, the Judge presiding at the hearing may, in his or her discretion, at the conclusion of the hearing and after entertaining such oral arguments as he or she deems appropriate, render on the record oral summary findings of fact, conclusions of law, and a decision of the appeal. Whenever such an oral decision is rendered, the Board will subsequently furnish the parties a printed copy of such oral decision for the record and payment purposes and for the establishment of the commencement date of the period for filing a motion for reconsideration under § 955.30.


(6) Decisions of the Board under the Expedited Procedure will not be published, will have no value as precedents, and in the absence of fraud, cannot be appealed.


(b) *The Accelerated Procedure.* (1) The Accelerated Procedure is available solely at the election of the appellant and shall apply only to appeals where there is a monetary amount in dispute and the amount in dispute is $100,000 or less. Such election requires decision of the appeal, whenever possible, within 180 days after the Board receives written notice of the appellant's election to utilize this procedure.


(2) Promptly after receipt of the appellant's election of the Accelerated Procedure, the Board shall establish a schedule of proceedings that will allow for the timely resolution of the appeal. The Board, in its discretion, may shorten time periods prescribed elsewhere in these Rules as necessary to enable the Board to decide the appeal within 180 days after the Board has received the appellant's notice of election of the Accelerated Procedure.


(3) Written decisions by the Board in cases processed under the Accelerated Procedure will normally be short and contain only summary findings of fact and conclusions. Decisions will be rendered for the Board by a single Judge with the concurrence of the Chairman or Vice Chairman or other designated Judge, or by a majority among these two and an additional designated member in case of disagreement. In cases where the amount in dispute is $50,000 or less and in which there has been a hearing, the single Judge presiding at the hearing may, with the concurrence of both parties, convert the appeal to an Expedited Proceeding and at the conclusion of the hearing, after entertaining such oral arguments as he or she deems appropriate, render on the record oral summary findings of fact, conclusions of law, and a decision of the appeal. Whenever such an oral decision is rendered, the Board will subsequently furnish the parties a printed copy of such oral decision for record and payment purposes and to establish the date of commencement of the period for filing a motion for reconsideration under § 955.30.


(c) *Denial of election.* At the request of the respondent, or on its own initiative, the Board may determine whether the amount in dispute and/or the appellant's status make the election of the Expedited Procedure or the Accelerated Procedure inappropriate.


(d) *Motions for Reconsideration in Cases Arising Under § 955.13.* Motions for reconsideration of cases decided under either the Expedited Procedure or the Accelerated Procedure need not be decided within the time periods prescribed by this § 955.13 for the initial decision of the appeal, but all such motions shall be processed and decided rapidly so as to fulfill the intent of this section.


(e) *General rule.* Except as herein modified, the rules of this Part 955 otherwise apply in all aspects.



---

[N] [74 FR 20592, May 5, 2009, as amended at 80 FR 31305, June 2, 2015]




