# ยง 418.3420   How are funds held in financial institution accounts counted?

(a) *Owner of the account.* Funds held in a financial institution account (including savings, checking, and time deposits also known as certificates of deposit) are considered your resources if you own the account and can use the funds for your support and maintenance. We determine whether you own the account and can use the funds by looking at how the account is held.


(b) *Individually-held account.* If you are designated as the sole owner by the account title and you can withdraw and use funds from that account for your support and maintenance, all of that account's funds are your resource regardless of the source. For as long as these conditions are met, we presume that you own 100 percent of the funds in the account. This presumption is not rebuttable.


(c) *Jointly-held account.* (1) If you are the only subsidy claimant or subsidy recipient who is an account holder on a jointly held account, we presume that all of the funds in the account belong to you. If more than one subsidy claimant or subsidy recipient are account holders, we presume that the funds in the account belong to those individuals in equal shares.


(2) If you disagree with the ownership presumption as described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, you may rebut the presumption. Rebuttal is a procedure which permits you to furnish evidence and establish that some or all of the funds in a jointly-held account do not belong to you.




