# ยง 25.237   Wind velocities.

(a) For land planes and amphibians, the following applies:


(1) A 90-degree cross component of wind velocity, demonstrated to be safe for takeoff and landing, must be established for dry runways and must be at least 20 knots or 0.2 V_SR0_, whichever is greater, except that it need not exceed 25 knots.


(2) The crosswind component for takeoff established without ice accretions is valid in icing conditions.


(3) The landing crosswind component must be established for:


(i) Non-icing conditions, and


(ii) Icing conditions with the most critical of the landing ice accretion(s) defined in Appendices C and O of this part, as applicable, in accordance with ยง 25.21(g).


(b) For seaplanes and amphibians, the following applies: 


(1) A 90-degree cross component of wind velocity, up to which takeoff and landing is safe under all water conditions that may reasonably be expected in normal operation, must be established and must be at least 20 knots or 0.2 V_SR__0_, whichever is greater, except that it need not exceed 25 knots.


(2) A wind velocity, for which taxiing is safe in any direction under all water conditions that may reasonably be expected in normal operation, must be established and must be at least 20 knots or 0.2 V_SR0_, whichever is greater, except that it need not exceed 25 knots.



---

[N] [Amdt. 25-42, 43 FR 2322, Jan. 16, 1978, as amended by Amdt. 25-108, 67 FR 70827, Nov. 26, 2002; Amdt. 25-121, 72 FR 44668, Aug. 8, 2007; Amdt. 25-140, 79 FR 65525, Nov. 4, 2014] 




