# § 1710.51   Direct loans.

RUS makes direct loans under section 4 of the RE Act. 


(a) *General.* Except as otherwise modified by this section, RUS will make loans under the direct Treasury rate loan program in the same manner that it makes loans under the municipal rate program. The general and pre-loan policies and procedures for municipal rate electric loans made by RUS may be found in this part and 7 CFR part 1714. Treasury rate electric loans are also governed by such municipal rate policies and procedures, except as follows: 


(1) *Interest rates.* The standard interest rate on direct Treasury rate loans will be established daily by the United States Treasury. The borrower will select interest rate terms for each advance of funds. The minimum interest rate term shall be one year. Interest rate terms will be limited to terms published by the Treasury (i.e. 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 10, 20, and 30). Interest rate terms to final maturity date, if other than published by Treasury, will be determined by RUS. Interest rates for terms greater than 30 years will be at the 30-year rate. There will be no interest rate cap on Treasury rate loans. 


(2) *Prepayment.* A Treasury rate direct electric loan may be repaid at par on its rollover maturity date if there is one. Such a loan, or portion thereof, may also be prepaid after it has been advanced for not less than two years, at any time prior to its rollover or final maturity date at its “net present value” (NPV) as determined by RUS. 


(3) *Supplemental financing.* Supplemental financing will not be required in connection with Treasury rate direct electric loans. 


(4) *Transitional assistance.* A Treasury rate direct loan is not available to provide transitional assistance to borrowers. 


(b) *Loan documents.* Successful applicants will be required to execute and deliver to RUS a promissory note evidencing the borrower's obligation to repay the loan. The note must be in form and substance satisfactory to RUS. RUS will require a form of note substantially in the form that it currently accepts for direct municipal rate electric loans, with such revisions as may be necessary or appropriate to reflect the different interest setting provisions and the terms of paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section. All notes will be secured in accordance with the terms of 7 CFR part 1718.



---

[N] [66 FR 66294, Dec. 26, 2001]




