# § 21.8010   Definitions and abbreviations.

(a) *Program-specific definitions and abbreviations.* For the purposes of this subpart:


*Covered birth defect* means the same as defined at § 3.815(c)(3) of this title. 


*Eligible child* means, as appropriate, either an *individual* as defined at § 3.814(c)(3) of this title who suffers from spina bifida, or an *individual* as defined at § 3.815(c)(2) of this title who has a covered birth defect other than a birth defect described in § 3.815(a)(2). 


*Employment assistance* means employment counseling, placement and post-placement services, and personal and work adjustment training. 


*Institution of higher education* has the same meaning that § 21.4200 provides for the term *institution of higher learning.*

*Program of employment services* means the services an eligible child may receive if the child's entire program consists only of employment assistance. 


*Program participant* means an eligible child who, following an evaluation in which VA finds the child's achievement of a vocational goal is reasonably feasible, elects to participate in a vocational training program under this subpart. 


*Spina bifida* means the same as defined at § 3.814(c)(4) of this title. 


*Veteran with covered service in Korea* means a veteran defined at § 3.814(c)(2) of this title.


*Vietnam veteran* means, in the case of a child suffering from spina bifida, the same as defined at § 3.814(c)(1) or § 3.815(c)(1) of this title and, in the case of a child with a covered birth defect, the same as defined at § 3.815(c)(1) of this title. 


*Vocational training program* means the vocationally oriented training services, and assistance, including placement and post-placement services, and personal and work-adjustment training that VA finds necessary to enable an eligible child to prepare for and participate in vocational training or employment. A vocational training program may include a program of education offered by an institution of higher education only if the program is predominantly vocational in content. 


*VR&E* refers to the Veteran Readiness and Employment activity (usually a division) in a Veterans Benefits Administration regional office, the staff members of that activity in the regional office or in outbased locations, and the services that activity provides. 


(b) *Other terms and abbreviations.* The following terms and abbreviations have the same meaning or explanation that § 21.35 provides: 


(1) CP (Counseling psychologist); 


(2) Program of education; 


(3) Rehabilitation facility; 


(4) School, educational institution, or institution; 


(5) Training establishment; 


(6) Vocational goal; 


(7) VRC (Vocational rehabilitation counselor); and 


(8) Workshop. 



---

[N] [67 FR 72565, Dec. 6, 2002, as amended at 76 FR 4250, Jan. 25, 2011; 87 FR 8744, Feb. 16, 2022]




