# ยง 205.25   How does this part apply to certain Federal assistance programs or funds?

(a) Special rules apply to certain Federal assistance programs or funds described in this section. To the extent the provisions of this section are inconsistent with other provisions of this part, this section applies. 


(b) A State's interest liability on funds withdrawn from its account in the UTF equals the actual interest earned on such funds less the related banking costs. Actual interest earned does not include non-cash bank earnings. If funds withdrawn from the State account in the UTF are commingled with other funds, a proportionate share of interest earnings and banking costs must be allocated to the funds withdrawn from the State account. Interest liabilities on funds withdrawn from a Federal account in the UTF, except the Federal Unemployment Account, are calculated in accordance with ยง 205.19. 


(c) *Supplemental Security Income.* (1) Except as provided in 42 U.S.C. 1382e(d), the Federal government incurs an interest liability from the day State funds are credited to the Federal government's account to the day a Federal Program Agency pays out the State funds for Federal assistance program purposes. A State incurs an interest liability from the day a Federal Program Agency pays out Federal funds for Federal assistance program purposes to the day State funds are credited to the Federal government's account. 


(2) Interest liability must be calculated on the difference between a State's monthly Supplemental Security Income payment and the State's actual liability for the month.


(3) The Federal government will not incur interest liabilities on refunds of State funds under the Supplemental Security Income Program. 


(4) Administrative fees charged by the Social Security Administration to States under the Supplemental Security Income program are not subject to this part. 


(5) Supplemental State payments made in conjunction with Supplemental Security Income are not subject to this part. 


(d) *Funds collected under the Child Support Enforcement Program.* (1) Funds collected by States from absent parents pursuant to Title IV-D of the Social Security Act are not subject to this part. 


(2) Interest earned by States on undistributed collections must be treated as Federal assistance program income under 45 CFR 304.50(b) and is not subject to this part. 


(3) Late payment fees collected by States from absent parents are not subject to interest liabilities under this part and are not subject to this part. However, such fees must be treated as Federal assistance program income in accordance with 45 CFR 302.75(b)(6). 


(e) A State that earns interest on Special Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants, and Children rebates is not subject to interest liability if the funds earned are used for Federal assistance program purposes. 


(f) *Revolving Loan Funds.* (1) This part applies to any transfer of funds from the Federal Program Agency to the State for the Revolving Loan Fund. 


(2) This part does not apply to interest a State earns on Revolving Loan Funds when Federal Program Agency regulations require that all interest earned on invested funds be used for Federal assistance program purposes. 




