# ยง 158.2203   Definitions.

The following terms are defined for the purposes of this subpart:


*Disinfectant* means a substance, or mixture of substances, that destroys or irreversibly inactivates bacteria, fungi and viruses, but not necessarily bacterial spores, in the inanimate environment.


*Fungicide* means a substance, or mixture of substances, that destroys fungi (including yeasts) and fungal spores pathogenic to man or other animals in the inanimate environment.


*Microbiological water purifier* means any unit, water treatment product or system that removes, kills or inactivates all types of disease-causing microorganisms from the water, including bacteria, viruses and protozoan cysts, so as to render the treated water safe for drinking.


*Sanitizer* means a substance, or mixture of substances, that reduces the bacteria population in the inanimate environment by significant numbers, but does not destroy or eliminate all bacteria. Sanitizers meeting Public Health Ordinances are generally used on food contact surfaces and are termed sanitizing rinses.


*Sterilant* means a substance, or mixture of substances, that destroys or eliminates all forms of microbial life in the inanimate environment, including all forms of vegetative bacteria, bacterial spores, fungi, fungal spores, and viruses.


*Tuberculocide* means a substance, or mixture of substances, that destroys or irreversibly inactivates tubercle bacilli in the inanimate environment.


*Virucide* means a substance, or mixture of substances, that destroys or irreversibly inactivates viruses in the inanimate environment.




