# ยง 550.53   Residential Drug Abuse Treatment Program (RDAP).

(a) *RDAP.* To successfully complete the RDAP, inmates must complete each of the following components:


(1) *Unit-based component.* Inmates must complete a course of activities provided by the Psychology Services Department in a treatment unit set apart from the general prison population. This component must last at least six months.


(2) *Follow-up services.* If time allows between completion of the unit-based component of the RDAP and transfer to a community-based program, inmates must participate in the follow-up services to the unit-based component of the RDAP.


(3) *Community Treatment Services (CTS).* Inmates who have completed the unit-based program and (when appropriate) the follow-up treatment and transferred to a community-based program must complete CTS to have successfully completed RDAP and receive incentives. The Warden, on the basis of his or her discretion, may find an inmate ineligible for participation in a community-based program; therefore, the inmate cannot complete RDAP.


(b) *Admission criteria.* Inmates must meet all of the following criteria to be admitted into RDAP.


(1) Inmates must have a verifiable substance use disorder.


(2) Inmates must sign an agreement acknowledging program responsibility.


(3) When beginning the program, the inmate must be able to complete all three components described in paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) *Application to RDAP.* Inmates may apply for the RDAP by submitting requests to a staff member (ordinarily, a member of the unit team or the Drug Abuse Program Coordinator).


(d) *Referral to RDAP.* Inmates will be identified for referral and evaluation for RDAP by unit or drug treatment staff.


(e) *Placement in RDAP.* The Drug Abuse Program Coordinator decides whether to place inmates in RDAP based on the criteria set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.


(f) *Completing the unit-based component of RDAP.* To complete the unit-based component of RDAP, inmates must have satisfactory attendance and participation in all RDAP activities.


(g) *Expulsion from RDAP.* (1) Inmates may be removed from the program by the Drug Abuse Program Coordinator because of disruptive behavior related to the program or unsatisfactory progress in treatment.


(2) Ordinarily, inmates must be given at least one formal warning before removal from RDAP. A formal warning is not necessary when the documented lack of compliance with program standards is of such magnitude that an inmate's continued presence would create an immediate and ongoing problem for staff and other inmates.


(3) We may return an inmate who withdraws or is removed from RDAP to his/her prior institution (if we had transferred the inmate specifically to participate in RDAP).


(h) *Effects of non-participation.* (1) If inmates refuse to participate in RDAP, withdraw, or are otherwise removed, they are not eligible for:


(i) A furlough (other than possibly an emergency furlough);


(ii) Performance pay above maintenance pay level, bonus pay, or vacation pay; and/or


(iii) A Federal Prison Industries work program assignment (unless the Warden makes an exception on the basis of work program labor needs).


(2) Refusal, withdrawal, and/or expulsion will be a factor to consider in determining length of community confinement.


(3) Where applicable, staff will notify the United States Parole Commission of inmates' needs for treatment and any failure to participate in the RDAP.



---

[N] [74 FR 1897, Jan. 14, 2009, as amended at 81 FR 24490, Apr. 26, 2016]




