# § 107.1530   How a Licensee computes SBA's Profit Participation.

This section tells you how to compute SBA's Profit Participation. Profit Participation is included in the Distributions you make to SBA under §§ 107.1550 and 107.1560. 


(a) *How to compute Profit Participation.* Profit Participation equals your “Base” times your “Profit Participation Rate” (if the Base is zero or less, you do not owe SBA Profit Participation). Compute the Base using paragraph (c) of this section and the Profit Participation Rate using paragraphs (d) through (g) of this section. You must compute your Earmarked Profit (Loss) under § 107.1510 and your Prioritized Payments and Adjustments under § 107.1520 before you can compute Profit Participation. 


(b) *How to keep track of Profit Participation.* You must establish a Profit Participation Account to record your computations under this section and payments under §§ 107.1550 and 107.1560. Its balance represents your unpaid Profit Participation. 


(c) *How to compute the Base.* As of the end of each fiscal year and any year-to-date interim period for which you want to make a Distribution, compute your Base using the following formula:


(1) If the Base computed as of the end of your previous fiscal year (your “Previous Base”) was less than zero, your Unused Loss equals your Previous Base.


(2) If your Previous Base was zero or greater, your Unused Loss equals zero, with the following exception: If you made an interim Distribution of Profit Participation during your previous fiscal year, and your Previous Base was lower than the interim Base on which your Distribution was computed, then your Unused Loss equals the difference between the interim Base and the Previous Base. For example, assume you are computing your Base as of December 31, 1997, your fiscal year end. Your Previous Base, computed as of December 31, 1996, was $3,000,000. During 1996, you made an interim Distribution which was computed on a Base of $3,500,000 as of June 30, 1996. The $500,000 difference between the 1996 interim and year-end Bases would be carried forward as Unused Loss in the computation of your Base as of December 31, 1997.


(3) If you had no Participating Securities outstanding as of the end of your last fiscal year, you may request SBA's approval to treat your Undistributed Net Realized Loss, as reported on SBA Form 468 for that year, as Unused Loss. If you did not file SBA Form 468 because you were not yet licensed as of the end of your last fiscal year, you may request SBA's approval to treat pre-licensing losses as Unused Loss.


(d) *How to compute the Profit Participation Rate.* You must determine your Profit Participation Rate each time you compute a Base that is greater than zero. Compute the Rate by following the steps in paragraphs (e) through (g) of this section. 


(e) *Compute the “PLC ratio”*—(1) *General rule.* The “PLC ratio” is the highest ratio of outstanding Participating Securities to Leverageable Capital that you have ever attained. 


(2) *Exception.* You may reduce the ratio computed under paragraph (e)(1) of this section if you have increased your Leverageable Capital above its highest previous level. The increase must have taken place at least 120 days before the date as of which your Base is computed. In addition, the increase must have been expressly provided for in a plan of operations submitted to and approved by SBA in writing, or must be the result of the takedown of commitments or the conversion of non-cash assets that were included in your Private Capital. If these conditions are satisfied, compute your reduced PLC ratio as follows:


(i) Divide the highest dollar amount of Participating Securities you have ever had outstanding by your increased Leverageable Capital.


(ii) If the result in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section is lower than your PLC ratio currently in effect, such result will become your new PLC ratio.


(f) *Compute the Profit Participation Rate (before indexing).* Compute the Profit Participation Rate (before indexing) using the table in this paragraph (f). Then go to paragraph (g) of this section to determine whether to index the Profit Participation Rate. 


(g) *Indexing the Profit Participation Rate.* The Profit Participation Rate is indexed, up or down, to the yield-to-maturity on Treasury bonds with a remaining term of ten (10) years (the “Treasury Rate”). You must perform the indexing procedures in this paragraph (g) unless the Treasury Rate was exactly 8 percent on every date that you issued Participating Securities. 


(1) *Licensees that have issued Participating Securities on only one occasion.* Determine the Treasury Rate for the date you issued your Participating Security. Adjust the Profit Participation Rate from paragraph (f) of this section by the percentage difference between the Treasury Rate and 8 percent. For example, assume that you issued Participating Securities when the Treasury Rate was 10 percent. The percentage difference between 10 percent and 8 percent is 25 percent. If you had a PLC ratio of 1, the Profit Participation Rate before indexing would be 9 percent. You would increase this rate by 25 percent, giving you a Profit Participation Rate of 11.25 percent.


(2) *Licensees that have issued Participating Securities on more than one occasion.* Determine the Treasury Rate for each of the dates you issued Participating Securities.


(i) Compute an average of all such Treasury Rates, weighted to reflect the dollar amount of each issuance (ignoring any redemptions) and the number of days from the date of each issuance to the date as of which you are computing the Profit Participation Rate.


(ii) Adjust the Profit Participation Rate from paragraph (f) of this section by the percentage difference between the weighted average Treasury Rate and 8 percent. In the example given in paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section, if the PLC ratio were equal to 2, the Profit Participation Rate for the fiscal year would be 12.83 percent. [{((.0855−.08) ÷ .08) + 1} × .12 × 100 = 12.83%]


(h) *Computing SBA's Profit Participation.* If the Base from paragraph (c) of this section is greater than zero, you must compute SBA's Profit Participation as follows:


(1) Multiply the Base from paragraph (c) of this section by the Profit Participation Rate from paragraph (g) of this section.


(2) If your last Profit Participation computation was for an interim period during the same fiscal year and used a higher Profit Participation Rate than the Rate you just used in paragraph (h)(1) of this section, you must adjust the amount computed in paragraph (h)(1) of this section as follows:


(i) Determine the difference between the Profit Participation Rate you just used in paragraph (h)(1) of this section and the Rate used in your previous computation;


(ii) Multiply the difference by the Base from your last Profit Participation computation; and


(iii) Add the result to the amount you computed in paragraph (h)(1) of this section.


(3) Reduce the Profit Participation computed in paragraphs (h)(1) and (h)(2) of this section by any amounts of Profit Participation that you distributed or reserved for distribution to SBA, or its designated agent or Trustee, for any previous interim period(s) during the fiscal year. The result is SBA's Profit Participation (unless it is less than zero, in which case SBA's Profit Participation is zero).


(i) *Allocation of Profit Participation.* Before any Distribution and in any case within 120 days following the end of your fiscal year, you must add the amount of Profit Participation computed under this § 107.1530 to the Profit Participation Account. You must reserve funds equal to this amount for distribution to SBA, or its designated agent or Trustee; you may not reinvest these funds or use them for any other purpose.



---

[N] [61 FR 3189, Jan. 31, 1996; 61 FR 41496, Aug. 9, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 5871, Feb. 5, 1998]




