# § 982.623   Manufactured home space rental: Housing assistance payment.

(a) *Amount of monthly housing assistance payment.* The monthly housing assistance payment is calculated as the lower of:


(1) The PHA payment standard, determined in accordance with § 982.503 minus the total tenant payment; or


(2) The family's eligible housing expenses minus the total tenant payment.


(b) *Eligible housing expenses.* The family's eligible housing expenses are the total of:


(1) The rent charged by the owner for the manufactured home space.


(2) Charges for the maintenance and management the space owner must provide under the lease.


(3) The monthly payments made by the family to amortize the cost of purchasing the manufactured home established at the time of application to a lender for financing the purchase of the manufactured home if monthly payments are still being made, including any required insurance and property taxes included in the loan payment to the lender.


(i) Any increase in debt service or term due to refinancing after purchase of the home may not be included in the amortization cost.


(ii) Debt service for installation charges incurred by a family may be included in the monthly amortization payments. Installation charges incurred before the family became an assisted family may be included in the amortization cost if monthly payments are still being made to amortize the charges.


(4) The applicable allowances for tenant-paid utilities, as determined under §§ 982.517 and 982.624.


(c) *Distribution of housing assistance payment.* In general, the monthly housing assistance payment is distributed as follows:


(1) The PHA pays the owner of the space the lesser of the housing assistance payment or the portion of the monthly rent due to the owner. The portion of the monthly rent due to the owner is the total of:


(i) The actual rent charged by the owner for the manufactured home space; and


(ii) Charges for the maintenance and management the space owner must provide under the lease.


(2) If the housing assistance payment exceeds the portion of the monthly rent due to the owner, the PHA may pay the balance of the housing assistance payment to the family. Alternatively, the PHA may pay the balance to the lender or utility company, in an amount no greater than the amount due for the month to each, respectively, subject to the lender's or utility company's willingness to accept the PHA's payment on behalf of the family. If the PHA elects to pay the lender or the utility company directly, the PHA must notify the family of the amount paid to the lender or the utility company and must pay any remaining balance directly to the family.


(d) *PHA option: Single housing assistance payment to the family.* (1) If the owner of the manufactured home space agrees, the PHA may make the entire housing assistance payment to the family, and the family shall be responsible for paying the owner directly for the full amount of rent of the manufactured home space due to the owner, including owner maintenance and management charges. If the PHA exercises this option, the PHA may not make any payments directly to the lender or utility company.


(2) The PHA and owner of the manufactured home space must still execute the HAP contract, and the owner is still responsible for fulfilling all of the owner obligations under the HAP contract, including but not limited to complying with HQS and rent reasonableness requirements. The owner's acceptance of the family's monthly rent payment during the term of the HAP contract serves as the owner's certification to the reasonableness of the rent charged for the space in accordance with § 982.622(b)(4).


(3) If the family and owner agree to the single housing assistance payment, the owner is responsible for collecting the full amount of the rent and other charges under the lease directly from the family. The PHA is not responsible for any amounts owed by the family to the owner and may not pay any claim by the owner against the family.





---

[N] [89 FR 38303, May 7, 2024]






