# § 74.302   Citrus Red No. 2.

(a) *Identity.* (1) The color additive Citrus Red No. 2 is principally 1-(2,5-dimethoxyphenylazo)-2-naphthol.


(2) The following diluents may be used in aqueous suspension, in the percentages specified, to facilitate application to oranges in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section:


(i) Suitable diluents used in accordance with § 73.1(a) of this chapter.


(ii) Volatile solvents that leave no residue after application to the orange.


(iii) Salts of fatty acids meeting the requirements of § 172.863 of this chapter.


(iv) Sodium tripolyphosphate, not more than 0.05 percent.


(b) *Specifications.* Citrus Red No. 2 shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities, other than those named, to the extent that such other impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:


(c) *Uses and restrictions.* (1) Citrus Red No. 2 shall be used only for coloring the skins of oranges that are not intended or used for processing (or if so used are designated in the trade as *Packinghouse elimination*) and that meet minimum maturity standards established by or under the laws of the States in which the oranges are grown.


(2) Oranges colored with Citrus Red No. 2 shall bear not more than 2.0 parts per million of such color additive, calculated on the basis of the weight of the whole fruit.


(d) *Labeling.* The label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom and intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter. To meet the requirements of § 70.25 (b) and (c) of this chapter the label shall bear:


(1) The statement (or its equivalent) “To be used only for coloring skins of oranges.”


(2) Directions for use to limit the amount of the color additive to not more than 2.0 parts per million, calculated on the basis of the weight of the whole fruit.


(e) *Certification.* All batches of Citrus Red No. 2 shall be certified in accordance with regulations in part 80 of this chapter.




