# § 1090.1205   Recordkeeping requirements for all regulated parties.

(a) *Overview.* Any party subject to the requirements and provisions of this part must keep records containing the information specified in this section.


(b) *PTDs.* Any party that transfers custody or title of any fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock must maintain the PTDs for which the party is the transferor or transferee.


(c) *Sampling and testing.* Any party that performs any sampling and testing on any fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock must keep records of the following information:


(1) The location, date, time, and storage tank or truck, rail car, or vessel identification for each sample collected.


(2) The identification of the person(s) who collected the sample and the person(s) who performed the testing.


(3) The results of all tests as originally printed by the testing apparatus, or where no printed result is produced, the results as originally recorded by the person or apparatus that performed the test. Where more than one test is performed, all the results must be retained.


(4) The methodology used for any testing under this part.


(5) Records related to performance-based measurement and statistical quality control under §§ 1090.1360 through 1090.1375.


(6) Records related to gasoline deposit control testing under § 1090.1395.


(7) Records demonstrating the actions taken to stop the sale of any fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock that is found not to be in compliance with applicable standards under this part, and the actions taken to identify the cause of any noncompliance and prevent future instances of noncompliance.


(d) *Registration.* Any party required to register under subpart I of this part must maintain records supporting the information required to complete and maintain the registration for the party's company and each registered facility. The party must also maintain copies of any confirmation received from the submission of such registration information to EPA.


(e) *Reporting.* Any party required to submit reports under subpart J of this part must maintain copies of all reports submitted to EPA. The party must also maintain copies of any confirmation received from the submission of such reports to EPA.


(f) *Exemptions.* Any party that produces or distributes exempt fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock under subpart G of this part must keep the following records:


(1) Records demonstrating the designation of the fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock under subparts G and K of this part.


(2) Copies of PTDs generated or accompanying the exempt fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock.


(3) Records demonstrating that the exempt fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock was actually used in accordance with the requirements of the applicable exemption(s) under subpart G of this part.




