# § 745.1   Definitions.

(a) The terms *account* or *accounts* as used in this part mean share, share certificate or share draft accounts (or their equivalent under state law, as determined by the Board in the case of insured state-chartered credit unions) of a member (which includes other credit unions, public units and nonmembers where permitted under the Act) in a credit union of a type approved by the Board which evidences money or its equivalent received or held by a credit union in the usual course of business and for which it has given or is obligated to give credit to the account of the member. 


(b) The terms *member* or *members* as used in this part mean those persons enumerated in the credit union's field of membership who have been elected to membership in accordance with the Act or state law in the case of state-chartered credit unions. It also includes those nonmembers permitted under the Act to maintain accounts in an insured credit union, including nonmember credit unions and nonmember public units and political subdivisions. 


(c) The term *public unit* means the United States, any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Panama Canal Zone, any territory or possession of the United States, any county, municipality, or political subdivision thereof, or any Indian tribe as defined in section 3(c) of the Indian Financing Act of 1974. 


(d) The term *political subdivision* includes any subdivision of a public unit, as defined in paragraph (c) of this section, or any principal department of such public unit, (1) the creation of which subdivision or department has been expressly authorized by state statute, (2) to which some functions of government have been delegated by state statute, and (3) to which funds have been allocated by statute or ordinance for its exclusive use and control. It also includes drainage, irrigation, navigation improvement, levee, sanitary, school or power districts and bridge or port authorities, and other special districts created by state statute or compacts between the states. Excluded from the term are subordinate or nonautonomous divisions, agencies, or boards within principal departments. 


(e) The term “standard maximum share insurance amount,” referred to as the “SMSIA” hereafter, means $250,000 adjusted pursuant to subparagraph (F) of section 11(a)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821(a)(1)(F)).



---

[N] [51 FR 37560, Oct. 23, 1986, as amended at 71 FR 14635, Mar. 23, 2006; 73 FR 62858, Oct. 22, 2008; 74 FR 55749, Oct. 29, 2009; 75 FR 53843, Sept. 2, 2010; 76 FR 30253, May 25, 2011; 78 FR 32545, May 31, 2013]




