# ยง 230.305   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, the following definitions apply:


(a) *Affirmative Action Plan* means:


(1) With regard to State highway agency work forces, a written document detailing the positive action steps the State highway agency will take to assure internal equal employment opportunity (internal plan).


(2) With regard to Federal-aid construction contract work forces, the Federal equal employment opportunity bid conditions, to be enforced by a State highway agency in the plan areas established by the Secretary of Labor and FHWA special provisions in nonplan areas (external plan).


(b) *Equal employment opportunity program* means the total State highway agency program, including the affirmative action plans, for ensuring compliance with Federal requirements both in State highway agency internal employment and in employment on Federal-aid construction projects.


(c) *Minority groups.* An employee may be included in the minority group to which he or she appears to belong, or is regarded in the community as belonging. As defined by U.S. Federal agencies for employment purposes, minority group persons in the U.S. are identified as Blacks (not of Hispanic origin), Hispanics, Asian or Pacific Islanders, and American Indians or Alaskan Natives.


(d) *Racial/ethnic identification.* For the purpose of this regulation and any accompanying report requirements, an employee may be included in the group to which he or she appears to belong, identifies with, or is regarded in the community as belonging. However, no person should be counted in more than one racial/ethnic category. The following group categories will be used:


(1) The category *White (not of Hispanic origin):* All persons having origins in any of the original peoples of Europe, North Africa, the Middle East, or the Indian Subcontinent.


(2) The category *Black (not of Hispanic origin):* All persons having origins in any of the Black racial groups.


(3) The category *Hispanic:* All persons of Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, Central or South American, or other Spanish culture or origin, regardless of race.


(4) The category *Asian or Pacific Islanders:* All persons having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, or the Pacific Islands. This area includes, for example, China, Japan, Korea, the Philippine Islands, and Samoa.


(5) The category *American Indian or Alaskan Native:* All persons having origins in any of the original peoples of North America.


(e) *State* means any of the 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, and the Virgin Islands.


(f) *State highway agency* means that department, commission, board, or official of any State charged by its laws with the responsibility for highway construction. The term *State* should be considered equivalent to *State highway agency* if the context so implies.



---

[N] [41 FR 28270, July 9, 1976, as amended at 41 FR 46293, Oct. 20, 1976]




