# ยง 17.44   Restrictions on certain claims.

Claims of the type described in this section are only allowable subject to the restrictions noted: 


(a) *Money or currency.* Claims may be allowed for loss of money or currency only when lost incident to fire, flood, hurricane, other natural disaster, or by theft from quarters (as limited by paragraph (a) of ยง 17.45). In instances of theft from quarters, it must be conclusively shown that the quarters were locked at the time of the theft. Reimbursement for loss of money or currency is limited to an amount which is determined to have been reasonable for the claimant to have had in his possession at the time of the loss. 


(b) *Government property.* Claims may only be allowed for property owned by the United States for which the claimant is financially responsible to any agency of the Government other than HUD. 


(c) *Estimate fees.* Claims may include fees paid to obtain estimates of repair only when it is clear that an estimate could not have been obtained without paying a fee. In that case, the fee may be allowed only in an amount determined to be reasonable in relation to the value of the property or the cost of the repairs. 


(d) *Automobiles and other motor vehicles.* Claims may only be allowed for damage to, or loss of, automobiles and other motor vehicles if: 


(1) Such motor vehicles were required to be used for official Government business (official Government business, as used here, does not include travel, or parking incident thereto, between quarters and office, or use of vehicles for the convenience of the owner. However, it does include travel, and parking incident thereto, between quarters and assigned place of duty specifically authorized by the employee's supervisor as being more advantageous to the Government); or 


(2) Shipment of such motor vehicles was being furnished or provided by the Government, subject to the provisions of ยง 17.46. 




