# § 210.2   Definitions.

As used in this subpart:


(a) A *Monthly Statement of Account* or *Monthly Statement* is a statement accompanying monthly royalty payments identified in 17 U.S.C. 115(c)(2)(I), and required by that section to be filed under the compulsory license to make and distribute phonorecords of nondramatic musical works, including by means of a digital phonorecord delivery.


(b) An *Annual Statement of Account* or *Annual Statement* is a statement identified in 17 U.S.C 115(c)(2)(I), and required by that section to be filed under the compulsory license to make and distribute phonorecords of nondramatic musical works, including by means of a digital phonorecord delivery. Such term, when used in this rule, includes an Amended Annual Statement of Account filed pursuant to § 210.7(d)(2)(iii).


(c) A *digital phonorecord delivery* means each individual delivery of a phonorecord by digital transmission of a sound recording that results in a specifically identifiable reproduction by or for any transmission recipient of a phonorecord of that sound recording, regardless of whether the digital transmission is also a public performance of the sound recording or any musical work embodied therein. The reproduction of the phonorecord must be sufficiently permanent or stable to permit it to be perceived, reproduced, or otherwise communicated for a period of more than transitory duration. Such a phonorecord may be permanent or it may be made available to the transmission recipient for a limited period of time or for a specified number of performances. A digital phonorecord delivery includes all phonorecords that are made for the purpose of making the digital phonorecord delivery. A digital phonorecord delivery does not include any transmission that did not result in a specifically identifiable reproduction of the entire product being transmitted, and for which the distributor did not charge, or fully refunded, any monies that would otherwise be due for the relevant transmission. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a permanent download, a limited download, or an interactive stream, as defined in 17 U.S.C. 115(e), is a digital phonorecord delivery. A digital phonorecord delivery does not include the digital transmission of sounds accompanying a motion picture or other audiovisual work as defined in 17 U.S.C. 101.


(d) *Ringtone* shall have the meaning given in § 385.2 of this title.


(e) The term *copyright owner,* in the case of any work having more than one copyright owner, means any one of the co-owners.


(f) A *compulsory licensee* is a person or entity exercising the compulsory license to make and distribute phonorecords of nondramatic musical works as provided under 17 U.S.C. 115, including by means of a digital phonorecord delivery.


(g) A phonorecord is considered *distributed* if the compulsory licensee has voluntarily and permanently parted with possession of the phonorecord, which shall occur as follows:


(1) In the case of physical phonorecords relinquished from possession for purposes other than sale, at the time at which the compulsory licensee actually first parts with possession;


(2) In the case of physical phonorecords relinquished from possession for purposes of sale without a privilege of returning unsold phonorecords for credit or exchange, at the time at which the compulsory licensee actually first parts with possession;


(3) In the case of physical phonorecords relinquished from possession for purposes of sale accompanied by a privilege of returning unsold phonorecords for credit or exchange:


(i) At the time when revenue from a sale of the phonorecord is “recognized” by the compulsory licensee; or


(ii) Nine months from the month in which the compulsory licensee actually first parted with possession, whichever occurs first. For these purposes, a compulsory licensee shall be considered to “recognize” revenue from the sale of a phonorecord when sales revenue would be recognized in accordance with GAAP.


(4) In the case of a digital phonorecord delivery, on the date that the phonorecord is digitally transmitted.


(h) A *phonorecord reserve* comprises the number of phonorecords made under a particular compulsory license, if any, that have been relinquished from possession for purposes of sale in a given month accompanied by a privilege of return, as described in paragraph (g)(3) of this section, and that have not been considered distributed during the month in which the compulsory licensee actually first parted with their possession. The initial number of phonorecords comprising a phonorecord reserve shall be determined in accordance with GAAP.


(i) A *negative reserve balance* comprises the aggregate number of phonorecords made under a particular compulsory license, if any, that have been relinquished from possession for purposes of sale accompanied by a privilege of return, as described in paragraph (g)(3) of this section, and that have been returned to the compulsory licensee, but because all available phonorecord reserves have been eliminated, have not been used to reduce a phonorecord reserve.


(j) *GAAP* means U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, except that if the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission permits or requires entities with securities that are publicly traded in the U.S. to employ International Financial Reporting Standards, as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, or as accepted by the Securities and Exchange Commission if different from that issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, in lieu of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, then an entity may employ International Financial Reporting Standards as “GAAP” for purposes of this subpart.


(k) Any terms not otherwise defined in this section shall have the meanings set forth in 17 U.S.C. 115(e).



---

[N] [79 FR 56206, Sept. 18, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 63065, Dec. 7, 2018. Redesignated at 85 FR 58143, Sept. 17, 2020. Amended at 86 FR 2203, Jan. 11, 2021]




