# ยง 5.13   Decisions.

(a) *In general.* The OCC may approve, conditionally approve, or deny a filing after appropriate review and consideration of the record. In reviewing a filing, the OCC may consider the activities, resources, or condition of an affiliate of the filer that may reasonably reflect on or affect the filer. It also may consider information available from any source, including any comments submitted by interested parties or views expressed by interested parties at meetings with the OCC.


(1) *Conditional approval.* The OCC may impose conditions on any approval, including to address a significant supervisory, CRA (if applicable), or compliance concern, if the OCC determines that the conditions are necessary or appropriate to ensure that approval is consistent with relevant statutory and regulatory standards and OCC policies thereunder and safe and sound banking practices.


(2) *Expedited review.* The OCC grants qualifying national banks and Federal savings associations expedited review within a specified time after filing or commencement of the public comment period for certain filings.


(i) The OCC may extend the expedited review period or remove a filing from expedited review procedures if it concludes that the filing, or an adverse comment regarding the filing, presents a significant supervisory, CRA (if applicable), or compliance concern or raises a significant legal or policy issue requiring additional OCC review. The OCC will provide the filer with a written explanation if it decides not to process an application from a qualifying national bank or Federal savings association under expedited review pursuant to this paragraph.


(ii) Adverse comments that the OCC determines do not raise a significant supervisory, CRA (if applicable), or compliance concern or a significant legal or policy issue; are frivolous, non-substantive, or filed primarily as a means of delaying action on the filing; or raise a CRA concern that has been satisfactorily resolved do not affect the OCC's decision under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section. The OCC considers a comment to be non-substantive if it is a generalized opinion that a filing should or should not be approved or a conclusory statement, lacking factual or analytical support. The OCC considers a CRA concern to have been satisfactorily resolved if the OCC previously reviewed (*e.g.,* in an examination, other supervisory activity, or a prior filing made by the current filer) a concern presenting substantially the same issue in substantially the same assessment area during substantially the same time, and the OCC determines that the concern would not warrant denial or imposition of a condition on approval of the application.


(iii) If a bank or savings association makes a filing for any activity or transaction that is dependent upon the approval of another filing under this part, or if requests for approval for more than one activity or transaction are combined in a single filing under applicable sections of this part, none of the subject filings may be deemed approved upon expiration of the applicable time periods, unless all of the filings are subject to expedited review procedures and the longest of the time periods expires without the OCC issuing a decision or notifying the bank or savings association that the filings are not eligible for expedited review under the standards in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.


(b) *Denial.* The OCC may deny a filing if:


(1) A significant supervisory, CRA (if applicable), or compliance concern exists with respect to the filer;


(2) Approval of the filing is inconsistent with applicable law, regulation, or OCC policy thereunder; or


(3) The filer fails to provide information requested by the OCC that is necessary for the OCC to make an informed decision.


(c) *Required information and abandonment of filing.* A filing must contain information required by the applicable section set forth in this part. To the extent necessary to evaluate an application, the OCC may require a filer to provide additional information. The OCC may deem a filing abandoned if information required or requested by the OCC in connection with the filing is not furnished within the time period specified by the OCC. The OCC may return an application without a decision if it finds the filing to be materially deficient. A filing is materially deficient if it lacks sufficient information for the OCC to make a determination under the applicable statutory or regulatory criteria.


(d) *Notification of final disposition.* The OCC notifies the filer, and any person who makes a written request, of the final disposition of a filing, including confirmation of an expedited review under this part. If the OCC denies a filing, the OCC notifies the filer in writing of the reasons for the denial.


(e) *Publication of decision.* The OCC will issue a public decision when a decision represents a new or changed policy or presents issues of general interest to the public or the banking industry. In rendering its decisions, the OCC may elect not to disclose information that the OCC deems to be private or confidential.


(f) *Appeal.* A filer may file an appeal of an OCC decision in writing with the Deputy Comptroller for Licensing or with the Ombudsman at the address listed on *www.occ.gov*. In the event that the Deputy Comptroller for Licensing was the deciding official of the matter appealed, or was involved personally and substantially in the matter, the appeal may be referred instead to the Chief Counsel or the Ombudsman.


(g) *Extension of time.* When the OCC approves or conditionally approves a filing, the OCC generally gives the filer a specified period of time to commence that new or expanded activity. The OCC does not generally grant an extension of the time specified to commence a new or expanded corporate activity approved under this part, unless the OCC determines that the delay is beyond the filer's control.


(h) *Nullifying a decision.* The OCC may nullify any decision on a filing either prior to or after consummation of the transaction if:


(1) The OCC discovers a material misrepresentation or omission in any information provided to the OCC in the filing or supporting materials;


(2) The decision is contrary to law, regulation, or OCC policy thereunder; or


(3) The decision was granted due to clerical or administrative error, or a material mistake of law or fact.


(i) *Modifying, Suspending, or Rescinding a Decision.* The OCC may modify, suspend, or rescind a decision on a filing if a material change in the information or circumstance on which the OCC relied occurs prior to the date of the consummation of the transaction to which the decision pertains.



---

[N] [80 FR 28414, May 18, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 80436, Dec. 11, 2020]




