# § 1719.11   Compliance with USDA departmental regulations, policies and other federal laws.

(a) *Equal opportunity and nondiscrimination.* RUS will ensure that equal opportunity and nondiscriminatory requirements are met in accordance with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and 7 CFR part 15. In accordance with federal civil rights law and U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) civil rights regulations and policies, the USDA, its agencies, offices, and employees, and institutions participating in or administering USDA programs are prohibited from discriminating based on race, color, national origin, religion, sex, gender identity (including gender expression), sexual orientation, disability, age, marital status, family/parental status, income derived from a public assistance program, political beliefs, or reprisal or retaliation for prior civil rights activity, in any program or activity conducted or funded by USDA (not all bases apply to all programs).


(b) *Civil rights compliance.* Recipients of federal assistance hereunder must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. In general, recipients should have available the Agency racial and ethnic data showing the extent to which members of minority groups are beneficiaries of federally assisted programs. The Agency will conduct compliance reviews in accordance with 7 CFR part 15. Awardees will be required to complete Form RD 400-4, “Assurance Agreement,” for each federal award received.


(c) *Discrimination complaints.* Persons believing, they have been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this section may file a complaint personally, or by an authorized representative with USDA, Director, Office of Adjudication, 1400 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20250. A complaint must be filed no later than 180 days from the date of the alleged discrimination, unless the time for filing is extended by the designated officials of USDA or the Agency.


(d) *Appeal Rights.* Applicants and RESP applicants have appeal or review rights for RUS decisions made under this part.


(1) Programmatic decisions based on clear and objective statutory or regulatory requirements are not appealable; however, such decisions are reviewable for appealability by the National Appeals Division (NAD).


(2) An Applicant and a RESP applicant can appeal any RUS decision that directly and adversely impacts it. Appeals will be conducted by USDA NAD and will be handled in accordance with 7 CFR part 11.


(e) *Federal Debt and Settlement of Debt.* It is the policy of the Administrator that, whenever possible, all debt owed to the Government shall be collected in full in accordance with the terms of the borrower's loan documents. Debt owed to RUS constitutes federal debt and is subject to collection under the Debt Collection Improvement Act. RUS can use all remedies available to it to collect the debt from the borrower, including offset in accordance with part 3 of this title. In addition, it is the intent of the Administrator, notwithstanding § 1717.1200(b) of this chapter, that debt settlements under this Part will be governed by the provisions set forth in 7 CFR part 1717, subpart Y or its successor Agency policies or regulations.






