# § 3176.6   Applications, approvals, and reports.

(a) *Drilling.* For proposed drilling operations where formations will be penetrated which have zones known to contain or which could reasonably be expected to contain concentrations of H_2_S of 100 ppm or more in the gas stream, the H_2_S Drilling Operation Plan and, if the applicability criteria in § 3176.7(a) are met, a Public Protection Plan as outlined in § 3176.7(b), shall be submitted as part of the Application for Permit to Drill (APD) (refer to subpart 3171 of this part). In cases where multiple filings are being made with a single drilling plan, a single H_2_S Drilling Operations Plan and, if applicable, a single Public Protection Plan may be submitted for the lease, communitization agreement, unit, or field in accordance with subpart 3171. Failure to submit either the H_2_S Drilling Operations Plan or the Public Protection Plan when required by this subpart shall result in an incomplete APD pursuant to 43 CFR 3162.3-1.


(b) *Drilling plan.* The H_2_S Drilling Operations Plan shall fully describe the manner in which the requirements and minimum standards in § 3176.8, shall be met and implemented. As required by this subpart (§ 3176.8), the following must be submitted in the H_2_S Drilling Operations Plan:


(1) Statement that all personnel shall receive proper H_2_S training in accordance, with § 3176.8(c)(1).


(2) A legible well site diagram of accurate scale (may be included as part of the well site layout as required by subpart 3171 of this part) showing the following:


(i) Drill rig orientation;


(ii) Prevailing wind direction;


(iii) Terrain of surrounding area;


(iv) Location of all briefing areas (designate primary briefing area);


(v) Location of access road(s) (including secondary egress);


(vi) Location of flare line(s) and pit(s);


(vii) Location of caution and/or danger signs; and


(viii) Location of wind direction indicators.


(3) As required by this subpart, a complete description of the following H_2_S safety equipment/systems:


(i) *Well control equipment.* (A) Flare line(s) and means of ignition;


(B) Remote controlled choke;


(C) Flare gun/flares; and


(D) Mud-gas separator and rotating head (if exploratory well);


(ii) *Protective equipment for essential personnel.* (A) Location, type, storage, and maintenance of all working and escape breathing apparatus; and


(B) Means of communication when using protective breathing apparatus;


(iii) *H*_2_*S detection and monitoring equipment.* (A) H_2_S sensors and associated audible/visual alarm(s); and


(B) Portable H_2_S and SO_2_ monitor(s);


(iv) *Visual warning systems.* (A) Wind direction indicators; and (B) Caution/danger sign(s) and flag(s);


(v) *Mud program.* (A) Mud system and additives; and (B) Mud degassing system;


(vi) *Metallurgy.* Metallurgical properties of all tubular goods and well control equipment which could be exposed to H_2_S (§ 3176.8(d)(3)); and


(vii) *Communication.* Means of communication from wellsite.


(4) Plans for well testing.


(c) *Production.* (1) For each existing production facility having an H_2_S concentration of 100 ppm or more in the gas stream, the operator shall calculate and submit the calculations to the authorized officer within 180 days of January 22, 1991, the 100 and, if applicable, the 500 ppm radii of exposure for all facilities to determine if the applicability criteria in § 3176.7(a) are met. Radii of exposure calculations shall not be required for oil or water flowlines. Further, if any of the applicability criteria (§ 3176.7(a)) are met, the operator shall submit a complete Public Protection Plan which meets the requirements of § 3176.7(b)(2) to the authorized officer within 1 year of January 22, 1991. For production facilities constructed after January 22, 1991, and meeting the minimum concentration (100 ppm in gas stream), the operator shall report the radii of exposure calculations, and if the applicability criteria in § 3176.7(a) are met, submit a complete Public Protection Plan (§ 3176.7(b)(2)) to the authorized officer within 60 days after completion of production facilities.


(2) The operator shall initially test the H_2_S concentration of the gas stream for each well or production facility and shall make the results available to the authorized officer, upon request.


(3) If operational or production alterations result in a 5 percent or more increase in the H_2_S concentration (*i.e.,* well recompletion, increased gas-to-oil ratios) or the radius of exposure as calculated under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, notification of such changes shall be submitted to the authorized officer within 60 days after identification of the change.


(d) *Plans and reports.* (1) H_2_S Drilling Operations Plan(s) or Public Protection Plan(s) shall be reviewed by the operator on an annual basis and a copy of any necessary revisions shall be submitted to the authorized officer upon request.


(2) Any release of a potentially hazardous volume of H_2_S shall be reported to the authorized officer as soon as practicable, but no later than 24 hours following identification of the release.


