# § 420.14   New source performance standards (NSPS).

New sources subject to this subpart must achieve the following new source performance standards (NSPS), as applicable.


(a) *By-product cokemaking.* (1) Any new source subject to the provisions of this section that commenced discharging after November 18, 1992, and before November 18, 2002, must continue to achieve the standards specified in § 420.14 of title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations, revised as of July 1, 2001, except as provided below. For toxic and nonconventional pollutants, those standards shall apply until the expiration of the applicable time period specified in 40 CFR 122.29(d)(1); thereafter, the source must achieve the effluent limitations specified in § 420.13(a).


(2) The following standards apply with respect to each new source that commences construction after November 18, 2002:


(A) Increased loadings, not to exceed 13.3 per cent of the above limitations, shall be provided for process wastewaters from coke oven gas wet desulfurization systems, but only to the extent such systems generate process wastewaters.


(B) Increased loadings shall be provided for process wastewaters from other wet air pollution control systems (except those from coal charging and coke pushing emission controls), coal tar processing operations and coke plant groundwater remediation systems, but only to the extent such systems generate process wastewaters and those wastewaters are co-treated with process wastewaters from by-product cokemaking wastewaters.


(C) Increased loadings, not to exceed 44.2 percent of the above limitations, shall be provided for water used for the optimization of coke plant biological treatment systems.


(b) *Cokemaking—non-recovery.* There shall be no discharge of process wastewater pollutants to waters of the U.S.



---

[N] [67 FR 64262, Oct. 17, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 73623, Dec. 13, 2005]




