# ยง 1924.106   Location.

(a) *General.* It is RHS's policy to promote compact community development and to finance projects that avoid or minimize conversion of wetlands or important farmlands, avoid unwarranted alterations or encroachment on floodplains, and avoid unwarranted adverse effects to historic properties (including those listed or eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places), when practicable alternatives exist to meet development needs; RHS is prohibited from financing development within the Coastal Barrier Resource System, or on a barrier island. A complete listing of the environmental review requirements is found in 7 CFR part 1970. In order to be eligible for RHS participation:


(1) The site must be located in an eligible area as defined in the program regulations under which the development is being funded or approved.


(2) The site must comply with the environmental review requirements in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.


(b) *Single Family Housing.* In addition to the general requirements in paragraph (a) of this section, sites must provide a desirable, safe, functional, convenient, and attractive living environment for the residents.


(c) *Multiple Family Housing.* Multiple family housing projects shall be located in accordance with the requirements in paragraph (r) of ยง 1944.215. Locating sites in less than desirable locations of the community because they are in close proximity to undesirable influences such as high activity railroad tracks; adjacent to or behind industrial sites; bordering sites or structures which are not decent, safe, or sanitary; or bordering sites which have potential environmental concerns such as processing plants, etc., is not acceptable. Screening such sites does not make them acceptable. Sites which are not an integral part of a residential community and do not have a reasonable access, either by location or terrain, to essential community facilities such as water, sewerage, schools, shopping, employment opportunities, medical facilities, etc., are not acceptable.



---

[N] [60 FR 24543, May 9, 1995, as amended at 81 FR 11030, Mar. 2, 2016]




