# § 721.10000   Certain polybrominated diphenylethers.

(a) *Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified as tetrabromodiphenyl ether (CAS No. 40088-47-9; Benzene, 1,1′-oxybis-, tetrabromo deriv.), pentabromodiphenyl ether (CAS No. 32534-81-9; Benzene, 1,1′-oxybis-, pentabromo deriv.), hexabromodiphenyl ether (CAS No. 36483-60-0; Benzene, 1,1′-oxybis-, hexabromo deriv.), heptabromodiphenyl ether (CAS No. 68928-80-3; Benzene, 1,1′-oxybis-, heptabromo deriv.), octabromodiphenyl ether (CAS No. 32536-52-0; Benzene, 1,1′-oxybis-, octabromo deriv.), and nonabromodiphenyl ether (CAS No. 63936-56-1; Benzene, pentabromo(tetrabromophenoxy)-), or any combination of these substances resulting from a chemical reaction are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new use is manufacture or import for any use on or after January 1, 2005.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Persons who must report.* Section 721.5 applies to this section except for § 721.5(a)(2). A person who intends to manufacture or import for commercial purposes a substance identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and intends to distribute the substance in commerce must submit a significant new use notice.


(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [71 FR 34021, June 13, 2006]




