# § 63.7325   What test methods and other procedures must I use to demonstrate initial compliance with the TDS or constituent limits for quench water?

(a) If you elect the TDS limit for quench water in § 63.7295(a)(1)(i), you must conduct each performance test that applies to your affected source based on representative performance (*i.e.,* performance based on the entire range of normal operating conditions) of the affected source for the period being tested, according to the conditions in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. Representative conditions exclude periods of startup and shutdown. You shall not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent the entire range of normal operation, including operational conditions for maximum emissions if such emissions are not expected during maximum production. You shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.




(1) Take the quench water sample from a location that provides a representative sample of the quench water as applied to the coke (*e.g.,* from the header that feeds water to the quench tower reservoirs). Conduct sampling under normal and representative operating conditions. 


(2) Determine the TDS concentration of the sample using Method 160.1 in 40 CFR part 136.3 (see “residue—filterable”), except that you must dry the total filterable residue at 103 to 105 °C (degrees Centigrade) instead of 180 °C. 


(b) If at any time you elect to meet the alternative requirements for quench water in § 63.7295(a)(1)(ii), you must establish a site-specific constituent limit according to the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section. 


(1) Take a minimum of nine quench water samples from a location that provides a representative sample of the quench water as applied to the coke (*e.g.,* from the header that feeds water to the quench tower reservoirs). Conduct sampling under normal and representative operating conditions. 


(2) For each sample, determine the TDS concentration according to the requirements in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and the concentration of benzene, benzo(a)pyrene, and naphthalene using the applicable methods in 40 CFR part 136 or an approved alternative method. 


(3) Determine and record the highest sum of the concentrations of benzene, benzo(a)pyrene, and naphthalene in any sample that has a TDS concentration less than or equal to the TDS limit of 1,100 mg/L. This concentration is the site-specific constituent limit. 


(4) Submit the site-specific limit, sampling results, and all supporting data and calculations to your permitting authority for review and approval. 


(c) If you elect the constituent limit for quench water in § 63.7295(a)(1)(ii), you must conduct each performance test that applies to your affected source according to the conditions in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section. 


(1) Take a quench water sample from a location that provides a representative sample of the quench water as applied to the coke (*e.g.,* from the header that feeds water to the quench tower reservoirs). Conduct sampling under normal and representative operating conditions. 


(2) Determine the sum of the concentration of benzene, benzo(a)pyrene, and naphthalene in the sample using the applicable methods in 40 CFR part 136 or an approved alternative method. 





---

[N] [68 FR 18025, Apr. 14, 2003, as amended at 89 FR 55748, July 5, 2024]












