# § 54.1019   Interim service and final service milestone reports.

(1) Certifications to representative data submitted in the Broadband Data Collection demonstrating mobile transmissions to and from the network that establish compliance with the 5G Fund coverage, speed, and latency requirements;


(2) On-the-ground test data or infrastructure data to substantiate 5G broadband coverage data;


(i) On-the-ground test data must:


(A) Be collected within each selected hexagon in a sample of hexagons at the resolution 9 level selected by Commission staff;


(B) Be conducted pursuant to the testing parameters and metrics for valid on-the-ground tests described in § 1.7006(c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this chapter;


(C) Show that at least 90% of the support recipient's speed test measurements demonstrate that it has deployed service meeting the 5G Fund performance requirements specified in § 54.1015(c) in the area(s) for which the support recipient is authorized to receive 5G Fund support;


(D) Include at least two tests within each of the selected hexagons where the time of the tests are at least four hours apart, irrespective of date, unless the support recipient has, and submits with its speed tests, actual cell loading data for the cell(s) covering the sampled hexagon showing that the median loading, measured in 15-minute intervals, did not exceed the modeled loading factor for the one-week period prior to the submission, in which case the support recipient must submit two speed tests for each hexagon and the two tests need not be recorded four hours apart;


(E) Be conducted in an in-vehicle mobile environment with the antenna located inside the vehicle.


(ii) Infrastructure data must include the information described in § 1.7006(c)(2)(i) of this chapter for all cell sites and antennas within the area(s) for which the support recipient is authorized to receive 5G Fund support;




(3) Additional information as required by Commission staff.








(b) All data submitted and certified to in compliance with a recipient's public interest obligations in the milestone report must be certified by an engineer with the same qualifications as required for submitting the Broadband Data Collection biannual filings described in § 1.7004 of this chapter.


(c) Each service milestone report must be submitted via the Commission's Broadband Data Collection portal.


(d) All data submitted in and certified to in any service milestone report shall be subject to verification by the Administrator and Commission staff for compliance with the 5G Fund performance requirements specified in § 54.1015(c).


(e) Compliance with paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) and (b) of this section will not be required until after the completion of such review by the Office of Management and Budget as the Office of Economics and Analytics and Wireline Competition Bureau deem necessary. The Commission will publish a document in the _Federal Register_ announcing that compliance date and revising or removing this paragraph (e).





---

[N] [76 FR 73877, Nov. 29, 2011, as amended at 89 FR 101399, Dec. 13, 2024]




