# § 721.11031   Alkyl heteromonocycle, polymer with heteromonocycle, carboxyalkyl alkyl ether (generic).

(a) *Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified generically as alkyl heteromonocycle, polymer with heteromonocycle, carboxyalkyl alkyl ether (PMNs P-16-273 and P-16-0274) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i) and (iii), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1.0%), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible.


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e) (concentration set at 1.0%), (f), (g)(1)(i) and (ii), (dermal sensitization), (g)(2)(i), (ii), (iii), and (v), (g)(3)(i) and (ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5). Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(f). It is a significant new use to use the substances for the uses specified in the TSCA 5(e) Order, at a concentration greater than 3% of the metal working fluid and use other than the closed metal working systems as specified in the PMNs with no modifications in the process that would result in worker inhalation exposure.


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) where N=10.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.



---

[N] [84 FR 43291, Aug. 20, 2019]




