# § 607.21   What are the selection criteria for planning grants?

The Secretary evaluates an application for a planning grant on the basis of the criteria in this section.


(a) *Design of the planning process.* The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of the planning process that the applicant will use to develop a comprehensive development plan and an application for a development grant based on the extent to which—


(1) The planning process is clearly and comprehensively described and based on sound planning practice;


(2) The president or chief executive officer, administrators and other institutional personnel, students, and governing board members systematically and consistently will be involved in the planning process;


(3) The applicant will use its own resources to help implement the project; and


(4) The planning process is likely to achieve its intended results.


(b) *Key personnel.* The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of key personnel to be involved in the project based on the extent to which—


(1) The past experience and training of key personnel such as the project coordinator and persons who have key roles in the planning process are suitable to the tasks to be performed; and


(2) The time commitments of key personnel are adequate.


(c) *Project Management.* The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of the plan to manage the project effectively based on the extent to which—


(1) The procedures for managing the project are likely to ensure effective and efficient project implementation; and


(2) The project coordinator has sufficient authority, including access to the president or chief executive officer, to conduct the project effectively.


(d) *Budget.* The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which the proposed project costs are necessary and reasonable.



---

[N] [52 FR 30529, Aug. 14, 1987, as amended at 70 FR 13374, Mar. 21, 2005]




