# ยง 200.937   Supplementary specific procedural requirements under HUD building product standards and certification program for plastic bathtub units, plastic shower receptors and stalls, plastic lavatories, plastic water closet bowls and tanks.

(a) *Applicable standards.* (1) Plastic bathtub units, plastic shower receptors and stalls, plastic lavatories, and plastic water closet bowls and tanks shall be designed, assembled and tested in compliance with the following standards, which are incorporated by reference:


(2) These standards have been approved by the Director of the Federal Register for incorporation by reference. They are available from the American National Standards Institute, Inc., 11 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036. The standards are also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(b) *Labeling.* (1) Under the procedures set forth in paragraph (d)(6) of ยง 200.935, concerning labeling of a product, the administrator's validation mark and the manufacturer's certification of compliance with the applicable standards are required to be on the certification label issued by the administrator to the manufacturer. In the case of plastic bathtub units, plastic shower receptors and stalls, plastic lavatories, and plastic water closet bowls and tanks, the following additional information shall be included on the certification label: 


(i) Manufacturer's statement of conformance to UM 73a; 


(ii) Manufacturer's name and code identifying the plant location. 


(2) The certification label shall be affixed to each plastic bathroom fixture. 


(c) *Periodic tests and quality control inspections.* Under the procedures set forth in paragraph (d)(8) of ยง 200.935, concerning periodic tests and quality control inspections, the frequency of testing for a product shall be described in the specific building product certification program. In the case of plastic bathroom fixtures, testing and inspection shall be conducted as follows: 


(1) At least every six months, the administrator shall visit the manufacturer's facility to select a sample of each certified plastic bathtub unit, plastic shower receptor and stall, plastic water closet bowl and tank for testing in an approved laboratory, in accordance with applicable standards. 


(2) At least every twelve months, the administrator shall visit the manufacturer's facility to select a sample of each certified plastic lavatory for testing in accordance with applicable standards. 


(3) The administrator shall also review quality control procedures at each visit to determine that they continue to be followed.



---

[N] [49 FR 378, Jan. 4, 1984, as amended at 59 FR 36695, July 19, 1994]




