# ยง 267.3   Referral of debts for collection action, including offset.

(a) *In general.* To the extent not inconsistent with any applicable law or with any rule, regulation, or policy adopted by the Board in the exercise of authority granted to it under the Federal Reserve Act, the Board will refer debts covered by this regulation and which are eligible debts over 120 days delinquent to which this part applies to the U.S. Department of the Treasury for appropriate debt collection action, including but not limited to centralized offset, and offset of tax refunds. The Board may also refer any eligible debt less than 120 days delinquent to the U.S. Department of the Treasury for appropriate collection action.


(b) *Proceedings prior to referral.* At least 60 days prior to referring a debt in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, the Board will send the debtor the notice described in 31 CFR 901.3(b)(4)(ii)(A), and afford the debtor the procedural protections described in 31 CFR 901.3(b)(4)(ii)(B) and 31 U.S.C. 3720A(b). However, the Board is not required to duplicate any prior notice or review opportunities that it has already afforded the debtor prior to referral.


(c) *Non-centralized offset.* The Board may request an agency other than the U.S. Department of the Treasury to conduct non-centralized offset. Except in the situations described in 31 CFR 901.3(b)(4)(iii)(A)-(C), the Board will follow the procedures described in paragraph (b) of this section prior to making such a request. When making the request, the Board will certify in writing to the paying agency that the debtor owes the past due, legally enforceable delinquent debt in the amount stated, and that the Board has fully complied with these regulations.




