# § 416.2050   Mandatory minimum State supplementation.

(a) *Determining the amount.* The amount of a mandatory State supplementary payment in the case of any eligible individual or couple for any month is equal to:


(1) The amount by which such individual or couple's December 1973 income (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section) exceeds the amount of such individual or couple's title XVI benefit plus other income which would have been used by such State in computing the assistance payable under the State's approved plan for such month; or


(2) Such greater amount as the State may specify.


(b) *December 1973 income.* “December 1973 income” means an amount equal to the aggregate of:


(1) *Money payments.* The amount of the aid or assistance in the form of money payments (as defined in 45 CFR 234.11(a)) which an individual would have received (including any part of such amount which is attributable to meeting special needs or special circumstances) under a State plan approved under title I, X, XIV, or XVI of the Act in accordance with the terms and conditions of such plan relating to eligibility for and amount of such aid or assistance payable thereunder which were in effect for the month of June 1973 together with the bonus value of food stamps for January 1972 if for such month such individual resides in a State which SSA has determined provides supplementary payments the level of which has been found by SSA pursuant to section 8 of Pub. L. 93-233 (87 Stat. 956) to have been specifically increased so as to include the bonus value of food stamps, and


(2) *Income.* The amount of the income of such individual other than aid or assistance, received by such individual in December 1973, remaining after application of all appropriate income exclusions and used in computation of the amount of aid or assistance, minus any such income which did not result, but which if properly reported, would have resulted in a reduction in the amount of such aid or assistance. Income, which because a State paid less than 100% of its standard of need, did not cause a reduction in the amount of aid or assistance is included.


(c) *Special needs or circumstances.* Special needs or circumstances include needs of essential persons (as defined in § 416.222), special allowances for housing, and such other situations for which money payments to or for an eligible individual were made under a State plan approved under title I, X, XIV, or XVI of the Act as in effect for June 1973.


(d) *Optional supplement payable.* A recipient meeting the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section who would otherwise qualify for a payment under a State's program of optional State supplementation (provided for by § 416.2010) which is greater than the amount required by paragraph (a) of this section, shall be paid such greater amount.



---

[N] [40 FR 7640, Feb. 21, 1975, as amended at 51 FR 10616, Mar. 14, 1986; 62 FR 313, Jan. 3, 1997]




