# ยง 416.330   Reconsiderations under the ASCQR Program.

(a) *Reconsiderations of ASCQR Program decisions.* An ASC may request reconsideration of a decision by CMS that it has not met the requirements of the ASCQR Program for a particular payment determination year. An ASC must submit a reconsideration request to CMS by no later than the first business day on or after March 17 of the affected payment year.


(b) *Requirements for reconsideration requests*. A reconsideration request must contain the following information:


(1) The ASC CCN and related NPI(s);


(2) The name of the ASC;


(3) The CMS-identified reason for not meeting the requirements of the ASCQR Program for the affected payment determination year as provided in any CMS notification to the ASC;


(4) The ASC's basis for requesting reconsideration. The ASC must identify its specific reason(s) for believing it met the ASCQR Program requirements for the affected payment determination year and should not be subject to the reduced ASC annual payment update;


(5) The ASC-designated personnel contact information, including name, email address, telephone number, and mailing address (must include physical mailing address, not just a post office box); and


(6) A copy of all materials that the ASC submitted to comply with the requirements of the affected ASCQR Program payment determination year. With regard to information on claims, ASCs are not required to submit copies of all submitted claims, but instead may focus on the specific claims at issue. For these claims, ASCs should submit relevant information, which could include copies of the actual claims at issue.


(c) *Reconsideration process*. Upon receipt of a request for reconsideration, CMS will do the following:


(1) Provide an email acknowledgement, using the contact information provided in the reconsideration request, notifying the ASC that the request has been received; and


(2) Provide a formal response to the ASC contact using the information provided in the reconsideration request notifying the ASC of the outcome of the reconsideration process.


(d) *Final ASCQR Program payment determination.* For an ASC that submits a timely reconsideration request, the reconsideration determination is the final ASCQR Program payment determination. For an ASC that does not submit a timely reconsideration request, the CMS determination is the final payment determination. There is no appeal of any final ASCQR Program payment determination.






