# ยง 1302.3   Responsibility for responding to requests.

(a) *Acknowledgment of requests.* OMB will acknowledge your request for access in writing and provide an individualized tracking number. Upon request, OMB will make information available to you about the status of your request using the assigned tracking number.


(b) *Timing of responses to a Privacy Act request for access.* OMB will respond to Privacy Act requests for access to records according to the order in which OMB receives the requests. Consistent with OMB's FOIA procedures at 5 CFR 1303.40(b), OMB may designate multiple processing tracks that distinguish between simple and more complex Privacy Act requests for access, based on the estimated amount of work or time needed to process the request.


(c) *Additional information.* If, after receiving a request, OMB determines that your request does not reasonably describe the records sought, OMB will inform you what additional information is needed and why the request is otherwise insufficient. If a request does not reasonably describe the records sought, OMB's response to the request may be delayed.


(d) *Grant of request for access.* Once OMB makes a determination to grant a request for access, OMB will provide you a written response, which may include the following:


(1) A statement as to whether OMB will grant access by providing a copy of the record through electronic means or the mail; and


(2) The amount of fees charged, if any (see ยง 1302.7). (Fees are applicable only to requests for duplicates.)


(e) *Adverse determination of request for access.* OMB will notify you of an adverse determination denying a request for access in writing. Adverse determinations, or denials of requests, consist of: A determination to withhold any requested record in whole or in part; a determination that a requested record does not exist or cannot be located; a determination that what has been requested is not a record subject to the Privacy Act; a determination on any disputed fee matter; or a denial of a request for expedited treatment. OMB's notification letter to you will include:


(1) The decision of OMB whether to grant in whole, or deny any part of the request;


(2) The reasons for the determination for any portion of the request that is denied; and


(3) A description of the procedure by which the OMB decision to deny your request may be appealed, including the name and address of the official with whom you may lodge such an appeal.






