# § 21.7600   Counseling.

A reservist may receive counseling from VA before beginning training and during training.


(a) *Purpose.* The purpose of counseling is—


(1) To assist in selecting an objective;


(2) To develop a suitable program of education;


(3) To select an institution of higher learning appropriate for the educational or training objective;


(4) To resolve any personal problems which are likely to interfere with the successful pursuit of a program; and


(5) To select an employment objective for the reservist that would be likely to provide the reservist with satisfactory employment opportunities in light of his or personal circumstances.


(b) *Required counseling.* (1) In any case in which the Department of Veterans Affairs has rated the reservist as being incompetent, the reservist must be counseled before selecting a program of education. The requirement that counseling be provided is met when—


(i) The reservist has had one or more personal interviews with the counselor;


(ii) The counselor and the reservist have jointly developed recommendations for selecting a program of education; and


(iii) The counselor has reviewed the recommendations with the reservist.


(2) The veteran may follow the recommendations developed in the course of counseling, but is not required to do so.


(3) The Department of Veterans Affairs will take no further action on a reservist's application for assistance under this chapter when he or she—


(i) Fails to report for counseling;


(ii) Fails to cooperate in the counseling process; or


(iii) Does not complete counseling to the extent required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(c) *Availability of counseling.* Counseling is available for


(1) Identifying and removing reasons for academic difficulties which may result in interruption of discontinuance of training, or 


(2) Considering changes in career plans and making sound decisions about the changes.


(d) *Provision of counseling.* The Department of Veterans Affairs shall provide counseling as needed for the purposes identified in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section upon request of the reservist. In addition, the Department of Veterans Affairs shall provide counseling as needed for the purposes identified in paragraph (b) of this section following the reservist's request for counseling, the reservist's initial application for benefits or any communication from the reservist or guardian indicating that the reservist wishes to change his or her program. The Department of Veterans Affairs shall take appropriate steps (including individual notification where feasible) to acquaint reservists with the availability and advantages of counseling services.



---

[N] [53 FR 34740, Sept. 8, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9628, Mar. 7, 1991]




