# ยง 1112.35   When must an audit be conducted?

(a) At a minimum, each third party conformity assessment body must be reassessed at the frequency established by its accreditation body.


(b) For the examination portion of the audit, which is conducted by the CPSC:


(1) Each third party conformity assessment body must submit a CPSC Form 223 for audit purposes no less than every two years. When a CPSC Form 223 is submitted for audit purposes, the third party conformity assessment body must submit any accompanying documentation that would be required if it were a new application.


(2) Under ยง 1112.13(a)(1), a third party conformity assessment body must submit a new CPSC Form 223 whenever the information supplied on the form changes. In the event that the third party conformity assessment body submits a new CPSC Form 223 to provide updated information, the third party conformity assessment body may elect to have the new CPSC Form 223 satisfy the requirement of paragraph (b)(1) of this section. If the third party conformity assessment body intends to have the new CPSC Form 223 treated as its submission for audit purposes, the third party conformity assessment body must make that intention clear upon submission, and it must submit any accompanying documentation that would be required if it were a new application.


(3) At least 30 days prior to the date by which a third party conformity assessment body must submit a CPSC Form 223 for audit purposes, the CPSC will notify the body in writing, which may be electronic, of the impending audit deadline. A third party conformity assessment body may request an extension of the deadline for the examination portion of the audit, but it must indicate how much additional time is requested and explain why such an extension is warranted. The CPSC will notify the third party conformity assessment body whether its request for an extension has been granted.



---

[N] [77 FR 31084, May 24, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 15865, Mar. 12, 2013]




