# § 585.413   How do I consolidate leases or grants?

(a) You may apply to consolidate all or part of two or more adjacent leases or grants held by the same lessee or grant holder into one new lease or grant, subject to BOEM's approval. The application must include a description of the leases or grants, or portions thereof, to be consolidated, including the relevant lease number, lease blocks, and aliquots.


(b) An approved consolidation will create a new lease or grant that will be subject to the terms and conditions of the consolidated leases or grants.


(c) To the extent the leases or grants to be consolidated have different times remaining in the relevant lease or grant periods, BOEM will default to using the shorter remaining periods in the new lease or grant but will consider requests for a revised lease or grant period schedule included in the consolidation application.


(d) To the extent the leases or grants to be consolidated have other different terms and conditions, BOEM will default to using the terms and conditions in the most recently issued lease or grant to be consolidated for the new lease. BOEM will consider requests for modifications on a case-by-case basis and, in its discretion, approve such requests for good cause.


(e) Before BOEM will approve your consolidation request, BOEM will assess appropriate financial assurance obligations for the new lease or grant per §§ 585.516 and 585.517 or §§ 585.520 and 585.521.


(f) Any consolidated leases and grants that have been absorbed into the new lease or grant in their entirety will be considered terminated at the time of consolidation approval.






