# § 263.7   How does the Secretary evaluate applications for the Professional Development program?

The Secretary uses the procedures for establishing selection criteria and factors in 34 CFR 75.200 through 75.210 to establish the criteria and factors used to evaluate applications submitted in a grant competition for the Professional Development program. The Secretary may also consider one or more of the criteria and factors listed in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section to evaluate applications.


(a) *Need for project.* In determining the need for the proposed project, the Secretary considers one or more of the following:


(1) The extent to which the proposed project will prepare personnel in specific fields in which shortages have been demonstrated through a job market analysis.


(2) The extent to which LEAs with qualifying employment opportunities exist in the project's service area, as demonstrated through a job market analysis, and have provided a letter of support for the project.


(b) *Significance.* In determining the significance of the proposed project, the Secretary considers one or more of the following:


(1) The potential of the proposed project to develop effective strategies for teaching Indian students and improving Indian student achievement, as demonstrated by a plan to share findings gained from the proposed project with parties who could benefit from such findings, such as other institutions of higher education who are training teachers and administrators who will be serving Indian students.


(2) The likelihood that the proposed project will build local capacity to provide, improve, or expand services that address the specific needs of Indian students.


(c) *Quality of the project design.* The Secretary considers one or more of the following factors in determining the quality of the design of the proposed project:


(1) The extent to which the goals, objectives, and outcomes to be achieved by the proposed project are ambitious but also attainable and address—


(i) The number of participants expected to be recruited in the project each year;


(ii) The number of participants expected to continue in the project each year;


(iii) The number of participants expected to graduate; and


(iv) The number of participants expected to find qualifying employment within twelve months of completion.


(2) The extent to which the proposed project has a plan for recruiting and selecting participants, including students who may not be of traditional college age, that ensures that program participants are likely to complete the program.


(3) The extent to which the proposed project will incorporate the needs of potential employers, as identified by a job market analysis, by establishing partnerships and relationships with LEAs that serve a high proportion of Indian students and developing programs that meet their employment needs.


(d) *Quality of project services.* The Secretary considers one or more of the following factors in determining the quality of project services:


(1) The likelihood that the proposed project will provide participants with learning experiences that develop needed skills for successful teaching and/or administration in LEAs that serve a high proportion of Indian students.

(2) The extent to which the proposed project prepares participants to adapt teaching and/or administrative practices to meet the breadth of Indian student needs.


(3) The extent to which the applicant will provide job placement activities that reflect the findings of a job market analysis and needs of potential employers and that offer qualifying employment opportunities. 


(4) The extent to which the applicant will offer induction services that reflect the latest research on effective delivery of such services.


(5) The extent to which the applicant will assist participants in meeting the service obligation requirements.


(e) *Quality of project personnel.* The Secretary considers one or more of the following factors when determining the quality of the personnel who will carry out the proposed project:


(1) The qualifications, including relevant training, experience, and cultural competence, of the project director and the amount of time this individual will spend directly involved in the project.


(2) The qualifications, including relevant training, experience, and cultural competence, of key project personnel and the amount of time to be spent on the project and direct interactions with participants.





---

[N] [80 FR 22412, Apr. 22, 2015. Redesignated and amended at 85 FR 41378, July 10, 2020]




