# ยง 501.741   Review of decision or ruling.

(a) *Availability.* (1)(i) Review of the decision of the Administrative Law Judge by the Secretary's designee is not a right. The Secretary's designee may, in his or her discretion, review the decision of the Administrative Law Judge on the petition of either the respondent or the Director, or upon his or her own motion. The Secretary's designee shall determine whether to review a decision: 


(A) If a petition for review has been filed by the respondent or the Director, not later than 30 days after that date the Administrative Law Judge filed his or her report with the Secretary's designee pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section; or 


(B) If no petition for review has been filed by the respondent or the Director, not later than 40 days after the date the Administrative Law Judge filed his or her decision with the Secretary's designee pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section. 


(ii) In determining whether to review a decision upon petition of the respondent or the Director, the Secretary's designee shall consider whether the petition for review makes a reasonable showing that: 


(A) A prejudicial error was committed in the conduct of the proceeding; or 


(B) The decision embodies: 


(*1*) A finding or conclusion of material fact that is clearly erroneous; 


(*2*) A conclusion of law that is erroneous; or 


(*3*) An exercise of discretion or decision of law or policy that is important and that the Secretary's designee should review. 


(2) *Interlocutory review of ruling.* The Secretary's designee shall review any ruling of an Administrative Law Judge involving privileged or confidential material that is the subject of a petition for review. See ยง 501.725. 


(b) *Filing.* Either the respondent or the Director, when adversely affected or aggrieved by the decision or ruling of the Administrative Law Judge, may seek review by the Secretary's designee by filing a petition for review. Any petition for review shall be filed with the Administrative Law Judge within 10 days after service of the Administrative Law Judge's decision or the issuance of a ruling involving privileged or confidential material. 


(c) *Contents.* The petition shall state why the Secretary's designee should review the Administrative Law Judge's decision or ruling, including: Whether the Administrative Law Judge's decision or ruling raises an important question of law, policy or discretion; whether review by the Secretary's designee will resolve a question about which the Department's Administrative Law Judges have rendered differing opinions; whether the Administrative Law Judge's decision or ruling is contrary to law or Department precedent; whether a finding of material fact is not supported by a preponderance of the evidence; or whether a prejudicial error of procedure or an abuse of discretion was committed. A petition should concisely state the portions of the decision or ruling for which review is sought. A petition shall not incorporate by reference a brief or legal memorandum. 


(d) *When filing effective.* A petition for review is filed when received by the Administrative Law Judge. 


(e) *Statements in opposition to petition.* Not later than 8 days after the filing of a petition for review, either the respondent or the Director may file a statement in opposition to a petition. A statement in opposition to a petition for review shall be filed in the manner specified in this section for filing of petitions for review. Statements in opposition shall concisely state why the Administrative Law Judge's decision or ruling should not be reviewed with respect to each portion of the petition to which it is addressed. 


(f) *Number of copies.* An original and three copies of a petition or a statement in opposition to a petition shall be filed with the Administrative Law Judge. 


(g) *Prerequisite to judicial review.* Pursuant to section 704 of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 704, a petition for review by the Secretary's designee of an Administrative Law Judge decision or ruling is a prerequisite to the seeking of judicial review of a final order entered pursuant to such decision or ruling. 




