# § 63.10006   When must I conduct subsequent performance tests or tune-ups?

(a) For liquid oil-fired, solid oil-derived fuel-fired and coal-fired EGUs and IGCC units using PM CPMS before July 6, 2027 to monitor continuous performance with an applicable emission limit as provided for under § 63.10000(c), you must conduct all applicable performance tests according to Table 5 to this subpart and § 63.10007 at least every year. On or after July 6, 2027 you may not use PM CPMS to demonstrate compliance for liquid oil-fired, solid oil-derived fuel-fired and coal-fired EGUs. This prohibition against the use of PM CPMS does not apply to IGCC units.






(b) For affected units meeting the LEE requirements of § 63.10005(h), you must repeat the performance test once every 3 years (once every year for Hg) according to Table 5 and § 63.10007. Should subsequent emissions testing results show the unit does not meet the LEE eligibility requirements, LEE status is lost. If this should occur:


(1) For all pollutant emission limits except for Hg, you must conduct emissions testing quarterly, except as otherwise provided in § 63.10021(d)(1).


(2) For Hg, you must install, certify, maintain, and operate a Hg CEMS or a sorbent trap monitoring system in accordance with appendix A to this subpart, within 6 calendar months of losing LEE eligibility. Until the Hg CEMS or sorbent trap monitoring system is installed, certified, and operating, you must conduct Hg emissions testing quarterly, except as otherwise provided in § 63.10021(d)(1). You must have 3 calendar years of testing and CEMS or sorbent trap monitoring system data that satisfy the LEE emissions criteria to reestablish LEE status.


(c) Except where paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section apply, or where you install, certify, and operate a PM CEMS to demonstrate compliance with a filterable PM emissions limit, for liquid oil-, solid oil-derived fuel-, coal-fired and IGCC EGUs, you must conduct all applicable periodic emissions tests for filterable PM, individual, or total HAP metals emissions according to Table 5 to this subpart, § 63.10007, and § 63.10000(c), except as otherwise provided in § 63.10021(d)(1).


(d) Except where paragraph (b) of this section applies, for solid oil-derived fuel- and coal-fired EGUs that do not use either an HCl CEMS to monitor compliance with the HCl limit or an SO_2_ CEMS to monitor compliance with the alternate equivalent SO_2_ emission limit, you must conduct all applicable periodic HCl emissions tests according to Table 5 to this subpart and § 63.10007 at least quarterly, except as otherwise provided in § 63.10021(d)(1).


(e) Except where paragraph (b) of this section applies, for liquid oil-fired EGUs without HCl CEMS, HF CEMS, or HCl and HF CEMS, you must conduct all applicable emissions tests for HCl, HF, or HCl and HF emissions according to Table 5 to this subpart and § 63.10007 at least quarterly, except as otherwise provided in § 63.10021(d)(1), and conduct site-specific monitoring under a plan as provided for in § 63.10000(c)(2)(iii).


(f) *Time between performance tests.* (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of § 63.10021(d)(1), the requirements listed in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section, and the requirements of paragraph (f)(3) of this section, you must complete performance tests for your EGU as follows:


(i) At least 45 calendar days, measured from the test's end date, must separate performance tests conducted every quarter;


(ii) For annual testing:


(A) At least 320 calendar days, measured from the test's end date, must separate performance tests;


(B) At least 320 calendar days, measured from the test's end date, must separate annual sorbent trap mercury testing for 30-boiler operating day LEE tests;


(C) At least 230 calendar days, measured from the test's end date, must separate annual sorbent trap mercury testing for 90-boiler operating day LEE tests; and


(iii) At least 1,050 calendar days, measured from the test's end date, must separate performance tests conducted every 3 years.


(2) For units demonstrating compliance through quarterly emission testing, you must conduct a performance test in the 4th quarter of a calendar year if your EGU has skipped performance tests in the first 3 quarters of the calendar year.


(3) If your EGU misses a performance test deadline due to being inoperative and if 168 or more boiler operating hours occur in the next test period, you must complete an additional performance test in that period as follows:


(i) At least 15 calendar days must separate two performance tests conducted in the same quarter.


(ii) At least 107 calendar days must separate two performance tests conducted in the same calendar year.


(iii) At least 350 calendar days must separate two performance tests conducted in the same 3 year period.


(g) If you elect to demonstrate compliance using emissions averaging under § 63.10009, you must continue to conduct performance stack tests at the appropriate frequency given in section (c) through (f) of this section.


(h) If a performance test on a non-mercury LEE shows emissions in excess of 50 percent of the emission limit and if you choose to reapply for LEE status, you must conduct performance tests at the appropriate frequency given in section (c) through (e) of this section for that pollutant until all performance tests over a consecutive 3-year period show compliance with the LEE criteria.


(i) If you are required to meet an applicable tune-up work practice standard, you must conduct a performance tune-up according to § 63.10021(e).


(1) For EGUs not employing neural network combustion optimization during normal operation, each performance tune-up specified in § 63.10021(e) must be no more than 36 calendar months after the previous performance tune-up.


(2) For EGUs employing neural network combustion optimization systems during normal operation, each performance tune-up specified in § 63.10021(e) must be no more than 48 calendar months after the previous performance tune-up.



---

[N] [77 FR 9464, Feb. 16, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 23403, Apr. 19, 2012; 78 FR 24085, Apr. 24, 2013; 81 FR 20182, Apr. 6, 2016; 89 FR 38565, May 7, 2024]




