# ยง 1042.505   Testing engines using discrete-mode or ramped-modal duty cycles.

This section describes how to test engines under steady-state conditions. In some cases, we allow you to choose the appropriate steady-state duty cycle for an engine; you may also choose between discrete-mode and ramped-modal testing. In all cases, you must use the duty cycle you select in your application for certification for all testing you perform for that engine family. If we test your engines to confirm that they meet emission standards, we will use the duty cycles you select for your own testing. If you submit certification test data using more than one duty cycle, any of the selected duty cycles may be used for any subsequent testing. We may also perform other testing as allowed by the Clean Air Act.


(a) You may perform steady-state testing with either discrete-mode or ramped-modal cycles as described in 40 CFR Part 1065.


(b) Measure emissions by testing the engine on a dynamometer with the following duty cycles (as specified) to determine whether it meets the emission standards in ยง 1042.101 or ยง 1042.104:


(1) *General cycle.* Use the 4-mode duty cycle or the corresponding ramped-modal cycle described in paragraph (a) of Appendix II of this part for commercial propulsion marine engines that are used with (or intended to be used with) fixed-pitch propellers, propeller-law auxiliary engines, and any other engines for which the other duty cycles of this section do not apply. Use this duty cycle also for commercial variable-speed propulsion marine engines that are used with (or intended to be used with) controllable-pitch propellers or with electrically coupled propellers, unless these engines are not intended for sustained operation (e.g., for at least 30 minutes) at all four modes when installed in the vessel.


(2) *Duty cycle for engines with high power density.* Except as specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, use the 5-mode duty cycle or the corresponding ramped-modal cycle described in paragraph (b) of Appendix II of this part for light-commercial engines and recreational marine engines with maximum engine power at or above 37 kW. You may also use this duty cycle for other commercial engines instead of the duty cycle specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section if the power density for every configuration in an engine family is above 30.0 kW/liter.


(3) *Controllable-pitch and electrically coupled propellers.* Use the 4-mode duty cycle or the corresponding ramped-modal cycle described in paragraph (c) of Appendix II of this part for constant-speed propulsion marine engines that are used with (or intended to be used with) controllable-pitch propellers or with electrically coupled propellers. Use this duty cycle also for variable-speed propulsion marine engines that are used with (or intended to be used with) controllable-pitch propellers or with electrically coupled propellers if the duty cycles in paragraph (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section do not apply.


(4) *Constant-speed auxiliary engines.* Use the 5-mode duty cycle or the corresponding ramped-modal cycle described in 40 CFR Part 1039, Appendix II, paragraph (a) for constant-speed auxiliary engines.


(5) *Variable-speed auxiliary engines.* (i) Use the duty cycle specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section for propeller-law auxiliary engines.


(ii) Use the 6-mode duty cycle or the corresponding ramped-modal cycle described in 40 CFR Part 1039, Appendix II, paragraph (b) for variable-speed auxiliary engines with maximum engine power below 19 kW that are not propeller-law engines.


(iii) Use the 8-mode duty cycle or the corresponding ramped-modal cycle described in 40 CFR part 1039, Appendix II, paragraph (c) for variable-speed auxiliary engines with maximum engine power at or above 19 kW that are not propeller-law engines.


(c) For constant-speed engines whose design prevents full-load operation for extended periods, you may ask for approval under 40 CFR 1065.10(c) to replace full-load operation with the maximum load for which the engine is designed to operate for extended periods.



---

[N] [79 FR 23751, Apr. 28, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 74149, Oct. 25, 2016; 85 FR 62232, Oct. 2, 2020]




