# § 245.213   Multiple certifications.

(a) A person who holds a dispatcher certificate may also be certified in other crafts, such as a locomotive engineer or conductor.


(b) A railroad that issues multiple certificates to a person, shall, to the extent possible, coordinate the expiration date of those certificates.


(c) Paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section apply to persons who are currently certified as a dispatcher for multiple railroads or are seeking to become certified dispatchers for multiple railroads.


(1) A person who holds a current dispatcher certificate from more than one railroad shall immediately notify the other certifying railroad(s) if they are denied dispatcher certification or recertification under § 245.301 by another railroad or has their dispatcher certification suspended or revoked under § 245.307 by another railroad.


(2) If a person has their dispatcher certification suspended or revoked by a railroad under § 245.307, they may not work as a dispatcher for any other railroad during the period that their certification is suspended or revoked.


(3) If a person has their dispatcher certification suspended or revoked by a railroad under § 245.307, they must notify any railroad that they are seeking dispatcher certification from that their dispatcher certification is currently suspended or revoked by another railroad.


(d) Paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section apply to persons who are currently certified as a dispatcher and also currently certified in another craft, such as a locomotive engineer or conductor.


(1) If a person's dispatcher certification is revoked under § 245.307 for a violation of § 245.303(e)(7), they may not work in another certified craft, such as a locomotive engineer or conductor, for any railroad during the period of revocation.


(2) If a person's dispatcher certification is revoked under § 245.307 for a violation of § 245.303(e)(1) through (6), they may work in another certified craft, such as a locomotive engineer or conductor, during the period of revocation.


(3) If any of a person's non-dispatcher certifications are revoked for failure to comply with § 219.101 of this chapter, they may not work as a dispatcher for any railroad during the period of revocation.


(4) If any of a person's non-dispatcher certifications are revoked for any reason other than a failure to comply with § 219.101 of this chapter, they may work as a dispatcher during the period of revocation.


(e) A person who has had their dispatcher certification revoked for failure to comply with § 219.101 of this chapter may not obtain any other certification pursuant to this chapter from any railroad during the period of revocation.


(f) A person who has had any of their non-dispatcher certifications revoked for failure to comply with § 219.101 of this chapter, may not obtain a dispatcher certification pursuant to this part from any railroad during the period of revocation.


(g) A railroad that denies a person dispatcher certification or recertification under § 245.301 shall not, solely on the basis of that denial, deny or revoke that person's non-dispatcher certifications or recertifications.


(h) A railroad that denies a person any non-dispatcher certification or recertification pursuant to this chapter shall not, solely on the basis of that denial, deny or revoke that person's dispatcher certification or recertification.


(i) In lieu of issuing multiple certificates, a railroad may issue one certificate to a person who is certified in multiple crafts as long as the single certificate complies with all of the certificate requirements for those crafts.


(j) A person who is certified in multiple crafts and who is involved in a revocable event, as described in this chapter, may only have one certificate revoked for that event. The determination by the railroad as to which certificate to revoke must be based on the work the person was performing at the time the revocable event occurred.






