# § 98.464   Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.

(a) For calendar year 2011 monitoring, the facility may submit a request to the Administrator to use one or more best available monitoring methods as listed in § 98.3(d)(1)(i) through (iv). The request must be submitted no later than October 12, 2010 and must contain the information in § 98.3(d)(2)(ii). To obtain approval, the request must demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that it is not reasonably feasible to acquire, install, and operate a required piece of monitoring equipment by January 1, 2011. The use of best available monitoring methods will not be approved beyond December 31, 2011.


(b) For each waste stream placed in the landfill during the reporting year for which you choose to determine volatile solids concentration and/or a waste stream-specific DOC_X_, you must collect and test a representative sample of that waste stream using the methods specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section, as applicable.


(1) Develop and follow a sampling plan to collect a representative sample (in terms of composition and moisture content) of each waste stream placed in the landfill for which testing is elected.


(2) Determine the percent total solids and the percent volatile solids of each sample following Standard Method 2540G “Total, Fixed, and Volatile Solids in Solid and Semisolid Samples” (incorporated by reference; *see* § 98.7).


(3) For the purposes of § 98.460(c)(2)(xii), the volatile solids concentration (weight percent on a dry basis) is the percent volatile solids determined using Standard Method 2540G “Total, Fixed, and Volatile Solids in Solid and Semisolid Samples” (incorporated by reference; see § 98.7).


(4) Determine DOC value of a waste stream by either using at least a 60-day anaerobic biodegradation test as specified in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section or by estimating the DOC value based on the total and volatile solids measurements as specified in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section.


(i) Perform an anaerobic biodegradation test and determine the DOC value of a waste stream following the procedures and requirements in paragraphs (b)(4)(i)(A) through (E) of this section.


(A) You may use the procedures published by a consensus-based standards organization to conduct a minimum of a 60-day anaerobic biodegradation test. Consensus-based standards organizations include, but are not limited to, the following: ASTM International (100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box CB700, West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania 19428-B2959, (800) 262-1373, *http://www.astm.org*), the American National Standards Institute (ANSI, 1819 L Street, NW., 6th floor, Washington, DC 20036, (202) 293-8020, *http://www.ansi.org*), the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME, Three Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016-5990, (800) 843-2763, *http://www.asme.org*), and the North American Energy Standards Board (NAESB, 801 Travis Street, Suite 1675, Houston, TX 77002, (713) 356-0060, *http://www.api.org*).


(B) Use a minimum of four samples: Two waste stream samples, a control sample using a known substrate (such as ethanol), and a digester sludge blank sample. Each waste stream sample must be appropriately ground to ensure the waste material is fully exposed to the anaerobic digester sludge.


(C) Determine the net mass of carbon degraded in the control sample as the difference in the results of the control sample and the digester sludge blank sample. Determine the net mass of carbon degraded in each waste stream sample as the difference in the results of each waste stream sample and the digester sludge blank sample.


(D) Determine the fraction of carbon degraded in the control sample as the net mass of carbon degraded in the control sample divided by the mass of carbon added via the substrate material in the control sample. If less than 50 percent of the theoretical mass of carbon in the control sample is degraded, the test run is invalid.


(E) Determine the DOC of each waste sample using Equation TT-7 of this section. If the DOC values for the two waste stream samples differ by more than 20 percent, the test run is invalid. The DOC of the waste stream is determined as the average DOC value of the two waste stream samples determined during a valid test.


(ii) Calculate the waste stream-specific DOC_X_ value using Equation TT-8 of this section.


(c) For each waste stream that was historically managed in the landfill for which you choose to determine volatile solids concentration and/or a waste stream-specific DOC_X_, you must determine volatile solids concentration or DOC_X_ of the waste stream as initially placed in the landfill using the methods specified in paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable.


(1) If you can identify a similar waste stream to the waste stream that was historically managed in the landfill, you must determine the volatile solids concentration or DOC_X_ of the similar waste stream using the applicable procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.


(2) If you cannot identify a similar waste stream to the waste stream that was historically managed in the landfill, you may determine the volatile solids concentration or DOC_X_ of the historically managed waste stream using process knowledge. You must document the basis for the volatile solids concentration or DOC_X_ value as determined through process knowledge.


(d) For landfills with gas collection systems, operate, maintain, and calibrate a gas composition monitor capable of measuring the concentration of CH_4_ according to the requirements specified at § 98.344(b).


(e) For landfills with gas collection systems, install, operate, maintain, and calibrate a gas flow meter capable of measuring the volumetric flow rate of the recovered landfill gas according to the requirements specified at § 98.344(c).


(f) For landfills with gas collection systems, all temperature, pressure, and if applicable, moisture content monitors must be calibrated using the procedures and frequencies specified by the manufacturer.


(g) For landfills electing to measure the fraction by volume of CH_4_ in landfill gas (F), follow the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section.


(1) Use a gas composition monitor capable of measuring the concentration of CH_4_ on a dry basis that is properly operated, calibrated, and maintained according to the requirements specified at § 98.344(b). You must either use a gas composition monitor that is also capable of measuring the O_2_ concentration correcting for excess (infiltration) air or you must operate, maintain, and calibrate a second monitor capable of measuring the O_2_ concentration on a dry basis according to the manufacturer's specifications.


(2) Use Equation TT-9 of this section to correct the measured CH_4_ concentration to 0% oxygen. If multiple CH_4_ concentration measurements are made during the reporting year, determine F separately for each measurement made during the reporting year, and use the results to determine the arithmetic average value of F for use in Equation TT-1 of this part.


(h) The facility shall document the procedures used to ensure the accuracy of the estimates of disposal quantities and, if the industrial waste landfill has a gas collection system, gas flow rate, gas composition, temperature, pressure, and moisture content measurements. These procedures include, but are not limited to, calibration of weighing equipment, fuel flow meters, and other measurement devices. The estimated accuracy of measurements made with these devices shall also be recorded, and the technical basis for these estimates shall be provided.



---

[N] [75 FR 39773, July 12, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 73908, Nov. 29, 2011; 77 FR 51495, Aug. 24, 2012; 78 FR 71979, Nov. 29, 2013]




