# ยง 4280.152   Grant funding for Energy Audit and Renewable Energy Development Assistance.

(a) *Maximum grant amount.* The maximum aggregate amount of EA and REDA grants awarded to any one recipient under this subpart cannot exceed $100,000 in a Federal fiscal year. Grant funds awarded for EA and REDA projects may be used only to pay eligible project costs, as described in paragraph (b) of this section. Ineligible project costs are listed in paragraph (c) of this section. Provisions for EA applications are listed in paragraph (d)of this section.


(b) *Eligible project costs.* Eligible project costs for EA and REDA are those costs incurred after the date a complete application has been received by the Agency and that are directly related to conducting and promoting EA and REDA, which include but are not limited to:


(1) Salaries;


(2) Travel expenses;


(3) Office supplies (*e.g.,* paper, pens, file folders); and


(4) Expenses charged as a direct cost or as an indirect cost of up to a maximum of 5 percent for administering the grant.


(c) *Ineligible project costs.* Ineligible project costs for EA and REDA grants include, but are not limited to:


(1) Payment for any construction-related activities;


(2) Purchase or lease of equipment;


(3) Payment of any judgment or debt owed to the United States;


(4) Any goods or services provided by a person or entity who has a conflict of interest as provided in ยง 4280.106;


(5) Any costs of preparing the application package for funding under this subpart; and


(6) Funding of political or lobbying activities.


(7) Funding to train individuals to become qualified to perform EA or REDA assistance.


(8) Payment or waiver of student tuition.


(d) *EA.* A grantee that conducts energy audits must require that, as a condition of providing the EA assistance, the agricultural producer or rural small business pay at least 25 percent of the cost of the energy audit. Further, the amount paid by the agricultural producer or rural small business will be retained by the grantee as a contribution towards the cost of the energy audit and considered program income. The grantee may use the program income to further the objectives of their project or EA services offered during the grant period in accordance with Departmental Regulations. The 25% to be paid by an agricultural producer or rural small business does not count towards the commitment of funds scoring criteria noted in 4280.155(f).






