# § 63.11603   What are the notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements?

(a) *Notifications.* You must submit the notifications identified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) *Initial Notification of Applicability.* If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must submit an initial notification of applicability required by § 63.9(b)(2) no later than June 1, 2010, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. If you own or operate a new affected source, you must submit an initial notification of applicability required by § 63.9(b)(2) no later than 180 days after initial start-up of the operations, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, or June 1, 2010, whichever is later. The notification of applicability must include the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) The name and address of the owner or operator;


(ii) The address (i.e., physical location) of the affected source; and


(iii) An identification of the relevant standard, or other requirement, that is the basis of the notification and the source's compliance date.


(2) *Notification of Compliance Status.* If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status in accordance with § 63.9(h) of the General Provisions by June 3, 2013. If you own or operate a new affected source, you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status within 180 days after initial start-up, or by June 1, 2010, whichever is later. If you own or operate an affected source that becomes an affected source in accordance with § 63.11599(b)(3) after the applicable compliance date in § 63.11600 (a) or (b), you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status within 180 days of the date that you commence processing, using, or generating materials containing HAP, as defined in 63.11607. This Notification of Compliance Status must include the information specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Your company's name and address;


(ii) A statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, phone number, e-mail address and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the notification, a description of the method of compliance (i.e., compliance with management practices, installation of a wet or dry scrubber) and a statement of whether the source has complied with all the relevant standards and other requirements of this subpart.


(b) *Annual Compliance Certification Report.* You must prepare an annual compliance certification report according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section. This report does not need to be submitted unless a deviation from the requirements of this subpart has occurred. When a deviation from the requirements of this subpart has occurred, the annual compliance certification report must be submitted along with the deviation report.


(1) *Dates.* You must prepare and, if applicable, submit each annual compliance certification report according to the dates specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) The first annual compliance certification report must cover the first annual reporting period which begins the day of the compliance date and ends on December 31.


(ii) Each subsequent annual compliance certification report must cover the annual reporting period from January 1 through December 31.


(iii) Each annual compliance certification report must be prepared no later than January 31 and kept in a readily-accessible location for inspector review. If a deviation has occurred during the year, each annual compliance certification report must be submitted along with the deviation report, and postmarked no later than February 15.


(2) *General Requirements.* The annual compliance certification report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) Company name and address;


(ii) A statement in accordance with § 63.9(h) of the General Provisions that is signed by a responsible official with that official's name, title, phone number, e-mail address and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the notification and a statement of whether the source has complied with all the relevant standards and other requirements of this subpart; and


(iii) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. The reporting period is the 12-month period beginning on January 1 and ending on December 31.


(3) *Deviation Report.* If a deviation has occurred during the reporting period, you must include a description of deviations from the applicable requirements, the time periods during which the deviations occurred, and the corrective actions taken. This deviation report must be submitted along with your annual compliance certification report, as required by paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section.


(c) *Records.* You must maintain the records specified I paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section in accordance with paragraphs (c)(5) through (6) of this section, for five years after the date of each recorded action.


(1) As required in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv), you must keep a copy of each notification that you submitted in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, and all documentation supporting any Notification of Applicability and Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted.


(2) You must keep a copy of each Annual Compliance Certification Report prepared in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.


(3) You must keep records of all inspections and tests as required by § 63.11602(b).


(4) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1).


(5) As specified in § 63.10(b)(1), you must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each recorded action.


(6) You must keep each record onsite for at least 2 years after the date of each recorded action according to § 63.10(b)(1). You may keep the records offsite for the remaining 3 years.


(d) If you no longer process, use, or generate materials containing HAP after December 3, 2009, you must submit a Notification in accordance with § 63.11599(d), which must include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) Your company's name and address;


(2) A statement by a responsible official indicating that the facility no longer processes, uses, or generates materials containing HAP, as defined in § 63.11607, and that there are no plans to process, use or generate such materials in the future. This statement should also include the date by which the company ceased using materials containing HAP, as defined in 63.11607, and the responsible official's name, title, phone number, e-mail address and signature.



---

[N] [74 FR 63525, Dec. 3, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 10186, Mar. 5, 2010; 85 FR 73921, Nov. 19, 2020]




