# ยง 10002.2   Definitions.

The following definitions apply in this part:


*Chairperson* means the Chairperson of the Council, as appointed by the President, or any person to whom the Council has delegated authority for the matter concerned.


*Council* means the National Council on Disability, established by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 780 *et seq.*), as amended, and amended by the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (Pub. L. 113-128) in 2014.


*General Counsel* means the Council's principal legal advisor, or his or her designee.


*Meeting* means the deliberations of five or more Council members that determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of official Council business. A meeting does not include:


(1) Notational voting or similar consideration of business for the purpose of recording votes, whether by circulation of material to members' individually in writing or by a polling of the members individually by phone or email.


(2) Action by five or more members to:


(i) Open or close a meeting or to release or withhold information pursuant to ยง 10002.6;


(ii) Set an agenda for a proposed meeting;


(iii) Call a meeting on less than seven days' notice, as permitted by ยง 10002.4; or


(iv) Change the subject matter or the determination to open or to close a publicly announced meeting under ยง 10002.7.


(3) A session attended by five or more members for the purpose of having the Council's staff or expert consultants, another federal agency, or other persons or organizations brief or otherwise provide information to the Council concerning any matters within the purview of the Council, provided that the members do not engage in deliberations that determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of official business on such matters.


(4) A gathering of members for the purpose of holding informal, preliminary discussions or exchanges of views which do not effectively predetermine official action.


*Member* means an individual duly appointed and confirmed to the Council.


*Public observation* means attendance by the public at a meeting of the Council, but does not include public participation.


*Public participation* means the presentation or discussion of information, raising of questions, or other manner of involvement in a meeting of the Council by the public in a manner that contributes to the disposition of official Council business.


*Sunshine Act* means the Government in the Sunshine Act, 5 U.S.C. 552b.




