# ยง 4.33   Recordkeeping.

Each commodity trading advisor registered or required to be registered under the Act must make and keep the following books and records in an accurate, current and orderly manner at its main business office and in accordance with ยง 1.31. If the commodity trading advisor's main business office is located outside the United States, its territories or possessions, then upon the request of a Commission representative the trading advisor must provide such books and records as requested at the place designated by the representative in the United States, its territories or possessions within 72 hours after receipt of the request.


(a) Concerning the clients and subscribers of the commodity trading advisor:


(1) The name and address of each client and each subscriber.


(2) The acknowledgement specified in ยง 4.31(b). 


(3) All powers of attorney and other documents, or copies thereof, authorizing the commodity trading advisor to direct the commodity interest account of a client or subscriber.


(4) All other written agreements, or copies thereof, entered into by the commodity trading advisor with any client or subscriber.


(5) A list or other record of all commodity interest accounts of clients directed by the commodity trading advisor and of all transactions effected therefor.


(6) Copies of each confirmation or acknowledgment of a commodity interest transaction, and each purchase and sale statement and each monthly statement received from a futures commission merchant, a retail foreign exchange dealer or a swap dealer.


(7) The original or a copy of each report, letter, circular, memorandum, publication, writing, advertisement or other literature or advice (including the texts of standardized oral presentations and of radio, television, seminar or similar mass media presentations) distributed or caused to be distributed by the commodity trading advisor to any existing or prospective client or subscriber, showing the first date of distribution if not otherwise shown on the document.


(b) Concerning the commodity trading advisor:


(1) An itemized daily record of each commodity interest transaction of the commodity trading advisor, showing the transaction date, quantity, commodity interest, and, as applicable, price or premium, delivery month or expiration date, whether a put or a call, strike price, underlying contract for future delivery or underlying commodity, swap type and counterparty, the futures commission merchant and/or retail foreign exchange dealer carrying the account and the introducing broker, if any, whether the commodity interest was purchased, sold (including, in the case of a retail forex transaction, offset), exercised, expired (including, in the case of a retail forex transaction, whether it was rolled forward), and the gain or loss realized; *Provided, however,* that if the trading advisor is a counterparty to a swap, it must comply with the swap data recordkeeping and reporting requirements of part 45 of this chapter, as applicable.


(2) Each confirmation of a commodity interest transaction, each purchase and sale statement and each monthly statement furnished by a futures commission merchant or retail foreign exchange dealer to:


(i) The commodity trading advisor relating to a personal account of the trading advisor; and


(ii) Each principal of the trading advisor relating to a personal account of such principal.


(3) Books and records of all other transactions in all other business dealings in trading commodity interests and of all cash market transactions in which the commodity trading advisor and each principal thereof engages. Those books and records must include, as applicable, books and records of the type specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(7) of this section and in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(8) of ยง 4.23.



---

[N] [46 FR 26013, May 8, 1981, as amended at 46 FR 63035, Dec. 30, 1981; 47 FR 57012, Dec. 22, 1982; 48 FR 35299, Aug. 3, 1983. Redesignated and amended at 60 FR 38189, July 25, 1995; 75 FR 55430, Sept. 10, 2010; 77 FR 54359, Sept. 5, 2012; 77 FR 66332, Nov. 2, 2012]




