# § 2932.31   How does BLM establish fees for Special Recreation Permits?

(a) The BLM Director establishes fees, including minimum annual fees, for Special Recreation Permits for commercial activities, organized group activities or events, and competitive events.


(b) The BLM Director may adjust the fees as necessary to reflect changes in costs and the market, using the following types of data:


(1) The direct and indirect cost to the government;


(2) The types of services or facilities provided; and


(3) The comparable recreation fees charged by other Federal agencies, non-Federal public agencies, and the private sector located within the service area.


(c) The BLM Director will publish fees and adjusted fees in the _Federal Register._

(d) The State Director with jurisdiction—


(1) Will set fees for other Special Recreation Permits (including any use of Special Areas, such as per capita special area fees applicable to all users, including private noncommercial visitors, commercial clients, and spectators),


(2) May adjust the fees when he or she finds it necessary,


(3) Will provide fee information in field offices, and


(4) Will provide newspaper or other appropriate public notice.


(e)(1) *Commercial use.* In addition to the fees set by the Director, BLM, if BLM needs more than 50 hours of staff time to process a Special Recreation Permit for commercial use in any one year, we may charge a fee for recovery of the processing costs.


(2) *Competitive or organized group/event use.* BLM may charge a fee for recovery of costs to the agency of analyses and permit processing instead of the Special Recreation Permit fee, if—


(i) BLM needs more than 50 hours of staff time to process a Special Recreation Permit for competitive or organized group/event use in any one year, and


(ii) We anticipate that permit fees on the fee schedule for that year will be less than the costs of processing the permit.


(3) *Limitations on cost recovery.* Cost recovery charges will be limited to BLM's costs of issuing the permit, including necessary environmental documentation, on-site monitoring, and permit enforcement. Programmatic or general land use plan NEPA documentation are not subject to cost recovery charges, except if the documentation work done was done for or provides special benefits or services to an identifiable individual applicant.


(f) We will notify you in writing if you need to pay actual costs before processing your application.




