# § 3006.201   Timing of responses to requests.

(a) *In general.* Requests will ordinarily be responded to according to their order of receipt.


(b) *Multitrack processing.* (1) Unless expedited processing has been granted, the Commission places each request in simple or complex tracks based on the amount of work and time involved in processing the request. Factors considered in assigning a request into the complex track may include one or more of the following:


(i) The request involves voluminous documents;


(ii) The complexity of the material;


(iii) The request involves record searches at multiple facilities or locations;


(iv) The request requires consultation among the Commission or other agencies; or


(v) The number of open requests submitted by the same requester.


(2) Within each track, the Commission processes requests in the order in which they are received. When appropriate, the Chief FOIA Officer or the individual's designee will notify the requester of placing a request in the “Complex” track and provide the requester with an opportunity to limit the scope of the request. If the requester limits the scope of the request, it may result in faster processing.


(c) *Expedited processing.* (1) Requests and appeals shall be processed on an expedited basis whenever it is determined that they involve the following:


(i) Circumstances in which the lack of expedited processing could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual; or


(ii) An urgency to inform the public about an actual or alleged Federal Government activity, if made by a person who is primarily engaged in disseminating information.


(2) Within 10 calendar days of the receipt of a request for expedited processing, the Chief FOIA Officer or the individual's designee will notify the requester of the decision whether to grant or deny expedited processing. If expedited processing is granted, the request shall be given priority, placed in the processing track for expedited requests, and shall be processed as soon as practicable. If a request for expedited processing is denied, the Chief FOIA Officer or the individual's designee will inform the requester of the denial in writing, the right to appeal the denial to the Commission in writing, and the procedures for appealing the denial. Any request for records that has been denied expedited processing will be processed in the same manner as a request that did not seek expedited processing.


(3) Where a compelling need is not shown in an expedited request as specified in § 3006.200(e), the Commission may grant the request for expedited processing at its discretion.


(d) *Unusual circumstances.* Whenever the statutory time limit for processing a request cannot be met because of “unusual circumstances”, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B)(iii), and the Commission extends the time limit on that basis, the Commission shall, before the expiration of the 20 business day period to respond, notify the requester in writing of the unusual circumstances involved and of the date by which processing of the request can be expected to be completed. If an extension will exceed 10 business days, the Commission will:


(1) Provide the requester with an opportunity to modify the request or arrange an alternative timeframe for processing; and


(2) Make its FOIA Public Liaison available to the requester and apprise the requester of their right to seek dispute resolution services from the Office of Government Information Services.


(e) *Aggregating requests.* For the purposes of satisfying unusual circumstances under the FOIA, the Commission may aggregate requests in cases where it reasonably appears that multiple requests, submitted either by a single requester or by a group of requesters acting in concert, constitute a single request that would otherwise involve unusual circumstances. Multiple requests that involve unrelated matters shall not be aggregated.






