# ยง 570.57   Air brake system and air-over-hydraulic brake subsystem.

The following requirements apply to vehicles with air brake and air-over-hydraulic brake systems. Trailer(s) must be coupled to a truck or truck-tractor for the purpose of this inspection, except as noted.


(a) *Air brake system integrity.* The air brake system shall demonstrate integrity by meeting the following requirements:


(1) With the vehicle in a stationary position, compressed air reserve shall be sufficient to permit one full service brake application, after the engine is stopped and with the system fully charged, without lowering reservoir pressure more than 20 percent below the initial reading.


(2) The air brake system compressor shall increase the air pressure in the reservoir(s) from the level developed after the test prescribed in ยง 570.57(a)(1) to the initial pressure noted before the full brake application, with the engine running at the manufacturer's maximum recommended number of revolutions per minute with the compressor governor in the cut-off position, in not more than 30 seconds for vehicles manufactured prior to March 1, 1975. For vehicles, manufactured on or after March 1, 1975, the time allowed for air pressure buildup shall not exceed 45 seconds.


(3) The warning device (visual or audible) connected to the brake system air pressure source shall be activated when air pressure is lowered to an activating level that is not less than 50 psi. For vehicles manufactured to conform to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 121, the low-pressure indicator shall be activated when air pressure is lowered to an activating level that is not less than 60 psi.


(4) The governor cut-in pressure shall be not lower than 80 psi, and the cut-out pressure shall be not higher than 135 psi, unless other values are recommended by the vehicle manufacturer.


(5) Air brake pressure shall not drop more than 2 psi in 1 minute for single vehicles or more than 3 psi in 1 minute for combination vehicles, with the engine stopped and service brakes released. There may be an additional 1 psi drop per minute for each additional towed vehicle.


(6) With the reservoir(s) fully charged, air pressure shall not drop more than 3 psi in 1 minute for single vehicles or more than 4 psi in 1 minute for combination vehicles, with the engine stopped and service brakes fully applied. There may be an additional 1 psi drop per minute for each additional towed vehicle.


(7) The compressor drive belt shall not be badly worn or frayed and belt-tension shall be sufficient to prevent slippage.


(b) *Air brake system hoses, tubes and connections.* Air system tubes, hoses and connections shall not be restricted, cracked or improperly supported, and the air hose shall not be abraded.


(1) *Inspection procedure.* Stop the engine and examine air hoses, tubes and connections visually for conditions specified.


(c) *Air-over-hydraulic brake subsystem integrity.* The air-over-hydraulic brake subsystem shall demonstrate integrity by meeting the following requirements:


(1) The air brake system compressor shall increase the air pressure in the reservoir(s) from the level developed after the test prescribed in ยง 570.57(a)(1) to the initial pressure noted before the full brake application, with the engine running at the manufacturer's recommended number of revolutions per minute and the compressor governor in the cut-out position, in not more than 30 seconds for vehicles manufactured prior to March 1, 1975. For vehicles manufactured on or after March 1, 1975, the time for air pressure build up shall not exceed 45 seconds.


(2) The warning device (visual or audible) connected to the brake system air pressure source shall be activated when the air pressure is lowered to not less than 50 psi.


(3) The governor cut-in pressure shall be not lower than 80 psi, and the cut-out pressure shall not be higher than 135 psi, unless other values are recommended by the vehicle manufacturer.


(4) Air brake pressure shall not drop more than 2 psi in 1 minute for single vehicles or more than 3 psi in 1 minute for combination vehicles, with the engine stopped and service brakes released. Allow a 1-psi drop per minute for each additional towed vehicle.


(5) With the reservoir(s) fully charged, air pressure shall not drop more than 3 psi in 1 minute for single vehicles or more than 4 psi in 1 minute for combination vehicles, with the engine stopped and service brakes fully applied. Allow a 1-psi pressure drop in 1 minute for each additional towed vehicle.


(6) The compressor drive belt shall not be badly worn or frayed and belt tension shall be sufficient to prevent slippage.


(d) *Air-over-hydraulic brake subsystem hoses, master cylinder, tubes and connections.* System tubes, hoses and connections shall not be cracked or improperly supported, the air and hydraulic hoses shall not be abraded and the master cylinder shall not show signs of leakage.


(1) *Inspection procedure.* Stop the engine and examine air and hydraulic brake hoses, brake master cylinder, tubes and connections visually for conditions specified.



---

[N] [39 FR 26027, July 16, 1974, as amended at 40 FR 5160, Feb. 4, 1975; 41 FR 13924, Apr. 1, 1976]




