# § 721.4820   Methane, bromodifluoro-.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as methane, bromodifluoro- is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are: 


(i) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(v), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), and (g)(5). In addition, the following statements shall appear on the label and SDS: This substance may cause cardiotoxicity. Evacuate area before the concentration of this substance in the area reaches 1 percent. Residential use is prohibited due to cardiotoxic dangers. General consumer use is prohibited, with the exception of outdoor automotive use and outdoor marine use. Following discharge and evacuation, use protective gear (self-contained breathing apparatus) before reentering an area in which the airborne concentration of the PMN substance exceeds 1 percent. 


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k) (Use in portable fire extinguishers intended for consumer use except for outdoor automotive use and outdoor marine use; use in fire extinguisher units with an Underwriters Laboratory (UL) rating of less than 5BC; use in other than rechargeable fire extinguisher units; use in occupied areas from which personnel cannot be evacuated before the concentration of the PMN substance exceeds 1 percent or egress cannot occur within 30 seconds; or use without protective gear (self-contained breathing apparatus) being made available in the event that, following discharge of the PMN substance and evacuation of the area, personnel must reenter an area in which the airborne concentration of the PMN substance exceeds 1 percent.)


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance, as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (c), (f) through (i).


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [56 FR 19238, Apr. 25, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 59 FR 39296, Aug. 2, 1994] 




