# ยง 240.15b2-2   Inspection of newly registered brokers and dealers.

(a) *Definition.* For the purpose of this section the term *applicable financial responsibility rules* shall include:


(1) Any rule adopted by the Commission pursuant to sections 8, 15(c)(3), 17(a), or 17(e)(1)(A) of the Act;


(2) Any rule adopted by the Commission relating to hypothecation or lending of customer securities;


(3) Any other rule adopted by the Commission relating to the protection of funds or securities; and


(4) Any rule adopted by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to section 15C(b)(1) of the Act.


(b) Each self-regulatory organization that has responsibility for examining a broker or dealer member (including members that are government securities brokers or government securities dealers registered pursuant to section 15C(a)(1)(A) of the Act) for compliance with applicable financial responsibility rules is authorized and directed to conduct an inspection of the member, within six months of the member's registration with the Commission, to determine whether the member is operating in conformity with applicable financial responsibility rules.


(c) The examining self-regulatory organization is further authorized and directed to conduct an inspection of the member no later than twelve months from the member's registration with the Commission, to determine whether the member is operating in conformity with all other applicable provisions of the Act and rules thereunder.


(d) In each case where the examining self-regulatory organization determines that a broker or dealer member has not commenced actual operations within six months of the member's registration with the Commission, it shall delay the inspection pursuant to this section until the second six month period from the member's registration with the Commission.


(e) No inspection need be conducted as provided for in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section if:


(1) The member was registered with the Commission prior to April 26, 1982; 


(2) An inspection of the member has already been conducted by another self-regulatory organization pursuant to this section; 


(3) An inspection of the member has already been conducted by the Commission pursuant to section 15(b)(2)(C) of the Act.; or


(4) The member is registered with the Commission pursuant to section 15(b)(11)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(11)(A)).



---

[N] [47 FR 11269, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 16838, May 6, 1987; 53 FR 4121, Feb. 12, 1988; 66 FR 45147, Aug. 27, 2001] 




