# § 176.80   Exceptions.

(a) When one of the following exceptions applies in a case or category of cases, the award official may allow the recipient to use foreign iron, steel and/or manufactured goods in the project without regard to the restrictions of section 1605 of the Recovery Act:


(1) *Nonavailability.* The head of the Federal department or agency may determine that the iron, steel or relevant manufactured good is not produced or manufactured in the United States in sufficient and reasonably available commercial quantities of a satisfactory quality. The determinations of nonavailability of the articles listed at 48 CFR 25.104(a) and the procedures at 48 CFR 25.103(b)(1) also apply if any of those articles are manufactured goods needed in the project.


(2) *Unreasonable cost.* The head of the Federal department or agency may determine that the cost of domestic iron, steel, or relevant manufactured goods will increase the cost of the overall project by more than 25 percent in accordance with § 176.110.


(3) *Inconsistent with public interest.* The head of the Federal department or agency may determine that application of the restrictions of section 1605 of the Recovery Act would be inconsistent with the public interest.


(b) When a determination is made for any of the reasons stated in this section that certain foreign iron, steel, and/or manufactured goods may be used—


(1) The award official shall list the excepted materials in the award; and


(2) The head of the Federal department or agency shall publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ within two weeks after the determination is made, unless the item has already been determined to be domestically nonavailable. A list of items that are not domestically available is at 48 CFR 25.104(a). The _Federal Register_ notice or information from the notice may be posted by OMB to Recovery.gov. The notice shall include—


(i) The title “Buy American Exception under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009”;


(ii) The dollar value and brief description of the project; and


(iii) A detailed written justification as to why the restriction is being waived.




