# § 410.19   Ultrasound screening for abdominal aortic aneurysms: Condition for and limitation on coverage.

(a) *Definitions:* As used in this section, the following definitions apply:


*Eligible beneficiary* means an individual who—


(1) Has not been previously furnished an ultrasound screening for an abdominal aortic aneurysm under Medicare program; and


(2) Is included in at least one of the following risk categories:


(i) Has a family history of an abdominal aortic aneurysm.


(ii) Is a man age 65 to 75 who has smoked at least 100 cigarettes in his lifetime.


(iii) Is an individual who manifests other risk factors in a beneficiary category recommended for screening by the United States Preventive Services Task Force regarding abdominal aortic aneurysms, as specified by the Secretary through a national coverage determination process.


*Ultrasound screening for abdominal aortic aneurysms* means the following services furnished to an asymptomatic individual for the early detection of an abdominal aortic aneurysm:


(1) A procedure using soundwaves (or other procedures using alternative technologies of commensurate accuracy and cost, as specified by the Secretary through a national coverage determination process) provided for the early detection of abdominal aortic aneurysms.


(2) Includes a physician's interpretation of the results of the procedure.


(b) *Conditions for coverage of an ultrasound screening for abdominal aortic aneurysms.* Medicare Part B pays for one ultrasound screening for an abdominal aortic aneurysm provided to eligible beneficiaries, as described in this section, after a referral from a physician or a qualified nonphysician practitioner as defined in § 410.16(a), when the test is performed by a provider or supplier that is authorized to provide covered ultrasound diagnostic services.


(c) *Limitation on coverage of ultrasound screening for abdominal aortic aneurysms.* Payment may not be made for an ultrasound screening for an abdominal aortic aneurysm that is performed for an individual that does not meet the definition of “eligible beneficiary” specified in this section.



---

[N] [71 FR 69783, Dec. 1, 2006, as amended at 78 FR 74810, Dec. 10, 2013]




