# § 63.11440   What are the monitoring requirements for new and existing sources?

(a) For each kiln firing glazed ceramic ware, you must conduct a daily check of the peak firing temperature. If the peak temperature exceeds 1540 °C (2800 °F), you must take corrective action according to your standard operating procedures.


(b) For each existing or new atomized glaze spray booth equipped with an APCD, you must demonstrate compliance by conducting the monitoring activities in paragraph (b)(1) and either paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section:


(1) *Initial control device inspection.* You must conduct an initial inspection of each particulate matter (PM) control device according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section. You must conduct each inspection no later than 60 days after your applicable compliance date for each installed control device which has been operated within 60 days of the compliance date. For an installed control device which has not been operated within 60 days of the compliance date, you must conduct an initial inspection prior to startup of the control device.


(i) For each wet control system, you must verify the presence of water flow to the control equipment. You must also visually inspect the system ductwork and control equipment for leaks and inspect the interior of the control equipment (if applicable) for structural integrity and the condition of the control system. An initial inspection of the internal components of a wet control system is not required if an inspection has been performed within the past 12 months.


(ii) For each baghouse, you must visually inspect the system ductwork and baghouse unit for leaks. You must also inspect the inside of each baghouse for structural integrity and fabric filter condition. You must record the results of the inspection and any maintenance action as required in paragraph (d) of this section. An initial inspection of the internal components of a baghouse is not required if an inspection has been performed within the past 12 months.


(2) *Periodic inspections/maintenance.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, you must perform periodic inspections and maintenance of each PM control device following the initial inspection according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(i) You must inspect and maintain each wet control system according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) You must conduct a daily inspection to verify the presence of water flow to the wet control system.


(B) You must conduct weekly visual inspections of the system ductwork and control equipment for leaks.


(C) You must conduct inspections of the interior of the wet control system (if applicable) to determine the structural integrity and condition of the control equipment every 12 months.


(ii) You must inspect and maintain each baghouse according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.


(A) You must conduct weekly visual inspections of the system ductwork for leaks.


(B) You must conduct inspections of the interior of the baghouse for structural integrity and to determine the condition of the fabric filter every 12 months.


(3) As an alternative to the monitoring activities in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, you may demonstrate compliance by:


(i) Conducting a daily 30-minute visible emissions (VE) test (i.e., no visible emissions) using EPA Method 22 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7); or


(ii) Using an approved alternative monitoring technique under § 63.8(f).


(c) If the results of the visual inspection, VE test, or alternative monitoring technique conducted under paragraph (b) of this section indicate an exceedance, you must take corrective action according to the equipment manufacturer's specifications or instructions.


(d) You must maintain records of your monitoring activities described in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. You may use your existing operating permit documentation to meet the monitoring requirements if it includes, but is not limited to, the monitoring records listed in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section related to any kiln peak temperature checks, visual inspections, VE tests, or alternative monitoring:


(1) The date, place, and time;


(2) Person conducting the activity;


(3) Technique or method used;


(4) Operating conditions during the activity; and


(5) Results. 




