# § 1120.105   Content of the award cover pages.

The award cover pages of each DoD Component grant or cooperative agreement or modification:


(a) Must include, as a minimum, the following information about the award or modification:


(1) The name of the DoD Component awarding office that made the award or modification.


(2) The award number (Federal Award Identification Number or FAIN) and, if the action is a modification, the modification number.


(3) The type of award—*i.e.,* grant or cooperative agreement.


(4) The type of award action—*e.g.,* new award, funding modification, or administrative (non-funding) modification. For an administrative modification, the award cover pages should include a brief description of the purpose of the modification (*e.g.,* a no-cost extension of the end date of the period of performance).


(5) For a new award or funding modification:


(i) A brief description of the project or program supported by the award.


(ii) The amount of the obligation or deobligation of Federal funds due to the current action and any accompanying change in the total amount of cost sharing or matching required under the award.


(iii) The cumulative amounts of Federal funds and any corresponding non-Federal share obligated to date (*i.e.,* the sums of the amounts of the current action and the cumulative amounts of prior obligations and deobligations).


(iv) The total amount of the project costs in the currently approved budget through the end of the period of performance, the Federal share of that amount, and the non-Federal share even if that share is “zero.”


(v) The total value of the award; the Federal share of that total value (which includes Federal funding obligated to date; future incremental funding actions; and options for which amounts have been predetermined, whether or not they have been exercised yet); and the non-Federal share of that total value (*i.e.,* total cost sharing or matching required under the award).


(vi) A table such as the following may be helpful in clearly presenting the information described in paragraphs (a)(5)(ii) through (vi) of this section:


(6) The obligation date (*i.e.,* the date of the grants officer's signature) and, if different, the effective date.


(7) The start date and current end date of the period of performance.


(8) The statutory authority or authorities under which the award or modification was made.


(9) The number and title of the program listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance under which the award or modification was made.


(10) For a new award (or, as needed, in a modification that amends any of the following information):


(i) Whether the project or program under the award is research and development (R&D). This information is needed by auditors performing single audits of recipients because the OMB guidance to the auditors treats all Federal agencies' R&D programs as a single group (or “cluster”) of programs for audit sampling purposes (see the Single Audit Act requirements implemented in subpart E of 2 CFR part 1128 and FMS Article V in appendix E to part 1128).


(ii) What the award includes in addition to the cover pages—*i.e.,* the:


(A) Scope of work or other appropriate content to specify the goals and objectives of the project or program supported by the award;


(B) Approved budget; and


(C) General, and any award specific, terms and conditions of the award.


(iii) Where the portions of the award listed in paragraph (a)(10)(ii) of this section are located, which content the DoD Component generally should incorporate into the award by reference. When incorporating that content into the award by reference, the DoD Component must both:


(A) Indicate in the award cover pages that the award incorporates those items into the award by reference, thereby making them an integral part of the award; and


(B) Specify their location (see § 1120.315), rather than transmit them in their entirety with each award.


(iv) The order of precedence in the event of conflict among the general and any award-specific terms and conditions and other potential sources of requirements (*e.g.,* Federal statutes).


(v) The name of, and contact information for, the individual or office in the DoD responsible for post-award administration of the award. If there are multiple individuals and offices for different post-award functions (*e.g.,* payments and property administration), the award cover pages should provide information about each.


(vi) The name of, and contact information for, the DoD Component's program manager or other point of contact for programmatic matters.


(b) Must include, as a minimum, the following information about the recipient entity:


(1) The recipient's unique entity identifier required for its registration in the System for Award Management (SAM). Currently, that is the Dun and Bradstreet Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) number.


(2) The recipient's business name and address, which must be the legal business or “doing business as” name and physical address in SAM at the time of award corresponding to the recipient's unique entity identifier.


(3) The name and title of the recipient's authorized representative, either the individual who signed the application or proposal on behalf of the recipient entity or another individual designated by that entity.


(4) The name of the recipient's Project or Program Director (PD) or Principal Investigator (PI) and his or her organization, if different from the name of the recipient organization. If there are multiple PDs or co-PIs, the name and organization of each should be included.


(5) The indirect cost rate in effect at the start of the performance period for the award, which generally is a Governmentwide rate negotiated by the recipient's cognizant agency for indirect costs. However, this requirement does not apply—*i.e.,* the award cover pages need not include the recipient's indirect cost rate—if the recipient entity affirms that it treats its indirect cost rate as proprietary information.


(c) May also include, as applicable, elements such as:


(1) A statement that the award can be amended only by a grants officer. The statement might also explain how amendments are issued.


(2) Information about any planned, future incremental funding or options for which amounts were pre-determined.




