# § 319.56-7   Territorial applicability and exceptions.

(a) The regulations in this subpart apply to importations of fruits and vegetables into any area of the United States, except as provided in this section.


(b) *Importations of fruits and vegetables into Guam.* (1) The following fruits and vegetables may be imported into Guam without treatment, except as may be required under § 319.56-3(d), and in accordance with all the requirements of this subpart as modified by this section:


(i) All leafy vegetables and root crops from the Bonin Islands, Volcano Islands, and Ryukyu Islands.


(ii) All fruits and vegetables from Palau and the Federated States of Micronesia (FSM), except *Artocarpus* spp. (breadfruit, jackfruit, and chempedak), citrus, curacao apple, guava, Malay or mountain apple (*Syzygium* spp.), mango, and papaya, and except dasheen from the Yap district of FSM and from Palau, and bitter melon (*Momordica charantia*) from Palau. The excepted products are approved for entry into Guam after treatment in accordance with part 305 of this chapter.


(iii) *Allium* (without tops), artichokes, bananas, bell peppers, cabbage, carrots, celery, Chinese cabbage, citrus fruits, eggplant, grapes, lettuce, melons, okra, parsley, peas, persimmons, potatoes, rhubarb, squash (*Cucurbita maxima*), stone and pome fruits, string beans, sweetpotatoes, tomatoes, turnip greens, turnips, and watermelons from Japan and Korea.


(iv) Leafy vegetables, celery, and potatoes from the Philippine Islands.


(v) Carrots (without tops), celery, lettuce, peas, potatoes, and radishes (without tops) from Australia.


(vi) Arrowroot, asparagus, bean sprouts, broccoli, cabbage, carrots (without tops), cassava, cauliflower, celery, chives, cow-cabbage, dasheen, garlic, gingerroot, horseradish, kale, kudzu, leek, lettuce, onions, Portuguese cabbage, turnip, udo, water chestnut, watercress, waterlily root, and yam bean root from Taiwan.


(vii) Lettuce from Papua New Guinea.


(viii) Carrots (without tops), celery, lettuce, loquats, onions, persimmons, potatoes, tomatoes, and stone fruits from New Zealand.


(ix) Asparagus, carrots (without tops), celery, lettuce, and radishes (without tops) from Thailand.


(x) Green corn on the cob.


(xi) All other fruits and vegetables approved for entry into any other part or port of the United States, and except any which are specifically designated in this subpart as not approved.


(2) An inspector in Guam may accept an oral application and issue an oral permit for products listed in paragraph (a) of this section, which is deemed to fulfill the requirements of § 319.56-3(b) of this subpart. The inspector may waive the documentation required in § 319.56-3 for such products whenever the inspector finds that information available from other sources meets the requirements under this subpart for the information normally supplied by such documentation.


(3) The provisions of § 319.56-11 do not apply to chestnuts and acorns imported into Guam, which are enterable into Guam without permit or other restriction under this subpart. If chestnuts or acorns imported under this paragraph are found infected, infested, or contaminated with any plant pest and are not subject to disposal under this subpart, disposition may be made in accordance with § 330.106 of this chapter.


(4) Baskets or other containers made of coconut fronds are not approved for use as containers for fruits and vegetables imported into Guam. Fruits and vegetables in such baskets or containers offered for importation into Guam will not be regarded as meeting § 319.56-3(a).


(c) *Importation of fruits and vegetables into the U.S. Virgin Islands.* (1) Fruits and vegetables grown in the British Virgin Islands may be imported into the U.S. Virgin Islands in accordance with § 319.56-3, except that:


(i) Such fruits and vegetables are exempt from the permit requirements of § 319.56-3(b); and


(ii) Mangoes grown in the British Virgin Islands are prohibited entry into the U.S. Virgin Islands.


(2) Okra produced in the West Indies may be imported into the U.S. Virgin Islands without treatment but are subject to inspection at the port of arrival.



---

[N] [72 FR 39501, July 18, 2007, as amended at 75 FR 4252, Jan. 26, 2010]




