# ยง 680.106   Installation, operation, and maintenance by qualified technicians of electric vehicle charging infrastructure.

(a) *Procurement process transparency for the operation of EV charging stations.* States or other direct recipients shall ensure public transparency for how the price will be determined and set for EV charging and make available for public review the following:


(1) Summary of the procurement process used;


(2) Number of bids received;


(3) Identification of the awardee;


(4) Proposed contract to be executed with the awardee;


(5) Financial summary of contract payments suitable for public disclosure including price and cost data, in accordance with State law; and


(6) Any information describing how prices for EV charging are to be set under the proposed contract, in accordance with State law.


(b) *Number of charging ports.* (1) When including DCFCs located along and designed to serve users of designated AFCs, charging stations must have at least four network-connected DCFC charging ports and be capable of simultaneously charging at least four EVs. (2) In other locations, EV charging stations must have at least four network-connected (either DCFC or AC Level 2 or a combination of DCFC and AC Level 2) charging ports and be capable of simultaneously charging at least four EVs.


(c) *Connector type.* All charging connectors must meet applicable industry standards. Each DCFC charging port must be capable of charging any CCS-compliant vehicle and each DCFC charging port must have at least one permanently attached CCS Type 1 connector. In addition, permanently attached CHAdeMO (*www.chademo.com*) connectors can be provided using only FY2022 NEVI Funds. Each AC Level 2 charging port must have a permanently attached J1772 connector and must charge any J1772-compliant vehicle.


(d) *Power level.* (1) DCFC charging ports must support output voltages between 250 volts DC and 920 volts DC. DCFCs located along and designed to serve users of designated AFCs must have a continuous power delivery rating of at least 150 kilowatt (kW) and supply power according to an EV's power delivery request up to 150 kW, simultaneously from each charging port at a charging station. These corridor-serving DCFC charging stations may conduct power sharing so long as each charging port continues to meet an EV's request for power up to 150 kW.


(2) Each AC Level 2 charging port must have a continuous power delivery rating of at least 6 kW and the charging station must be capable of providing at least 6 kW per port simultaneously across all AC ports. AC Level 2 chargers may conduct power sharing and/or participate in smart charge management programs so long as each charging port continues to meet an EV's demand for power up to 6 kW, unless the EV charging customer consents to accepting a lower power level.


(e) *Availability.* Charging stations located along and designed to serve users of designated Alternative Fuel Corridors must be available for use and sited at locations physically accessible to the public 24 hours per day, 7 days per week, year-round. Charging stations not located along or not designed to serve users of designated Alternative Fuel Corridors must be available for use and accessible to the public at least as frequently as the business operating hours of the site host. This section does not prohibit isolated or temporary interruptions in service or access because of maintenance or repairs or due to the exclusions outlined in ยง 680.116(b)(3).


(f) *Payment methods.* Unless charging is permanently provided free of charge to customers, charging stations must:


(1) Provide for secure payment methods, accessible to persons with disabilities, which at a minimum shall include a contactless payment method that accepts major debit and credit cards, and either an automated toll-free phone number or a short message/messaging system (SMS) that provides the EV charging customer with the option to initiate a charging session and submit payment;


(2) Not require a membership for use;


(3) Not delay, limit, or curtail power flow to vehicles on the basis of payment method or membership; and


(4) Provide access for users that are limited English proficient and accessibility for people with disabilities. Automated toll-free phone numbers and SMS payment options must clearly identify payment access for these populations.


(g) *Equipment certification.* States or other direct recipients must ensure that all chargers are certified by an Occupational Safety and Health Administration Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory and that all AC Level 2 chargers are ENERGY STAR certified. DCFC and AC Level 2 chargers should be certified to the appropriate Underwriters Laboratories (UL) standards for EV charging system equipment.


(h) *Security.* States or other direct recipients must implement physical and cybersecurity strategies consistent with their respective State EV Infrastructure Deployment Plans to ensure charging station operations protect consumer data and protect against the risk of harm to, or disruption of, charging infrastructure and the grid.


(1) Physical security strategies may include topics such as lighting; siting and station design to ensure visibility from onlookers; driver and vehicle safety; video surveillance; emergency call boxes; fire prevention; charger locks; and strategies to prevent tampering and illegal surveillance of payment devices.


(2) Cybersecurity strategies may include the following topics: user identity and access management; cryptographic agility and support of multiple PKIs; monitoring and detection; incident prevention and handling; configuration, vulnerability, and software update management; third-party cybersecurity testing and certification; and continuity of operation when communication between the charger and charging network is disrupted.


(i) *Long-term stewardship.* States or other direct recipients must ensure that chargers are maintained in compliance with this part for a period of not less than 5 years from the initial date of operation.


(j) *Qualified technician.* States or other direct recipients shall ensure that the workforce installing, maintaining, and operating chargers has appropriate licenses, certifications, and training to ensure that the installation and maintenance of chargers is performed safely by a qualified and increasingly diverse workforce of licensed technicians and other laborers. Further:


(1) Except as provided in paragraph (j)(2) of this section, all electricians installing, operating, or maintaining EVSE must meet one of the following requirements:


(i) Certification from the EVITP.


(ii) Graduation or a continuing education certificate from a registered apprenticeship program for electricians that includes charger-specific training and is developed as a part of a national guideline standard approved by the Department of Labor in consultation with the Department of Transportation.


(2) For projects requiring more than one electrician, at least one electrician must meet the requirements above, and at least one electrician must be enrolled in an electrical registered apprenticeship program.


(3) All other onsite, non-electrical workers directly involved in the installation, operation, and maintenance of chargers must have graduated from a registered apprenticeship program or have appropriate licenses, certifications, and training as required by the State.


(k) *Customer service.* States or other direct recipients must ensure that EV charging customers have mechanisms to report outages, malfunctions, and other issues with charging infrastructure. Charging station operators must enable access to accessible platforms that provide multilingual services. States or other direct recipients must comply with the American with Disabilities Act of 1990 requirements and multilingual access when creating reporting mechanisms.


(l) *Customer data privacy.* Charging station operators must collect, process, and retain only that personal information strictly necessary to provide the charging service to a consumer, including information to complete the charging transaction and to provide the location of charging stations to the consumer. Chargers and charging networks should be compliant with appropriate Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (PCI DSS) for the processing, transmission, and storage of cardholder data. Charging Station Operators must also take reasonable measures to safeguard consumer data.


(m) *Use of program income.* (1) Any net income from revenue from the sale, use, lease, or lease renewal of real property acquired shall be used for Title 23, United States Code, eligible projects.


(2) For purposes of program income or revenue earned from the operation of an EV charging station, the State or other direct recipient should ensure that all revenues received from operation of the EV charging facility are used only for:


(i) Debt service with respect to the EV charging station project, including funding of reasonable reserves and debt service on refinancing;


(ii) A reasonable return on investment of any private person financing the EV charging station project, as determined by the State or other direct recipient;


(iii) Any costs necessary for the improvement and proper operation and maintenance of the EV charging station, including reconstruction, resurfacing, restoration, and rehabilitation;


(iv) If the EV charging station is subject to a public-private partnership agreement, payments that the party holding the right to the revenues owes to the other party under the public-private partnership agreement; and


(v) Any other purpose for which Federal funds may be obligated under Title 23, United States Code.






