# § 1.6072-2   Time for filing returns of corporations.

(a) *Domestic and certain foreign corporations*—(1) *In general*—(i) *C corporations.* Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the income tax return required under section 6012 of a domestic C corporation (as defined in section 1361(a)(2)) or of a foreign C corporation having an office or place of business in the United States shall be filed on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the close of the taxable year.


(ii) *S corporations.* The income tax return required under sections 6012 and 6037 of an S corporation (as defined in section 1361(a)(1)) shall be filed on or before the fifteenth day of the third month following the close of the taxable year.


(2) *Exception.* For taxable years beginning before January 1, 2026, the income tax return of a C corporation described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section that has a taxable year that ends on June 30 shall be filed on or before the fifteenth day of the third month following the close of the taxable year. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(2), the return for a short period (within the meaning of section 443) that ends on any day in June shall be treated as the return for a taxable year that ends on June 30.




(b) *Foreign corporations not having an office or place of business in the United States.* The income tax return of a foreign corporation which does not have an office or place of business in the United States shall be filed on or before the fifteenth day of the sixth month following the close of the taxable year.


(c) *Exempt organizations.* For taxable years beginning after November 10, 1978, the income tax return required under section 6012 and § 1.6012-2(e) of an organization exempt from taxation under section 501(a) (other than an employee's trust under section 401(a)) shall be filed on or before the fifteenth day of the fifth month following the close of the organization's taxable year.


(d) *Cooperative organizations.* The income tax return of the following cooperative organizations shall be filed on or before the fifteenth day of the ninth month following the close of the taxable year:






(1) *Section 521 associations.* A farmers', fruit growers', or like association, organized and operated in compliance with the requirements of section 521 and § 1.521-1; and


(2) *Section 1381 corporations.* For a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1962, a corporation described in section 1381(a)(2), which is under a valid enforceable written obligation to pay patronage dividends (as defined in section 1388(a) and § 1.1388-1(a)) in an amount equal to at least 50 percent of its net earnings from business done with or for its patrons, or which paid patronage dividends in such an amount out of the net earnings from business done with or for patrons during the most recent taxable year for which it had such net earnings. Net earnings for purposes of this paragraph (d)(2) shall not be reduced by any taxes imposed by subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code and shall not be reduced by dividends paid on capital stock or other proprietary interest.




(e) *DISC's and former DISC's.* The return required under section 6011(c)(2) of a corporation which is a DISC (as defined in section 992(a) shall be filed on or before the 15th day of the 9th month following the close of the taxable year. For the rule that a DISC may not have an extension of time in which to file such return, see §§ 1.6071-1(b), 1.6081-1(a), and 1.6081-3(e). The return required under § 1.6011-2(b)(1) by a former DISC shall be filed at the time it is required to file its income tax return.


(f) *Cross references.* For provisions relating to the time for filing a return where the last day for filing falls on Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, see section 7503 and § 301.7503-1 of this chapter (Regulations on Procedure and Administration). For provisions relating to the fixing of a later time for filing in the case of a return for a short period, see paragraph (b) of § 1.6071-1. For provisions relating to time for filing consolidated returns and separate returns for short periods not included in consolidated returns, see §§ 1.1502-75 and 1.1502-76.




(g) *Applicability date.* This section applies to returns filed on or after January 30, 2020. Section 1.6072-2T (as contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised April 2019) applies to returns before January 30, 2020.





---

[N] [T.D. 6500, 25 FR 12133, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6643, 28 FR 3163, Apr. 2, 1963; T.D. 7244, 37 FR 28897, Dec. 30, 1972; T.D. 7533, 43 FR 6604, Feb. 15, 1978; T.D. 7896, 48 FR 23818, May 27, 1983; T.D. 9821, 82 FR 33445, July 20, 2017; T.D. 9892, 85 FR 5326, Jan. 30, 2020]






