# § 174.3   Definitions.

(a) *Base closure law.* This term has the same meaning as provided in 10 U.S.C. § 101(a)(17)(B) and (C).


(b) *Closure.* An action that ceases or relocates all current missions of an installation and eliminates or relocates all current personnel positions (military, civilian, and contractor), except for personnel required for caretaking, conducting any ongoing environmental cleanup, or property disposal. Retention of a small enclave, not associated with the main mission of the base, is still a closure.


(c) *Consultation.* Explaining and discussing an issue, considering objections, modifications, and alternatives; but without a requirement to reach agreement.


(d) *Date of approval.* This term has the same meaning as provided in section 2910(8) of the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990, Pub. L. 101-510.


(e) *Excess property.* This term has the same meaning as provided in 40 U.S.C. § 102(3).


(f) *Installation.* This term has the same meaning as provided in the definition for “military installation” in section 2910(4) of the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990, Pub. L. 101-510.


(g) *Local Redevelopment Authority* (LRA). This term has the same meaning as provided in the definition for “redevelopment authority” in section 2910(9) of the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990, Pub. L. 101-510.


(h) *Military Department.* This term has the same meaning as provided in 10 U.S.C. 101(a)(8).


(i) *National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA).* The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, Pub. L. 91-190, 42 U.S.C. 4321 *et seq.,* as amended.


(j) *Realignment.* This term has the same meaning as provided in section 2910(5) of the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990, Pub. L. 101-510.


(k) *Secretary concerned.* This term has the same meaning as provided in 10 U.S.C. 101(a)(9)(A), (B), and (C).


(l) *Surplus property.* This term has the same meaning as provided in 40 U.S.C. 102(10).


(m) *Transition coordinator.* This term has the same meaning as used in section 2915 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1994, Public Law 103-160. 




