# § 1487.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:


*Activity* means a discrete undertaking within a project to be carried out by a Participant, directly or through a subrecipient or contractor, that is specified in an agreement and is intended to fulfill a specific objective of the agreement.


*Agreement* means a legally binding grant entered into between CCC and a TASC applicant setting forth the terms and conditions to implement an approved project under the TASC program, including any subsequent amendments to such agreement.


*Approval letter* means a document by which CCC informs an applicant that its TASC proposal has been approved for funding. This letter may also approve specific activities and contain terms and conditions in addition to the agreement.


*Attaché/Counselor* means the FAS employee representing United States Department of Agriculture interests in a foreign country.


*Eligible organization* means any U.S. organization that demonstrates a role or interest in the exports of specialty crops, including, but not limited to: U.S. Government agencies, State government agencies, non-profit trade associations, universities, agricultural cooperatives, and private companies.


*Participant* means an entity that has entered into a TASC agreement with CCC.


*Specialty crop* means most cultivated plants produced in the United States, or the products thereof, except wheat, feed grains, oilseeds, cotton, rice, peanuts, sugar, and tobacco.


*Unified Export Strategy (UES) system* means the online internet system maintained by FAS through which applicants currently may apply to TASC and the other FAS market development programs. The system is currently accessible at *https://apps.fas.usda.gov/ues/webapp/.* FAS may prescribe a different system through which applicants may apply to TASC and will announce such system in the applicable Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO).


*United States* means each of the States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.




