# ยง 1033.415   General testing requirements.

(a) *Number of locomotives to be tested.* Determine the number of locomotives to be tested by the following method:


(1) Test a minimum of 2 locomotives per engine family, except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. You must test additional locomotives if any locomotives fail to meet any standard. Test 2 more locomotives for each failing locomotive, but stop testing if the total number of locomotives tested equals 10.


(2) If an engine family has been certified using carryover emission data from a family that has been previously tested under paragraph (a)(1) of this section (and we have not ordered or begun to negotiate remedial action of that family), you need to test only one locomotive per engine family. If that locomotive fails to meet applicable standards for any pollutant, testing for that engine family must be conducted as outlined under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(3) You may ask us to allow you to test more locomotives than the minimum number described above or you may concede failure before testing 10 locomotives.


(b) *Compliance criteria.* We will consider failure rates, average emission levels and the existence of any defects among other factors in determining whether to pursue remedial action. We may order a recall pursuant to 40 CFR part 1068 before testing reaches the tenth locomotive.


(c) *Collection of in-use locomotives.* Procure in-use locomotives that have been operated for 50 to 75 percent of the locomotive's useful life for testing under this subpart. Complete testing required by this section for any engine family before useful life of the locomotives in the engine family passes. (_Note:_ ยง 1033.820 specifies that railroads must make reasonable efforts to enable you to perform this testing.) 




