# § 29.1   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart A, the following terms shall have the following meanings:


(a) *Additional sale* means an additional auction sale proposed to be conducted on a designated market.


(b) *Adequate set of buyers* means 5 or more buyers representing 5 or more companies or buying organizations which either will use the tobacco in the manufacture of tobacco products in this country or in foreign countries, or will pack and sell the tobacco later for use by manufacturers in this country or foreign countries, and who could reasonably be expected to purchase at least two-thirds of the total U.S. production of the kind of tobacco for which the additional services are requested.


(c) *Auction market* means a marketing center containing one or more warehouses where tobacco is delivered by producers thereof, or their agents, for sale by the auction process. There may be one or more auction sales on an auction market.


(d) *Bona fide auction sale* and *auction sale* mean the buying and selling of tobacco offered by producers by the auction process which customarily and usually consists of an adequate set of buyers; an auctioneer who takes each buyer's bid; a sales starter who makes the opening bid on each lot; and a ticket marker who records the applicable sales data on each lot.


(e) *Designated market* means an auction market designated by the Secretary under section 5 of the Tobacco Inspection Act including the town or city which is the population center of the market and whose name the market bears and all of the geographical area within 5 road miles of the boundaries of said city or town as they are constituted on January 1, 1993. *Provided,* That any warehouse beyond those boundaries which received tobacco inspection and price support services during the 1992 marketing season shall continue to receive such services at the same location regardless of any prohibition contained herein: *And further provided,* That this geographical limitation may be waived by the Secretary after a hearing held pursuant to §§ 29.2 and 29.3.


(f) *Secretary* means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the U.S. Department of Agriculture to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in his stead.


(g) *Hearing Officer* means any administrative law judge appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105, and assigned to the proceeding involved, or such other employee of the Department of Agriculture as the Secretary may designate to act as hearing officer at such hearing.


(h) *New market* means an auction market, other than a designated market, at which inspection service under the tobacco Inspection Act was not provided on a regular basis during the preceding marketing season.


(i) *Hearing Clerk* means the Hearing Clerk of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250.


(j) *Kind of tobacco* means any one of the following: Flue-cured, Burley, Fire-cured, Dark air-cured, Maryland or Virginia sun-cured.



---

[N] [37 FR 7765, Apr. 20, 1972, as amended at 39 FR 3548, Jan. 28, 1974; 42 FR 17097, Mar. 31, 1977; 58 FR 21343, Apr. 21, 1993]




