# ยง 175.124   Requirements for DUKW Amphibious Passenger Vessels.

No later than January 9, 2024, all operators of a DUKW amphibious passenger vessel, as defined in 46 CFR 175.400, must:


(a) Modify the DUKW amphibious passenger vessel to either:


(1) Remove the canopies and any window coverings installed for waterborne operations, and require that all passengers wear a lifejacket approved by the Coast Guard, as described in part 180 of this subchapter, before the onset of waterborne operations of the DUKW amphibious passenger vessel; or


(2) Install a canopy that does not restrict horizontal or vertical escape by passengers in the event of flooding or sinking.


(b) Reengineer the DUKW amphibious passenger vessel to permanently close all unnecessary access plugs and reduce all through-hull penetrations to the minimum number and size necessary for the safe operation or maintenance of the DUKW amphibious passenger vessel.


(c) Install an independently powered electric bilge pump(s) with a minimum total pumping capacity of:


(d) Install in the DUKW amphibious passenger vessel not fewer than 4 independently powered bilge alarms.


(e) Conduct an in-water inspection of the DUKW amphibious passenger vessel after each time a through-hull penetration of such vessel has been removed or uncovered.


(f) Verify through an in-water inspection the watertight integrity of the DUKW amphibious passenger vessel at the outset of each waterborne departure of such vessel.


(g) Install within the passenger compartment LED lights capable of operating underwater that activate automatically to aid with emergency egress.



---

[N] [USCG-2023-0243, 88 FR 62301, Sept. 11, 2023]






