# ยง 50.95   Remitting the surcharge.

(a) Each insurer shall report direct written premium and Federal terrorism policy surcharges to Treasury on a monthly and annual basis during the assessment period. Reporting will be on a form prescribed by Treasury and will be due according to the following schedule:


(1) *Monthly:* From the beginning of the assessment period through November, on the last business day of the calendar month following the month for which premium is reported, and


(2) *Annually:* March 1 for the prior calendar year.


(b) The monthly statements provided to Treasury will include the following:


(1) Cumulative calendar year direct written premium adjusted for premium not subject to the Federal terrorism policy surcharge, summarized by policy year.


(2) The aggregate Federal terrorism policy surcharge amount calculated by applying the established surcharge percentage to the insurer's adjusted direct written premium by policy year.


(3) Insurer certification of the submission.


(c) The annual statements to be provided to Treasury will include the following:


(1) Direct written premium, adjusted for premium not subject to the Federal terrorism policy surcharge, summarized by policy year and by commercial line of insurance as specified in ยง 50.4(w).


(2) The aggregate Federal terrorism policy surcharge amount calculated by applying the established surcharge percentage to the insurer's adjusted direct written premium by policy year.


(3) In the case of an insurer that has chosen not to collect the Federal terrorism policy surcharge from its policyholders as provided in ยง 50.94(f), a certification that the expense of collecting the Surcharge during the assessment period would have exceeded the amount of the surcharges collected over the assessment period.


(4) Insurer certification of the submission.


(d) The calculated aggregate Federal terrorism policy surcharge amount, as described in paragraphs (b)(2) and (c)(2) of this section, shall be remitted to Treasury upon submission of each monthly and annual statement. Through its submitted statements, an insurer obtains credit for a refund of any Federal terrorism policy surcharge previously remitted to Treasury that was subsequently returned by the insurer to a policyholder as attributable to refunded premium under ยง 50.94(e). A negative calculated amount in a monthly or annual statement indicates payment from Treasury is due to the insurer.


(e) Reporting shall continue for the one-year period following the end of the assessment period established by Treasury, unless otherwise permitted by Treasury.




