# § 416.1112   Earned income we do not count.

(a) *General.* While we must know the source and amount of all of your earned income for SSI, we do not count all of it to determine your eligibility and benefit amount. We first exclude income as authorized by other Federal laws (see paragraph (b) of this section). Then we apply the other exclusions in the order listed in paragraph (c) of this section to the rest of your income in the month. We never reduce your earned income below zero or apply any unused earned income exclusion to unearned income.


(b) *Other Federal laws.* Some Federal laws other than the Social Security Act provide that we cannot count some of your earned income for SSI purposes. We list the laws and exclusions in the appendix to this subpart which we update periodically.


(c) *Other earned income we do not count.* We do not count as earned income—


(1) Any refund of Federal income taxes you receive under section 32 of the Internal Revenue Code (relating to earned income tax credit) and any payment you receive from an employer under section 3507 of the Internal Revenue Code (relating to advance payment of earned income tax credit);


(2) The first $30 of earned income received in a calendar quarter if you receive it infrequently or irregularly. We consider income to be received infrequently if you receive it only once during a calendar quarter from a single source and you did not receive it in the month immediately preceding that month or in the month immediately subsequent to that month. We consider income to be received irregularly if you cannot reasonably expect to receive it.


(3) If you are under age 22 and a student who is regularly attending school as described in § 416.1861:


(i) *For earned income beginning January 1, 2002,* monthly and yearly maximum amounts that are the larger of: 


(A) The monthly and yearly amounts for the previous year, or


(B) Monthly and yearly maximum amounts increased for changes in the cost-of-living, calculated in the same manner as the Federal benefit rates described in § 416.405, except that we will use the calendar year 2001 amounts as the base amounts and will round the resulting amount to the next higher multiple of $10 where such amount is a multiple of $5 but not of $10 and to the nearest multiple of $10 in any other case. 


(ii) *For earned income before January 1, 2002,* the amounts indicated in Table 1 of this section.


(4) Any portion of the $20 monthly exclusion in § 416.1124(c)(10) which has not been excluded from your unearned income in that same month;


(5) $65 of earned income in a month;


(6) Earned income you use to pay impairment-related work expenses described in § 416.976, if you are disabled (but not blind) and under age 65 or you are disabled (but not blind) and received SSI as a disabled individual (or received disability payments under a former State plan) for the month before you reached age 65.


(i) For periods prior to December 1, 1990, you must be able, however, to establish your initial eligibility for Federal benefits without the use of the impairment-related work expense exclusion. Once you establish your initial eligibility without the use of the impairment-related work expense exclusion, the exclusion applies for determining your eligibility for all subsequent consecutive months for which you are eligible for regular SSI benefits, federally administered optional State supplementary payments, special SSI cash benefits or special SSI eligibility status. If, in a subsequent month, you are not eligible for any of these benefits, you cannot reestablish your eligibility for Federal SSI benefits or federally administered optional State supplementary payments before December 1, 1990, using the impairment-related work expense exclusion.


(ii) For periods after November 30, 1990, you may also use the impairment-related work expense exclusion to establish initial eligibility and reeligibility following a month in which you were not eligible for regular SSI benefits, a federally administered optional State supplementary payment, special SSI cash benefits or special SSI eligibility status.


(7) One-half of remaining earned income in a month;


(8) Earned income used to meet any expenses reasonably attributable to the earning of the income if you are blind and under age 65 or if you receive SSI as a blind person for the month before you reach age 65. (We consider that you “reach” a certain age on the day before that particular birthday.); 


(9) Any earned income you receive and use to fulfill an approved plan to achieve self-support if you are blind or disabled and under age 65 or blind or disabled and received SSI as a blind or disabled person for the month before you reached age 65. See §§ 416.1180 through 416.1182 for an explanation of plans to achieve self-support and for the rules on when this exclusion applies; and


(10) Payments made to participants in AmeriCorps State and National and AmeriCorps National Civilian Community Corps (NCCC). Payments to participants in AmeriCorps State and National and AmeriCorps NCCC may be made in cash or in-kind and may be made directly to the AmeriCorps participant or on the AmeriCorps participant's behalf. These payments include, but are not limited to: Living allowance payments, stipends, educational awards, and payments in lieu of educational awards.



---

[N] [45 FR 65547, Oct. 3, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 21943, May 16, 1983; 50 FR 48574, Nov. 26, 1985; 58 FR 63889, Dec. 3, 1993; 59 FR 41405, Aug. 12, 1994; 65 FR 82912, Dec. 29, 2000; 71 FR 45378, Aug. 9, 2006; 71 FR 66866, Nov. 17, 2006; 75 FR 54287, Sept. 7, 2010]




