# § 54.609   Designation of Consortium Leader.

(a) *Identifying a Consortium Leader.* Each consortium seeking support under the Healthcare Connect Fund Program must identify an entity or organization that will lead the consortium (the “Consortium Leader”).


(b) *Consortium Leader eligibility.* The Consortium Leader may be the consortium itself (if it is a distinct legal entity); an eligible health care provider participating in the consortium; or a state organization, public sector (governmental) entity (including a Tribal government entity), or non-profit entity that is ineligible for Healthcare Connect Fund Program support. Ineligible state organizations, public sector entities, or non-profit entities may serve as Consortium Leaders or provide consulting assistance to consortia only if they do not participate as potential service providers during the competitive bidding process. An ineligible entity that serves as the Consortium Leader must pass on the full value of any discounts, funding, or other program benefits secured to the consortium members that are eligible health care providers.


(c) *Consortium Leader responsibilities.* The Consortium Leader's responsibilities include the following:


(1) *Legal and financial responsibility for supported activities.* The Consortium Leader is the legally and financially responsible entity for the activities supported by the Healthcare Connect Fund Program. By default, the Consortium Leader is the responsible entity if audits or other investigations by Administrator or the Commission reveal violations of the Act or Commission rules, with individual consortium members being jointly and severally liable if the Consortium Leader dissolves, files for bankruptcy, or otherwise fails to meet its obligations. Except for the responsibilities specifically described in paragraphs (c)(2) through (6) in this section, consortia may allocate legal and financial responsibility as they see fit, provided that this allocation is memorialized in a formal written agreement between the affected parties (*i.e.,* the Consortium Leader, and the consortium as a whole and/or its individual members), and the written agreement is submitted to the Administrator for approval with, or prior to, the request for services. Any such agreement must clearly identify the party(ies) responsible for repayment if the Administrator, at a later date, seeks to recover disbursements of support to the consortium due to violations of program rules.


(2) *Point of contact for the FCC and Administrator.* The Consortium Leader is responsible for designating an individual who will be the “Project Coordinator” and serve as the point of contact with the Commission and the Administrator for all matters related to the consortium. The Consortium Leader is responsible for responding to Commission and Administrator inquiries on behalf of the consortium members throughout the application, funding, invoicing, and post-invoicing period.


(3) *Typical applicant functions, including forms and certifications.* The Consortium Leader is responsible for submitting program forms and required documentation and ensuring that all information and certifications submitted are true and correct. The Consortium Leader must also collect and retain a Letter of Agency (LOA) from each member, pursuant to § 54.610.


(4) *Competitive bidding and cost allocation.* The Consortium Leader is responsible for ensuring that the competitive bidding process is fair and open and otherwise complies with Commission requirements. If costs are shared by both eligible and ineligible entities, the Consortium Leader must ensure that costs are allocated in a manner that ensures that only eligible entities receive the benefit of program discounts.


(5) *Invoicing.* The Consortium Leader is responsible for notifying the Administrator when supported services have commenced and for submitting invoices to the Administrator.


(6) *Recordkeeping, site visits, and audits.* The Consortium Leader is also responsible for compliance with the Commission's recordkeeping requirements and for coordinating site visits and audits for all consortium members.




