# ยง 553.48   Findings concerning the commission of certain crimes where a person has not been convicted due to death or flight to avoid prosecution.

(a) *Preliminary inquiry.* If the Executive Director has reason to believe that a decedent may have committed a Federal capital crime or a State capital crime but has not been convicted of such crime by reason of such person not being available for trial due to death or flight to avoid prosecution, the Executive Director shall submit the issue to the Army General Counsel. The Army General Counsel or his or her designee shall initiate a preliminary inquiry seeking information from Federal, State, or local law enforcement officials, or other sources of potentially relevant information.


(b) *Decision after preliminary inquiry.* If, after conducting the preliminary inquiry described in paragraph (a) of this section, the Army General Counsel or designee determines that credible evidence exists suggesting the decedent may have committed a Federal capital crime or State capital crime, then further proceedings under this section are warranted to determine whether the decedent committed such crime. Consequently the Army General Counsel or his or her designee shall present the personal representative with a written notification of such preliminary determination and a dated, written notice of the personal representative's procedural options.


(c) *Notice and procedural options.* The notice of procedural options shall indicate that, within fifteen days, the personal representative may:


(1) Request a hearing;


(2) Withdraw the request for interment, inurnment, or memorialization; or


(3) Do nothing, in which case the request for interment, inurnment, or memorialization will be considered to have been withdrawn.


(d) *Time computation.* The fifteen-day time period begins on the calendar day immediately following the earlier of the day the notice of procedural options is delivered in person to the personal representative or is sent by U.S. registered mail or, if available, by electronic means to the personal representative. It ends at midnight on the fifteenth day. The period includes weekends and holidays.


(e) *Hearing.* The purpose of the hearing is to allow the personal representative to present additional information regarding whether the decedent committed a Federal capital crime or a State capital crime. In lieu of making a personal appearance at the hearing, the personal representative may submit relevant documents for consideration.


(1) If a hearing is requested, the Army General Counsel or his or her designee shall conduct the hearing.


(2) The hearing shall be conducted in an informal manner.


(3) The rules of evidence shall not apply.


(4) The personal representative and witnesses may appear, at no expense to the Government, and shall, at the discretion of the hearing officer, testify under oath. Oaths must be administered by a person who possesses the legal authority to administer oaths.


(5) The Army General Counsel or designee shall consider any and all relevant information obtained.


(6) The hearing shall be appropriately recorded. Upon request, a copy of the record shall be provided to the personal representative.


(f) *Final determination.* After considering the hearing officer's report, the opinion of the Army General Counsel or his or her designee, and any additional information submitted by the personal representative, the Secretary of the Army or his or her designee shall determine the decedent's eligibility for interment, inurnment, or memorialization. This determination is final and not appealable.


(1) The determination shall be based on evidence that supports or undermines a conclusion that the decedent's actions satisfied the elements of the crime as established by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent would have been prosecuted.


(2) If an affirmative defense is offered by the decedent's personal representative, a determination as to whether the defense was met shall be made according to the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent would have been prosecuted.


(3) Mitigating evidence shall not be considered.


(4) The opinion of the local, State, or Federal prosecutor as to whether he or she would have brought charges against the decedent had the decedent been available is relevant but not binding and shall be given no more weight than other facts presented.


(g) *Notice of decision.* The Executive Director shall provide written notification of the Secretary's decision to the personal representative.






