# 19.203   Relationship among small business programs.

(a) *General.* There is no order of precedence among the 8(a) Program (subpart 19.8), HUBZone Program (subpart 19.13), Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business (SDVOSB)  Program (subpart 19.14), or the Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Program (subpart 19.15).


(b) *At or below the simplified acquisition threshold.* For acquisitions of supplies or services that have an anticipated dollar value above the micro-purchase threshold, but at or below the simplified acquisition threshold, the requirement at 19.502-2(a) to set aside acquisitions for small business concerns does not preclude the contracting officer from awarding a contract to a small business under the 8(a) Program, HUBZone Program, SDVOSB Program, or WOSB Program.


(c) *Above the simplified acquisition threshold.* For acquisitions of supplies or services that have an anticipated dollar value exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold definition at 2.101, the contracting officer shall first consider an acquisition for the small business socioeconomic contracting programs (*i.e.,* 8(a), HUBZone, SDVOSB, or WOSB programs) before considering a small business set-aside (see 19.502-2(b)). However, if a requirement has been accepted by the SBA under the 8(a) Program, it must remain in the 8(a) Program unless the SBA agrees to its release in accordance with 13 CFR parts 124, 126, 127, and 128.


(d) In determining which socioeconomic program to use for an acquisition, the contracting officer should consider, at a minimum—


(1) Results of market research that was done to determine if there are socioeconomic firms capable of satisfying the agency's requirement; and


(2) Agency progress in fulfilling its small business goals.


(e) Small business set-asides have priority over acquisitions using full and open competition. *See* requirements for establishing a small business set-aside at subpart 19.5.



---

[N] [75 FR 14567, Mar. 16, 2011, as amended at 76 FR 18309, Apr. 1, 2011; 77 FR 12932, Mar. 2, 2012; 80 FR 38298, July 2, 2015; 81 FR 30439, May 16, 2016; 82 FR 4717, Jan. 13, 2017; 85 FR 11759, Feb. 27, 2020; 85 FR 27090, May 6, 2020; 89 FR 13956, Feb. 23, 2024]




