# § 1045.240   How do I demonstrate that my engine family complies with exhaust emission standards?

(a) For purposes of certification, your engine family is considered in compliance with the duty-cycle emission standards in § 1045.103 or § 1045.105 if all emission-data engines representing that family have test results showing official emission results and deteriorated emission levels at or below these standards. This also applies for all test points for emission-data engines within the family used to establish deterioration factors. Note that your FELs are considered to be the applicable emission standards with which you must comply if you participate in the ABT program in subpart H of this part. *See* paragraph (e) of this section for provisions related to demonstrating compliance with NTE standards.


(b) Your engine family is deemed not to comply with the duty-cycle emission standards in § 1045.103 or § 1045.105 if any emission-data engine representing that family has test results showing an official emission result or a deteriorated emission level for any pollutant that is above an applicable emission standard. Similarly, your engine family is deemed not to comply if any emission-data engine representing that family has test results showing any emission level above the applicable not-to-exceed emission standard for any pollutant. This also applies for all test points for emission-data engines within the family used to establish deterioration factors.


(c) Determine a deterioration factor to compare emission levels from the emission-data engine with the applicable emission standards. Section 1045.245 specifies how to test engines to develop deterioration factors that represent the expected deterioration in emissions over your engines' full useful life. Your deterioration factors must take into account any available data from in-use testing with similar engines. You may ask us to give you an assigned deterioration factor for your high-performance engines. Small-volume engine manufacturers may use assigned deterioration factors that we establish for any engine families certified under this part. Apply deterioration factors as follows:


(1) *Additive deterioration factor for exhaust emissions.* For engines that do not use aftertreatment technology, use an additive deterioration factor for exhaust emissions. An additive deterioration factor is the difference between exhaust emissions at the end of useful life and exhaust emissions at the low-hour test point. Adjust the official emission results for each tested engine at the selected test point by adding the factor to the measured emissions. If the deterioration factor is less than zero, use zero. Additive deterioration factors must be specified to one more decimal place than the emission standard.


(2) *Multiplicative deterioration factor for exhaust emissions.* For engines that use aftertreatment technology, such as catalytic converters, use a multiplicative deterioration factor for exhaust emissions. A multiplicative deterioration factor is the ratio of exhaust emissions at the end of useful life to exhaust emissions at the low-hour test point. Adjust the official emission results for each tested engine at the selected test point by multiplying the measured emissions by the deterioration factor. If the deterioration factor is less than one, use one. Multiplicative deterioration factors must be specified to one more significant figure than the emission standard.


(d) Collect emission data using measurements to one more decimal place than the applicable standard. Apply the deterioration factor to the official emission result, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, then round the adjusted figure to the same number of decimal places as the emission standard. Compare the rounded emission levels to the emission standard for each emission-data engine. In the case of HC + NO_X_ standards, add the official emission results and apply the deterioration factor to the sum of the pollutants before rounding. However, if your deterioration factors are based on emission measurements that do not cover the vehicle's full useful life, apply the deterioration factor to each pollutant and then add the results before rounding.


(e) Use good engineering judgment to demonstrate compliance with NTE standards throughout the useful life. You may, but are not required to, apply the same deterioration factors used to show compliance with the applicable duty-cycle standards.



---

[N] [73 FR 59194, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 23019, Apr. 30, 2010]




