# § 63.7886   What are the general standards I must meet for my affected remediation material management units?

(a) For each remediation material management unit that is part of an affected source designated by § 63.7882, you must select and meet the requirements under one of the options specified in paragraph (b) of this section except for those remediation material management units exempted under paragraph (c) or (d) of this section. 


(b) For each affected remediation material management unit, you must meet one of the options in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section. 


(1) You control HAP emissions from the affected remediation material management unit according to the standards specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (v) of this section, as applicable to the unit. 


(i) If the remediation material management unit is a tank, then you control HAP emissions according to the standards specified in §§ 63.7895 through 63.7898. 


(ii) If the remediation material management unit is a container, then you control HAP emissions according to the standards specified in §§ 63.7900 through 63.7903. 


(iii) If the remediation material management unit is a surface impoundment, then you control HAP emissions according to the standards specified in §§ 63.7905 through 63.7908. 


(iv) If the remediation material management unit is an oil-water or organic-water separator, then you control HAP emissions according to the standards specified in §§ 63.7910 through 63.7913. 


(v) If the remediation material management unit is a transfer system, then you control HAP emissions according to the standards specified in §§ 63.7915 through 63.7918. 


(2) You determine that the average total VOHAP concentration, as defined in § 63.7957, of the remediation material managed in the remediation material management unit material is less than 500 ppmw. You must follow the requirements in § 63.7943 to demonstrate that the VOHAP concentration of the remediation material is less than 500 ppmw. Once the VOHAP concentration for a remediation material has been determined to be less than 500 ppmw, all remediation material management units downstream from the point of determination managing this material meet the requirements of this paragraph unless a remediation process is used that concentrates all, or part of, the remediation material being managed in the unit such that the VOHAP concentration of the material could increase. Any free product returned to the manufacturing process (*e.g.*, recovered oil returned to a storage tank at a refinery) is no longer subject to this subpart.


(3) If the remediation material management unit is also subject to another subpart under 40 CFR part 61 or 40 CFR part 63, you control emissions of the HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart from the affected remediation material management unit in compliance with the standards specified in the applicable subpart. This means you are complying with all applicable emissions limitations and work practice standards under the other subpart (*e.g.,* you install and operate the required air pollution controls or have implemented the required work practice to reduce HAP emissions to levels specified by the applicable subpart). This provision does not apply to any exemption of the affected source from the emissions limitations and work practice standards allowed by the other applicable subpart. 


(4) If the remediation material management unit is an open tank or surface impoundment used for a biological treatment process, you meet the requirements as specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section. 


(i) You demonstrate that the biological treatment process conducted in the open tank or surface impoundment meets the performance levels specified in either § 63.684(b)(4)(i) or (ii). 


(ii) You monitor the biological treatment process conducted in the open tank or surface impoundment according to the requirements in § 63.684(e)(4). 


(c) A remediation material management unit is exempted from the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section if this unit is used for cleanup of radioactive mixed waste, as defined in § 63.7957, that is subject to applicable regulations, directives, and other requirements under the Atomic Energy Act, the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, or the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant Land Withdrawal Act. 


(d) One or a combination of remediation material management units may be exempted at your discretion from the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section provided that the total annual quantity of HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart contained in the remediation material placed in all of the remediation material management units exempted under this paragraph is less than 1 Mg/yr. For each remediation material management unit you select to be exempted under this provision, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section. 


(1) You must designate each of the remediation material management units you are selecting to be exempted under this paragraph by either submitting to the Administrator a written notification identifying the exempt units or permanently marking the exempt units at the faculty site. If you choose to prepare and submit a written notification, this notification must include a site plan, process diagram, or other appropriate documentation identifying each of the exempt units. If you choose to permanently mark the exempt units, each exempt unit must be marked in such a manner that it can be readily identified as an exempt unit from the other remediation material management units located at the site. 


(2) You must prepare an initial determination of the total annual HAP quantity in the remediation material placed in the units exempted under this paragraph. This determination is based on the total quantity of the HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart as determined at the point where the remediation material is placed in each exempted unit. You must perform a new determination whenever the extent of changes to the quantity or composition of the remediation material placed in the exempted units could cause the total annual HAP content in the remediation material to exceed 1 Mg/yr. You must maintain documentation to support the most recent determination of the total annual HAP quantity. This documentation must include the basis and data used for determining the organic HAP content of the remediation material.



---

[N] [68 FR 58190, Oct. 8, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 69017, Nov. 29, 2006] 




