# 46.805   Contract clauses.

(a) *Contracts that exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.* The contracting officer shall insert the appropriate clause or combination of clauses specified in subparagraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section in solicitations and contracts when the contract amount is expected to be in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold and the contract is subject to the requirements of this subpart as indicated in 46.801:


(1) In contracts requiring delivery of end items that are not high-value items, insert the clause at 52.246-23, Limitation of Liability.


(2) In contracts requiring delivery of high-value items, insert the clause at 52.246-24, Limitation of Liability—High-Value Items.


(3) In contracts requiring delivery of both high-value items and other end items, insert both clauses prescribed in (1) and (2) above, *Alternate I* of the clause at 52.246-24, and identify clearly in the contract schedule the line items designated as high-value items.


(4) In contracts requiring the performance of services, insert the clause at 52.246-25, Limitation of Liability—Services.


(5) In contracts requiring both the performance of services and the delivery of end items, insert the clause prescribed in subparagraph (4) above and the appropriate clause or clauses prescribed in subparagraph (1), (2), or (3) above, and identify clearly in the contract schedule any high-value line items.


(b) *Acquisitions at or below the simplified acquisition threshold.* The clauses prescribed by paragraph (a) of this section are not required for contracts at or below the simplified acquisition threshold. However, in response to a contractor's specific request, the contracting officer may insert the clauses prescribed in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(4) of this section in a contract at or below the simplified acquisition threshold and may obtain any price reduction that is appropriate.



---

[N] [48 FR 42415, Sept. 19, 1983, as amended at 55 FR 3886, Feb. 5, 1990; 60 FR 34760, July 3, 1995; 61 FR 39190, July 26, 1996]




