# § 62.15265   How do I monitor the load of my municipal waste combustion unit?

(a) If your municipal waste combustion unit generates steam, you must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a steam flowmeter or a feed water flowmeter and meet five requirements: 


(1) Continuously measure and record the measurements of steam (or feed water) in kilograms per hour (or pounds per hour). 


(2) Calculate your steam (or feed water) flow in 4-hour block averages. 


(3) Calculate the steam (or feed water) flow rate using the method in “American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME PTC 4.1—1964): Test Code for Steam Generating Units, Power Test Code 4.1-1964 (Reaffirmed 1991),” section 4. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Service Center, 22 Law Drive, Post Office Box 2900, Fairfield, NJ 07007. You may inspect a copy at the Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards Air Docket, EPA, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, Room C521C, RTP, NC 27709 or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(4) Design, construct, install, calibrate, and use nozzles or orifices for flow rate measurements, using the recommendations in “American Society of Mechanical Engineers Interim Supplement 19.5 on Instruments and Apparatus: Application, Part II of Fluid Meters”, 6th Edition (1971), chapter 4. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Service Center, 22 Law Drive, Post Office Box 2900, Fairfield, NJ 07007. You may inspect a copy at the Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards Air Docket, EPA, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, Room C521C, RTP, NC 27709 or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(5) Before each dioxins/furans stack test, or at least once a year, calibrate all signal conversion elements associated with steam (or feed water) flow measurements according to the manufacturer instructions. 


(b) If your municipal waste combustion unit does not generate steam, or, if your municipal waste combustion units have shared steam systems and steam load cannot be estimated per unit, you must determine, to the satisfaction of the Administrator, one or more operating parameters that can be used to continuously estimate load level (for example, the feed rate of municipal solid waste or refuse-derived fuel). You must continuously monitor the selected parameters. 



---

[N] [68 FR 5158, Jan. 31, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]




