# § 148.90   Foreign military personnel.

(a) *Exemptions allowed.* Port directors shall in accordance with the provisions of this section admit the following free of duty and internal revenue tax imposed upon or by reason of importation: 


(1) The baggage and effects of persons on duty in the United States as members of the armed forces of any foreign country, and of their immediate families under subheading 9806.00.20, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202); 


(2) Articles entered or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption by a member of the armed forces of any foreign country on duty in the United States, for his personal use or that of any member of his immediate family but not as an accommodation to others or for sale or other commercial use, under subheading 9806.00.45, HTSUS; and 


(3) Articles entered or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption for the official use of members of the armed forces of any foreign country on duty in the United States, under subheading 9809.00.30, HTSUS. 


(b) *Reciprocity limitation.* When port directors have been advised officially of a finding by the Secretary of the Treasury that a foreign country does not reciprocate to members of the armed forces of the United States on duty in its country and members of their immediate families the privileges accorded its members and their families in the United States, the port directors shall accord to the personnel of such foreign government privileges under the law only to the extent to which the foreign government accords similar treatment to members of the armed forces of the United States and members of their immediate families. 


(c) *Status of importer questioned.* If any question arises as to the status of the importer under subheadings 9806.00.20, 9806.00.45 and 9809.00.30, HTSUS, or whether articles entered thereunder are for official use or for personal or family use, but not as an accommodation to others or for sale or other commercial use, the port director shall report the available facts to the Commissioner of Customs for instructions. 


(d) *Alcoholic beverages for personal or family use*—(1) *General rule*—(i) *Limitation stated.* Except in the case of exceptional circumstances set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, entry of alcoholic beverages (other than malt beverages) for personal or family use but not as an accommodation to others or for sale or other commercial use under subheading 9806.00.45, HTSUS, is limited to one case each month. 


(ii) *Advance entry or withdrawal.* A maximum of three cases (the initial one plus two cases in advance) may be entered or withdrawn at any one time in a given 3-month period if the port director is satisfied they are for personal or family use but not as an accommodation to others or for sale or other commercial use. Such advance entry or withdrawal shall not be deemed to broaden the one case per month limitation. 


(iii) *Certification.* At the time of each entry or withdrawal, the member of the Armed Forces must certify that since his last entry or withdrawal there have expired a number of months equal to the numbers of cases last entered or withdrawn. 


(2) *Exceptional circumstances.* In exceptional circumstances an additional quantity of alcoholic beverages for personal or family use but not as an accommodation to others or for sale or other commercial use, in excess of the one case per month limitation may be allowed under the following procedure: 


(i) A statement signed by the member of the Armed Forces and attached to his declaration for free entry will be submitted to the port director, setting forth the reason for requesting the additional quantity; 


(ii) The statement of request must be approved by the officer or person in charge of the Armed Forces involved, or a person specifically authorized by such officer or person to approve such requests; and 


(iii) The port director must be satisfied that the need for the additional quantity is justified. Questionable cases shall be referred to the Commissioner of Customs for instructions. 


(3) *Retention and verification of the warehouse proprietors' records.* The warehouse proprietor shall retain all records relating to the entry and withdrawal of alcoholic beverages under subheading 9806.00.45, HTSUS, for 3 years from the date of the entry against which the withdrawal of the alcoholic beverages is charged. 


(e) *Entry requirements.* The entry requirements prescribed in the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (Title 19, United States Code), and the regulations thereunder are applicable to articles for which free entry is claimed under subheadings 9806.00.20, 9806.00.45, 9809.00.30, HTSUS. No invoices shall be required. 



---

[N] [T.D. 73-227, 38 FR 22548, Aug. 22, 1973, as amended by T.D. 79-159, 44 FR 31969, June 4, 1979; T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51266, Dec. 21, 1988]




