# § 35.29   Treatment of special assessments levied under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended by Title XI of the Energy Policy Act of 1992.

The costs that public utilities incur relating to special assessments under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended by the Energy Policy Act of 1992, are costs that may be reflected in jurisdictional rates. Public utilities seeking to recover the costs incurred relating to special assessments shall comply with the following procedures.


(a) *Fuel adjustment clauses.* In computing the Account 518 cost of nuclear fuel pursuant to § 35.14(a)(6), utilities seeking to recover the costs of special assessments through their fuel adjustment clauses shall: 


(1) Deduct any expenses associated with special assessments included in Account 518;


(2) Add to Account 518 one-twelfth of any payments made for special assessments within the 12-month period ending with the current month; and


(3) Deduct from Account 518 one-twelfth of any refunds of payments made for special assessments received within the 12-month period ending with the current month that is received from the Federal government because the public utility has contested a special assessment or overpaid a special assessment. 


(b) *Cost of service data requirements.* Public utilities filing rate applications under §§ 35.12 or 35.13 (regardless of whether the utility elects the abbreviated, unadjusted Period I, adjusted Period I, or Period II cost support requirements) must submit cost data that is computed in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) (1), (2) and (3) of this section. 


(c) *Formula rates.* Public utilities with formula rates on file that provide for the automatic recovery of nuclear fuel costs must reflect the costs of special assessments in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) (1), (2) and (3) of this section.



---

[N] [Order 557, 58 FR 51221, Oct. 1, 1993. Redesignated by Order 888, 61 FR 21692, May 10, 1996]




