# § 158.2010   Biochemical pesticides data requirements.

(a) Sections 158.2030 through 158.2070 identify the data requirements that are required to support registration of biochemical pesticides. Sections 158.2080 through 158.2084 identify the data requirements that are required to support Experimental Use Permits (EUPs). Variations in the test conditions are identified within the test notes. Definitions that apply to all biochemical data requirements can be found in § 158.2000.


(b) Each data table includes “use patterns” under which the individual data are required, with variations including food and nonfood uses for terrestrial and aquatic applications, greenhouse, indoor, forestry, and residential outdoor applications under certain circumstances.


(c) The categories for each data requirement are “R”, which stands for required, and “CR” which stands for conditionally required. Generally, “R” indicates that the data are more likely required than for those data requirements with “CR.” However, in each case, the regulatory text preceding the data table and the test notes following the data table must be used to determine whether the data requirement must be satisfied.


(d) Each table identifies the test substance that is required to be tested to satisfy the data requirement. Test substances may include: technical grade active ingredient (TGAI), manufacturing-use product (MP), end-use product (EP), typical end-use product (TEP), residue of concern, and pure active ingredient (PAI) or all of the above (All). Commas between the test substances (*i.e.*, TGAI, EP) indicate that data may be required on the TGAI or EP or both depending on the conditions set forth in the test note.


(e) The data requirements are organized into a tier-testing system with specified additional studies at higher tiers being required if warranted by adverse effects observed in lower tier studies. The lower tier studies are a subset of those required for conventional pesticides, and the studies overall are generally selected from those required for conventional pesticides.


(f) Two sets of guideline numbers are provided for some of the environmental fate data requirements. For ease of understanding, the current guidelines will be used as an interim measure until the new guidelines (in parentheses) are finalized.




