# ยง 766.11   Matter protected against disclosure.

(a) *Protective measures.* It is often necessary for BIS to receive and consider information and documents that are sensitive from the standpoint of national security, foreign policy, business confidentiality, or investigative concern, and that are to be protected against disclosure. Accordingly, and without limiting the discretion of the administrative law judge to give effect to any other applicable privilege, it is proper for the administrative law judge to limit discovery or introduction of evidence or to issue such protective or other orders as in the judge's judgment may be consistent with the objective of preventing undue disclosure of the sensitive documents or information. Where the administrative law judge determines that documents containing the sensitive matter need to be made available to a respondent to avoid prejudice, the judge may direct BIS to prepare an unclassified and nonsensitive summary or extract of the documents. The administrative law judge may compare the extract or summary with the original to ensure that it is supported by the source document and that it omits only so much as must remain classified or undisclosed. The summary or extract may be admitted as evidence in the record.


(b) *Arrangements for access.* If the administrative law judge determines that this procedure is unsatisfactory and that classified or otherwise sensitive matter must form part of the record in order to avoid prejudice to a party, the judge may provide the parties opportunity to make arrangements that permit a party or a representative to have access to such matter without compromising sensitive information. Such arrangements may include obtaining security clearances, obtaining a national interest determination under section 12(c) of the EAA, or giving counsel for a party access to sensitive information and documents subject to assurances against further disclosure, including a protective order, if necessary.




