# ยง 36.4254   Fees and charges.

(a) Except as provided in ยง 36.4232 fees and charges incident to origination of a combination loan or a loan to purchase a lot upon which a manufactured home owned by the veteran will be placed which may be paid by the veteran shall be limited, with respect to the real estate portion of the loan, to reasonable and customary amounts for any of the following:


(1) Fees of the Department of Veterans Affairs appraiser and of compliance inspectors designated by the Department of Veterans Affairs, except appraisal fees incurred for the predetermination of reasonable value requested by others than veteran or lender, 


(2) Recording fees and recording taxes or other charges incident to recordation, 


(3) Credit report, 


(4) That portion of taxes, assessments, and other similar items for the current year chargeable to the borrower and an initial deposit (lump-sum payment) for any tax and insurance account, 


(5) Survey, if required by lender or veteran, 


(6) Title examination and title insurance, if any, 


(7) The actual amount charged for flood zone determinations, including a charge for a life-of-the-loan flood zone determination service purchased at the time of loan origination, if made by a third party who guarantees the accuracy of the determination. A fee may not be charged for a flood zone determination made by a Department of Veterans Affairs appraiser or for the lender's own determination, and 


(8) Such other items as may be authorized in advance by the Under Secretary for Benefits as appropriate for inclusion under this paragraph as proper local variances.


(b) A lender may charge and the veteran may pay a flat charge not exceeding one (1) percent of the amount of the loan less the portion thereof allocated to the manufactured home: *Provided,* That such flat charge shall be in lieu of all other charges relating to costs of origination not expressly specified and allowed in this schedule.


(c) Except for a refinancing loan pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 3712(a)(1)(F) or (G) fees and charges specified in this section may not be included in the loan.


(d)(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section and subject to the limitations set out in paragraphs (d)(4) and (d)(5) of this section, a fee must be paid to the Secretary. A fee of 1 percent of the total loan amount must be paid to the Secretary before a combination manufactured home and lot loan (or a loan to purchase a lot upon which a manufactured home owned by the veteran will be placed) will be eligible for guaranty. Provided, however, that the fee shall be 0.50 percent of the total loan amount for interest rate reduction refinancing loans guaranteed under 38 U.S.C. 3712(a)(1)(F). All or part of such fee may be paid in cash at loan closing or all or part of the fee may be included in the loan without regard to the reasonable value of the property or the computed maximum loan amount, as appropriate. In computing the fee, the lender will disregard any amount included in the loan to enable the borrower to pay such fee.


(2) Subject to the limitations set out in paragraphs (d)(3) and (d)(4) of this section, a fee of one-half of one percent of the loan balance must be paid to the Secretary in a manner prescribed by the Secretary by a person assuming a loan to which section 3714 of chapter 37 of 38 U.S.C. applies. The instrument securing such a loan shall contain a provision describing the right of the holder to collect this fee as trustee for the Department of Veterans Affairs. The loan holder shall list the amount of this fee in every assumption statement provided and include a notice that the fee must be paid to the holder immediately following loan settlement. The fee must be transmitted to the Secretary within 15 days of receipt by the holder of notice of the transfer.


(3) The lender is required to pay to the Secretary the fee described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section within 15 days after loan closing. Any lender closing a loan, subject to the limitations set out in paragraphs (d)(4) and (d)(5) of this section, who fails to submit timely payment of this fee will be subject to a late charge equal to 4 percent of the total fee due. If payment of the 1 percent fee is made more than 30 days after loan closing, interest will be assessed at a rate set in conformity with the Department of Treasury's Fiscal Requirements Manual. This interest charge is in addition to the 4 percent late charge, but the late charge is not included in the amount on which interest is computed. This interest charge is to be calculated on a daily basis beginning on the date of closing, although the interest will be assessed only on funding fee payments received more than 30 days after closing.


(4) The lender is required to pay to the Secretary electronically through the Automated Clearing House (ACH) system the fees described in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section and any late fees and interest due on them. This shall be paid to a collection agent by operator-assisted telephone, terminal entry, or CPU-to-CPU transmission. The collection agent will be identified by the Secretary. The lender shall provide the collection agent with the following: authorization for payment of the funding fee (including late fees and interest) along with the following information: VA lender ID number; four-digit personal identification number; dollar amount of debit; VA loan number; OJ (office of jurisdiction) code; closing date; loan amount; information about whether the payment includes a shortage, late charge, or interest; veteran name; loan type; sale amount; downpayment; whether the veteran is a reservist; and whether this is a subsequent use of entitlement. For all transactions received prior to 8:15 p.m. on a workday, VA will be credited with the amount paid to the collection agent at the opening of business the next banking day.


(5) The fee described in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section shall not be collected from a veteran who is receiving compensation or who but for the receipt of retirement pay would be entitled to receive compensation) or from a surviving spouse described in section 3701(b)(2) of title 38 U.S.C.


(6) Collection of the loan fee in this paragraph does not apply to loans closed prior to August 17, 1984, between October 1, and October 15, 1987, inclusive, between November 16 and December 20, 1987, inclusive, nor to loans closed after September 30, 1989.



---

[N] [36 FR 3369, Feb. 23, 1971, as amended at 46 FR 43671, Aug. 31, 1981; 47 FR 46700, Oct. 20, 1982; 48 FR 40231, Sept. 6, 1983; 50 FR 5754, Feb. 12, 1985; 53 FR 27048, July 18, 1988; 55 FR 37473, Sept. 12, 1990; 60 FR 38259, July 26, 1995; 61 FR 28058, June 4, 1996; 62 FR 63278, Nov. 28, 1997] 




