# ยง 1005.763   First Legal Action deadline and automatic extensions.

(a) *Deadline for First Legal Action.* The Servicer must complete First Legal Action, within 180 days of default, unless a later date is authorized under this part.


(b) *Automatic extensions to the First Legal Action deadline.* HUD permits automatic extensions to the First Legal Action deadline for the following reasons and HUD approval is not required.


(1) If Federal law or the laws of the Tribe or State, in which the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan property is located, do not permit First Legal Action within the deadline designated above, then the Servicer must complete First Legal Action within 30 days after the expiration of the time during which First Legal Action is prohibited; or


(2) If the Borrower is in compliance with an approved loss mitigation plan at 180 days of default and the Borrower subsequently fails loss mitigation, First Legal Action must be completed within 30 days of the loss mitigation failure or the Borrower's request to terminate the loss mitigation plan, whichever is sooner.


(3) If the Borrower does not continue with their current loss mitigation option or enter into an alternative loss mitigation option during the 45-day period under ยง 1005.739(f), the First Legal Action must be completed within 30 days or


(4) If a Tribal First Right of Refusal was offered under ยง 1005.759, and the Servicer decides to pursue foreclosure in Tribal court, instead of assigning the Loan to HUD, First Legal Action must be completed within 30 days of completing the Tribal First Right of Refusal.


(c) *Other extensions.* Other necessary and reasonable extensions may be allowed, as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.


(d) *Notice to HUD.* The Servicer must provide notice to HUD, in a form as may be prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance, within 15 days of completing First Legal Action.


(e) *Submission of claim.* The Servicer must submit a claim to HUD within 45 days from the date the foreclosure was complete in accordance with ยง 1005.809(a) or (c).






