# § 422.107   Evidence requirements.

(a) *General.* To obtain an original Social Security number card, you must submit convincing evidence of your age, U.S. citizenship or alien status, and true identity, as described in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section. If you apply for a replacement Social Security number card, you must submit convincing evidence of your true identity, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, and you may also be required to submit convincing evidence of your age and U.S. citizenship or alien status, as described in paragraphs (b), (d), and (e) of this section. If you apply for an original or replacement Social Security number card, you are also required to submit evidence to assist us in determining the existence and identity of any previously assigned Social Security number(s). We will not assign a Social Security number or issue an original or replacement card unless we determine that you meet all of the evidence requirements. We require an in-person interview if you are age 12 or older and are applying for an original Social Security number, unless you are an alien who requests a Social Security number as part of the immigration process described in § 422.103(b)(3). We may require an in-person interview of other applicants. All paper or other tangible documents submitted as evidence must be originals or copies of the original documents certified by the custodians of the original records and are subject to verification. We may also verify your eligibility factors, as described in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, through other means, including but not limited to data matches or other agreements with government agencies or other entities that we determine can provide us with appropriate and secure verification of your eligibility factors.


(b) *Evidence of age.* An applicant for an original social security number is required to submit convincing evidence of age. An applicant for a replacement social security number card may also be required to submit evidence of age. Examples of the types of evidence which may be submitted are a birth certificate, a religious record showing age or date of birth, a hospital record of birth, or a passport. (*See* § 404.716.)


(c) *Evidence of identity.* (1) If you apply for an original Social Security number or a replacement Social Security number card, you are required to submit convincing evidence of your identity. Evidence of identity may consist of a driver's license, identification card, school record, medical record, marriage record, passport, Department of Homeland Security document, or other similar evidence serving to identify you. The evidence must contain sufficient information to identify you, including your name and:


(i) Your age, date of birth, or parents' names; or


(ii) Your photograph or physical description.


(2) A birth record is not sufficient evidence to establish identity for these purposes.


(d) *Evidence of U.S. citizenship.* Generally, an applicant for an original or replacement social security number card may prove that he or she is a U.S. citizen by birth by submitting a birth certificate or other evidence, as described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, that shows a U.S. place of birth. Where a foreign-born applicant claims U.S. citizenship, the applicant for a social security number or a replacement social security number card is required to present documentary evidence of U.S. citizenship. If required evidence is not available, a social security number card will not be issued until satisfactory evidence of U.S. citizenship is furnished. Any of the following is generally acceptable evidence of U.S. citizenship for a foreign-born applicant:


(1) Certificate of naturalization;


(2) Certificate of citizenship;


(3) U.S. passport;


(4) U.S. citizen identification card issued by the Department of Homeland Security;


(5) Consular report of birth (State Department form FS-240 or FS-545); or


(6) Other verification from the Department of Homeland Security, U.S. Department of State, or Federal or State court records confirming citizenship.


(e) *Evidence of alien status*—(1) *General evidence rules.* When a person who is not a U.S. citizen applies for an original social security number or a replacement social security number card, he or she is required to submit, as evidence of alien status, a current document issued by the Department of Homeland Security in accordance with that agency's regulations. The document must show that the applicant has been lawfully admitted to the United States, either for permanent residence or under authority of law permitting him or her to work in the United States, or that the applicant's alien status has changed so that it is lawful for him or her to work. If the applicant fails to submit such a document, a social security number card will not be issued. If the applicant submits an unexpired Department of Homeland Security document(s) which shows current authorization to work, a social security number will be assigned or verified and a card which can be used for work will be issued. If the authorization of the applicant to work is temporary or subject to termination by the Department of Homeland Security, the SSA records may be so annotated. If the document(s) does not provide authorization to work and the applicant wants a social security number for a work purpose, no social security number will be assigned. If the applicant requests the number for a nonwork purpose and provides evidence documenting that the number is needed for a valid nonwork purpose, the number may be assigned and the card issued will be annotated with a nonwork legend. The SSA record will be annotated to show that a number has been assigned and a card issued for a nonwork purpose. In that case, if earnings are later reported to SSA, the Department of Homeland Security will be notified of the report. SSA may also notify that agency if earnings are reported for a social security number that was valid for work when assigned but for which work authorization expired or was later terminated by the Department of Homeland Security SSA may also annotate the record with other remarks, if appropriate.


(2) *Additional evidence rules for F-1 students*—(i) *Evidence from your designated school official.* If you are an F-1 student and do not have a separate DHS employment authorization document as described in § 422.105(a) *and* you are not authorized for curricular practical training (CPT) as shown on your SEVIS Form I-20, Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant (F-1) Student Status, you must give us documentation from your designated school official that you are authorized to engage in employment. You must submit your SEVIS Form I-20, Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant (F-1) Student Status. You must also submit documentation from your designated school official that includes:


(A) The nature of the employment you are or will be engaged in, and


(B) The identification of the employer for whom you are or will be working.


(ii) *Evidence of your employment.* You must also provide us with documentation that you are engaging in, or have secured, employment; e.g., a statement from your employer.


(f) *Failure to submit evidence.* If the applicant does not comply with a request for the required evidence or other information within a reasonable time, SSA may attempt another contact with the applicant. If there is still no response, a social security number card will not be issued.


(g) *Inability to verify eligibility factors.* We will not issue an original or replacement Social Security number card when you present invalid or expired documents or when we are unable to verify the required evidence through other means, as described in paragraph (a) of this section. Invalid documents are either forged documents that supposedly were issued by the custodian of the record, or properly issued documents that were improperly changed after they were issued. An expired document is one that was valid for only a limited time and that time has passed.



---

[N] [55 FR 46665, Nov. 6, 1990, as amended at 60 FR 32446, June 22, 1995; 62 FR 38456, July 18, 1997; 63 FR 56555, Oct. 22, 1998; 68 FR 55308, Sept. 25, 2003; 69 FR 55076, Sept. 13, 2004; 70 FR 74651, Dec. 16, 2005; 80 FR 47834, Aug. 10, 2015]




