# ยง 900.703   Definitions.

Unless the content requires otherwise, in this subpart:


(a) *Recipient* means any State or its political subdivisions, any instrumentality of a State or its political subdivisions, any public or private agency, institution, organization, or other entity, or any person to which Federal financial assistance is extended directly or through another recipient, including any successor, assignee, or transferee of a recipient, but excluding the ultimate beneficiary of the assistance.


(b) *Federal financial assistance* means any grant, loan, contract, (other than a procurement contract or a contract of insurance or guaranty), or any other arrangement by which the agency provides or otherwise makes available assistance in the form of:


(1) Funds;


(2) Services of Federal personnel; or


(3) Real and personal property or any interest in or use of such property, including:


(i) Transfers or leases of such property for less than fair market value or for reduced consideration; and


(ii) Proceeds from a subsequent transfer or lease of such property if the Federal share of its fair market value is not returned to the Federal Government.


(c) *Facility* means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, or other real or personal property or interest in such property.


(d) *Handicapped person* means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment.


(1) As used in paragraph (d) of this section, the phrase: *physical or mental impairment* means:


(i) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or


(ii) Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities.


(2) *Major life activities* means functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working.


(3) *Has a record of such impairment* means has a history of, or has been misclassified as having a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.


(4) *Is regarded as having an impairment* means:


(i) Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but is treated by a recipient as constituting such a limitation;


(ii) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such impairment; or


(iii) Has none of the impairments defined in paragraph (d) of this section but is treated by a recipient as having such an impairment.


(e) Qualified handicapped person means:


(1) With respect to employment, a handicapped person who with reasonable accommodation, can perform the essential functions of the job in question.


(2) With respect to other services, a handicapped person who meets the essential eligibility requirements for the receipt of such services.


(f) Ultimate beneficiary means one among a class of persons who are entitled to benefit from or otherwise participate in, programs receiving Federal financial assistance and to whom the protections of this subpart apply.




