# ยง 560.102   What definitions apply to this part?

(a) Terms used in this part have the meaning given in the Act and as defined in this part.


(b) The following definitions apply to this part:


*Area or region* means the geographic area or region over which the BOEM authorized officer has jurisdiction, unless the context in which those words are used indicates that a different meaning is intended.


*BOEM* means Bureau of Ocean Energy Management.


*Designated official* means a representative of DOI subject to the direction and supervisory authority of the Directors, BOEM, and the appropriate Regional Manager of the BOEM authorized and empowered to supervise and direct all oil and gas operations and to perform other duties prescribed in this chapter.


*Director* means Director, BOEM, DOI.


*DOI* means the Department of the Interior, including the Secretary of the Interior, or his or her delegate.


*Federal lease* means an agreement which, for consideration, including, but not limited to, bonuses, rents or royalties conferred, and covenants to be observed, authorizes a person to explore for, or develop, or produce (or to do any or all of these) oil and gas, coal, oil shale, tar sands, and geothermal resources on lands or interests in lands under Federal jurisdiction.


*Gas or Natural Gas* means a mixture of hydrocarbons and varying quantities of non-hydrocarbons that exist in the gaseous phase.


*Oil* means a mixture of hydrocarbons that exists in a liquid or gaseous phase in an underground reservoir and which remains or becomes liquid at atmospheric pressure after passing through surface separating facilities, including condensate recovered by means other than a manufacturing process.


*Outer Continental Shelf* (OCS) means all submerged lands lying seaward and outside of the area of lands beneath navigable waters as defined in the Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1301-1315) and of which the subsoil and seabed appertain to the United States and are subject to its jurisdiction and control.


*OCSLA* means the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, as amended (Act of August 7, 1953, Ch. 345, 67 Stat. 462, 43 U.S.C. 1331-1356a, as amended by Pub. L. 95-372, 92 Stat. 629).


*Person* means a natural person, where so designated, or an entity, such as a partnership, association, State, political subdivision of a State or territory, or a private, public, or municipal corporation.


*We* means the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM).


*You* means the lessee or operating rights owner.



---

[N] [81 FR 18175, Mar. 30, 2016]




