# § 63.2346   What emission limitations, operating limits, and work practice standards must I meet?

(a) *Storage tanks.* Except as specified in paragraphs (a)(5) and (6) and (l) of this section, for each storage tank storing organic liquids that meets the tank capacity and liquid vapor pressure criteria for control in Table 2 to this subpart, items 1 through 5, you must comply with paragraph (a)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section. For each storage tank storing organic liquids that meets the tank capacity and liquid vapor pressure criteria for control in Table 2 to this subpart, item 6, you must comply with paragraph (a)(1), (2), or (4) of this section.


(1) Meet the emission limits specified in Table 2 or 2b to this subpart and comply with paragraph (l) of this section and the applicable requirements specified in subpart SS of this part, for meeting emission limits, except substitute the term “storage tank” at each occurrence of the term “storage vessel” in subpart SS.


(2) Route emissions to fuel gas systems or back into a process as specified in subpart SS of this part. If you comply with this paragraph, then you must also comply with the requirements specified in paragraph (l) of this section.


(3) Comply with 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW (control level 2).


(4) Use a vapor balancing system that complies with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (vii) of this section and with the recordkeeping requirements specified in § 63.2390(e).


(i) The vapor balancing system must be designed and operated to route organic HAP vapors displaced from loading of the storage tank to the transport vehicle from which the storage tank is filled.


(ii) Transport vehicles must have a current certification in accordance with the United States Department of Transportation (U.S. DOT) qualification and maintenance requirements of 49 CFR part 180, subparts E (for cargo tanks) and F (for tank cars).


(iii) Organic liquids must only be unloaded from cargo tanks or tank cars when vapor collection systems are connected to the storage tank's vapor collection system.


(iv) No pressure relief device on the storage tank, on the vapor return line, or on the cargo tank or tank car, shall open during loading or as a result of diurnal temperature changes (breathing losses).


(v) Pressure relief devices must be set to no less than 2.5 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) at all times to prevent breathing losses. Pressure relief devices may be set at values less than 2.5 psig if the owner or operator provides rationale in the notification of compliance status report explaining why the alternative value is sufficient to prevent breathing losses at all times. The owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (a)(4)(v)(A) through (C) of this section for each relief valve.


(A) The relief valve shall be monitored quarterly using the method described in § 63.180(b).


(B) An instrument reading of 500 parts per million by volume (ppmv) or greater defines a leak.


(C) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but no later than 5 days after it is detected, and the owner or operator shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements of § 63.181(d)(1) through (4).


(vi) Cargo tanks and tank cars that deliver organic liquids to a storage tank must be reloaded or cleaned at a facility that utilizes the control techniques specified in paragraph (a)(4)(vi)(A) or (a)(4)(vi)(B) of this section.


(A) The cargo tank or tank car must be connected to a closed-vent system with a control device that reduces inlet emissions of total organic HAP by 95 percent by weight or greater or to an exhaust concentration less than or equal to 20 ppmv, on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen for combustion devices using supplemental combustion air.


(B) A vapor balancing system designed and operated to collect organic HAP vapor displaced from the cargo tank or tank car during reloading must be used to route the collected vapor to the storage tank from which the liquid being transferred originated or to another storage tank connected to a common header.


(vii) The owner or operator of the facility where the cargo tank or tank car is reloaded or cleaned must comply with paragraphs (a)(4)(vii)(A) through (D) of this section.


(A) Submit to the owner or operator of the storage tank and to the Administrator a written certification that the reloading or cleaning facility will meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(4)(vii)(A) through (C) of this section. The certifying entity may revoke the written certification by sending a written statement to the owner or operator of the storage tank giving at least 90 days notice that the certifying entity is rescinding acceptance of responsibility for compliance with the requirements of this paragraph (a)(4)(vii) of this section.


(B) If complying with paragraph (a)(4)(vi)(A) of this section, comply with the requirements for a closed vent system and control device as specified in this subpart EEEE. The notification requirements in § 63.2382 and the reporting requirements in § 63.2386 do not apply to the owner or operator of the offsite cleaning or reloading facility.


(C) If complying with paragraph (a)(4)(vi)(B) of this section, keep the records specified in § 63.2390(e)(3) or equivalent recordkeeping approved by the Administrator.


(D) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342, at an offsite reloading or cleaning facility subject to § 63.2346(a)(4), compliance with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting provisions of any other subpart of this part 63 that has monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting provisions constitutes compliance with the monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting provisions of § 63.2346(a)(4)(vii)(B) or § 63.2346(a)(4)(vii)(C). You must identify in your notification of compliance status report required by § 63.2382(d) the subpart of this part 63 with which the owner or operator of the offsite reloading or cleaning facility complies.


(5) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), the tank capacity criteria, liquid vapor pressure criteria, and emission limits specified for storage tanks at an existing affected source in Table 2 of this subpart, item 1 no longer apply. Instead, for each storage tank at an existing affected source storing organic liquids that meets the tank capacity and liquid vapor pressure criteria for control in Table 2b to this subpart, items 1 through 3, you must comply with paragraph (a)(1), (2), (3), or (4) and paragraph (a)(6) of this section.


(6) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), tank emissions during storage tank shutdown operations (*i.e.,* emptying and degassing of a storage tank) for each storage tank at an affected source storing organic liquids that meets the tank capacity and liquid vapor pressure criteria for control in items 2 through 6 of Table 2 to this subpart, or items 1 through 3 of Table 2b to this subpart, you must comply with paragraphs (a)(6)(i) through (iv) of this section during tank emptying and degassing until the vapor space concentration in the tank is less than 10 percent of the lower explosive limit (LEL). The owner or operator must determine the concentration using process instrumentation or portable measurement devices and follow procedures for calibration and maintenance according to manufacturer's specifications.




(i) Remove organic liquids from the storage tank as much as practicable;


(ii) Comply with either of the following:


(A) The requirements of Table 2 or 2b to this subpart, item 1.a.i. as applicable; OR,


(B) The requirements of Table 4 to this subpart, item 1.b.


(iii) Comply with the requirements in § 63.2350(d) for each storage tank shutdown event and maintain records necessary to demonstrate compliance with the requirements in § 63.2350(d) including, if appropriate, records of existing standard site procedures used to empty and degas (deinventory) equipment for safety purposes.


(iv) For floating roof storage tanks, the storage tank may be opened to set up equipment (e.g., making connections to a temporary control device) for the shutdown operations but must not be actively degassed during this time period.


(b) *Transfer racks.* For each transfer rack that is part of the collection of transfer racks that meets the total actual annual facility-level organic liquid loading volume criterion for control in Table 2 to this subpart, items 7 through 10, you must comply with paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this section for each arm in the transfer rack loading an organic liquid whose organic HAP content meets the organic HAP criterion for control in Table 2 to this subpart, items 7 through 10. For existing affected sources, you must comply with paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3)(i) of this section during the loading of organic liquids into transport vehicles. For new affected sources, you must comply with paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section during the loading of organic liquids into transport vehicles and containers. If the total actual annual facility-level organic liquid loading volume at any affected source is equal to or greater than the loading volume criteria for control in Table 2 to this subpart, but at a later date is less than the loading volume criteria for control, compliance with paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this section is no longer required. For new sources and reconstructed sources, as defined in § 63.2338(d) and (e), if at a later date, the total actual annual facility-level organic liquid loading volume again becomes equal to or greater than the loading volume criteria for control in Table 2 to this subpart, the owner or operator must comply with paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section immediately, as specified in § 63.2342(a)(3). For existing sources, as defined in § 63.2338(f), if at a later date, the total actual annual facility-level organic liquid loading volume again becomes equal to or greater than the loading volume criteria for control in Table 2 to this subpart, the owner or operator must comply with paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3)(i) of this section immediately, as specified in § 63.2342(b)(3)(i), unless an alternative compliance schedule has been approved under § 63.2342(b)(3)(ii) and subject to the use limitation specified in § 63.2342(b)(3)(ii)(I).


(1) Meet the emission limits specified in Table 2 to this subpart and comply with paragraph (l) of this section and the applicable requirements for transfer racks specified in subpart SS of this part, for meeting emission limits.


(2) Route emissions to fuel gas systems or back into a process as specified in subpart SS of this part. If you comply with this paragraph, then you must also comply with the requirements specified in paragraph (l) of this section.


(3)(i) Use a vapor balancing system that routes organic HAP vapors displaced from the loading of organic liquids into transport vehicles to the storage tank from which the liquid being loaded originated or to another storage tank connected to a common header.


(ii) Use a vapor balancing system that routes the organic HAP vapors displaced from the loading of organic liquids into containers directly (e.g., no intervening tank or containment area such as a room) to the storage tank from which the liquid being loaded originated or to another storage tank connected to a common header.


(c) *Equipment leak components.* For each pump, valve, and sampling connection that operates in organic liquids service for at least 300 hours per year, you must comply with paragraph (l) of this section and the applicable requirements under subpart TT of this part (control level 1), subpart UU of this part (control level 2), or subpart H of this part. Pumps, valves, and sampling connectors that are insulated to provide protection against persistent sub-freezing temperatures are subject to the “difficult to monitor” provisions in the applicable subpart selected by the owner or operator. This paragraph only applies if the affected source has at least one storage tank or transfer rack that meets the applicability criteria for control in Table 2 or 2b to this subpart.


(d) *Transport vehicles.* For each transport vehicle equipped with vapor collection equipment that is loaded at a transfer rack that is subject to control based on the criteria specified in Table 2 to this subpart, items 7 through 10, you must comply with paragraph (d)(1) of this section. For each transport vehicle without vapor collection equipment that is loaded at a transfer rack that is subject to control based on the criteria specified in Table 2 to this subpart, items 7 through 10, you must comply with paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(1) Follow the steps in 40 CFR 60.502(e) to ensure that organic liquids are loaded only into vapor-tight transport vehicles and comply with the provisions in 40 CFR 60.502(f) through (i), except substitute the term “transport vehicle” at each occurrence of the term “tank truck” or “gasoline tank truck” in those paragraphs.


(2) Ensure that organic liquids are loaded only into transport vehicles that have a current certification in accordance with the U.S. DOT qualification and maintenance requirements in 49 CFR part 180, subpart E for cargo tanks and subpart F for tank cars.


(e) *Operating limits.* For each high throughput transfer rack, you must meet each operating limit in Table 3 to this subpart for each control device used to comply with the provisions of this subpart whenever emissions from the loading of organic liquids are routed to the control device. Except as specified in paragraph (k) of this section, for each storage tank and low throughput transfer rack, you must comply with paragraph (l) of this section and the requirements for monitored parameters as specified in subpart SS of this part, for storage tanks and, during the loading of organic liquids, for low throughput transfer racks, respectively. Alternatively, you may comply with the operating limits in table 3 to this subpart.




(f) *Surrogate for organic HAP.* For noncombustion devices, if you elect to demonstrate compliance with a percent reduction requirement in Table 2 or 2b to this subpart using total organic compounds (TOC) rather than organic HAP, you must first demonstrate, subject to the approval of the Administrator, that TOC is an appropriate surrogate for organic HAP in your case; that is, for your storage tank(s) and/or transfer rack(s), the percent destruction of organic HAP is equal to or higher than the percent destruction of TOC. This demonstration must be conducted prior to or during the initial compliance test.


(g) As provided in § 63.6(g), you may request approval from the Administrator to use an alternative to the emission limitations, operating limits, and work practice standards in this section. You must follow the procedures in § 63.177(b) through (e) in applying for permission to use such an alternative. If you apply for permission to use an alternative to the emission limitations, operating limits, and work practice standards in this section, you must submit the information described in § 63.6(g)(2).


(h) [Reserved]


(i) *Safety device.* Opening of a safety device is allowed at any time that it is required to avoid unsafe operating conditions. Beginning no later than July 7, 2023, this paragraph no longer applies.


(j) If you elect to comply with this subpart by combining emissions from different emission sources subject to this subpart in a single control device, then you must comply with the provisions specified in § 63.982(f).


(k) *Flares.* Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), for each storage tank and low throughput transfer rack that is subject to control based on the criteria specified in Tables 2 or 2b to this subpart, if you vent emissions through a closed vent system to a flare then you must comply with the requirements specified in § 63.2380 instead of the requirements in § 63.987 and the provisions regarding flare compliance assessments at § 63.997(a), (b), and (c).


(l) *Startup, shutdown, and malfunction.* Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), the referenced provisions specified in paragraphs (l)(1) through (20) of this section do not apply when demonstrating compliance with subpart H of this part, subpart SS of this part, subpart TT of this part, and subpart UU of this part.


(1) The second sentence of § 63.181(d)(5)(i).


(2) The second sentence of § 63.983(a)(5).


(3) The phrase “except during periods of start-up, shutdown, and malfunction as specified in the referencing subpart” in § 63.984(a).


(4) The phrase “except during periods of start-up, shutdown and malfunction as specified in the referencing subpart” in § 63.985(a).


(5) The phrase “other than start-ups, shutdowns, or malfunctions” in § 63.994(c)(1)(ii)(D).


(6) § 63.996(c)(2)(ii).


(7) The last sentence of § 63.997(e)(1)(i).


(8) § 63.998(b)(2)(iii).


(9) The phrase “other than periods of start-ups, shutdowns or malfunctions” from § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(A).


(10) The phrase “other than a start-up, shutdown or malfunction” from § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(B)(3).


(11) The phrase “other than periods of start-ups, shutdowns or malfunctions” from § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(C).


(12) The phrase “other than a start-up, shutdown or malfunction” from § 63.998(b)(5)(ii)(C).


(13) The phrase “, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(6)(i)(A) and (B) of this section” from § 63.998(b)(6)(i).


(14) The second sentence of § 63.998(b)(6)(ii).


(15) § 63.998(c)(1)(ii)(D), (E), (F), and (G).


(16) § 63.998(d)(3).


(17) The phrase “may be included as part of the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, as required by the referencing subpart for the source, or” from § 63.1005(e)(4)(i).


(18) The phrase “may be included as part of the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, as required by the referencing subpart for the source, or” from § 63.1024(f)(4)(i).


(19) The phrase “(except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)” from § 63.1007(e)(1)(ii)(A).


(20) The phrase “(except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)” from § 63.1026(e)(1)(ii)(A).



---

[N] [69 FR 5063, Feb. 3, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 42908, July 28, 2006; 73 FR 40981, July 17, 2008; 73 FR 21830, Apr. 23, 2008; 85 FR 40761, July 7, 2020; 89 FR 23866, Apr. 4, 2024]




