# ยง 400.36   Completion of case review.

(a) The Executive Secretary shall circulate the examiner's report (memorandum in the case of subzone applications) with recommendations to CBP headquarters staff and to the Treasury Board member for review and action.


(b) In its advisory role to the Board, CBP headquarters staff shall provide any comments within 15 days for applications under ยง 400.25 and within 30 days for all other applications.


(c) The vote of the Treasury Board member shall be returned to the Executive Secretary within 30 days, unless a formal meeting is requested (see, ยง 400.3(b)).


(d) The Commerce Department shall complete the decision process within 15 days of receiving the vote of the Treasury Board member, and the Executive Secretary shall publish the Board decision.


(e) If the Board is unable to reach a unanimous decision, the applicant shall be notified and provided an opportunity to meet with the Board members or their delegates.


(f) The Board delegates to the Executive Secretary authority to approve applications requesting subzone designation, on the condition that such approved subzones will be subject to the activation limit for the zone in question.


(g) The Board or the Commerce Department's Assistant Secretary for Enforcement and Compliance may opt to terminate review of an application with no further action if the applicant has failed to provide in a timely manner information needed for evaluation of the application. A request from an applicant for an extension of time to provide information needed for evaluation of an application shall not be unreasonably withheld. The Executive Secretary may terminate review of an application where the overall circumstances presented in the application no longer exist as a result of a material change, and shall notify the applicant in writing of the intent to terminate review and allow 30 days for a response prior to completion of any termination action. The Executive Secretary shall confirm the termination in writing (by electronic means, where appropriate) to the applicant.



---

[N] [77 FR 12139, Feb. 28, 2012, as amended at 89 FR 8529, Feb. 8, 2024]




