# § 200.408   Public access to transcripts and minutes of closed Commission meetings; record retention.

(a) *Public access to record.* Within 20 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) of the receipt by the Commission's Freedom of Information Act (“FOIA”) Officer of a written request, or within such extended period as may be agreeable to the person making the request, the Secretary shall make available for inspection by any person in the Commission's Public Reference Room, the transcript, electronic recording, or minutes (as required by § 200.407(a) or (b)) of the discussion of any item on the agenda, except for such item or items as the Freedom of Information Act Officer determines to involve matters which may be withheld under § 200.402 or otherwise. Copies of such transcript, or minutes, or a transcription of such recording disclosing the identity of each speaker, shall be furnished to any person at the actual cost of duplication, as identified on the FOIA web page of the Commission's website at *http://www.sec.gov,* and, if a transcript is prepared, the actual cost of such transcription.


(b) *Review of deletion from record.* Any person who has been notified that the Freedom of Information Act Officer has determined to withhold any transcript, recording, or minute, or portion thereof, which was the subject of a request for access pursuant to § 200.402(a), or any person who has not received a response to his or her own request within the 20 days specified in § 200.408(a), may appeal the adverse determination or failure to respond by applying for an order of the Commission determining and directing that the transcript, recording or minute, or deleted portion thereof, be made available. Such application shall be in writing and should be directed to the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, DC 20549. The applicant shall state such facts and cite such legal or other authorities as the applicant may consider appropriate. The Commission shall make a determination with respect to any appeal pursuant to this subsection within 20 days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal public holidays) after the receipt of such appeal, or within such extended period as may be agreeable to the person making the request. The Commission may determine to withhold any record that is exempt from disclosure pursuant to § 200.402(a), although it may disclose a record, even if exempt, if, in its discretion, it determines it to be appropriate to do so. 


(c) *Retention of record.* The Commission, by its Secretary, shall retain a complete verbatim copy of the transcript, or a complete copy of the minutes, or a complete electronic recording of each meeting, or portion of a meeting, closed to the public, for a period of at least two years after such meeting, or until one year after the conclusion of any Commission proceeding with respect to which the meeting or portion was held, whichever occurs later. 



---

[N] [42 FR 14693, Mar. 16, 1977, as amended at 84 FR 50738, Sept. 26, 2019]




