# ยง 63.6125   What are my monitor installation, operation, and maintenance requirements?

(a) If you are operating a stationary combustion turbine that is required to comply with the formaldehyde emission limitation and you use an oxidation catalyst emission control device, you must monitor on a continuous basis your catalyst inlet temperature in order to comply with the operating limitations in Table 2 and as specified in Table 5 of this subpart. 


(b) If you are operating a stationary combustion turbine that is required to comply with the formaldehyde emission limitation and you are not using an oxidation catalyst, you must continuously monitor any parameters specified in your approved petition to the Administrator, in order to comply with the operating limitations in Table 2 and as specified in Table 5 of this subpart. 


(c) If you are operating a stationary combustion turbine which fires landfill gas or digester gas equivalent to 10 percent or more of the gross heat input on an annual basis, or a stationary combustion turbine where gasified MSW is used to generate 10 percent or more of the gross heat input on an annual basis, you must monitor and record your fuel usage daily with separate fuel meters to measure the volumetric flow rate of each fuel. In addition, you must operate your turbine in a manner which minimizes HAP emissions. 


(d) If you are operating a lean premix gas-fired stationary combustion turbine or a diffusion flame gas-fired stationary combustion turbine as defined by this subpart, and you use any quantity of distillate oil to fire any new or existing stationary combustion turbine which is located at the same major source, you must monitor and record your distillate oil usage daily for all new and existing stationary combustion turbines located at the major source with a non-resettable hour meter to measure the number of hours that distillate oil is fired. 


(e) After September 8, 2020, if you are required to use a continuous monitoring system (CMS), you must develop and implement a CMS quality control program that included written procedures for CMS according to ยง 63.8(d)(1) through (2). You must keep these written procedures on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan is revised, the owner or operator shall keep previous (*i.e.,* superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. The program of corrective action should be included in the plan required under ยง 63.8(d)(2).



---

[N] [69 FR 10537, Mar. 5, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 13539, Mar. 9, 2020]




