# § 412.402   Definitions.

As used in this subpart—


*Closure of an IPF* means closure of a hospital as defined in § 413.79(h)(1)(i) by an IPF meeting the requirements of § 412.404(b) for the purposes of accounting for indirect teaching costs.


*Closure of an IPF's residency training program* means closure of a hospital residency training program as defined in § 413.79(h)(1)(ii) by an IPF meeting the requirements of § 412.404(b) for the purposes of accounting for indirect teaching costs.


*Comorbidity* means all specific patient conditions that are secondary to the patient's primary diagnosis and that coexist at the time of admission, develop subsequently, or that affect the treatment received or the length of stay or both. Diagnoses that relate to an earlier episode of care that have no bearing on the current hospital stay are excluded.


*Displaced resident* means a displaced resident as defined in § 413.79(h)(1)(iii) for the purposes of accounting for indirect teaching costs.


*Federal per diem base rate* means the payment based on the average routine operating, ancillary, and capital-related cost of 1 day of hospital inpatient services in an inpatient psychiatric facility.


*Federal per diem payment amount* means the Federal per diem base rate with all applicable adjustments.


*Fixed dollar loss threshold amount* means a dollar amount which, when added to the Federal payment amount for a case, the estimated costs of a case must exceed in order for the case to qualify for an outlier payment. 


*Inpatient psychiatric facilities* means hospitals that meet the requirements as specified in §§ 412.22, 412.23(a), 482.60, 482.61, and 482.62, and units that meet the requirements as specified in §§ 412.22, 412.25, and 412.27.


*Inpatient psychiatric facilities prospective payment system rate year* means—


(1) Through June 30, 2011, the 12-month period of July 1 through June 30.


(2) Beginning July 1, 2011, the 15-month period of July 1, 2011 through September 30, 2012.


(3) Beginning October 1, 2012, the 12-month period of October 1 through September 30, referred to as Fiscal Year (FY).


*Interrupted stay* means a Medicare inpatient is discharged from an inpatient psychiatric facility and is admitted to any inpatient psychiatric facility within 3 consecutive calendar days following discharge. The 3 consecutive calendar days begins with the day of discharge from the inpatient psychiatric facility and ends on midnight of the third day.


*New graduate medical education program* means a medical education program that receives initial accreditation by the appropriate accrediting body or begins training residents on or after November 15, 2004. 


*Outlier payment* means an additional payment beyond the Federal per diem payment amount for cases with unusually high costs.


*Principal diagnosis* means the condition established after study to be chiefly responsible for occasioning the admission of the patient to the inpatient psychiatric facility. Principal diagnosis is also referred to as the primary diagnosis.


*Qualifying emergency department* means an emergency department that is staffed and equipped to furnish a comprehensive array of emergency services and meeting the definitions of a dedicated emergency department as specified in § 489.24(b) of this chapter and the definition of “provider-based status” as specified in § 413.65 of this chapter.


*Rural area* means for cost reporting periods beginning January 1, 2005, with respect to discharges occurring during the period covered by such cost reports but before July 1, 2006, an area as defined in § 412.62(f)(1)(iii). For discharges occurring on or after July 1, 2006, rural area means an area as defined in § 412.64(b)(1)(ii)(C).


*Urban area* means for cost reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2005, with respect to discharges occurring during the period covered by such cost reports but before July 1, 2006, an area as defined in § 412.62(f)(1)(ii). For discharges occurring on or after July 1, 2006, urban area means an area as defined in § 412.64(b)(1)(ii)(A) and § 412.64(b)(1)(ii)(B).



---

[N] [69 FR 66977, Nov. 15, 2004; 70 FR 19728, Apr. 1, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 27086, May 9, 2006; 76 FR 26465, May 6, 2011; 83 FR 38619, Aug. 6, 2018; 86 FR 42678, Aug. 4, 2021]




