# § 646.7   What definitions apply?

(a) *General definitions.* The following terms used in this part are defined in 2 CFR part 200, subpart A, or 34 CFR 77.1:


(b) *Other definitions.* The following definitions also apply to this part:


*Academic need* with reference to a student means a student whom the grantee determines needs one or more of the services stated under § 646.4 to succeed in a postsecondary educational program.


*Combination of institutions of higher education* means two or more institutions of higher education that have entered into a cooperative agreement for the purpose of carrying out a common objective, or an entity designated or created by a group of institutions of higher education for the purpose of carrying out a common objective on their behalf.


*Different campus* means a site of an institution of higher education that—


(1) Is geographically apart from the main campus of the institution;


(2) Is permanent in nature; and


(3) Offers courses in educational programs leading to a degree, certificate, or other recognized educational credential.


*Different population* means a group of individuals that an eligible entity desires to serve through an application for a grant under the Student Support Services program and that—


(1) Is separate and distinct from any other population that the entity has applied for a grant to serve; or


(2) While sharing some of the same needs as another population that the eligible entity has applied for a grant to serve, has distinct needs for specialized services.


*Financial and economic literacy* means knowledge about personal financial decision-making, which may include but is not limited to knowledge about—


(1) Personal and family budget planning;


(2) Understanding credit building principles to meet long-term and short-term goals (*e.g.*, loan to debt ratio, credit scoring, negative impacts on credit scores);


(3) Cost planning for postsecondary or postbaccalaureate education (e.g., spending, saving, personal budgeting);


(4) College cost of attendance (*e.g.*, public vs. private, tuition vs. fees, personal costs);


(5) Financial assistance (*e.g.,* searches, application processes, differences between private and government loans, assistanceships); and


(6) Assistance in completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA).


*First generation college student* means—


(1) A student neither of whose natural or adoptive parents received a baccalaureate degree;


(2) A student who, prior to the age of 18, regularly resided with and received support from only one parent and whose supporting parent did not receive a baccalaureate degree; or


(3) An individual who, prior to the age of 18, did not regularly reside with or receive support from a natural or an adoptive parent.


*Foster care youth* means youth who are in foster care or are aging out of the foster care system.


*Homeless children and youth* means persons defined in section 725 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 1143a).


*Individual with a disability* means a person who has a disability, as that term is defined in section 12102 of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12101 *et seq.*).


*Institution of higher education* means an educational institution as defined in sections 101 and 102 of the Act.


*Limited English proficiency* with reference to an individual, means a person whose native language is other than English and who has sufficient difficulty speaking, reading, writing, or understanding the English language to deny that individual the opportunity to learn successfully in classrooms in which English is the language of instruction.


*Low-income individual* means an individual whose family's taxable income did not exceed 150 percent of the poverty level amount in the calendar year preceding the year in which the individual initially participated in the project. The poverty level amount is determined by using criteria of poverty established by the Bureau of the Census of the U.S. Department of Commerce.


*Participant* means an individual who—


(1) Is determined to be eligible to participate in the project under § 646.3; and


(2) Receives project services that the grantee has determined to be sufficient to increase the individual's chances for success in a postsecondary educational program.


*Sufficient financial assistance* means the amount of financial aid offered a Student Support Services student, inclusive of Federal, State, local, private, and institutional aid which, together with parent or student contributions, is equal to the cost of attendance as determined by a financial aid officer at the institution.



---

[N] [61 FR 38537, July 24, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 65790, Oct. 26, 2010; 79 FR 76103, Dec. 19, 2014]




