# § 164.13   Navigation underway: tankers.

(a) As used in this section, “tanker” means a self-propelled tank vessel, including integrated tug barge combinations, constructed or adapted primarily to carry oil or hazardous material in bulk in the cargo spaces and inspected and certificated as a tanker.


(b) Each tanker must have an engineering watch capable of monitoring the propulsion system, communicating with the bridge, and implementing manual control measures immediately when necessary. The watch must be physically present in the machinery spaces or in the main control space and must consist of at least an engineer with an appropriately endorsed license or merchant mariner credential.


(c) Each tanker must navigate with at least two deck officers with an appropriately endorsed license or merchant mariner credential on watch on the bridge, one of whom may be a pilot. In waters where a pilot is required, the second officer, must be an individual holding an appropriately endorsed license or merchant mariner credential and assigned to the vessel as master, mate, or officer in charge of a navigational watch, who is separate and distinct from the pilot.


(d) This paragraph (d) has preemptive effect over State or local regulation within the same field. A tanker may navigate using a heading or track control system only if:


(1) The tanker is at least one-half nautical mile (1,012 yards) beyond the territorial sea baseline, as defined in 33 CFR 2.20;


(i) Not within waters specified in 33 CFR part 110 (anchorages), or;


(ii) Not within waters specified as precautionary areas in 33 CFR part 167, and;


(2) There is a person, competent to steer the vessel, present to assume manual control of the steering station at all times including, but not limited to, the conditions listed in 46 CFR 35.20-45(a) through (c); and


(3) The system meets the heading or track control specifications of either IEC 62065 (2002-03) or IEC 62065 (2014-02) (incorporated by reference, see § 164.03).



---

[N] [CGD 91-203, 58 FR 27633, May 10, 1993, as amended by CGD 91-203, 58 FR 36141, July 6, 1993; USCG-2006-24371, 74 FR 11213, Mar. 16, 2009; USCG-2015-0926, 83 FR 55281, Nov. 5, 2018]




