# ยง 40.323   May program participants release drug or alcohol test information in connection with legal proceedings?

(a) As an employer, you may release information pertaining to an employee's drug or alcohol test without the employee's consent in certain legal proceedings. 


(1) These proceedings include a lawsuit (*e.g.,* a wrongful discharge action), grievance (*e.g.,* an arbitration concerning disciplinary action taken by the employer), or administrative proceeding (*e.g.,* an unemployment compensation hearing) brought by, or on behalf of, an employee and resulting from a positive DOT drug or alcohol test or a refusal to test (including, but not limited to, adulterated or substituted test results). 


(2) These proceedings also include a criminal or civil action resulting from an employee's performance of safety-sensitive duties, in which a court of competent jurisdiction determines that the drug or alcohol test information sought is relevant to the case and issues an order directing the employer to produce the information. For example, in personal injury litigation following a truck or bus collision, the court could determine that a post-accident drug test result of an employee is relevant to determining whether the driver or the driver's employer was negligent. The employer is authorized to respond to the court's order to produce the records. 


(b) In such a proceeding, you may release the information to the decisionmaker in the proceeding (*e.g.,* the court in a lawsuit). You may release the information only with a binding stipulation that the decisionmaker to whom it is released will make it available only to parties to the proceeding. 


(c) If you are a service agent, and the employer requests its employee's drug or alcohol testing information from you to use in a legal proceeding as authorized in paragraph (a) of this section (*e.g.,* the laboratory's data package), you must provide the requested information to the employer. 


(d) As an employer or service agent, you must immediately notify the employee in writing of any information you release under this section. 




