# § 1304.15   Designation request, review and notification process.

(a) A grant recipient must apply to be considered for Designation Renewal. A Head Start agency wishing to be considered to have its designation as a Head Start agency renewed for another five-year period without competition must request that status from ACF at least 12 months before the end of their five-year grant period or by such time as required by the Secretary.


(b) ACF will review the relevant data to determine if one or more of the conditions under § 1304.11 were met by the Head Start agency during the current project period.


(c) ACF will give notice to grant recipients on Designation Renewal System status, except as provided in § 1304.14, at least 12 months before the expiration date of a Head Start agency's current grant, stating:


(1) The Head Start agency will be required to compete for funding for an additional five-year period because ACF finds that one or more conditions under § 1304.11 were met by the agency's program during the relevant time period described in paragraph (b) of this section, identifying the conditions ACF found, and summarizing the basis for the finding; or


(2) That such agency has been determined on a preliminary basis to be eligible for renewed funding for five years without competition because ACF finds that none of the conditions under § 1304.11 have been met during the relevant time period described in paragraph (b) of this section. If prior to the award of that grant, ACF determines that the grant recipient has met one of the conditions under § 1304.11 during the relevant time period described in paragraph (b) of this section, this determination will change and the grant recipient will receive notice under paragraph (c)(1) of this section that it will be required to compete for funding for an additional five-year period.



---

[N] [85 FR 53208, Aug. 28, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 67818, Aug. 21, 2024]




