# ยง 52.578   Control Strategy: Sulfur oxides and particulate matter.

In a letter dated March 26, 1987, the Georgia Department of Natural Resources certified that no emission limits in the State's plan are based on dispersion techniques not permitted by EPA's stack height rules. This certification does not apply to Georgia Power plants; Hammond (Coosa), McDonough (Smyrna), Arkwright (Macon), Branch (Milledgeville), Wansley (Roopville), Scherer (Juliette), and Yates (Newnan), Savannah Electric Plants McIntosh (Rincon) and Port Wentworth (Port Wentworth); Inland (Rome); Buckeye Cellulose (Oglethorpe); Georgia Kraft (Macon), Union Camp (Savannah); and Stone Container (Savannah).


(a) Determination of Attaining Data. EPA has determined, as of April 5, 2011, the Rome, Georgia, nonattainment area has attaining data for the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 52.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(b) *Determination of Attaining Data.* EPA has determined, as of May 31, 2011, the Chattanooga, Tennessee, nonattainment area has attaining data for the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 52.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(c) *Determination of Attaining Data.* EPA has determined, as of June 2, 2011, the Macon, Georgia, nonattainment area has attaining data for the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 52.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(d) *Disapproval.* EPA is disapproving portions of Georgia's Infrastructure SIP for the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS addressing interstate transport, specifically with respect to section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I).


(e) *Determination of Attaining Data.* EPA has determined, as of April 5, 2011, the Atlanta, Georgia, nonattainment area has attaining data for the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 51.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS.



---

[N] [54 FR 40002, Sept. 29, 1989, as amended at 76 FR 18651, Apr. 5, 2011; 76 FR 31241, May 31, 2011; 76 FR 31859, June 2, 2011; 76 FR 43167, July 20, 2011; 76 FR 76622, Dec. 8, 2011]




