# § 173.304   Filling of cylinders with liquefied compressed gases.

(a) *General requirements.* Except as provided in § 171.23(a)(3) of this subchapter, a cylinder filled with a liquefied compressed gas (except gas in solution) must be offered for transportation in accordance with the requirements of this section and the general requirements in § 173.301 of this subpart. In addition, a DOT specification cylinder must meet the requirement in §§ 173.301a, 173.304a, and 173.305 of this subpart, as applicable. UN pressure receptacles must be shipped in accordance with the requirements in §§ 173.301b and 173.304b of this subpart, as applicable.


(1) A DOT 3AL cylinder may not be used for any material with a primary or subsidiary hazard of Class 8. 


(2) Shipments of Division 2.1 materials in aluminum cylinders are authorized only when transported by motor vehicle, rail car, or cargo-only aircraft. 


(b) *Filling limits.* Except for carbon dioxide; 1,1-Difluoroethylene (R-1132A); nitrous oxide; and vinyl fluoride, inhibited, the liquid portion of a liquefied gas may not completely fill the packaging at any temperature up to and including 55 °C (131 °F). The liquid portion of vinyl fluoride, inhibited, may completely fill the cylinder at 55 °C (131 °F) provided the pressure at the critical temperature does not exceed 1.25 times the service pressure of the cylinder. 


(c) *Mixture of compressed gas and other material.* A mixture of compressed gas must be shipped in accordance with § 173.305. 


(d) *Refrigerant and dispersant gases.* Nontoxic and nonflammable refrigerant or dispersant gases must be offered for transportation in cylinders prescribed in § 173.304a of this subchapter, or in DOT 2P, 2Q, or 2Q1 containers (§§ 178.33, 178.33a, and 178.33d-2 of this subchapter). DOT 2P, 2Q, and 2Q1 containers must be packed in strong outer packagings of such design that protect valves from damage or accidental functioning under conditions incident to transportation. For DOT 2P and 2Q containers, the pressure inside the containers may not exceed 87 psia at 21.1 °C (70 °F). For 2Q1 containers, the pressure inside the container may not exceed 210 psig at 55 °C (131 °F). Each completed metal container filled for shipment must be heated until its contents reach a minimum temperature of 55 °C (131 °F) without evidence of leakage, distortion, or other defect. Each outer package must be plainly marked “INSIDE CONTAINERS COMPLY WITH PRESCRIBED SPECIFICATIONS”.


(e) *Engine starting fluid.* Engine starting fluid containing a flammable compressed gas or gases must be shipped in a cylinder as prescribed in § 173.304a or as follows: 


(1) Inside non-refillable metal containers having a capacity not greater than 500 mL (32 in 
3). The containers must be packaged in strong, tight outer packagings. The pressure in the container may not exceed 145 psia at 54 °C (130 °F). If the pressure exceeds 145 psia at 54 °C (130 °F), a DOT 2P container must be used. In either case, the metal container must be capable of withstanding, without bursting, a pressure of 1.5 times the pressure of the contents at 54 °C (130 °F). The liquid content of the material and gas may not completely fill the container at 54 °C (130 °F). Each container filled for shipment must have been heated until its contents reach a minimum temperature of 54 °C (130 °F), without evidence of leakage, distortion, or other defect. Each outside shipping container must be plainly marked, “INSIDE CONTAINERS COMPLY WITH PRESCRIBED SPECIFICATIONS”. 


(2) [Reserved]


(f) *Oxidizing gases by aircraft.* A cylinder containing carbon dioxide and oxygen mixture, compressed; liquefied gas, oxidizing, n.o.s.; or nitrous oxide is authorized for transportation by aircraft only when it meets the following requirements:


(1) Only DOT specification 3A, 3AA, 3AL, 3E, 3HT, and 39 cylinders, and UN pressure receptacles ISO 9809-1, ISO 9809-2, ISO 9809-3 and ISO 7866 cylinders are authorized.


(2) Cylinders must be equipped with a pressure relief device in accordance with § 173.301(f) and, for DOT 39 cylinders offered for transportation after October 1, 2008, for the other DOT specification cylinders with the first requalification due after October 1, 2008, or for the UN pressure receptacles prior to initial use:


(i) The rated burst pressure of a rupture disc for DOT 3A, 3AA, 3AL, and 3E cylinders, and UN pressure receptacles ISO 9809-1, ISO 9809-2, ISO 9809-3, and ISO 7866 cylinders must be 100% of the cylinder minimum test pressure with a tolerance of plus zero to minus 10%;


(ii) The rated burst pressure of a rupture disc for a DOT 3HT cylinder must be 90% of the cylinder minimum test pressure with a tolerance of plus zero to minus 10%; and


(iii) The rated burst pressure of a rupture disc for a DOT 39 cylinder must be not more than 80 percent of cylinder burst pressure but not less than 105 percent of cylinder test pressure. Cylinders filled and offered for transportation in accordance with the requirements of the section before January 27, 2021 may continue to be used for the life of the packaging.


(3) The cylinder must be placed in a rigid outer packaging that—


(i) Conforms to the requirements of either part 178, subparts L and M, of this subchapter at the Packing Group I or II performance level, or the performance criteria in Air Transport Association (ATA) Specification No. 300 for a Category I Shipping Container;


(ii) Is capable of passing, as demonstrated by design testing, the Flame Penetration Resistance Test in appendix E to part 178 of this subchapter; and


(iii) Prior to each shipment, passes a visual inspection that verifies that all features of the packaging are in good condition, including all latches, hinges, seams, and other features, and the packaging is free from perforations, cracks, dents, or other abrasions that may negatively affect the flame penetration resistance and thermal resistance characteristics of the container.


(4) The cylinder and the outer packaging must be capable of passing, as demonstrated by design testing, the Thermal Resistance Test specified in appendix D to part 178 of this subchapter.


(5) The cylinder and the outer packaging must both be marked and labeled in accordance with part 172, subparts D and E of this subchapter. The additional marking “DOT31FP,” is allowed to indicate that the cylinder and the outer packaging are capable of passing, as demonstrated by design testing, the Thermal Resistance Test specified in appendix D to part 178 of this subchapter.


(6) A cylinder of compressed oxygen that has been furnished by an aircraft operator to a passenger in accordance with 14 CFR 121.574, 125.219, or 135.91 is excepted from the outer packaging requirements of paragraph (f)(3) of this section.



---

[N] [67 FR 51647, Aug. 8, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 24661, May 8, 2003; 71 FR 33883, June 12, 2006; 72 FR 55098, Sept. 28, 2007; 74 FR 53188, Oct. 16, 2009; 76 FR 56317, Sept. 13, 2011; 78 FR 60754, Oct. 2, 2013; 81 FR 3676, Jan. 21, 2016; 85 FR 75714, Nov. 25, 2020; 85 FR 85416, Dec. 28, 2020]




