# § 303.20   Minimum organizational and staffing requirements.

(a) The organizational structure of the IV-D agency (see § 302.12) provides for administration or supervision of all the functions for which it is responsible under the State plan, is appropriate to the size and scope of the program in the State, and contains clearly established lines for administrative and supervisory authority. 


(b) There is an organizational structure and sufficient staff to fulfill the following required State level functions: 


(1) The establishment and administration of the State plan. 


(2) Formal evaluation of the quality, efficiency, effectiveness, and scope of services provided under the plan. 


(3) Coordination of activities pursuant to, and assurance of compliance with, the requirements of the State's Uniform Interstate Family Support Act for cases pursuant to a State plan. 


(4) Requests to the DHHS Office of Child Support Enforcement for use of the Federal Parent Locator Service, the U.S. District Courts, and Secretary of the U.S. Treasury collection procedures. 


(5) Preparation and submission of reports required by the Office. 


(6) Financial control of the operation of the plan. 


(7) Operation of the State PLS as required under §§ 302.35, 303.3, and 303.70 of this chapter.  


(c) There is an organizational structure and sufficient resources at the State and local level to meet the performance and time standards contained in this part and to provide for the administration or supervision of the following support enforcement functions: 


(1) *Intake.* Activities associated with initial support case opening. 


(2) *Establishing the legal obligation to support.* Activities related to determining the noncustodial parent's legal obligation to support his or her dependent children, including paternity determination when necessary. 


(3) *Locate.* Activities associated with locating a noncustodial parent. 


(4) *Financial assessment.* Activities related to determining a noncustodial parent's ability to provide support. 


(5) *Establishment of the amount of support.* Activities related to determining a noncustodial parent's child support obligation, including methods and terms of payment. 


(6) *Collection.* Activities related to monitoring payment activities and processing cash flow. 


(7) *Enforcement.* Activities to enforce collection of support, including income withholding and other available enforcement techniques. 


(8) *Investigation.* Activities related to investigation necessary to accomplish the functions of this paragraph. 


(d) The functions referred to in paragraphs (b) (1), (2) and (6) of this section may not be delegated by the IV-D agency. The functions referred to in paragraph (b)(5) of this section may be delegated to the extent necessary to report on activities delegated by the IV-D agency. 


(e) No functions under the State plan may be delegated by the IV-D agency if such functions are to be performed by caseworkers who are also performing the assistance payments or social services functions under title IV-A or XX of the Act. 


(1) *Caseworker* means any person who has decision-making authority over individual cases on a day-to-day basis and includes, but is not limited to such designations as intake worker, eligibility technician, caseworker, and social worker. 


(2) The *assistance payments function* means activities related to determination of eligibility for, and amount of financial assistance under the approved State plan under title I, IV-A, X, XIV, or XVI, State Supplemental income payments under title XVI of the Act, and State or local General Assistance programs. It includes the complete process of determining initial and continuing eligibility for financial and medical assistance and commodities distribution or food stamps. 


(3) The *social services function* means those activities included in the approved State plan and carried out pursuant to title XX of the Act. It includes determination of eligibility for, and delivery of services to, families and individuals under the approved State plan or under title XX of the Act. 


(f) There are the following types of staff in sufficient numbers to achieve the standards for an effective program prescribed in this part: 


(1) Attorneys or prosecutors to represent the agency in court or administrative proceedings with respect to the establishment and enforcement of orders of paternity and support, and 


(2) Other personnel such as legal, interviewer, investigative, accounting, clerical, and other supportive staff. 


(g) If it is determined as a result of an audit conducted under part 305 of this chapter that a State is not in substantial compliance with the requirements of title IV-D of the Act, the Secretary will evaluate whether inadequate resources was a major contributing factor and, if necessary, may set resource standards for the State.



---

[N] [40 FR 27164, June 26, 1975, as amended at 47 FR 57282, Dec. 23, 1982; 54 FR 32312, Aug. 4, 1989; 64 FR 6250, Feb. 9, 1999; 68 FR 25304, May 12, 2003; 73 FR 56443, Sept. 26, 2008; 75 FR 81907, Dec. 29, 2010]




