# § 40.261   What is a refusal to take an alcohol test, and what are the consequences?

(a) As an employee, you are considered to have refused to take an alcohol test if you: 


(1) Fail to appear for any test (except a pre-employment test) within a reasonable time, as determined by the employer, consistent with applicable DOT agency regulations, after being directed to do so by the employer. This includes the failure of an employee (including an owner-operator) to appear for a test when called by a C/TPA (see § 40.241(a));


(2) Fail to remain at the testing site until the testing process is complete. Provided that an employee who leaves the collection site before the testing process commences (*see* § 40.243(a)) for a pre-employment test is not deemed to have refused to test. The BAT or STT is not required to inform an employee that the failure to remain at the collection site is a refusal. If an employee leaves prior to the completion of the testing process, per § 40.355(i) the employer must decide whether the employee's actions constitute a refusal;


(3) Fail to provide an adequate amount of saliva or breath for any alcohol test required by this part or DOT agency regulations; *Provided* that an employee who does not provide an adequate amount of breath or saliva because he or she has left the testing site before the testing process commences (*see* § 40.243(a)) for a pre-employment test is not deemed to have refused to test. The BAT or STT is not required to inform an employee that the failure to remain at the collection site is a refusal. If an employee leaves prior to the completion of the testing process, per § 40.355(i) the employer must decide whether the employee's actions constitute a refusal;


(4) Fail to provide a sufficient breath specimen, and the physician has determined, through a required medical evaluation, that there was no adequate medical explanation for the failure (see § 40.265(c)); 


(5) Fail to undergo a medical examination or evaluation, as directed by the employer as part of the insufficient breath procedures outlined at § 40.265(c); 


(6) Fail to sign the certification at Step 2 of the ATF (see §§ 40.241(g) and 40.251(d)); or 


(7) Fail to cooperate with any part of the testing process. 


(b) As an employee, if you refuse to take an alcohol test, you incur the same consequences specified under DOT agency regulations for a violation of those DOT agency regulations. The consequences specified under DOT agency regulations for a refusal cannot be overturned or set aside by an arbitration, grievance, State court or other non-Federal forum that adjudicates the personnel decisions the employer has taken against the employee. 


(c)(1) As a BAT or an STT, or as the physician evaluating a “shy lung” situation, when an employee refuses to test as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, you must terminate the portion of the testing process in which you are involved, document the refusal on the ATF (or in a separate document which you cause to be attached to the form), immediately notify the DER by any means (*e.g.,* telephone or secure fax machine) that ensures the refusal notification is immediately received. You must make this notification directly to the DER (not using a C/TPA as an intermediary). 


(2) As the BAT or STT, you must note the actions that may constitute a refusal in the “Remarks” line (Step 3), and sign and date the ATF. The BAT or STT does not make the final decision about whether the employee's conduct constitutes a refusal to test; the employer has the sole responsibility to decide whether a refusal occurred, as stated in § 40.355(i), the employer has a non-delegable duty to make the decision about whether the employee has refused to test.


(d) As an employee, when you refuse to take a non-DOT test or to sign a non-DOT form, you have not refused to take a DOT test. There are no consequences under DOT agency regulations for such a refusal. 



---

[N] [65 FR 79526, Dec. 19, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 41954, Aug. 9, 2001; 88 FR 27649, May 2, 2023]




