# § 21.3303   Extent of training.

(a) *Length of special restorative training.* Ordinarily, special restorative training may not exceed 12 months. When the counseling psychologist or vocational rehabilitation counselor, after consulting with the Vocational Rehabilitation Panel, determines that more than 12 months of training is necessary, he or she will refer the program to the Executive Director, Veteran Readiness and Employment (VR&E) Service for prior approval. Where the plan for a program of special restorative training itself (not in combination with the program of education) will require more than 45 months (or its equivalent in accelerated payments) the plan will be included in the recommendation to the Executive Director, VR&E Service for approval.


(b) *Ending dates of eligibility.* (1) No child may receive special restorative training after reaching the end of his or her eligibility period as determined under § 21.3041.


(2) No spouse or surviving spouse may receive special restorative training after reaching the end of his or her eligibility period as determined under §§ 21.3046 and 21.3047.


(c) *Full-time training.* An eligible person will pursue special restorative training on a full-time basis.


(1) Full-time training requires training for:


(i) That amount of time per week which commonly is required for a full-time course at the educational institution when, based on medical findings, the Department of Veterans Affairs determines that the eligible person's physical or mental condition permits training for that amount of time, or 


(ii) The maximum time per week permitted by the eligible person's disability, as determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs, based on medical findings, if the disability precludes the weekly training time stated in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section.


(2) If the hours per week that can reasonably be devoted to restorative training will not of themselves equal the time required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the course will be supplemented with subject matter which will contribute toward the objective of the program of education.



---

[N] [48 FR 37973, Aug. 22, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 42726, Oct. 24, 1984; 73 FR 2425, Jan. 15, 2008; 87 FR 8743, Feb. 16, 2022; 87 FR 10311, Feb. 24, 2022]






