# § 721.4794   Polypiperidinol-acrylate methacrylate.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as polypiperidinol-acrylate methacrylate (PMN P-88-1304) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(viii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v). The following additional statement shall appear on each label and SDS required by this paragraph: This substance may cause acute and chronic toxicity.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (l) and (q).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section. 



---

[N] [59 FR 27484, May 27, 1994]




