# § 362.102   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part:


*Advanced degree* means a master's degree, professional degree, doctorate degree, or other formal degree pursued after completing a bachelor's degree.


*Agency* means an Executive agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105, and the Government Publishing Office.


*Certificate of completion of a Registered Apprenticeship Program* means the documentation given to individuals who have successfully completed a Registered Apprenticeship Program.


*Certificate program* means post-secondary education in a:


(1) Qualifying educational institution, equivalent to at least one academic year of full-time study that is part of an accredited post-secondary, technical, trade, or business school curriculum; or


(2) Qualifying career or technical education program of at least one year that awards a recognized postsecondary credential.


*Director* means the Director of OPM or his or her designee.


*Industry-recognized credential* means:


(1) A credential or certificate that is developed and offered by, or endorsed by, a nationally or regionally recognized industry association or organization representing a sizeable portion of the industry sector; or


(2) A credential that is sought or accepted by companies within the industry sector for purposes of hiring or recruitment, which may include credentials from vendors of certain products.


*OPM* means the Office of Personnel Management.


*Participant Agreement* means a written agreement between the agency and each Pathways Participant.


*Program Participant or Pathways Participant* means any individual appointed under a Pathways Program.


*Qualifying career or technical education program* means:


(1) A federally administered, organized educational program that focuses on providing rigorous academic content and relevant technical knowledge and skills needed to prepare the individual for further education and/or a career in a current or emerging profession and provides technical skill proficiency and a recognized postsecondary credential (which may include an industry-recognized credential, a certificate, or an associate degree). Qualifying programs must require at least one year of substantially continuous participation;


(2) A Registered Apprenticeship Program; or


(3) A federally administered local, State, national, or international volunteer service program or organization designed to give individuals work and/or educational experiences in volunteer programs that benefit the Federal Government or local communities. Qualifying volunteer service must be documented with written information from the federally administered program that the volunteer has completed either:


(i) At least 52 weeks of volunteer service (through one or multiple periods of service); or


(ii) At least 1700 work hours when the period(s) of volunteer service (through one or multiple periods of service) is less than one year in length.


(4) For the purposes of this definition, the phrase *federally administered* means a program or organization that operates under a Federal agency's (or a component within an agency) programmatic oversight, to ensure educational outcomes and compliance with agency-established criteria to provide participants with high-demand skills. Such criteria must describe:


(i) The nature and scope of work to be performed by participants;


(ii) The type(s) and scope of training to be provided to participants;


(iii) The types of skills participants will acquire or develop during the program (e.g., teaching, environmental, business, scientific, public health/health care, languages);


(iv) The level and extent of mentoring participants will receive); and


(v) The metrics that describe successful completion of the program.




*Qualifying educational institution* means—


(1) A public high school whose curriculum has been approved by a State or local governing body, a private school that provides secondary education as determined under State law, or a homeschool that is allowed to operate in a State; and


(2) Any of the following educational institutions or curricula that have been accredited by an accrediting body recognized by the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Education:


(i) A technical or vocational school;


(ii) A 2-year or 4-year college or university;


(iii) A graduate or professional school (e.g., law school, medical school); or


(iv) A post-secondary homeschool curriculum.


*Recognized postsecondary credential* means documentation (e.g., official record) of an industry-recognized credential, a certificate of completion of a Registered Apprenticeship Program, a license recognized by the State involved or Federal Government, or an associate's or baccalaureate degree.


*Registered Apprenticeship Program* means a program that meets the requirements in 29 CFR part 29. Registration of a program is evidenced by a certificate of registration or other written documentation provided by the Registration Agency under 29 CFR part 29.



---

[N] [77 FR 28215, May 11, 2012, as amended at 89 FR 25770, Apr. 12, 2024]






