# ยง 503.41   Special definitions.

(a) *Air pollution control device* is one or more processes used to treat the exit gas from a sewage sludge incinerator stack. 


(b) *Auxiliary fuel* is fuel used to augment the fuel value of sewage sludge. This includes, but is not limited to, natural gas, fuel oil, coal, gas generated during anaerobic digestion of sewage sludge, and municipal solid waste (not to exceed 30 percent of the dry weight of sewage sludge and auxiliary fuel together). Hazardous wastes are not auxiliary fuel. 


(c) *Average daily concentration* is the arithmetic mean of the concentration of a pollutant in milligrams per kilogram of sewage sludge (dry weight basis) in the samples collected and analyzed in a month.


(d) *Control efficiency* is the mass of a pollutant in the sewage sludge fed to an incinerator minus the mass of that pollutant in the exit gas from the incinerator stack divided by the mass of the pollutant in the sewage sludge fed to the incinerator. 


(e) *Dispersion factor* is the ratio of the increase in the ground level ambient air concentration for a pollutant at or beyond the property line of the site where the sewage sludge incinerator is located to the mass emission rate for the pollutant from the incinerator stack. 


(f) *Fluidized bed incinerator* is an enclosed device in which organic matter and inorganic matter in sewage sludge are combusted in a bed of particles suspended in the combustion chamber gas. 


(g) *Hourly average* is the arithmetic mean of all measurements, taken during an hour. At least two measurements must be taken during the hour. 


(h) *Incineration* is the combustion of organic matter and inorganic matter in sewage sludge by high temperatures in an enclosed device. 


(i) *Incinerator operating combustion temperature* is the arithmetic mean of the temperature readings in the hottest zone of the furnace recorded in a day (24 hours) when the temperature is averaged and recorded at least hourly during the hours the incinerator operates in a day.


(j) *Monthly average* is the arithmetic mean of the hourly averages for the hours a sewage sludge incinerator operates during the month. 


(k) *Performance test combustion temperature* is the arithmetic mean of the average combustion temperature in the hottest zone of the furnace for each of the runs in a performance test.


(l) *Risk specific concentration* is the allowable increase in the average daily ground level ambient air concentration for a pollutant from the incineration of sewage sludge at or beyond the property line of the site where the sewage sludge incinerator is located. 


(m) *Sewage sludge feed rate* is either the average daily amount of sewage sludge fired in all sewage sludge incinerators within the property line of the site where the sewage sludge incinerators are located for the number of days in a 365 day period that each sewage sludge incinerator operates, or the average daily design capacity for all sewage sludge incinerators within the property line of the site where the sewage sludge incinerators are located. 


(n) *Sewage sludge incinerator* is an enclosed device in which only sewage sludge and auxiliary fuel are fired. 


(o) *Stack height* is the difference between the elevation of the top of a sewage sludge incinerator stack and the elevation of the ground at the base of the stack when the difference is equal to or less than 65 meters. When the difference is greater than 65 meters, stack height is the creditable stack height determined in accordance with 40 CFR 51.100 (ii). 


(p) *Total hydrocarbons* means the organic compounds in the exit gas from a sewage sludge incinerator stack measured using a flame ionization detection instrument referenced to propane. 


(q) *Wet electrostatic precipitator* is an air pollution control device that uses both electrical forces and water to remove pollutants in the exit gas from a sewage sludge incinerator stack. 


(r) *Wet scrubber* is an air pollution control device that uses water to remove pollutants in the exit gas from a sewage sludge incinerator stack. 



---

[N] [58 FR 9387, Feb. 19, 1993, as amended at 64 FR 42571, Aug. 4, 1999]




