# ยง 500.22   Fees and conditions for use of facilities and grounds.

(a) *Fee requirement.* (1) The USNA will charge a fee for temporary use by individuals or groups of USNA facilities and grounds. Fees for specific sites are listed in ยง 500.24.


(2) Non-profit scientific or educational organizations whose purposes and interests are complementary to the mission of the USNA and which substantially support the mission and purpose of the USNA (e.g., Friends of the National Arboretum, National Bonsai Foundation, National Capital Area Federation of Garden Clubs, Herb Society of America) may be exempted from the fee for use of USNA facility or grounds requirement of this subpart by the Director, but still must reimburse the USNA for its costs, including setup, clean-up, security, and other costs as applicable.


(3) A Half Day usage is defined as 4 hours or less; a Whole Day usage is defined as more than 4 hours in a day. In all cases, usage includes all time during which a venue is committed, including time used to set up before and clean up after an event. For after-hours usage of sites or facilities, an additional $40/hour will be added for supervision for each required staff member or security officer, with higher amounts required for sites or facilities that are more sensitive.


(b) *Reservations.* (1) Facilities and grounds are available by reservation at the discretion of the Director of the USNA and may be available to individuals or groups for uses that are consistent with the mission of the USNA. Agency initiatives may be granted first priority. Offices and hallways inside secured doors will not be available for use.


(2) Reservations to use USNA facilities and grounds may be made directly with the USNA. To ensure consideration, reservation requests should be made as far in advance as possible with a minimum of 15 calendar days prior to the date of use required for all reservations. This advanced notice will provide the USNA adequate time to prepare sites and assign staff and supervision as necessary.


(3) The USNA will make every effort to respond to requests in a quick and timely fashion. The USNA will respond to reservation requests within 5 working days with information as to whether the requested site is available for use. The USNA will also give notice to the prospective user of any planned activities (construction, maintenance, pesticide applications, and any similar activities) that might affect the planned use or event.


(4) A 50 percent non-refundable deposit will be due at the time of a booking in order to reserve a specific date and location. The remaining 50 percent is due five working days prior to the event.


(c) *Terms and conditions of use.* (1) The USNA provides space, water, and electrical hookup when available, and restrooms where available. Users must provide all tents, tables, chairs, trash receptacles, or other property required for the scheduled event. Users must remove all trash from the property at the conclusion of the event. Users must remove all tents, tables and chairs, and other property no later than 5:00 p.m. of the day following the event. The USNA will charge a facility use and break down fee of $500.00 per day for each day following the deadline to remove temporary facilities and equipment. The USNA will not store temporary facilities or equipment for users.


(2) Users must abide by USNA vehicle regulations in ยง 500.11 including the requirement to obtain USNA approval whenever off road access is required for setup.


(3) The USNA will not assume any responsibility for last minute changes due to failure of current mechanical systems, severe storms and other weather events, emergencies relating to security and safety.


(4) Some events that involve bringing animals and certain plants onto the USNA property may not be compatible with the plant research, display, and education mission of the USNA. Such events will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis and exceptions may be made by the Director of the USNA.


(5) Music and bands will be permitted but the decibel level of music should not be loud enough to be heard outside the boundaries of the USNA.


(6) (i) A refundable deposit as specified in paragraph (c)(6)(ii) of this section for use of the facility or grounds, excluding the classroom, will be collected in advance. In the event of building, property, or grounds damage or excessive cleaning requirements, the deposit will be used for repair and remediation and the balance will be refunded within 30 days of the event date. In the event that cleaning requirements or damage to the building, property or grounds exceeds the amount of the refundable deposit, the deposit will be used in full, with additional charges billed and due within 30 days of billing. Damages to plants, grounds, facilities, or equipment will be assessed on a value based on replacement costs, including labor.


(ii) *Refundable Deposit Schedule.*

(7) Upon prior request, the Director may approve the consumption of beer and wine during uses of USNA pursuant to this section. Such permission generally will not be granted during times when USNA is open to the public. Director approval shall be conditioned upon compliance by users and by any of their agents or contractors, with all applicable provisions of the District of Columbia Code governing sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages, including the rules of the District of Columbia Department of Consumer Affairs, Alcoholic Beverage Regulation Administration.


(8) All users of the USNA pursuant to this subpart, as well as all those contracting with such users of the USNA, shall comply with all Federal and local laws.


(9) The USNA is a Federal property under the jurisdiction of the United States Department of Agriculture.


All activities are subject to Federal rules and regulations governing the use of public buildings and grounds.


(10) The USNA will not be responsible for any damage or loss suffered by an individual, group, or their contractor during a permitted event at the USNA.


(11) The Director may impose additional incidental terms and conditions concerning the use of the USNA facilities consistent with this part.


(12) Marriage ceremonies and accompanying receptions may only be held in the Dogwood Collection.




