# § 63.7110   By what date must I conduct performance tests and other initial compliance demonstrations?

(a) If you have an existing affected source, you must complete all applicable performance tests within January 5, 2007, according to the provisions in §§ 63.7(a)(2) and 63.7114.


(b) If you have a new affected source, and commenced construction or reconstruction between December 20, 2002, and January 5, 2004, you must demonstrate initial compliance with either the proposed emission limitation or the promulgated emission limitation no later than 180 calendar days after January 5, 2004 or within 180 calendar days after startup of the source, whichever is later, according to §§ 63.7(a)(2)(ix) and 63.7114.


(c) If you commenced construction or reconstruction between December 20, 2002, and January 5, 2004, and you chose to comply with the proposed emission limitation when demonstrating initial compliance, you must conduct a demonstration of compliance with the promulgated emission limitation within January 5, 2007 or after startup of the source, whichever is later, according to §§ 63.7(a)(2)(ix) and 63.7114.


(d) For each initial compliance requirement in Table 4 to this subpart that applies to you where the monitoring averaging period is 3 hours, the 3-hour period for demonstrating continuous compliance for emission units within existing affected sources at LMP begins at 12:01 a.m. on the compliance date for existing affected sources, that is, the day following completion of the initial compliance demonstration, and ends at 3:01 a.m. on the same day.


(e) For each initial compliance requirement in Table 4 to this subpart that applies to you where the monitoring averaging period is 3 hours, the 3-hour period for demonstrating continuous compliance for emission units within new or reconstructed affected sources at LMP begins at 12:01 a.m. on the day following completion of the initial compliance demonstration, as required in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, and ends at 3:01 a.m. on the same day.


(f) If your affected source commenced construction or reconstruction before July 16, 2024, you must demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitation in in this subpart no later than July 16, 2027, or within 180 calendar days after startup of the source, whichever is later, according to §§ 63.7(a)(2)(ix) and 63.7114.





---

[N] [69 FR 416, Jan. 5, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 44977, July 24, 2020; 89 FR 57753, July 16, 2024]






