# ยง 60.441   Definitions and symbols.

(a) Except as otherwise required by the context, terms used in this subpart are defined in the Act, in subpart A of this part, or in this section as follows: 


*Coating applicator* means an apparatus used to apply a surface coating to a continuous web. 


*Coating line* means any number or combination of adhesive, release, or precoat coating applicators, flashoff areas, and ovens which coat a continuous web, located between a web unwind station and a web rewind station, to produce pressure sensitive tape and label materials. 


*Coating solids applied* means the solids content of the coated adhesive, release, or precoat as measured by Method 24. 


*Flashoff area* means the portion of a coating line after the coating applicator and usually before the oven entrance. 


*Fugitive volatile organic compounds* means any volatile organic compounds which are emitted from the coating applicator and flashoff areas and are not emitted in the oven. 


*Hood or enclosure* means any device used to capture fugitive volatile organic compounds. 


*Oven* means a chamber which uses heat or irradiation to bake, cure, polymerize, or dry a surface coating. 


*Precoat* means a coating operation in which a coating other than an adhesive or release is applied to a surface during the production of a pressure sensitive tape or label product. 


*Solvent applied in the coating* means all organic solvent contained in the adhesive, release, and precoat formulations that is metered into the coating applicator from the formulation area.


*Total enclosure* means a structure or building around the coating applicator and flashoff area or the entire coating line for the purpose of confining and totally capturing fugitive VOC emissions. 


*VOC* means volatile organic compound.


(b) All symbols used in this subpart not defined below are given meaning in the Act or in subpart A of this part.



---

[N] [48 FR 48375, Oct. 18, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 61761, Oct. 17, 2000]




