# ยง 7501.102   Definitions.

For purposes of this part, and otherwise as indicated, the following definitions shall apply:


*Affiliate* means any entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with another entity.


*Agency designee,* as used also in 5 CFR part 2635, means the Associate General Counsel for Ethics and Personnel Law, the Assistant General Counsel for the Ethics Law Division, and the HUD Regional Counsels.


*Agency ethics official,* as used also in 5 CFR part 2635, means the agency designees as specified above.


*Bureau* means the Office of the Inspector General.


*Bureau Ethics Counselor* means the General Counsel for the Bureau.


*Deputy Bureau Ethics Counselor* means the Bureau employee or employees who the Bureau Ethics Counselor has delegated responsibility to act under ยง 7501.106 for the Bureau.


*Designated Agency Ethics Official* (DAEO) means the General Counsel of HUD or the Deputy General Counsel for Operations in the absence of the General Counsel.


*Employment* means any compensated or uncompensated (including volunteer work for others while off-duty) form of non-federal activity or business relationship, including self-employment, that involves the provision of personal services by the employee. It includes, but is not limited to, personal services as an officer, director, employee, agent, attorney, consultant, contractor, general partner, trustee, teacher, or speaker. It includes writing when done under an arrangement with another person for production or publication of the written product.


*Subsidized by the Department* means any grant, loan, cooperative agreement, or other form of assistance provided by the Department, including the insurance or guarantee of a loan.



---

[N] [77 FR 46604, Aug. 6, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 56128, Sept. 12, 2013]




