# ยง 401.110   Disclosure of personal information in nonprogram records without the consent of the subject of the record.

The disclosures listed in this section may be made from our nonprogram records, e.g., administrative and personnel records, without your consent. Such disclosures are those:


(a) To officers and employees of SSA who have a need for the record in the performance of their duties. The SSA official who is responsible for the record may upon request of any officer or employee, or on his own initiative, determine what constitutes legitimate need.


(b) Required to be disclosed under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, and 20 CFR part 402.


(c) For a routine use as defined in ยง 401.25 of this part. Routine uses will be listed in any notice of a system of records. SSA publishes notices of systems of records, including all pertinent routine uses, in the _Federal Register._

(d) To the Bureau of the Census for purposes of planning or carrying out a census or survey or related activity pursuant to the provisions of Title 13 U.S.C.


(e) To a recipient who has provided us with advance written assurance that the record will be used solely as a statistical research or reporting record; *Provided,* that, the record is transferred in a form that does not identify the subject individual.


(f) To the National Archives of the United States as a record which has sufficient historical or other value to warrant its continued preservation by the United States Government, or for evaluation by the Administrator of General Services or his designee to determine whether the record has such value.


(g) To another government agency or to an instrumentality of any governmental jurisdiction within or under the control of the United States for a civil or criminal law enforcement activity if the activity is authorized by law, and if the head of such government agency or instrumentality has submitted a written request to us, specifying the record desired and the law enforcement activity for which the record is sought.


(h) To an individual pursuant to a showing of compelling circumstances affecting the health or safety of any individual if a notice of the disclosure is transmitted to the last known address of the subject individual.


(i) To either House of Congress, or to the extent of matter within its jurisdiction, any committee or subcommittee thereof, any joint committee of Congress or subcommittee of any such joint committee.


(j) To the Comptroller General, or any of his authorized representatives, in the course of the performance of duties of the Government Accountability Office.


(k) Pursuant to the order of a court of competent jurisdiction.



---

[N] [62 FR 4143, Jan. 29, 1997, as amended at 72 FR 20940, Apr. 27, 2007]




