# ยง 178.813   Leakproofness test.

(a) *General.* The leakproofness test must be conducted for the qualification of all IBC design types and on all production units intended to contain solids that are loaded or discharged under pressure or intended to contain liquids.


(b) *Special preparation for the leakproofness test.* Vented closures must either be replaced by similar non-vented closures or the vent must be sealed. For metal IBC design types, the initial test must be carried out before the fitting of any thermal insulation equipment. The inner receptacle of a composite IBC may be tested without the outer packaging provided the test results are not affected.


(c) *Test method and pressure applied.* The leakproofness test must be carried out for a suitable length of time using air at a gauge pressure of not less than 20 kPa (2.9 psig). Leakproofness of IBC design types must be determined by coating the seams and joints with a heavy oil, a soap solution and water, or other methods suitable for the purpose of detecting leaks. Other methods, if at least equally effective, may be used in accordance with appendix B of this part, or if approved by the Associate Administrator, as provided in ยง 178.801(i)).


(d) *Criterion for passing the test.* For all IBC design types intended to contain solids that are loaded or discharged under pressure or intended to contain liquids, there may be no leakage of air from the IBC.



---

[N] [Amdt. 178-103, 59 FR 38074, July 26, 1994, as amended at 64 FR 10782, Mar. 5, 1999; 66 FR 45185, 45386, Aug. 28, 2001]




