# § 1.1382-3   Taxable income of cooperatives; special deductions for exempt farmers' cooperatives.

(a) *In general.* (1) Section 1382(c) provides that in determining the taxable income of a farmers', fruit growers', or like association, described in section 1381(a)(1) and organized and operated in compliance with the requirements of section 521 and § 1.521-1, there shall be allowed as deductions from the gross income of such organization, in addition to the other deductions allowable under chapter 1 of the Code (including the deductions allowed by section 1382(b)) the special deductions provided in section 1382(c) and paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section.


(2) For the definition of terms used in this section, see section 1388 and § 1.1388-1; to determine the payment period for a taxable year, see section 1382(d) and § 1.1382-4.


(b) *Deduction for dividends paid on capital stock.* In the case of a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1962, there is allowed as a deduction from the gross income of a cooperative association operated in compliance with the requirements of section 521 and § 1.521-1, amounts paid as dividends during the taxable year on the capital stock of such cooperative association. For the purpose of the preceding sentence, the term *capital stock* includes common stock (whether voting or nonvoting), preferred stock, or any other form of capital represented by capital retain certificates, revolving fund certificates, letters of advice, or other evidence of a proprietary interest in a cooperative association. Such deduction is applicable only to the taxable year in which the dividends are actually or constructively paid to the holder of capital stock or other proprietary interest in the cooperative association. If a dividend is paid by check and the check bearing a date within the taxable year is deposited in the mail, in a cover properly stamped and addressed to the shareholder at his last known address, at such time that in the ordinary handling of the mails the check would be received by such holder within the taxable year, a presumption arises that the dividend was paid to such holder in such year. The determination of whether a dividend has been paid to such holder by the corporation during its taxable year is in no way dependent upon the method of accounting regularly employed by the corporation in keeping its books. For further rules as to the determination of the right to a deduction for dividends paid, under certain specific circumstances, see section 561 and the regulations thereunder.


(c) *Deduction for amounts allocated from income not derived from patronage*—(1) *In general.* In the case of a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1962, there is allowed as a deduction from the gross income of a cooperative association operated in compliance with the requirements of section 521 and § 1.521-1, amounts paid to patrons, during the payment period for the taxable year, on a patronage basis with respect to its income derived during such taxable year either from business done with or for the United States or any of its agencies or from sources other than patronage, but only to the extent such amounts are paid in money, qualified written notices of allocation, or other property (other than nonqualified written notices of allocation). For purposes of this subparagraph a written notice of allocation is considered paid when it is issued to the patron. An amount shall be treated as paid in money during the payment period for the taxable year to the extent it is paid by a qualified check which is issued during the payment period for such taxable year and endorsed and cashed on or before the ninetieth day after the close of such payment period. In determining the amount paid which is allowable as a deduction under this paragraph, property (other than written notices of allocation) shall be taken into account at its fair market value when paid, and a qualified written notice of allocation shall be taken into account at its stated dollar amount.


(2) *Definition.* The term *income derived from sources other than patronage* used in this paragraph (c) means income from nonpatronage sources within the meaning of § 1.1388-1(f)(3).


(3) *Basis of distribution.* In order that the deduction for amounts paid with respect to income derived from business done with or for the United States or any of its agencies or from sources other than patronage may be applicable, it is necessary that the amount sought to be deducted be paid on a patronage basis in proportion, insofar as is practicable, to the amount of business done by or for patrons during the period to which such income is attributable. For example, if capital gains are realized from the sale or exchange of capital assets acquired and disposed of during the taxable year, income realized from such gains must be paid to patrons of such year in proportion to the amount of business done by such patrons during the taxable year. Similarly, if capital gains are realized by the association from the sale or exchange of capital assets held for a period extending into more than one taxable year income realized from such gains must be paid, insofar as is practicable, to the persons who were patrons during the taxable years in which the asset was owned by the association in proportion to the amount of business done by such patrons during such taxable years.


(4) *Special rules for certain taxable years.* No deduction is allowable under this paragraph for amounts paid during taxable years beginning before January 1, 1963, or for amounts paid during taxable years beginning after December 31, 1962, with respect to income derived during taxable years beginning before January 1, 1963. With respect to such amounts, the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (including section 522 and the regulations thereunder) shall be applicable without regard to subchapter T.


(d) *Deduction for amounts paid in redemption of certain nonqualified written notices of allocation.* In the case of a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1962, there is allowed as a deduction from the gross income of a cooperative association operated in compliance with the requirements of section 521 and § 1.521-1, amounts paid by such association during the payment period for such taxable year in redemption of certain nonqualified written notices of allocation, but only to the extent such amounts (1) are paid in money or other property (other than written notices of allocation) and (2) do not exceed the stated dollar amount of such nonqualified written notices of allocation. The nonqualified written notices of allocation referred to in the preceding sentence are those which were previously paid to patrons on a patronage basis with respect to earnings derived either from business done with or for the United States or any of its agencies or from sources other than patronage, provided that such nonqualified written notices of allocation were paid during the payment period for the taxable year during which such earnings were derived. No deduction shall be allowed under this paragraph, however, for amounts paid in redemption of nonqualified written notices of allocation which were paid with respect to earnings derived during a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1963. For purposes of this paragraph, if an amount is paid within the payment period for two or more taxable years, it will be allowable as a deduction only for the earliest of such taxable years. In determining the amount paid which is allowable as a deduction under this paragraph, property (other than written notices of allocation) shall be taken into account at its fair market value when paid. Amounts paid in redemption of a nonqualified written notice of allocation in excess of its stated dollar amount shall be treated under the applicable provisions of the Code.


(e) *Applicability date.* Paragraph (c)(2) of this section applies to taxable years beginning after January 19, 2021. For taxable years beginning on or before January 19, 2021, taxpayers, however, may choose to apply the rules of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, provided the taxpayers apply the rules in their entirety and in a consistent manner.



---

[N] [T.D. 6643, 28 FR 3155, Apr. 2, 1963, as amended by T.D. 9947, 86 FR 5593, Jan. 19, 2021]




