# § 984.203   FSS family selection procedures.

(a) *Preference in the FSS selection process.* A PHA has the option of selecting eligible families for up to fifty (50) percent of its FSS slots in accordance with a written policy, provided in the PHA's FSS Action Plan, who have one or more family members currently enrolled in an FSS related service program or on the waiting list for such a program. The PHA may limit the selection preference given to participants in, and applicants for, FSS related service programs to one or more eligible FSS related service programs. A PHA that chooses to exercise the selection preference option must include the following information in its Action Plan:


(1) The percentage of FSS slots, not to exceed fifty (50) percent of the total number of FSS slots, for which it will give a selection preference;


(2) The FSS related service programs to which it will give a selection preference to the programs' participants and applicants; and


(3) The method of outreach to, and selection of, families with one or more members participating in the identified programs.


(b) *Selection among families with preference.* The PHA may use either of the following to select among applicants on the FSS waiting list with the same preference status:


(1) Date and time of application to the FSS program; or,


(2) A drawing or other random choice technique.


(c) *FSS selection without preference.* For those FSS slots for which a selection preference is not applicable, the FSS slots must be filled with eligible families in accordance with an objective selection system, such as a lottery, the length of time living in subsidized housing, or the date the family expressed an interest in participating in the FSS program. The objective system to be used by the PHA must be described in the PHA's Action Plan.


(d) *Motivation as a selection factor*—(1) *General.* A PHA may screen families for interest, and motivation to participate in the FSS program, provided that the factors utilized by the PHA are those which solely measure the family's interest and motivation to participate in the FSS program.


(2) *Permissible motivational screening factors.* Permitted motivational factors include requiring attendance at FSS orientation sessions or preselection interviews and assigning certain tasks which indicate the family's willingness to undertake the obligations which may be imposed by the FSS CoP. Any tasks assigned shall be those which may be readily accomplishable by the family, based on the family members' educational level, capabilities, and disabilities, if any. Reasonable accommodations and modifications must be made for individuals with disabilities, including, *e.g.,* mobility, manual, sensory, speech, mental, intellectual, or developmental disabilities, consistent with applicable Federal civil rights and nondiscrimination laws.


(3) *Prohibited motivational screening factors.* Prohibited motivational screening factors include the family's educational level, educational or standardized motivational test results, previous job history or job performance, credit rating, marital status, number of children, or other factors, such as sensory or manual skills, and any factors which may result in the exclusion, application of different eligibility requirements, or other discriminatory treatment or effect on the basis of race, color, national original, sex (including actual or perceived gender identity and sexual orientation), religion, familial status, or disability.






