# ยง 2522.520   What special terms are used in this subpart?

The following definitions apply to terms used in this subpart of the regulations:


(a) *Approved application* means the application approved by AmeriCorps or, for formula programs, by a State commission.


(b) *Community beneficiaries* refers to persons who receive services or benefits from a program, but not to AmeriCorps members or to staff of the organization operating the program.


(c) *Outputs* are the amount or units of service that members or volunteers have completed, or the number of community beneficiaries the program has served. Outputs do not provide information on benefits or other changes in communities or in the lives of members or community beneficiaries. Examples of outputs could include the number of people a program tutors, counsels, houses, or feeds.


(d) *Intermediate-outcomes* specify a change that has occurred in communities or in the lives of community beneficiaries or members, but is not necessarily a lasting benefit for them. They are observable and measurable indications of whether or not a program is making progress and are logically connected to end outcomes. An example would be the number and percentage of students who report reading more books as a result of their participation in a tutoring program.


(e) *Internal evaluation* means an evaluation that a grantee performs in-house without the use of an independent external evaluator.


(f) *End-outcomes* specify a change that has occurred in communities or in the lives of community beneficiaries or members that is significant and lasting. These are actual benefits or changes for participants during or after a program. For example, in a tutoring program, the end outcome could be the percent and number of students who have improved their reading scores to grade-level, or other specific measures of academic achievement.


(g) *Grantee* includes subgrantees, programs, and projects.


(h) *National performance measures* are performance measures that AmeriCorps develops.


(i) *You* refers to a grantee or applicant organization. 



---

[N] [70 FR 39603, July 8, 2005; 70 FR 48882, Aug. 22, 2005]




