# ยง 18.3   Definitions.

(a) *Block or formula grant applicant or recipient* means an applicant for a grant awarded under the provisions of part D of the Crime Control Act; part B, subpart I of the Juvenile Justice Act; and sections 1403 and 1404 of the Victims of Crime Act.


(b) *Categorical grant recipient* means a public or private agency which has received a research, statistics, discretionary, technical assistance, special emphasis, training, concentration of Federal effort or other direct Federal assistance award of grant funds.


(c) *Categorical grant applicant* means a public or private agency which has applied for a research, statistics, discretionary, technical assistance, special emphasis, training, concentration of Federal effort or other direct Federal assistance award of grant funds.


(d) *Grant* includes cooperative agreements and means a direct award of financial assistance from OJP, BJA, NIJ, OJJDP, BJS or OVC.


(e) *Crime Control Act* means the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, 42 U.S.C. 3701, *et seq.,* as amended.


(f) *Juvenile Justice Act* means the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. 5601, *et seq.,* as amended.


(g) *Responsible agency* means the organizational unit whose action is being appealed. This will be OJP, NIJ, BJS, OJJDP, BJA or OVC as appropriate. In hearings requested under the nondiscrimination provisions of the Crime Control Act, the responsible agency is OJP. In hearings requested to contest block or formula grant denials or terminations or categorical grant terminations, the responsible agency is the organizational unit that took the action at issue: OJP, BJA, OJJDP, NIJ, BJS or OVC.


(h) *Responsible agency official* means the Assistant Attorney General, Office of Justice Programs (OJP); the Director, Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA); the Director, National Institute of Justice (NIJ); the Director, Bureau of Justice Statistics (BJS); the Director, Office for Victims of Crime (OVC); or the Administrator, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention (OJJDP), as appropriate.


(i) *Sub-grant applicant or recipient* means the State agency, unit of local government or private non-profit organization which applies for, or receives, a grant from a State agency which administers a block or formula grant.


(j) *Victims of Crime Act* means the Victims of Crime Act of 1984, 42 U.S.C. 10601, *et seq.*

