# § 532.401   Definitions.

In this subpart:


*Change to lower grade* means a change in the position of an employee who, while continuously employed—


(1) Moves from a position in one grade of a prevailing rate schedule established under this part to a position in a lower grade of the same type prevailing rate schedule, whether in the same or different wage area;


(2) Moves from a position under a prevailing rate schedule established under this part to a position under a different prevailing rate schedule (e.g., WL to WG) with a lower representative rate; or


(3) Moves from a position not under a prevailing rate schedule to a position with a lower representative rate under a prevailing rate schedule. 


*Equivalent increase* means an increase or increases in an employee's rate of basic pay equal to or greater than the difference between the rate of pay for the grade and step occupied by the employee and the rate of pay for the next higher step of that grade, except in the situations specified in § 532.417 of this subpart. In the case of a promotion, the grade and step occupied means the grade and step to which promoted. 


*Existing scheduled rate of pay* means the scheduled rate of pay received immediately before the effective date of a transfer, reassignment, promotion, change to a lower grade, within-grade increase, or revision of a wage schedule.


*Highest previous rate* means the highest scheduled rate of pay previously paid to a person while employed in a job in any branch of the Federal Government, a mixed-ownership corporation, or the government of the District of Columbia. It is based on a regular tour of duty under an appointment not limited to 90 days or less, or for a continuous period of no less than 90 days under one or more appointments without a break in service.


*Promotion* means a change in the position of an employee who, while continuously employed— 


(1) Moves from a position in one grade of a prevailing rate schedule established under this part to a position in a higher grade of the same type prevailing rate schedule, whether in the same or different wage area; 


(2) Moves from a position under a prevailing rate schedule established under this part to a position under a different prevailing rate schedule (e.g., WG to WL) with a higher representative rate; or


(3) Moves from a position not under a prevailing rate schedule to a position with a higher representative rate under a prevailing rate schedule. 


*Rate of basic pay* means the scheduled rate of pay plus any night or environmental differential.


*Reassignment* means a change of an employee, while serving continuously in the same agency, from one job to another without promotion or change to a lower grade.


*Representative rate* means the going rate, *i.e.,* the rate or step keyed to the prevailing rate determination. For example:


(1) The established rate on a single rate schedule;


(2) The second rate on a five-rate regular wage schedule;


(3) The fourth rate on the General Schedule; or


(4) The fourth rate of a class under the Foreign Service Officer and Foreign Service Staff schedule.


*Retained rate* means the rate of pay an employee is receiving which is higher than the maximum scheduled rate of pay of the Federal Wage System grade or pay level to which the employee is assigned.


*Scheduled rate of pay* means the rate of pay fixed by law or administrative action, including a retained rate of pay, for the job held by an employee before any deductions and exclusive of additional pay of any kind.



---

[N] [46 FR 21344, Apr. 10, 1981, as amended at 55 FR 46180, Nov. 1, 1990; 60 FR 62701, Dec. 7, 1995]




