# § 29.19   Nature of interest granted.

(a) Where the land administered by the Service is owned in fee by the United States and the right-of-way is compatible with the objectives of the area, the Service may issue a permit after it is approved in writing by the Regional Director.


(b) For rights-of-way permitted under authority of section 28 of the Mineral Leasing Act of 1920, as amended (30 U.S.C. 181 *et seq.*), for pipelines for the transportation of oil, natural gas, synthetic liquid, or gaseous fuels, or any refined product produced from these substances:


(1) The permit term may not exceed 30 years.


(2) The right-of-way may not exceed 50 feet in width, plus the area occupied by the pipeline and its related facilities, unless the Regional Director finds, and records in writing the reasons for the finding based on the analysis in a compatibility determination, that a wider right-of-way is necessary for operation and maintenance after construction and to protect the environment or public safety. “Related facilities” include but are not limited to valves, pump stations, supporting structures, bridges, monitoring and communication devices, surge and storage tanks, and terminals.


(c) For rights-of-way other than those referred to in paragraph (b) of this section, the permit term may be up to 50 years when the Regional Director deems it appropriate, or a lesser term.


(d) The Service may issue a temporary permit supplementing a right-of-way for additional land needed during construction, operation, maintenance, or termination of the pipeline, or to protect the natural environment or public safety.


(e) Unless otherwise provided, no interest granted shall give the grantee any right whatsoever to remove any material, earth, or stone for construction or other purpose, except that stone or earth necessarily removed from the right-of-way in the construction of a project may be used elsewhere along the same right-of-way in the construction of the same project.






