# § 176.168   Transport of Class 1 (explosive) materials in vehicle spaces.

(a) All transport vehicles and cargo must be properly secured.


(b) All transport vehicles used for the carriage of Class 1 (explosive) materials must be structurally serviceable as defined in § 176.172(a)(2).


(c) Vehicles used to transport Class 1 (explosive) materials must conform to the requirements in §§ 177.834 and 177.835 of this subchapter.


(d) Class 1 (explosive) materials which require special stowage must be transported in transport vehicles approved for the purpose by the Associate Administrator except that Class 1 (explosive) materials in compatibility group G or H may be carried in steel portable magazines or freight containers. Closed transport vehicles may be used as magazines; transport vehicles of other types may be used to transport Class 1 (explosive) materials which require ordinary stowage.


(e) Class 1 (explosive) materials of different compatibility groups may not be stowed in the same vehicle except as allowed in § 176.144 of this subpart.


(f) Vehicles containing different Class 1 (explosive) materials require no segregation from each other, except that these materials may be carried together under the provisions of § 176.144 of this subchapter. In all other instances, the vehicles must be “separated from” one another.


(g) All transport vehicles used for the transport of Class 1 (explosive) materials must have lashing arrangements for securing the vehicle on the ship and preventing the moving of the vehicle on its springs during the sea passage.


(h) Where a portable magazine or closed freight container is carried on a chassis, twist locks or other suitable securing arrangements must be provided and made secure.



---

[N] [Amdt. 176-30, 55 FR 52696, Dec. 21, 1990, as amended at 66 FR 45384, Aug. 28, 2001; 68 FR 61942, Oct. 30, 2003]




