# § 1.338-10   Filing of returns.

(a) *Returns including tax liability from deemed asset sale*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section, any deemed sale tax consequences are reported on the final return of old target filed for old target's taxable year that ends at the close of the acquisition date. Paragraphs (a)(2), (3) and (4) of this section do not apply to elections under section 338(h)(10). If old target is the common parent of an affiliated group, the final return may be a consolidated return (any such consolidated return must also include any deemed sale tax consequences of any members of the consolidated group that are acquired by the purchasing corporation on the same acquisition date as old target). 


(2) *Old target's final taxable year otherwise included in consolidated return of selling group*—(i) *General rule.* If the selling group files a consolidated return for the period that includes the acquisition date, old target is disaffiliated from that group immediately before the deemed asset sale and must file a deemed sale return separate from the group, which includes only the deemed sale tax consequences and the carryover items specified in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section. The deemed asset sale occurs at the close of the acquisition date and is the last transaction of old target and the only transaction reported on the separate return. Except as provided in § 1.338-1(d) (regarding certain transactions on the acquisition date), any transactions of old target occurring on the acquisition date other than the deemed asset sale are included in the selling group's consolidated return. A deemed sale return includes a combined deemed sale return as defined in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. 


(ii) *Separate taxable year.* The deemed asset sale included in the deemed sale return under this paragraph (a)(2) occurs in a separate taxable year, except that old target's taxable year of the sale and the consolidated year of the selling group that includes the acquisition date are treated as the same year for purposes of determining the number of years in a carryover or carryback period. 


(iii) *Carryover and carryback of tax attributes.* Target's attributes may be carried over to, and carried back from, the deemed sale return under the rules applicable to a corporation that ceases to be a member of a consolidated group. 


(iv) *Old target is a component member of purchasing corporation's controlled group.* For purposes of its deemed sale return, target is a component member of the controlled group of corporations including the purchasing corporation unless target is treated as an excluded member under section 1563(b)(2). 


(4) *Combined deemed sale return*—(i) *General rule.* Under section 338(h)(15), a combined deemed sale return (combined return) may be filed for all targets from a single selling consolidated group (as defined in § 1.338(h)(10)-1(b)(3)) that are acquired by the purchasing corporation on the same acquisition date and that otherwise would be required to file separate deemed sale returns. The combined return must include all such targets. For example, T and T1 may be included in a combined return if— 


(A) T and T1 are directly owned subsidiaries of S; 


(B) S is the common parent of a consolidated group; and 


(C) P makes qualified stock purchases of T and T1 on the same acquisition date. 


(ii) *Gain and loss offsets.* Gains and losses recognized on the deemed asset sales by targets included in a combined return are treated as the gains and losses of a single target. In addition, loss carryovers of a target that were not subject to the separate return limitation year restrictions (SRLY restrictions) of the consolidated return regulations while that target was a member of the selling consolidated group may be applied without limitation to the gains of other targets included in the combined return. If, however, a target has loss carryovers that were subject to the SRLY restrictions while that target was a member of the selling consolidated group, the use of those losses in the combined return continues to be subject to those restrictions, applied in the same manner as if the combined return were a consolidated return. A similar rule applies, when appropriate, to other tax attributes.


(iii) *Procedure for filing a combined return.* A combined return is made by filing a single corporation income tax return in lieu of separate deemed sale returns for all targets required to be included in the combined return. The combined return reflects the deemed asset sales of all targets required to be included in the combined return. If the targets included in the combined return constitute a single affiliated group within the meaning of section 1504(a), the income tax return is signed by an officer of the common parent of that group. Otherwise, the return must be signed by an officer of each target included in the combined return. Rules similar to the rules in § 1.1502-75(j) apply for purposes of preparing the combined return. The combined return must include a statement entitled, “ELECTION TO FILE A COMBINED RETURN UNDER SECTION 338(h)(15).” The statement must include—


(A) The name, address, and employer identification number of each target required to be included in the combined return; and


(B) The following declaration: EACH TARGET IDENTIFIED IN THIS ELECTION TO FILE A COMBINED RETURN CONSENTS TO THE FILING OF A COMBINED RETURN.


(iv) *Consequences of filing a combined return.* Each target included in a combined return is severally liable for any tax associated with the combined return. See § 1.338-1(b)(3).


(5) *Deemed sale excluded from purchasing corporation's consolidated return.* Old target may not be considered a member of any affiliated group that includes the purchasing corporation with respect to its deemed asset sale.


(6) *Due date for old target's final return*—(i) *General rule.* Old target's final return is generally due on the 15th day of the third calendar month following the month in which the acquisition date occurs. See section 6072 (time for filing income tax returns).


(ii) *Application of § 1.1502-76(c)*—(A) *In general.* Section 1.1502-76(c) applies to old target's final return if old target was a member of a selling group that did not file consolidated returns for the taxable year of the common parent that precedes the year that includes old target's acquisition date. If the selling group has not filed a consolidated return that includes old target's taxable period that ends on the acquisition date, target may, on or before the final return due date (including extensions), either—


(*1*) File a deemed sale return on the assumption that the selling group will file the consolidated return; or


(*2*) File a return for so much of old target's taxable period as ends at the close of the acquisition date on the assumption that the consolidated return will not be filed.


(B) *Deemed extension.* For purposes of applying § 1.1502-76(c)(2), an extension of time to file old target's final return is considered to be in effect until the last date for making the election under section 338.


(C) *Erroneous filing of deemed sale return.* If, under this paragraph (a)(6)(ii), target files a deemed sale return but the selling group does not file a consolidated return, target must file a substituted return for old target not later than the due date (including extensions) for the return of the common parent with which old target would have been included in the consolidated return. The substituted return is for so much of old target's taxable year as ends at the close of the acquisition date. Under § 1.1502-76(c)(2), the deemed sale return is not considered a return for purposes of section 6011 (relating to the general requirement of filing a return) if a substituted return must be filed.


(D) *Erroneous filing of return for regular tax year.* If, under this paragraph (a)(6)(ii), target files a return for so much of old target's regular taxable year as ends at the close of the acquisition date but the selling group files a consolidated return, target must file an amended return for old target not later than the due date (including extensions) for the selling group's consolidated return. (The amended return is a deemed sale return.)


(E) *Last date for payment of tax.* If either a substituted or amended final return of old target is filed under this paragraph (a)(6)(ii), the last date prescribed for payment of tax is the final return due date (as defined in paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section).


(7) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate this paragraph (a): 


(b) *Waiver*—(1) *Certain additions to tax.* An addition to tax or additional amount (addition) under subchapter A of chapter 68 of the Internal Revenue Code arising on or before the last day for making the election under section 338 because of circumstances that would not exist but for an election under section 338 is waived if— 


(i) Under the particular statute the addition is excusable upon a showing of reasonable cause; and


(ii) Corrective action is taken on or before the last day. 


(2) *Notification.* The Internal Revenue Service should be notified at the time of correction (e.g., by attaching a statement to a return that constitutes corrective action) that the waiver rule of this paragraph (b) is being asserted. 


(3) *Elections or other actions required to be specified on a timely filed return*—(i) *In general.* If paragraph (b)(1) of this section applies or would apply if there were an underpayment, any election or other action that must be specified on a timely filed return for the taxable period covered by the late filed return described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is considered timely if specified on a late-filed return filed on or before the last day for making the election under section 338.


(ii) *New target in purchasing corporation's consolidated return.* If new target is includible for its first taxable year in a consolidated return filed by the affiliated group of which the purchasing corporation is a member on or before the last day for making the election under section 338, any election or other action that must be specified in a timely filed return for new target's first taxable year (but which is not specified in the consolidated return) is considered timely if specified in an amended return filed on or before such last day, at the place where the consolidated return was filed.


(4) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate this paragraph (b): 


(c) *Effective/applicability date.* Paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section applies to any taxable year beginning on or after May 30, 2006. However, taxpayers may apply paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section to any original Federal income tax return (including any amended return filed on or before the due date (including extensions) of such original return) timely filed on or after May 30, 2006. For taxable years beginning before May 30, 2006, see § 1.338-10 as contained in 26 CFR part 1 in effect on April 1, 2006.



---

[N] [T.D. 8940, 66 FR 9948, Feb. 13, 2001, as amended by T.D. 9264, 71 FR 30596, May 30, 2006; T.D. 9329, 72 FR 32798, June 14, 2007]




