# § 107.215   Application.

(a) With the exception of requirements preempted under 49 U.S.C. 5125(c), a State or political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe may apply to the Chief Counsel for a waiver of preemption with respect to any requirement that the State or political subdivision thereof or Indian tribe acknowledges to be preempted under the Federal hazardous materials transportation law, or that has been determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be so preempted. The Chief Counsel may waive preemption with respect to such requirement upon a determination that such requirement—


(1) Affords an equal or greater level of protection to the public than is afforded by the requirements of the Federal hazardous material transportation law or the regulations issued thereunder, and


(2) Does not unreasonably burden commerce.


(b) Each application filed under this section for a waiver of preemption determination must:


(1) Be submitted to the Chief Counsel:


(i) By mail addressed to the Chief Counsel, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation, East Building, PHC-1, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590-0001;


(ii) By facsimile to 202-366-7041; or


(iii) Electronically to the Chief Counsel at *phmsachiefcounsel@dot.gov.*

(2) Set forth the text of the State or political subdivision requirement for which the determination is being sought;


(3) Include a copy of any court order and any ruling issued under § 107.209 having a bearing on the application;


(4) Contain an express acknowledgment by the applicant that the State, political subdivision, or Indian tribe requirement is preempted under Federal hazardous materials transportation law, unless it has been so determined by a court of competent jurisdiction or in a determination issued under § 107.209; 


(5) Specify each requirement of the Federal hazardous materials transportation law that preempts the State, political subdivision, or Indian tribe requirement;


(6) State why the applicant believes the State, political subdivision or Indian tribe requirements affords an equal or greater level of protection to the public than is afforded by the requirements of the Federal hazardous material transportation law or the regulations issued thereunder;


(7) State why the applicant believes the State, political subdivision or Indian tribe requirement does not unreasonably burden commerce; and


(8) Specify what steps the State, political subdivision or Indian tribe is taking to administer and enforce effectively its inconsistent requirement.



---

[N] [Amdt. 107-3, 41 FR 38171, Sept. 9, 1976, as amended by Amdt. 107-22, 55 FR 39978, Oct. 1, 1990; Amdt. 107-24, 56 FR 8621, 8623, Feb. 28, 1991; 56 FR 15510, Apr. 17, 1991; Amdt. 107-23, 56 FR 66156, Dec. 20, 1991; Amdt. 107-25, 57 FR 20428, May 13, 1992; Amdt. 107-32, 59 FR 49131, Sept. 26, 1994; Amdt. 107-38, 61 FR 21099, May 9, 1996; 68 FR 52847, Sept. 8, 2003; 71 FR 30068, May 25, 2006; 72 FR 55683, Oct. 1, 2007]




