# ยง 20.110   Regulations for certain Federal Indian reservations and ceded lands.

(a) *Tribal sovereignty.* The Service recognizes Tribal sovereignty to exercise reserved hunting rights and, for some Tribes, recognition of their authority to regulate hunting by both Tribal and nontribal members on their reservation. Accordingly, Tribes may independently establish special (separate from the State or States in which the reservation is located) migratory game bird hunting regulations. Migratory birds may be taken if the take is consistent with the regulations in this section and applicable Tribal hunting regulations.


(b) *Applicability.* Special Tribal migratory game bird hunting regulations may be established by Tribes that have reserved hunting rights on Federal Indian reservations (including off-reservation trust lands) and ceded lands. These regulations also may be applied to the establishment of migratory game bird hunting regulations for nontribal members on all lands within the reservations where Tribes have full wildlife-management authority over such hunting, or where the Tribes and affected States otherwise have reached agreement over hunting by nontribal members on non-Indian lands within the reservation.


(c) *Special regulations.* Special Tribal migratory game bird hunting regulations must be consistent with the annual March 11 to August 31 closed season mandated by the 1916 Convention Between the United States and Great Britain (for Canada) for the Protection of Migratory Birds, as amended by the Protocol Between the Government of Canada and the Government of the United States of America Amending the 1916 Convention Between the United Kingdom and the United States of America for the Protection of Migratory Birds in Canada and the United States, and with these provisions:


(1) Tribes may establish on-reservation hunting regulations, for both Tribal and nontribal members, with hunting seasons that may differ from those in the State(s) in which the reservations are located.


(i) *Regulations for both Tribal and nontribal members:* Opening and closing dates, season length, and daily bag and possession limits for nontribal members on the reservations must be within the Federal limits for migratory bird hunting seasons established by the Service, and all Federal hunting regulations in this part also apply to nontribal hunters. Tribes may choose to set the same opening and closing dates, season length, and daily bag and possession limits for hunting by Tribal members and nontribal members on their reservations, or, in accordance with the provisions in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, Tribes may choose to establish regulations for Tribal members only.


(ii) *Regulations for Tribal members only:* Tribes may establish on-reservation hunting regulations by Tribal members only, with hunting seasons that may be outside of Federal limits for season dates, season length, and daily bag and possession limits. All Federal hunting regulations in this part apply.


(A) For a short-term experimental hunting season, a Tribe and the Service may formally agree on allowed methods of take, notwithstanding the regulations in ยง 20.21 for on-reservation and ceded lands hunting by Tribal members. The Service will make public any such formal agreement.


(B) A Tribe that would like to make an additional hunting method operational would need to provide data to the Service for consideration. If the Service agrees with the Tribe's proposal, the Service will conduct rulemaking to amend the regulations in this part to allow Tribal members to use the additional hunting method.


(2) Tribes may establish off-reservation hunting regulations by Tribal members on ceded lands, with hunting seasons that may be outside of Federal limits for season dates, season length, and daily bag and possession limits.


(d) *Provisions for ceded lands.* Tribes that have special migratory game bird hunting regulations for Tribal members on ceded lands must send a copy of the Tribal regulations to officials in the affected State(s) as soon as reasonably possible prior to the season opening.





---

[N] [88 FR 60382, Sept. 1, 2023]








