# § 114.3   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part, the following definitions apply.


(a) *Acid foods* means foods that have a natural pH of 4.6 or below.


(b) *Acidified foods* means low-acid foods to which acid(s) or acid food(s) are added; these foods include, but are not limited to, beans, cucumbers, cabbage, artichokes, cauliflower, puddings, peppers, tropical fruits, and fish, singly or in any combination. They have a water activity (a_w_) greater than 0.85 and have a finished equilibrium pH of 4.6 or below. These foods may be called, or may purport to be, “pickles” or “pickled ______.” Carbonated beverages, jams, jellies, preserves, acid foods (including such foods as standardized and nonstandardized food dressings and condiment sauces) that contain small amounts of low-acid food(s) and have a resultant finished equilibrium pH that does not significantly differ from that of the predominant acid or acid food, and foods that are stored, distributed, and retailed under refrigeration are excluded from the coverage of this part.


(c) *Lot* means the product produced during a period indicated by a specific code.


(d) *Low-acid foods* means any foods, other than alcoholic beverages, with a finished equilibrium pH greater than 4.6 and a water activity (a_w_) greater than 0.85. Tomatoes and tomato products having a finished equilibrium pH less than 4.7 are not classed as low-acid foods.


(e) *Scheduled process* means the process selected by a processor as adequate for use under the conditions of manufacture for a food in achieving and maintaining a food that will not permit the growth of microorganisms having public health significance. It includes control of pH and other critical factors equivalent to the process established by a competent processing authority.


(f) *Shall* is used to state mandatory requirements.


(g) *Should* is used to state recommended or advisory procedures or to identify recommended equipment.


(h) *Water activity* (a_w_) is a measure of the free moisture in a product and is the quotient of the water vapor pressure of the substance divided by the vapor pressure of pure water at the same temperature.



---

[N] [44 FR 16235, Mar. 16, 1979, as amended at 61 FR 14245, Apr. 1, 1996]




