# ยง 229.1606   (Item 1606) Board determination about the de-SPAC transaction.

(a) *Board determination.* If the law of the jurisdiction in which the special purpose acquisition company is organized requires its board of directors (or similar governing body) to determine whether the de-SPAC transaction is advisable and in the best interests of the special purpose acquisition company and its security holders, or otherwise make any comparable determination, disclose that determination.


(b) *Factors considered in board determination.* Discuss the material factors the board of directors (or similar governing body) of the special purpose acquisition company considered in making any determination disclosed in response to paragraph (a) of this section. To the extent considered, such factors must include, but need not be limited to, the valuation of the target company, financial projections relied upon by the board of directors (or similar governing body), the terms of financing materially related to the de-SPAC transaction, any report, opinion, or appraisal referred to in ยง 229.1607(a) (Item 1607(a) of Regulation S-K), and the dilution described in ยง 229.1604(c) (Item 1604(c) of Regulation S-K).


(c) *Approval of security holders.* State whether or not the de-SPAC transaction is structured so that approval of at least a majority of unaffiliated security holders of the special purpose acquisition company is required.


(d) *Unaffiliated representative.* State whether or not a majority of the directors (or members of similar governing body) who are not employees of the special purpose acquisition company has retained an unaffiliated representative to act solely on behalf of unaffiliated security holders for purposes of negotiating the terms of the de-SPAC transaction and/or preparing a report concerning the approval of the de-SPAC transaction.


(e) *Approval of directors.* State whether or not the de-SPAC transaction was approved by a majority of the directors (or members of similar governing body) of the special purpose acquisition company who are not employees of the special purpose acquisition company. If any director (or member of a similar governing body) of the special purpose acquisition company voted against, or abstained from voting on, approval of the de-SPAC transaction, identify such persons, and indicate, if known after making reasonable inquiry, the reasons for the vote against the transaction or abstention.






