# ยง 1.21004   Winning bidder's obligation to apply for support

(a) *Timely and Sufficient Application.* A winning bidder has a binding obligation to apply for support by the applicable deadline. A winning bidder that fails to file an application by the applicable deadline or that for any reason is not subsequently authorized to receive support has defaulted on its bid.


(b) *Dismissal for failure to prosecute.* The Commission may dismiss a winning bidder's application with prejudice for failure of the winning bidder to prosecute, failure of the winning bidder to respond substantially within the time period specified in official correspondence or requests for additional information, or failure of the winning bidder to comply with requirements for becoming authorized to receive support. A winning bidder whose application is dismissed for failure to prosecute pursuant to this paragraph has defaulted on its bid(s).


(c) *Liability for default payment or forfeiture in the event of auction default.* A winning bidder that defaults on its bid(s) is liable for either a default payment or a forfeiture, which will be calculated by a method that will be established as provided in an order or public notice prior to competitive bidding. If the default payment is determined as a percentage of the defaulted bid amount, the default payment will not exceed twenty percent of the amount of the defaulted bid amount.


(d) *Additional liabilities.* In addition to being liable for a default payment or a forfeiture pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, a winning bidder that defaults on its winning bid(s) shall be subject to such measures as the Commission may provide, including but not limited to disqualification from future competitive bidding pursuant to this subpart.



---

[N] [76 FR 73851, Nov. 29, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 75816, Nov. 25, 2020]




