# ยง 1709.210   Application process.

(a) *Applications.* The Agency will solicit applications on a competitive basis by publication of a grant announcement establishing the amount of funds available, the maximum grant award, the required application materials and where to obtain them, the evaluation and selection criteria and weights, and application deadlines. Unless otherwise specified in the announcement, applicants must file an original application package and two copies. Where provided in the grant announcement, applicants may submit electronic applications.


(b) *Required forms.* The grant application will use the Standard Application for Federal Assistance (SF-424 series or its successor) and other forms as provided in the grant announcement. The required forms must be completed, signed and submitted by a person authorized to submit the proposal on behalf of the applicants. Where provided in the grant announcement, applicants may file electronic versions of the forms in compliance with the instructions in the grant announcement.


(c) *Narrative proposal and required elements.* Each grant application must include a narrative proposal describing the project and addressing the following elements. The form, contents, and order of the narrative proposal will be specified in the grant announcement. Additional elements may be published in the applicable grant announcement.


(1) *Executive summary.* This summary of the proposal must identify the State entity applying for the grant and the key agency contact information (telephone and fax numbers, mailing address and e-mail address). The applicant must clearly state the amount requested in this section. It should briefly describe the program, including the estimated number of potential beneficiaries in eligible areas, their estimated fuel needs, the projects and activities to be financed through the revolving fund and how the projects and activities will improve the cost effectiveness of fuel procured.


(2) *Applicant eligibility.* The application must establish that the applicant is a State entity that was in existence as of November 9, 2000, and has the legal authority to enter into a financial assistance relationship with the Federal Government to carry out the grant activities.


(3) *Assessment of needs and potential beneficiaries.* The application must provide estimates of the number, location and population of potentially eligible areas in the State and their estimated fuel needs and costs. The section must also describe the criteria used to identify eligible areas, including the characteristics that make fuel deliveries by surface transport impossible or impracticable. The description of beneficiary communities should provide a detailed breakdown of the density profile of the area to be served by eligible projects. Indicate to what extent persons in eligible areas live outside of communities of 2,500 persons or more, communities of 5,000 or more or outside of communities of 20,000 or more. All population estimates should be based on the most recent decennial Census of the United States. If the applicable population estimate cannot be based on the most recent decennial Census, RD will determine the applicable population figure based on available population data. All representations should be supported with exhibits such as maps, summary tables and references to official information sources.


(4) *Project description.* The application must:


(i) Describe the legal structure and staffing of the revolving fund proposal for fuel purchase support.


(ii) Identify the objectives of the project, the proposed criteria for establishing project funding eligibility and how the project is to be staffed, managed and financed.


(iii) Describe how the potential beneficiaries will be informed of the availability of revolving fund benefits to them.


(iv) Explain how the proposed revolving fund program will help provide a more cost-effective means of meeting fuel supply needs in eligible areas, encourage the adoption of financially sustainable energy practices, the adequate planning and investment in bulk fuel facility operations and maintenance and cost-effective investments in energy efficiency.


(v) If the revolving fund program is not yet operational, a proposed implementation schedule and milestones should be provided.


(5) *Demonstrated experience.* The application shall describe past accomplishments and experiences that are relevant to determine whether the applicant is capable of administering the grant project.


(6) *Budget.* The application must include a pro forma operating budget for the proposed fund and a description of all funding sources. The level of detail must be sufficient for reviewers to determine that grant funds will be used only for eligible purposes and to determine the extent to which the program is entirely dependent on grant funding or whether it has financial support from the State or other sources.


(7) *Performance measures and project evaluation.* The application must provide unambiguous and quantifiable measures that will be used to evaluate the success and cost-effectiveness of the revolving fund in assuring adequate fuel supplies for eligible communities and for assessing the fuel supply projects financed. The grant announcement may establish additional required elements that must be addressed in the narrative proposal of the application package.



---

[N] [70 FR 5351, Feb. 2, 2005, as amended at 80 FR 9860, Feb. 24, 2015]




