# § 208.44   Capital restoration plans.

(a) *Schedule for filing plan*—(1) *In general.* A member bank shall file a written capital restoration plan with the appropriate Reserve Bank within 45 days of the date that the bank receives notice or is deemed to have notice that the bank is undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapitalized, unless the Board notifies the bank in writing that the plan is to be filed within a different period. An adequately capitalized bank that has been required, pursuant to § 208.43(c), to comply with supervisory actions as if the bank were undercapitalized is not required to submit a capital restoration plan solely by virtue of the reclassification.


(2) *Additional capital restoration plans.* Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a bank that has already submitted and is operating under a capital restoration plan approved under section 38 and this subpart is not required to submit an additional capital restoration plan based on a revised calculation of its capital measures or a reclassification of the institution under § 208.43(c), unless the Board notifies the bank that it must submit a new or revised capital plan. A bank that is notified that it must submit a new or revised capital restoration plan shall file the plan in writing with the appropriate Reserve Bank within 45 days of receiving such notice, unless the Board notifies the bank in writing that the plan is to be filed within a different period.


(b) *Contents of plan.* All financial data submitted in connection with a capital restoration plan shall be prepared in accordance with the instructions provided on the Call Report, unless the Board instructs otherwise. The capital restoration plan shall include all of the information required to be filed under section 38(e)(2) of the FDI Act. A bank that is required to submit a capital restoration plan as the result of a reclassification of the bank pursuant to § 208.43(c) shall include a description of the steps the bank will take to correct the unsafe or unsound condition or practice. No plan shall be accepted unless it includes any performance guarantee described in section 38(e)(2)(C) of that Act by each company that controls the bank.


(c) *Review of capital restoration plans.* Within 60 days after receiving a capital restoration plan under this subpart, the Board shall provide written notice to the bank of whether the plan has been approved. The Board may extend the time within which notice regarding approval of a plan shall be provided.


(d) *Disapproval of capital plan.* If the Board does not approve a capital restoration plan, the bank shall submit a revised capital restoration plan within the time specified by the Board. Upon receiving notice that its capital restoration plan has not been approved, any undercapitalized member bank (as defined in § 208.43(b)(3)) shall be subject to all of the provisions of section 38 and this subpart applicable to significantly undercapitalized institutions. These provisions shall be applicable until such time as the Board approves a new or revised capital restoration plan submitted by the bank.


(e) *Failure to submit capital restoration plan.* A member bank that is undercapitalized (as defined in § 208.43(b)(3)) and that fails to submit a written capital restoration plan within the period provided in this section shall, upon the expiration of that period, be subject to all of the provisions of section 38 and this subpart applicable to significantly undercapitalized institutions.


(f) *Failure to implement capital restoration plan.* Any undercapitalized member bank that fails in any material respect to implement a capital restoration plan shall be subject to all of the provisions of section 38 and this subpart applicable to significantly undercapitalized institutions.


(g) *Amendment of capital plan.* A bank that has filed an approved capital restoration plan may, after prior written notice to and approval by the Board, amend the plan to reflect a change in circumstance. Until such time as a proposed amendment has been approved, the bank shall implement the capital restoration plan as approved prior to the proposed amendment.


(h) *Notice to FDIC.* Within 45 days of the effective date of Board approval of a capital restoration plan, or any amendment to a capital restoration plan, the Board shall provide a copy of the plan or amendment to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.


(i) *Performance guarantee by companies that control a bank*—(1) *Limitation on Liability*—(i) *Amount limitation.* The aggregate liability under the guarantee provided under section 38 and this subpart for all companies that control a specific member bank that is required to submit a capital restoration plan under this subpart shall be limited to the lesser of:


(A) An amount equal to 5.0 percent of the bank's total assets at the time the bank was notified or deemed to have notice that the bank was undercapitalized; or


(B) The amount necessary to restore the relevant capital measures of the bank to the levels required for the bank to be classified as adequately capitalized, as those capital measures and levels are defined at the time that the bank initially fails to comply with a capital restoration plan under this subpart.


(ii) *Limit on duration.* The guarantee and limit of liability under section 38 and this subpart shall expire after the Board notifies the bank that it has remained adequately capitalized for each of four consecutive calendar quarters. The expiration or fulfillment by a company of a guarantee of a capital restoration plan shall not limit the liability of the company under any guarantee required or provided in connection with any capital restoration plan filed by the same bank after expiration of the first guarantee.


(iii) *Collection on guarantee.* Each company that controls a bank shall be jointly and severally liable for the guarantee for such bank as required under section 38 and this subpart, and the Board may require and collect payment of the full amount of that guarantee from any or all of the companies issuing the guarantee.


(2) *Failure to provide guarantee.* In the event that a bank that is controlled by a company submits a capital restoration plan that does not contain the guarantee required under section 38(e)(2) of the FDI Act, the bank shall, upon submission of the plan, be subject to the provisions of section 38 and this subpart that are applicable to banks that have not submitted an acceptable capital restoration plan.


(3) *Failure to perform guarantee.* Failure by any company that controls a bank to perform fully its guarantee of any capital plan shall constitute a material failure to implement the plan for purposes of section 38(f) of the FDI Act. Upon such failure, the bank shall be subject to the provisions of section 38 and this subpart that are applicable to banks that have failed in a material respect to implement a capital restoration plan.




