# § 520.1450b   Morantel tartrate cartridge.

(a) *Specifications.* The drug product consists of a stainless-steel cylinder having both ends closed with polyethylene diffusing discs and containing a morantel tartrate paste. The paste contains 22.7 grams of morantel tartrate equivalent to 13.5 grams of morantel base.


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 054771 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(c) *Related tolerances.* See § 556.425 of this chapter.


(d) *Conditions of use*—(1) *Amount.* Grazing cattle: Administer 1 cartridge to each animal at the start of the grazing season.


(2) *Indications for use.* For control of the adult stage of the following gastrointestinal nematode infections in weaned calves and yearling cattle weighing a minimum of 200 pounds: *Ostertagia* spp., *Trichostrongylus axei, Cooperia* spp., and *Oesophagostomum radiatum.*

(3) *Limitations.* Administer orally with the dosing gun to all cattle that will be grazing the same pasture. Effectiveness of the drug product is dependent upon continuous control of the gastrointestinal parasites for approximately 90 days following administration. Therefore, treated cattle should not be moved to pastures grazed in the same grazing season/calendar year by untreated cattle. Do not administer to cattle within 106 days of slaughter. Consult your veterinarian before administering to severely debilitated animals and for assistance in the diagnosis, treatment, and control of parasitism.



---

[N] [49 FR 47831, Dec. 7, 1984, as amended at 51 FR 23415, June 27, 1986; 51 FR 41081, Nov. 13, 1986; 78 FR 28825, May 20, 2014]




