# § 31.0-3   Scope of regulations.

(a) *Subpart B.* The regulations in Subpart B of this part relate to the imposition of the employee tax and the employer tax under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act with respect to wages paid and received after 1954 for employment performed after 1936. In addition to employment in the case of remuneration therefor paid and received after 1954, the regulations in Subpart B of this part relate also to employment performed after 1954 in the case of remuneration therefor paid and received before 1955. The regulations in Subpart B of this part include provisions relating to the definition of terms applicable in the determination of the taxes under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act, such as “employee”, “wages”, and “employment”. The provisions of Subpart B of this part relating to “employment” are applicable also, to the extent provided in § 31.3121(b)-2, to services performed before 1955 the remuneration for which is paid after 1954. (For prior regulations on similar subject matter, see 26 CFR (1939) Part 408 (Regulations 128).)


(b) *Subpart C.* The regulations in Subpart C of this part relate to the imposition of the employee tax, the employee representative tax, and the employer tax under the Railroad Retirement Tax Act with respect to compensation paid after 1954, for services rendered after such date. The regulations in Subpart C of this part include provisions relating to the definition of terms applicable in the determination of the taxes under the Railroad Retirement Tax Act, such as “employee”, “employee representative”, “employer”, and “compensation”. (For prior regulations on similar subject matter, see 26 CFR (1939) Part 411 (Regulations 114).)


(c) *Subpart D.* The regulations in Subpart D of this part relate to the imposition on employers of the excise tax under the Federal Unemployment Tax Act for the calendar year 1955 and subsequent calendar years with respect to wages paid after 1954 for employment performed after 1938. In addition to employment in the case of remuneration therefor paid after 1954, the regulations in Subpart D of this part relate also to employment performed after 1954 in the case of remuneration therefor paid before 1955. The regulations in Subpart D of this part include provisions relating to the definition of terms applicable in the determination of the tax under the Federal Unemployment Tax Act, such as “employee”, “employer”, “employment”, and “wages”. The regulations in Subpart D of this part also include provisions relating to the credits against the Federal tax for State contributions. (For prior regulations on similar subject matter, see 26 CFR (1939) Part 403 (Regulations 107).)


(d) *Subpart E.* The regulations in Subpart E of this part relate to the withholding under chapter 24 of the Code of income tax at source on wages paid after 1954, regardless of when such wages were earned. The regulations in Subpart E of this part include provisions relating to the definition of terms applicable in the determination of the tax under chapter 24 of the Code, such as “employee”, “employer”, and “wages”. (For prior regulations on similar subject matter, see 26 CFR (1939) Part 406 (Regulations 120).)


(e) *Subpart F.* The regulations in Subpart F of this part deal with the general provisions contained in chapter 25 of the Code, which relate to the employment taxes imposed by chapters 21 to 24, inclusive, of the Code. (For prior regulations on the subject matter of section 3503, see 26 CFR (1939) 411.802 and 408.803 (Regulations 114 and 128, respectively). For prior regulations on the subject matter of section 3504, see 26 CFR (1939) 406.807 and 408.906 (Regulations 120 and 128, respectively).)


(f) *Subpart G.* The regulations in Subpart G of this part, which are prescribed under selected provisions of subtitle F of the Code, relate to the procedural and administrative requirements in respect of records, returns, deposits, payments, and related matters applicable to the employment taxes imposed by subtitle C (chapters 21 to 25, inclusive) of the Code. In addition, the provisions of Subpart G of this part relate to adjustments and to claims for refund, credit, or abatement, made after 1954, in connection with the employment taxes imposed by subtitle C of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, by chapter 9 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939, or by the corresponding provisions of prior law, but not to any adjustment reported, or credit taken, in whole or in part on any return or supplemental return filed on or before July 31, 1960. The provisions of Subpart G of this part also relate to deposits of taxes imposed by subchapter B of chapter 9 of the 1939 Code or by corresponding provisions of prior law with respect to compensation paid after 1954 for services rendered before 1955. For other administrative provisions which have application to the employment taxes imposed by subtitle C of the Code, see Part 301 of this chapter (Regulations on Procedure and Administration). (The administrative and procedural regulations applicable with respect to a particular employment tax for a prior period were combined with the substantive regulations relating to such tax for such period. For the regulations applicable to the respective taxes for prior periods, see paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this section.) Subpart G of this part also provides rules relating to the deposit of other taxes by electronic funds transfer.



---

[N] [T.D. 6516, 25 FR 13032, Dec. 20, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6744, 29 FR 8305, July 2, 1964; T.D. 8723, 62 FR 37493, July 14, 1997; T.D. 9849, 84 FR 9238, Mar. 14, 2019]




