# § 1036.801   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this part. The definitions apply to all subparts unless we note otherwise. All undefined terms have the meaning the Act gives to them. The definitions follow:


*Act* means the Clean Air Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 7401-7671q.


*Adjustable parameter* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.50.


*Advanced technology* means technology certified under 40 CFR 86.1819-14(k)(7), § 1036.615, or 40 CFR 1037.615.


*Aftertreatment* means relating to a catalytic converter, particulate filter, or any other system, component, or technology mounted downstream of the exhaust valve (or exhaust port) whose design function is to decrease emissions in the engine exhaust before it is exhausted to the environment. Exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) and turbochargers are not aftertreatment.


*Aircraft* means any vehicle capable of sustained air travel more than 100 feet above the ground.


*Alcohol-fueled engine* mean an engine that is designed to run using an alcohol fuel. For purposes of this definition, alcohol fuels do not include fuels with a nominal alcohol content below 25 percent by volume.


*Auxiliary emission control device* means any element of design that senses temperature, motive speed, engine speed (r/min), transmission gear, or any other parameter for the purpose of activating, modulating, delaying, or deactivating the operation of any part of the emission control system.


*Averaging set* has the meaning given in § 1036.740.


*Calibration* means the set of specifications and tolerances specific to a particular design, version, or application of a component or assembly capable of functionally describing its operation over its working range.


*Carbon-containing fuel* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.


*Carryover* means relating to certification based on emission data generated from an earlier model year as described in § 1036.235(d).


*Certification* means relating to the process of obtaining a certificate of conformity for an engine family that complies with the emission standards and requirements in this part.


*Certified emission level* means the highest deteriorated emission level in an engine family for a given pollutant from the applicable transient and/or steady-state testing, rounded to the same number of decimal places as the applicable standard. Note that you may have two certified emission levels for CO_2_ if you certify a family for both vocational and tractor use.


*Charge-depleting* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1066.1001.


*Charge-sustaining* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1066.1001.


*Complete vehicle* means a vehicle meeting the definition of complete vehicle in 40 CFR 1037.801 when it is first sold as a vehicle. For example, where a vehicle manufacturer sells an incomplete vehicle to a secondary vehicle manufacturer, the vehicle is not a complete vehicle under this part, even after its final assembly.


*Compression-ignition* means relating to a type of reciprocating, internal-combustion engine that is not a spark-ignition engine. Note that § 1036.1 also deems gas turbine engines and other engines to be compression-ignition engines.


*Crankcase emissions* means airborne substances emitted to the atmosphere from any part of the engine crankcase's ventilation or lubrication systems. The crankcase is the housing for the crankshaft and other related internal parts.


*Critical emission-related component* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.


*Defeat device* has the meaning given in § 1036.115(h).


*Designated Compliance Officer* means one of the following:


(1) For engines subject to compression-ignition standards, *Designated Compliance Officer* means Director, Diesel Engine Compliance Center, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 2000 Traverwood Drive, Ann Arbor, MI 48105; *complianceinfo@epa.gov;**www.epa.gov/ve-certification*.


(2) For engines subject to spark-ignition standards, *Designated Compliance Officer* means Director, Gasoline Engine Compliance Center, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 2000 Traverwood Drive, Ann Arbor, MI 48105; *complianceinfo@epa.gov;**www.epa.gov/ve-certification*.


*Deteriorated emission level* means the emission level that results from applying the appropriate deterioration factor to the official emission result of the emission-data engine. Note that where no deterioration factor applies, references in this part to the *deteriorated emission level* mean the official emission result.


*Deterioration factor* means the relationship between emissions at the end of useful life (or point of highest emissions if it occurs before the end of useful life) and emissions at the low-hour/low-mileage point, expressed in one of the following ways:


(1) For multiplicative deterioration factors, the ratio of emissions at the end of useful life (or point of highest emissions) to emissions at the low-hour point.


(2) For additive deterioration factors, the difference between emissions at the end of useful life (or point of highest emissions) and emissions at the low-hour point.


*Diesel exhaust fluid (DEF)* means a liquid reducing agent (other than the engine fuel) used in conjunction with selective catalytic reduction to reduce NO_X_ emissions. *Diesel exhaust fluid* is generally understood to be an aqueous solution of urea conforming to the specifications of ISO 22241.


*Dual-fuel* means relating to an engine designed for operation on two different types of fuel but not on a continuous mixture of those fuels (see § 1036.601(d)). For purposes of this part, such an engine remains a dual-fuel engine even if it is designed for operation on three or more different fuels.


*Electronic control module (ECM)* means an engine's electronic device that uses data from engine sensors to control engine parameters.


*Emergency vehicle* means a vehicle that meets one of the following criteria:


(1) It is an ambulance or a fire truck.


(2) It is a vehicle that we have determined will likely be used in emergency situations where emission control function or malfunction may cause a significant risk to human life. For example, we would consider a truck that is certain to be retrofitted with a slip-on firefighting module to become an emergency vehicle, even though it was not initially designed to be a fire truck. Also, a mobile command center that is unable to manually regenerate its DPF while on duty could be an emergency vehicle. In making this determination, we may consider any factor that has an effect on the totality of the actual risk to human life. For example, we may consider how frequently a vehicle will be used in emergency situations or how likely it is that the emission controls will cause a significant risk to human life when the vehicle is used in emergency situations. We would not consider the truck in the example above to be an emergency vehicle if there is merely a possibility (rather than a certainty) that it will be retrofitted with a slip-on firefighting module.


*Emission control system* means any device, system, or element of design that controls or reduces the emissions of regulated pollutants from an engine.


*Emission-data engine* means an engine that is tested for certification. This includes engines tested to establish deterioration factors.


*Emission-related component* has the meaning given in 40 CFR part 1068, appendix A.


*Emission-related maintenance* means maintenance that substantially affects emissions or is likely to substantially affect emission deterioration.


*Engine configuration* means a unique combination of engine hardware and calibration (related to the emission standards) within an engine family, which would include hybrid components for engines certified as hybrid engines and hybrid powertrains. Engines within a single engine configuration differ only with respect to normal production variability or factors unrelated to compliance with emission standards.


*Engine family* has the meaning given in § 1036.230.


*Excluded* means relating to engines that are not subject to some or all of the requirements of this part as follows:


(1) An engine that has been determined not to be a heavy-duty engine is excluded from this part.


(2) Certain heavy-duty engines are excluded from the requirements of this part under § 1036.5.


(3) Specific regulatory provisions of this part may exclude a heavy-duty engine generally subject to this part from one or more specific standards or requirements of this part.


*Exempted* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.


*Exhaust gas recirculation* means a technology that reduces emissions by routing exhaust gases that had been exhausted from the combustion chamber(s) back into the engine to be mixed with incoming air before or during combustion. The use of valve timing to increase the amount of residual exhaust gas in the combustion chamber(s) that is mixed with incoming air before or during combustion is not considered exhaust gas recirculation for the purposes of this part.


*Family certification level (FCL)* means a CO_2_ emission level declared by the manufacturer that is at or above emission results for all emission-data engines. The FCL serves as the emission standard for the engine family with respect to certification testing if it is different than the otherwise applicable standard.


*Family emission limit (FEL)* means one of the following:


(1) For NO_X_ emissions, *family emission limit* means a NO_X_ emission level declared by the manufacturer to serve in place of an otherwise applicable emission standard under the ABT program in subpart H of this part. The FEL serves as the emission standard for the engine family with respect to all required testing.


(2) For greenhouse gas standards, *family emission limit* means an emission level that serves as the standard that applies for testing individual certified engines. The CO_2_ FEL is equal to the CO_2_ FCL multiplied by 1.03 and rounded to the same number of decimal places as the standard.


*Federal Test Procedure (FTP)* means the applicable transient duty cycle described in § 1036.512 designed to measure exhaust emissions during urban driving.


*Flexible-fuel* means relating to an engine designed for operation on any mixture of two or more different types of fuels (see § 1036.601(d)).


*Fuel type* means a general category of fuels such as diesel fuel, gasoline, or natural gas. There can be multiple grades within a single fuel type, such as premium gasoline, regular gasoline, or gasoline with 10 percent ethanol.


*Good engineering judgment* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30. See 40 CFR 1068.5 for the administrative process we use to evaluate good engineering judgment.


*Greenhouse gas Emissions Model (GEM)* means the GEM simulation tool described in 40 CFR 1037.520. Note that an updated version of GEM applies starting in model year 2021.


*Gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR)* means the value specified by the vehicle manufacturer as the maximum design loaded weight of a single vehicle, consistent with good engineering judgment.


*Heavy-duty engine* means any engine which the engine manufacturer could reasonably expect to be used for motive power in a heavy-duty vehicle. For purposes of this definition in this part, the term “engine” includes internal combustion engines and other devices that convert chemical fuel into motive power. For example, a gas turbine used in a heavy-duty vehicle is a heavy-duty engine.


*Heavy-duty vehicle* means any motor vehicle above 8,500 pounds GVWR. An incomplete vehicle is also a heavy-duty vehicle if it has a curb weight above 6,000 pounds or a basic vehicle frontal area greater than 45 square feet. *Curb weight* and *basic vehicle frontal area* have the meaning given in 40 CFR 86.1803-01.


*Hybrid* means relating to an engine or powertrain that includes a Rechargeable Energy Storage System. Hybrid engines store and recover energy in a way that is integral to the engine or otherwise upstream of the vehicle's transmission. Examples of hybrid engines include engines with hybrid components connected to the front end of the engine (P0), connected to the crankshaft before the clutch (P1), or connected between the clutch and the transmission where the clutch upstream of the hybrid feature is in addition to the transmission clutch or clutches (P2). Engine-based systems that recover kinetic energy to power an electric heater in the aftertreatment are themselves not sufficient to qualify as a hybrid engine. The provisions in this part that apply for hybrid powertrains apply equally for hybrid engines, except as specified. Note that certain provisions in this part treat hybrid powertrains intended for vehicles that include regenerative braking different than those intended for vehicles that do not include regenerative braking. The definition of hybrid includes plug-in hybrid electric powertrains.


*Hydrocarbon (HC)* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.


*Identification number* means a unique specification (for example, a model number/serial number combination) that allows someone to distinguish a particular engine from other similar engines.


*Incomplete vehicle* means a vehicle meeting the definition of incomplete vehicle in 40 CFR 1037.801 when it is first sold (or otherwise delivered to another entity) as a vehicle.


*Innovative technology* means technology certified under § 1036.610 (also described as “off-cycle technology”).


*Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG)* means a liquid hydrocarbon fuel that is stored under pressure and is composed primarily of nonmethane compounds that are gases at atmospheric conditions. Note that, although this commercial term includes the word “petroleum”, LPG is not considered to be a petroleum fuel under the definitions of this section.


*Low-hour* means relating to an engine that has stabilized emissions and represents the undeteriorated emission level. This would generally involve less than 300 hours of operation for engines with NO_X_ aftertreatment and 125 hours of operation for other engines.


*Manufacture* means the physical and engineering process of designing, constructing, and/or assembling a heavy-duty engine or a heavy-duty vehicle.


*Manufacturer* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.


*Medium-duty passenger vehicle* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 86.1803.


*Mild hybrid* means relating to a hybrid engine or hybrid powertrain with regenerative braking capability where the system recovers less than 20 percent of the total braking energy over the transient cycle defined in 40 CFR part 1037, appendix A.


*Model year* means the manufacturer's annual new model production period, except as restricted under this definition. It must include January 1 of the calendar year for which the model year is named, may not begin before January 2 of the previous calendar year, and it must end by December 31 of the named calendar year. Manufacturers may not adjust model years to circumvent or delay compliance with emission standards or to avoid the obligation to certify annually.


*Motorcoach* means a heavy-duty vehicle designed for carrying 30 or more passengers over long distances. Such vehicles are characterized by row seating, rest rooms, and large luggage compartments, and facilities for stowing carry-on luggage.


*Motor vehicle* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 85.1703.


*Natural gas* means a fuel whose primary constituent is methane.


*Neat* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.


*New motor vehicle engine* has the meaning given in the Act. This generally means a motor vehicle engine meeting any of the following:


(1) A motor vehicle engine for which the ultimate purchaser has never received the equitable or legal title is a *new motor vehicle engine.* This kind of engine might commonly be thought of as “brand new” although a *new motor vehicle engine* may include previously used parts. Under this definition, the engine is new from the time it is produced until the ultimate purchaser receives the title or places it into service, whichever comes first.


(2) An imported motor vehicle engine is a *new motor vehicle engine* if it was originally built on or after January 1, 1970.


(3) Any motor vehicle engine installed in a new motor vehicle.


*Noncompliant engine* means an engine that was originally covered by a certificate of conformity, but is not in the certified configuration or otherwise does not comply with the conditions of the certificate.


*Nonconforming engine* means an engine not covered by a certificate of conformity that would otherwise be subject to emission standards.


*Nonmethane hydrocarbon (NMHC)* means the sum of all hydrocarbon species except methane, as measured according to 40 CFR part 1065.


*Nonmethane hydrocarbon equivalent (NMHCE)* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.


*Nonmethane nonethane hydrocarbon equivalent (NMNEHC)* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.


*Off-cycle technology* means technology certified under § 1036.610 (also described as “innovative technology”).


*Official emission result* means the measured emission rate for an emission-data engine on a given duty cycle before the application of any deterioration factor, but after the applicability of any required regeneration or other adjustment factors.


*Owners manual* means a document or collection of documents prepared by the engine or vehicle manufacturer for the owner or operator to describe appropriate engine maintenance, applicable warranties, and any other information related to operating or keeping the engine. The owners manual is typically provided to the ultimate purchaser at the time of sale. The owners manual may be in paper or electronic format.


*Oxides of nitrogen* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.


*Percent* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001. Note that this means percentages identified in this part are assumed to be infinitely precise without regard to the number of significant figures. For example, one percent of 1,493 is 14.93.


*Placed into service* means put into initial use for its intended purpose, excluding incidental use by the manufacturer or a dealer.


*Preliminary approval* means approval granted by an authorized EPA representative prior to submission of an application for certification, consistent with the provisions of § 1036.210.


*Primary intended service class* has the meaning given in § 1036.140.


*Rechargeable Energy Storage System (RESS)* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.


*Relating to* as used in this section means relating to something in a specific, direct manner. This expression is used in this section only to define terms as adjectives and not to broaden the meaning of the terms.


*Revoke* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.


*Round* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.


*Sample* means the collection of engines selected from the population of an engine family for emission testing. This may include testing for certification, production-line testing, or in-use testing.


*Scheduled maintenance* means adjusting, removing, disassembling, cleaning, or replacing components or systems periodically to keep a part or system from failing, malfunctioning, or wearing prematurely.


*Small manufacturer* means a manufacturer meeting the criteria specified in 13 CFR 121.201. The employee and revenue limits apply to the total number of employees and total revenue together for all affiliated companies (as defined in 40 CFR 1068.30). Note that manufacturers with low production volumes may or may not be “small manufacturers”.


*Spark-ignition* means relating to a gasoline-fueled engine or any other type of engine with a spark plug (or other sparking device) and with operating characteristics significantly similar to the theoretical Otto combustion cycle. Spark-ignition engines usually use a throttle to regulate intake air flow to control power during normal operation.


*State of certified energy (SOCE)* means a value representing the amount of usable battery energy available at a specific point in time relative to the certified value for a new battery, expressed as a percentage of the certified usable battery energy.


*Steady-state* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001. This includes fuel mapping and idle testing where engine speed and load are held at a finite set of nominally constant values.


*Suspend* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.


*Test engine* means an engine in a sample.


*Tractor* means a vehicle meeting the definition of “tractor” in 40 CFR 1037.801, but not classified as a “vocational tractor” under 40 CFR 1037.630, or relating to such a vehicle.


*Tractor engine* means an engine certified for use in tractors. Where an engine family is certified for use in both tractors and vocational vehicles, “tractor engine” means an engine that the engine manufacturer reasonably believes will be (or has been) installed in a tractor. Note that the provisions of this part may require a manufacturer to document how it determines that an engine is a tractor engine.


*Ultimate purchaser* means, with respect to any new engine or vehicle, the first person who in good faith purchases such new engine or vehicle for purposes other than resale.


*United States* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.


*Upcoming model year* means for an engine family the model year after the one currently in production.


*U.S.-directed production volume* means the number of engines, subject to the requirements of this part, produced by a manufacturer for which the manufacturer has a reasonable assurance that sale was or will be made to ultimate purchasers in the United States.


*Vehicle* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1037.801.


*Vocational engine* means an engine certified for use in vocational vehicles. Where an engine family is certified for use in both tractors and vocational vehicles, “vocational engine” means an engine that the engine manufacturer reasonably believes will be (or has been) installed in a vocational vehicle. Note that the provisions of this part may require a manufacturer to document how it determines that an engine is a vocational engine.


*Vocational vehicle* means a vehicle meeting the definition of “vocational” vehicle in 40 CFR 1037.801.


*Void* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.


*We (us, our)* means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and any authorized representatives.



---

[N] [88 FR 4487, Jan. 24, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 29764, Apr. 22, 2024]




