# ยง 203.604   Contact with the mortgagor.

(a) For mortgages insured pursuant to this part, except those mortgages insured on Indian Land pursuant to section 248 of the National Housing Act:


(1) The mortgagee must conduct a meeting with the mortgagor, or make a reasonable effort to arrange such a meeting, before three full monthly installments due on the mortgage are unpaid and at least 30 days before foreclosure is commenced, or at least 30 days before assignment is requested if the mortgage is insured on Hawaiian homelands pursuant to section 247 of the National Housing Act. The meeting with the mortgagor must be conducted in a manner as determined by the Secretary.


(i) If default occurs on a repayment plan, the mortgagee must conduct a meeting with the mortgagor, or make a reasonable effort to arrange such a meeting, no later than 30 days after such default.


(ii) [Reserved]


(2) A meeting with the mortgagor is not required if:


(i) The mortgagor has clearly indicated that they will not cooperate in the meeting;


(ii) The mortgagor is on a repayment plan to bring the mortgage current, and the mortgagor is meeting the terms of the repayment plan; or


(iii) A reasonable effort to arrange a meeting with the mortgagor is unsuccessful.


(3) A reasonable effort to arrange a meeting with the mortgagor shall consist of, at a minimum, two verifiable attempts to contact the mortgagor utilizing methods determined by the Secretary.


(b) For mortgages insured on Indian Land pursuant to section 248 of the National Housing Act:


(1) The mortgagee must conduct a face-to-face meeting with the mortgagor, or make a reasonable effort to arrange such a meeting, before three full monthly installments due on the mortgage are unpaid and at least 30 days before assignment is requested.


(i) If default occurs on a repayment plan arranged other than during a face-to-face meeting, the mortgagee must have a face-to-face meeting with the mortgagor, or make a reasonable effort to arrange such a meeting, within 30 days after default or at least 30 days before assignment is requested.


(ii) [Reserved]


(2) A face-to-face meeting is not required if:


(i) The mortgagor has clearly indicated that they will not cooperate in the meeting;


(ii) The mortgagor is on a repayment plan to bring the mortgage current, and the mortgagor is meeting the terms of the repayment plan; or


(iii) A reasonable effort to arrange a meeting with the mortgagor is unsuccessful.


(3) A reasonable effort to arrange a face-to-face meeting with the mortgagor shall include at a minimum, one letter sent to the mortgagor certified by the Postal Service as having been dispatched and at least one trip to see the mortgagor at the mortgaged property. In addition, the mortgagee must document that it has made at least one telephone call to the mortgagor for the purpose of trying to arrange a face-to-face meeting. The mortgagee may appoint an agent to perform its responsibilities under paragraph (b) of this section.


(4) The mortgagee must also:


(i) Inform the mortgagor that HUD will make information regarding the status and payment history of the mortgagor's loan available to credit bureaus and prospective creditors;


(ii) Inform the mortgagor of other available assistance, if any; and


(iii) Inform the mortgagor of the names and addresses of HUD officials to whom further communications may be addressed.



---

[N] [89 FR 63098, Aug. 2, 2024]




