# § 301.6020-1   Returns prepared or executed by the Commissioner or other Internal Revenue Officers.

(a) *Preparation of returns*—(1) *In general.* If any person required by the Internal Revenue Code or by the regulations to make a return fails to make such return, it may be prepared by the Commissioner or other authorized Internal Revenue Officer or employee provided such person consents to disclose all information necessary for the preparation of such return. The return upon being signed by the person required to make it shall be received by the Commissioner as the return of such person.


(2) *Responsibility of person for whom return is prepared.* A person for whom a return is prepared in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall for all legal purposes remain responsible for the correctness of the return to the same extent as if the return had been prepared by him.


(b) *Execution of returns*—(1) *In general.* If any person required by the Internal Revenue Code or by the regulations to make a return (other than a declaration of estimated tax required under section 6654 or 6655) fails to make such return at the time prescribed therefore, or makes, willfully or otherwise, a false, fraudulent or frivolous return, the Commissioner or other authorized Internal Revenue Officer or employee shall make such return from his own knowledge and from such information as he can obtain through testimony or otherwise. The Commissioner or other authorized Internal Revenue Officer or employee may make the return by gathering information and making computations through electronic, automated or other means to make a determination of the taxpayer's tax liability.


(2) *Form of the return.* A document (or set of documents) signed by the Commissioner or other authorized Internal Revenue Officer or employee shall be a return for a person described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section if the document (or set of documents) identifies the taxpayer by name and taxpayer identification number, contains sufficient information from which to compute the taxpayer's tax liability, and purports to be a return. A Form 13496, “IRC Section 6020(b) Certification,” or any other form that an authorized Internal Revenue Officer or employee signs and uses to identify a set of documents containing the information set forth in this paragraph as a section 6020(b) return, and the documents identified, constitute a return under section 6020(b). A return may be signed by the name or title of an Internal Revenue Officer or employee being handwritten, stamped, typed, printed or otherwise mechanically affixed to the return, so long as that name or title was placed on the document to signify that the Internal Revenue Officer or employee adopted the document as a return for the taxpayer. The document and signature may be in written or electronic form.


(3) *Status of returns.* Any return made in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section and signed by the Commissioner or other authorized Internal Revenue Officer or employee shall be good and sufficient for all legal purposes except insofar as any Federal statute expressly provides otherwise. Furthermore, the return shall be treated as the return filed by the taxpayer for purposes of determining the amount of the addition to tax under sections 6651(a)(2) and (3).


(4) *Deficiency procedures.* For deficiency procedures in the case of income, estate, and gift taxes, see sections 6211 through 6216, inclusive, and §§ 301.6211-1 through 301.6215-1, inclusive.


(5) *Employment status procedures.* For pre-assessment procedures in employment taxes cases involving worker classification, see section 7436 (proceedings for determination of employment status).


(6) *Examples.* The application of this paragraph (b) is illustrated by the following examples:


(c) *Cross references*—(1) For provisions that a return executed by the Commissioner or other authorized Internal Revenue Officer or employee will not start the running of the period of limitations on assessment and collection, see section 6501(b)(3) and § 301.6501(b)-1(e).


(2) For determining the period of limitations on collection after assessment of a liability on a return executed by the Commissioner or other authorized Internal Revenue Officer or employee, see section 6502 and § 301.6502-1.


(3) For additions to the tax and additional amounts for failure to file returns, see section 6651 and § 301.6651-1, and section 6652 and § 301.6652-1, respectively.


(4) For additions to the tax for failure to pay tax, see section 6651 and § 301.6651-1.


(5) For criminal penalties for willful failure to make returns, see sections 7201, 7202 and 7203.


(6) For criminal penalties for willfully making false or fraudulent returns, see sections 7206 and 7207.


(7) For civil penalties for filing frivolous income tax returns, see section 6702.


(8) For authority to examine books and witnesses, see section 7602 and § 301.7602-1.


(d) *Effective/Applicability date.* This section is applicable on February 20, 2008.



---

[N] [T.D. 9380, 73 FR 9189, Feb. 20, 2008]




