# § 385.1110   Review of initial decision and order for adjustment (Rule 1110).

(a) *General rule.* (1) Within 30 days after the issuance by Staff of an order granting or denying, in whole or in part, a petition for adjustment relief under this subpart, a person may file a petition for Commission review of that order in accordance with subpart J of this subchapter, if the person:


(i) Is aggrieved or adversely affected by that order; and 


(ii) Participated, or sought and was denied an opportunity to participate, in the proceeding under this subpart.


(2) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, the provisions of subpart J other than Rule 1013 (attachments to pleadings) shall apply to Commission review of both grants and denials of adjustment petitions under this subpart.


(i) *Contested order* in subpart J means the order issued by Staff granting or denying, in whole or in part, a petition for adjustment under this subpart.


(ii) “Staff” is substituted for “Secretary” in subpart J. With respect to review of an order denying a petition for adjustment under this subpart, Staff may participate in the proceeding in the same manner prescribed for the Secretary in Rule 1005 (replies in reviews of adjustment denials). With respect to review of an order granting a petition for adjustment under this subpart, Staff may not participate in the proceeding except to the extent necessary to file the list identifying the documents in the record as prescribed in paragraph (a)(2)(iii). With respect to review of an order granting in part and denying in part a petition for adjustment under this subpart, Staff may participate as prescribed in Rule 1005(a)(1) (replies), only if a petition for review has been filed which specifically seeks review of the portion of the order denying the petition for adjustment.


(iii) Within 15 days of service of the petition for review, Staff must file with the Commission a list identifying each document in the record developed in the prior proceedings on the contested order, who filed the document, and the date it was filed.


(3) A motion to intervene under Rule 1005(c) (interventions in adjustment proceedings) may be filed only by a person who sought and was denied an opportunity to participate, in the proceeding under this section. A person who did not file a motion to intervene in the Staff proceeding may file a motion for late intervention under Rule 214(d) (grant of late intervention).


(4) There is no exhaustion of administrative remedies until a request for review is filed under subpart J in accordance with this section and the review process under subpart J is completed by the issuance of an order granting or denying, in whole or in part, the relief requested.


(b) *Review initiated by the Commission.* Within 30 days after the issuance by Staff of an order granting, in whole or in part, a petition for adjustment relief under this subpart, the Commission may direct that the order be reviewed in a proceeding which, insofar as practicable, will conform to proceedings under subpart J. The order directing such review will specify the manner in which such proceeding will be conducted and the extent to which subpart J apply.


(c) *Separation of functions.* Any person who participated in the proceeding to review the grant or denial of that adjustment under this Rule as a witness or counsel may not advise the Commission concerning the review of the grant or denial of that adjustment.



---

[N] [Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982; 48 FR 786, Jan. 7, 1983, as amended by Order 24-C, 50 FR 21596, May 28, 1985]




