# § 486.104   Condition for coverage: Qualifications, orientation and health of technical personnel.

Portable X-ray services are provided by qualified technologists. 


(a) *Standard: Qualifications of technologists.* All operators of the portable X-ray equipment meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section.


(1) Successful completion of a program of formal training in X-ray technology at which the operator received appropriate training and demonstrated competence in the use of equipment and administration of portable x-ray procedures; or


(2) Successful completion of 24 full months of training and experience under the direct supervision of a physician who is certified in radiology or who possesses qualifications which are equivalent to those required for such certification. 


(b) *Standard—personnel orientation.* The supplier of portable X-ray services has an orientation program for personnel, based on a procedural manual which is: Available to all members of the staff, incorporates relevant portions of professionally recognized documents, and includes instruction in all of the following: 


(1) Precautions to be followed to protect the patient from unnecessary exposure to radiation; 


(2) Precautions to be followed to protect an individual supporting the patient during X-ray procedures from unnecessary exposure to radiation; 


(3) Precautions to be followed to protect other individuals in the surrounding environment from exposure to radiation; 


(4) Precautions to be followed to protect the operator of portable X-ray equipment from unnecessary exposure to radiation; 


(5) Considerations in determining the area which will receive the primary beam; 


(6) Determination of the time interval at which to check personnel radiation monitors; 


(7) Use of the personnel radiation monitor in providing an additional check on safety of equipment; 


(8) Proper use and maintenance of equipment; 


(9) Proper maintenance of records; 


(10) Technical problems which may arise and methods of solution; 


(11) Protection against electrical hazards; 


(12) Hazards of excessive exposure to radiation. 


(c) *Standard: Employee records.* Records are maintained and include evidence that— 


(1) Each employee is qualified for his or her position by means of training and experience; and 


(2) Employees receive adequate health supervision. 



---

[N] [34 FR 388, Jan. 10, 1969. Redesignated at 42 FR 52826, Sept. 30, 1977, and amended at 53 FR 12015, Apr. 12, 1988; 60 FR 45086, Aug. 30, 1995; 73 FR 69942, Nov. 19, 2008; 84 FR 51830, Sept. 30, 2019]




