# § 550.401   Purpose, applicability, authority, and administration.

(a) *Purpose.* This subpart provides regulations to administer subchapter III (except sections 5524a and 5525) of chapter 55 of title 5, United States Code. The regulations provide for Governmentwide uniformity in making payments during an evacuation to employees or their dependents, or both, who are evacuated in the United States because of natural disasters or for military or other reasons that create imminent danger to their lives. 


(b) *Applicability.* This subpart applies to—


(1) Executive agencies, as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code.


(2) Employees of an agency who are U.S. citizens or who are U.S. nationals;


(3) Employees of an agency who are not citizens or nationals of the United States, but who were recruited with a transportation agreement that provides return transportation to the area from which recruited; and


(4) Alien employees of an agency hired within the United States.


(c) *Authority.* The head of an agency may make advance payments and evacuation payments and pay special allowances as provided by this subpart. If the head of an agency proposes to issue regulations that deviate from the provisions of this subpart, prior approval of the agency regulations, as required by section 4(b) of Executive Order 10982 of December 25, 1961, must be secured from the Office of Personnel Management.


(d) *Administration.* The head of an agency having employees subject to this subpart is responsible for the proper administration of this subpart. Payment of advance payments and evacuation payments and any required adjustments shall be made in accordance with procedures established by the agency.



---

[N] [59 FR 66632, Dec. 28, 1994, as amended at 65 FR 41869, July 7, 2000]




