# § 350.105   Definitions.

Unless specifically defined in this section, terms used in this part are subject to the definitions in 49 CFR part 390. As used in this part:


*Administrative takedown funds* means funds FMCSA deducts each fiscal year from the amounts made available for MCSAP and the High Priority Program for expenses incurred by FMCSA for training State and local government employees and for the administration of the programs.


*Administrator* means the administrator of FMCSA.


*Border State* means a State that shares a land border with Canada or Mexico.


*Commercial motor vehicle (CMV)* means a motor vehicle that has any of the following characteristics:


(1) A gross vehicle weight (GVW), gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR), gross combination weight (GCW), or gross combination weight rating (GCWR) of 4,537 kilograms (10,001 pounds) or more.


(2) Regardless of weight, is designed or used to transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver.


(3) Regardless of weight, is used in the transportation of hazardous materials and is required to be placarded pursuant to 49 CFR part 172, subpart F.


*Commercial vehicle safety plan (CVSP)* means a State's CMV safety objectives, strategies, activities, and performance measures that cover a 3-year period, including the submission of the CVSP for the first year and annual updates thereto for the second and third years.


*Compatible or compatibility* means State laws, regulations, standards, and orders on CMV safety that:


(1) As applicable to interstate commerce not involving the movement of hazardous materials:


(i) Are identical to or have the same effect as the FMCSRs; or


(ii) If in addition to or more stringent than the FMCSRs, have a safety benefit, do not unreasonably frustrate the Federal goal of uniformity, and do not cause an unreasonable burden on interstate commerce when enforced;


(2) As applicable to intrastate commerce not involving the movement of hazardous materials:


(i) Are identical to or have the same effect as the FMCSRs; or


(ii) Fall within the limited variances from the FMCSRs allowed under § 350.305 or § 350.307; and


(3) As applicable to interstate and intrastate commerce involving the movement of hazardous materials, are identical to the HMRs.


*FMCSA* means the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration of the United States Department of Transportation.


*FMCSRs* means:


(1) The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations under parts 390, 391, 392, 393, 395, 396, and 397 of this subchapter; and


(2) Applicable standards and orders issued under these provisions.


*HMRs* means:


(1) The Federal Hazardous Materials Regulations under subparts F and G of part 107, and parts 171, 172, 173, 177, 178, and 180 of this title; and


(2) Applicable standards and orders issued under these provisions.


*High Priority Program funds* means total funds available for the High Priority Program, less the administrative takedown funds.


*Investigation* means an examination of motor carrier operations and records, such as drivers' hours of service, maintenance and inspection, driver qualification, commercial driver's license requirements, financial responsibility, crashes, hazardous materials, and other safety and transportation records, to determine whether a motor carrier meets safety standards, including the safety fitness standard under § 385.5 of this subchapter, or, for intrastate motor carrier operations, the applicable State standard.


*Lead State Agency* means the State CMV safety agency responsible for administering the CVSP throughout a State.


*Maintenance of effort (MOE)* means the level of a State's financial expenditures, other than the required match, the Lead State Agency is required to expend each fiscal year in accordance with § 350.225.


*Motor carrier* means a for-hire motor carrier or private motor carrier. The term includes a motor carrier's agents, officers, and representatives, as well as employees responsible for hiring, supervising, training, assigning, or dispatching a driver or an employee concerned with the installation, inspection, and maintenance of motor vehicle equipment or accessories.


*Motor Carrier Safety Assistance Program (MCSAP) funds* means total formula grant funds available for MCSAP, less the administrative takedown funds.


*New entrant safety audit* means the safety audit of an interstate motor carrier that is required as a condition of MCSAP eligibility under § 350.207(a)(26), and, at the State's discretion, an intrastate new entrant motor carrier under 49 U.S.C. 31144(g) that is conducted in accordance with subpart D of part 385 of this subchapter.


*North American Standard Inspection* means the methodology used by State CMV safety inspectors to conduct safety inspections of CMVs. This consists of various levels of inspection of the vehicle or driver or both. The inspection criteria are developed by FMCSA in conjunction with the Commercial Vehicle Safety Alliance (CVSA), which is an association of States, Canadian Provinces, and Mexico whose members agree to adopt these standards for inspecting CMVs in their jurisdiction.


*State* means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Virgin Islands, unless otherwise specified in this part.


*Traffic enforcement* means the stopping of vehicles operating on highways for moving violations of State, Tribal, or local motor vehicle or traffic laws by State, Tribal, or local officials.




