# § 63.8020   What requirements apply to my wastewater streams?

(a) You must meet each requirement in Table 4 to this subpart that applies to your wastewater streams, and you must meet each applicable requirement specified in § 63.8000 and paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.


(b) For each wastewater stream that you generate, you must either designate the wastewater stream as a Group 1 wastewater stream according to the procedures in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, or you must determine whether the wastewater stream is a Group 1 wastewater stream according to the procedures in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(1) You may designate any wastewater stream as a Group 1 wastewater stream. You do not have to determine the concentration for any designated Group 1 wastewater stream.


(2) For wastewater streams that you do not designate as Group 1 wastewater streams, you must use the procedures specified in § 63.144(b) to establish the concentrations, except as specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) References to Table 8 compounds in § 63.144 do not apply for the purposes of this subpart.


(ii) *Alternative test methods.* (A) As an alternative to the test methods specified in § 63.144(b)(5)(i), you may use Method 8260 or 8270 as specified in § 63.1257(b)(10)(iii).


(B) As an alternative to using the methods specified in § 63.144(b)(5)(i), you may conduct wastewater analyses using Method 1666 or 1671 of 40 CFR part 136, appendix A, and comply with the sampling protocol requirements specified in § 63.144(b)(5)(ii). The validation requirements specified in § 63.144(b)(5)(iii) do not apply if you use Method 1666 or 1671 of 40 CFR part 136, appendix A.


(c) For each enhanced biological treatment unit used to comply with the requirements in Table 4 to this subpart, you must monitor total suspended solids (TSS), biological oxygen demand (BOD), and the biomass concentration. In the precompliance report you must identify and provide rationale for proposed operating limits for these parameters, methods for monitoring, the frequency of monitoring, and recordkeeping and reporting procedures that will demonstrate proper operation of the enhanced biological treatment unit. Alternatively, you may use the precompliance report to request to monitor other parameters, and you must include a description of planned reporting and recordkeeping procedures and the basis for the selected monitoring frequencies and the methods that will be used.


(d) If you transfer the wastewater offsite for enhanced biological treatment, you must obtain written certification from the offsite facility stating that the offsite facility will comply with the requirements of this subpart. The certifying entity may revoke the certification by providing 90 days notice. Upon expiration of the notice period, you may not transfer wastewater to that treatment facility.




