# § 103.21   Purpose and definitions.

(a) *Purpose.* (1) This subpart sets forth procedures to be followed with respect to the production or disclosure of any documents contained in CBP files, any information relating to material contained in CBP files, any testimony by a CBP employee, or any information acquired by any person as part of that person's performance of official duties as a CBP employee or because of that person's official status, hereinafter collectively referred to as “information”, in all federal, state, local, and foreign proceedings when a subpoena, notice of deposition (either upon oral examination or written interrogatory), order, or demand, hereinafter collectively referred to as a “demand”, of a court, administrative agency, or other authority is issued for such information.


(2) This subpart does not cover those situations where the United States is a party to the action. In situations where the United States is a party to the action, CBP employees are instructed to follow internal CBP policies and procedures.


(b) *CBP employee.* For purposes of this subpart, the term “CBP employee” includes all present and former officers and employees of U.S. Customs and Border Protection.


(c) *CBP documents.* For purposes of this subpart, the term “CBP documents” includes any document (including copies thereof), no matter what media, produced by, obtained by, furnished to, or coming to the knowledge of, any CBP employee while acting in his/her official capacity, or because of his/her official status, with respect to the administration or enforcement of laws administered or enforced by CBP.


(d) *Originating component.* For purposes of this subpart, the term “originating component” references the CBP official, or the official's designee, in charge of the office responsible for the collection, assembly, or other preparation of the information demanded or that, at the time the person whose testimony is demanded acquired the information in question, employs or employed the person whose testimony is demanded.


(e) *Disclosure to government law enforcement or regulatory agencies.* Nothing in this subpart is intended to impede the appropriate disclosure of information by CBP to federal, state, local, and foreign law enforcement or regulatory agencies, in accordance with the confidentiality requirements of the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a), the Trade Secrets Act (18 U.S.C. 1905), and other applicable statutes.


(f) *Disclosure to federal attorneys and the Court of International Trade.* Nothing in this subpart is intended to restrict the disclosure of CBP information requested by the Court of International Trade, U.S. Attorneys, or attorneys of the Department of Justice, for use in cases which arise under the laws administered or enforced by, or concerning, CBP and which are referred by the Department of Homeland Security to the Department of Justice for prosecution or defense.


(g) *Disclosure of non-CBP information.* Nothing in the subpart is intended to impede the appropriate disclosure of non-CBP information by CBP employees in any proceeding in which they are a party or witness solely in their personal capacities.


(h) *Failure of CBP employee to follow procedures.* The failure of any CBP employee to follow the procedures specified in this subpart neither creates nor confers any rights, privileges, or benefits on any person or party.


(i) *In camera inspection of records.* Nothing in this subpart authorizes CBP personnel to withhold records from a federal court, whether civil or criminal, pursuant to its order for such records appropriately made, for purposes of *in camera* inspection of the records to determine the propriety of claimed exemption(s) from disclosure.



---

[N] [61 FR 19838, May 3, 1996, as amended at 78 FR 70856, Nov. 27, 2013]




