# § 63.2181   What reports must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit each report in Table 5 to this subpart that applies to you.


(1) On and after October 16, 2017, you must also comply with reporting for performance tests or for performance evaluations as specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test as required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) For data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert*) at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI). (CEDRI can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*).) Performance test data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file format consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT Web site.


(B) For data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance test to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13, unless the Administrator agrees to or specifies an alternate reporting method.


(C) If you claim that some of the performance test information being submitted under paragraph (a)(1)(i)(A) of this section is confidential business information (CBI), you must submit a complete file generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT Web site, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage media to the EPA. The electronic media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT or alternate file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(A) of this section.


(ii) Within 60 days after the date of completing each continuous monitoring system performance evaluation (as defined in § 63.2), you must submit the results of the performance evaluation following the procedures specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) For performance evaluations of continuous monitoring systems measuring RATA pollutants that are supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site at the time of the evaluation, you must submit the results of the performance evaluation to the EPA via the CEDRI. Performance evaluation data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate file format consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT Web site.


(B) For any performance evaluations of continuous monitoring systems measuring RATA pollutants that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site at the time of the evaluation, you must submit the results of the performance evaluation to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13, unless the Administrator agrees to or specifies an alternate reporting method.


(C) If you claim that some of the performance evaluation information being submitted is CBI, then you must submit a complete file generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT Web site, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive or other commonly used electronic storage media to the EPA. The electronic storage media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT or alternate file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.


(b) Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.10(a), you must submit each report according to the schedule in Table 5 to this subpart and according to paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) The first compliance report must include the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section. If you are demonstrating compliance with an emission limitation using a 12-month calculation period (*e.g.,* the Average Option), then the first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.2133 and ending on either June 30 or December 31 (use whichever date is the first date following the end of the first 12 calendar months after the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.2133). If you are demonstrating compliance with an emission limitation using the Batch Option, then the first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.2133 and ending on either June 30 or December 31 (use whichever date is the first date following the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.2133).


(2) The first compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date follows the end of the first compliance reporting period specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(3) Each subsequent compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31. Each subsequent compliance report must include the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section.


(4) Each subsequent compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period.


(5) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or part 71, and if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.


(c) The compliance report must contain the information listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (8) of this section.


(1) Company name and address.


(2) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the accuracy of the content of the report.


(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.


(4) For each 12-month calculation period ending on a calendar month that falls within a reporting period for which you are using the 98-Percent Option to comply, the percentage of batches that are within-concentration batches.


(5) For each 12-month calculation period ending on a calendar month that falls within a reporting period for which you are using the 98-Percent Option to comply and your affected source fails to meet an applicable standard, the information for each batch for which BAVOC exceeded the applicable maximum VOC concentration in Table 1 to this subpart and whether the batch was in production during a period of malfunction or during another period.


(6) For each 12-month calculation period ending on a calendar month that falls within a reporting period for which you are using the Average Option to comply or for any reporting period for which you are using the Batch Option to comply, and your affected source meets an applicable standard, the information in paragraph (c)(6)(i) or (ii) of this section, depending on the compliance option selected from Table 1 to this subpart.


(i) If you are using the Average Option to comply, the average BAVOC of all batches in each fermentation stage for each 12-month calculation period ending on a calendar month that falls within the reporting period that did not exceed the applicable emission limitation.


(ii) If you are using the Batch Option to comply, a certification that BAVOC for each batch manufactured during the reporting period did not exceed applicable emission limitations.


(7) For each 12-month calculation period ending on a calendar month that falls within a reporting period for which you are using the Average Option to comply or for any reporting period for which you are using the Batch Option to comply and your affected source fails to meet an applicable standard, the information in paragraph (c)(7)(i) or (ii) of this section, depending on the compliance option selected from Table 1 to this subpart.


(i) If you are using the Average Option to comply, the average BAVOC of all batches in each fermentation stage for each 12-month calculation period that failed to meet the applicable standard; the fermenters that operated in each fermentation stage that failed to meet the applicable standard; the duration of each failure; an estimate of the quantity of VOC emitted over the emission limitation; a description of the method used to estimate the emissions; and the actions taken to minimize emissions and correct the failure.


(ii) If you are using the Batch Option to comply, the fermenters and batches that failed to meet the applicable standard; the date, time, and duration of each failure; an estimate of the quantity of VOC emitted over the emission limitation; a description of the method used to estimate the emissions; and the actions taken to minimize emissions and correct the failure.


(8) The total operating hours for each fermenter, the total hours of monitoring system operation for each CEMS or brew ethanol monitor, and the total hours of monitoring system downtime for each CEMS or brew ethanol monitor.




