# § 503.2   Making a request.

(a) *How to request records.* All requests for documents shall be made in writing. Requests should be addressed to The Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG), FOIA/Privacy Act Officer, Office of the General Counsel, 330 Independence Avenue, SW, Suite 3349, Washington, DC 20237; telephone (202) 260-4404; or fax (202) 260-4394. Write the words “Freedom of Information Act Request” on the envelope and letter.


(b) *Details in your letter.* Your request for documents should provide as many details as possible that will help us find the records you are requesting. If there is insufficient information, we will ask you to provide greater details. Include your telephone number(s) to help us reach you if we have questions. If you are not sure how to write your request or what details to include, you may call the FOIA Office to request a copy of the Agency's booklet “Guide and Index of Records,” or access the same information via the Internet on BBG's World Wide Web site (*http://www.ibb.gov*). The more specific the request for documents, the sooner the Agency will be able to respond to your request(s).


(c) *Requests not handled under FOIA.* We will not provide documents requested under the FOIA and this part if the records are currently available in the National Archives, subject to release through the Archives, or commonly sold to the public by it or another agency in accordance with statutory authority (for example, records currently available from the Government Printing Office or the National Technical Information Service). Agency records that are normally freely available to the general public, such as BBG press releases, are not covered by the FOIA. Requests for documents from Federal departments, Chairmen of Congressional committees or subcommittees and court orders are not FOIA requests.


(d) *Referral of requests outside the agency.* If you request records that were created by or provided to us by another Federal department, we may refer your request to or consult with that department. We may also refer requests for classified records to the department that classified them. In cases of referral, the other department is responsible for processing and responding to your request under that department's regulation. When possible, we will notify you when we refer your request to another department.


(e) *Responding to your request*—(1) *Retrieving records.* The Agency is required to furnish copies of records only when they are in our possession and control. If we have stored the records you want in a record retention center, we will retrieve and review them for possible disclosure. However, the Federal Government destroys many old records, so sometimes it is impossible to fill requests. The Agency's record retention policies are set forth in the General Records Schedules of the National Archives and Records Administration and in BBG's Records Disposition Schedule, which establish time periods for keeping records before they may be destroyed.


(2) *Furnishing records.* (i) The Agency is only required to furnish copies of records that we have or can retrieve. We are not compelled to create new records. The Agency will aid requesters by providing records and information in the form requested, including electronic format, if we can readily reproduce them in that form or format.


(ii) We may decide to conserve government resources and at the same time supply the records you need by consolidating information from various records, in paper form or electronically, rather than copying them all. If the effort to produce records in electronic format would significantly interfere with the operations of the Agency, we will consider the effort to be an unreasonable search.


(iii) The Agency is required to furnish only one copy of a record. If we are unable to make a legible copy of a record to be released, we will not attempt to reconstruct it. Rather we will furnish the best copy possible and note its poor quality in our reply or on the copy.


(iv) If we cannot accommodate your request for form or format, we will provide responsive, nonexempt information in a reasonably accessible form.




