# § 1485.15   Operational procedures for brand programs.

(a) Where CCC approves an application by a MAP Participant to run a brand promotion program that will include brand participants, the MAP Participant shall establish brand program operational procedures. The MAP Participant annually shall submit to CCC for approval its proposed brand program operational procedures for such program year. CCC will notify all new and existing MAP Participants in writing in each Participant's approval letter and through the FAS website as to applicable submission dates for brand program operation procedures. Such procedures shall include, at a minimum, a brand program application, application procedures, application review criteria, brand participant eligibility requirements, a participation agreement, reimbursement requirements, compliance requirements, reporting and recordkeeping requirements, employment practices, financial management requirements, contracting procedures, and evaluation requirements.


(b) The MAP Participant shall not enter into any participation agreements with brand participants nor shall it implement any MAP brand activities for the applicable program year unless and until CCC has communicated in writing its approval of the proposed operational procedures to the MAP Participant.


(c) Participation agreements between MAP Participants and brand participants. Where CCC approves a MAP Participant's application to run a brand promotion program that will include brand participants, the MAP Participant shall enter into participation agreements with brand participants. These agreements must:


(1) Specify a time period for such brand promotion and require that all brand promotion expenditures be made within the MAP Participant's approved program year;


(2) Make no allowance for extension or renewal;


(3) Limit reimbursable expenditures to those made in countries and for activities approved in the brand participant's activity plan;


(4) Specify the percentage of promotion expenditures that will be reimbursed, reimbursement procedures, and documentation requirements;


(5) Include a written certification by the brand participant that it either owns the brand of the product it will promote or has exclusive rights to promote the brand in each of the countries in which promotion activities will occur;




(6) Require: That all product labels, promotional material, and advertising will identify the origin of the eligible commodity as “American,” “Product of the United States of America,” “Product of the U.S.,” “Product of the U.S.A.,” “Product of America,” “Grown in the United States of America,” “Grown in the U.S.,” “Grown in the U.S.A.,” “Grown in America,” “Made in the United States of America,” “Made in the U.S.,” “Made in the U.S.A.,” “Made in America,” or product of, grown in, or made in any state or territory of the United States of America spelled out in its entirety, or other U.S. regional designation if approved in advance by CCC; that such origin identification will be conspicuously displayed in a manner easily observed as identifying the origin of the product; and that such origin identification will conform, to the extent possible, to the U.S. standard of 
1/6 inch (.42 centimeters) in height based on the lower case letter “o.” The use of these terms as a descriptor or in the name of the product (*e.g.,* Texas style chili, Bob's American Pizza) does not satisfy the product origin requirement. Phrases “product of,” “grown in,” or “made in” are encouraged, but not required. A MAP Participant that wishes to use an origin statement that varies from those set out in this subsection must submit the proposed statement to CCC for review and must receive approval to use the statement before its use in an activity. A MAP Participant may request an exemption from this requirement on a case by case basis. All such requests shall be in writing and include justification satisfactory to CCC that this labeling requirement would hinder a MAP Participant's promotional efforts. CCC will determine, on a case by case basis, whether sufficient justification exists to grant an exemption from the labeling requirement. In addition, CCC may temporarily waive this requirement where CCC has determined that such labeling will likely harm sales rather than help them. Such determinations will be announced to MAP Participants via a program notice issued on FAS' website;


(7) Include a written certification by the brand participant that it is either a small-sized entity as defined in this subpart or a U.S. agricultural cooperative;


(8) Require that the brand participant submit to the MAP Participant a statement certifying that any Federal funds received will supplement, but not supplant, any private or third-party funds or other contribution or cost share to program activities; and


(9) Require the brand participant to maintain all original records and documents relating to program activities for five calendar years following the end of the applicable program year and make such records and documents available upon request to authorized officials of the U.S. Government.





---

[N] [85 FR 1732, Jan. 13, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 68883, Dec. 6, 2021]




