# § 252.16   Reports of stress test results.

(a) *Reports to the Board of stress test results*—(1) *General.* A state member bank must report the results of the stress test to the Board in the manner and form prescribed by the Board, in accordance with paragraphs (a)(2) of this section.


(2) *Timing.* For each stress test cycle in which a stress test is conducted:


(i) A state member bank that is a covered company subsidiary must report the results of the stress test to the Board by April 5, unless that time is extended by the Board in writing; and


(ii) A state member bank that is not a covered company subsidiary must report the results of the stress test to the Board by July 31, unless that time is extended by the Board in writing.


(b) *Contents of reports.* The report required under paragraph (a) of this section must include the following information for the baseline scenario, severely adverse scenario, and any other scenario required under § 252.14(b)(3):


(1) A description of the types of risks being included in the stress test;


(2) A summary description of the methodologies used in the stress test; and


(3) For each quarter of the planning horizon, estimates of aggregate losses, pre-provision net revenue, provision for credit losses, net income, and regulatory capital ratios;


(c) *Confidential treatment of information submitted.* The confidentiality of information submitted to the Board under this subpart and related materials shall be determined in accordance with applicable exemptions under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552(b)) and the Board's Rules Regarding Availability of Information (12 CFR part 261).



---

[N] [Reg. YY, 79 FR 64045, Oct. 27, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 4245, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 59101, Nov. 1, 2019; 85 FR 15604, Mar. 18, 2020]




