# ยง 63.3981   What definitions apply to this subpart?

Terms used in this subpart are defined in the CAA, in 40 CFR 63.2, and in this section as follows: 


*Additive* means a material that is added to a coating after purchase from a supplier (*e.g.,* catalysts, activators, accelerators). 


*Add-on control* means an air pollution control device, such as a thermal oxidizer or carbon adsorber, that reduces pollution in an air stream by destruction or removal before discharge to the atmosphere. 


*Adhesive, adhesive coating* means any chemical substance that is applied for the purpose of bonding two surfaces together. Products used on humans and animals, adhesive tape, contact paper, or any other product with an adhesive incorporated onto or in an inert substrate shall not be considered adhesives under this subpart. 


*Assembled on-road vehicle coating* means any coating operation in which coating is applied to the surface of some component or surface of a fully assembled motor vehicle or trailer intended for on-road use including, but not limited to, components or surfaces on automobiles and light-duty trucks that have been repaired after a collision or otherwise repainted, fleet delivery trucks, and motor homes and other recreational vehicles (including camping trailers and fifth wheels). Assembled on-road vehicle coating includes the concurrent coating of parts of the assembled on-road vehicle that are painted off-vehicle to protect systems, equipment, or to allow full coverage. Assembled on-road vehicle coating does not include surface coating operations that meet the applicability criteria of the automobiles and light-duty trucks NESHAP. Assembled on-road vehicle coating also does not include the use of adhesives, sealants, and caulks used in assembling on-road vehicles. 


*Capture device* means a hood, enclosure, room, floor sweep, or other means of containing or collecting emissions and directing those emissions into an add-on air pollution control device. 


*Capture efficiency or capture system efficiency* means the portion (expressed as a percentage) of the pollutants from an emission source that is delivered to an add-on control device. 


*Capture system* means one or more capture devices intended to collect emissions generated by a coating operation in the use of coatings or cleaning materials, both at the point of application and at subsequent points where emissions from the coatings and cleaning materials occur, such as flashoff, drying, or curing. As used in this subpart, multiple capture devices that collect emissions generated by a coating operation are considered a single capture system. 


*Cleaning material* means a solvent used to remove contaminants and other materials, such as dirt, grease, oil, and dried or wet coating (*e.g.,* depainting or paint stripping), from a substrate before or after coating application or from equipment associated with a coating operation, such as spray booths, spray guns, racks, tanks, and hangers. Thus, it includes any cleaning material used on substrates or equipment or both. 


*Coating* means a material applied to a substrate for decorative, protective, or functional purposes. Such materials include, but are not limited to, paints, sealants, liquid plastic coatings, caulks, inks, adhesives, and maskants. Decorative, protective, or functional materials that consist only of protective oils for metal, acids, bases, or any combination of these substances, or paper film or plastic film which may be pre-coated with an adhesive by the film manufacturer, are not considered coatings for the purposes of this subpart. A liquid plastic coating means a coating made from fine particle-size polyvinyl chloride (PVC) in solution (also referred to as a plastisol). 


*Coating operation* means equipment used to apply cleaning materials to a substrate to prepare it for coating application (surface preparation) or to remove dried coating; to apply coating to a substrate (coating application) and to dry or cure the coating after application; or to clean coating operation equipment (equipment cleaning). A single coating operation may include any combination of these types of equipment, but always includes at least the point at which a given quantity of coating or cleaning material is applied to a given part and all subsequent points in the affected source where organic HAP are emitted from the specific quantity of coating or cleaning material on the specific part. There may be multiple coating operations in an affected source. Coating application with handheld, non-refillable aerosol containers, touch-up markers, or marking pens is not a coating operation for the purposes of this subpart. 


*Coatings solids* means the nonvolatile portion of the coating that makes up the dry film. 


*Continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS)* means the total equipment that may be required to meet the data acquisition and availability requirements of this subpart, used to sample, condition (if applicable), analyze, and provide a record of coating operation, or capture system, or add-on control device parameters. 


*Controlled coating operation* means a coating operation from which some or all of the organic HAP emissions are routed through an emission capture system and add-on control device. 


*Deviation* means:


(1) Before January 5, 2021, any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:


(i) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart including but not limited to, any emission limit or operating limit or work practice standard;


(ii) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or


(iii) Fails to meet any emission limit, or operating limit, or work practice standard in this subpart during SSM, regardless of whether or not such failure is permitted by this subpart; and


(2) On and after January 5, 2021, any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart or an owner or operator of such a source:


(i) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart including but not limited to any emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard; or


(ii) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit.


*Emission limitation* means the aggregate of all requirements associated with a compliance option including emission limit, operating limit, work practice standard, etc. 


*Enclosure* means a structure that surrounds a source of emissions and captures and directs the emissions to an add-on control device. 


*Exempt compound* means a specific compound that is not considered a VOC due to negligible photochemical reactivity. The exempt compounds are listed in 40 CFR 51.100(s). 


*Extreme performance fluoropolymer coating* means coatings that are formulated systems based on fluoropolymer resins which often contain bonding matrix polymers dissolved in non-aqueous solvents as well as other ingredients. Extreme performance fluoropolymer coatings are typically used when one or more critical performance criteria are required including, but not limited to a nonstick low-energy surface, dry film lubrication, high resistance to chemical attack, extremely wide operating temperature, high electrical insulating properties, or that the surface comply with government (*e.g.,* USDA, FDA) or third party specifications for health, safety, reliability, or performance. Once applied to a substrate, extreme performance fluoropolymer coatings undergo a curing process that typically requires high temperatures, a chemical reaction, or other specialized technology. 


*Facility maintenance* means the routine repair or renovation (including the surface coating) of the tools, equipment, machinery, and structures that comprise the infrastructure of the affected facility and that are necessary for the facility to function in its intended capacity. 


*General use coating* means any material that meets the definition of coating but does not meet the definition of high performance coating, rubber-to-metal coating, magnet wire coating, or extreme performance fluoropolymer coating as defined in this section. 


*High performance architectural coating* means any coating applied to architectural subsections which is required to meet the specifications of Architectural Aluminum Manufacturer's Association's publication number AAMA 605.2-2000. 


*High performance coating* means any coating that meets the definition of high performance architectural coating or high temperature coating in this section. 


*High temperature coating* means any coating applied to a substrate which during normal use must withstand temperatures of at least 538 degrees Celsius (1000 degrees Fahrenheit). 


*Hobby shop* means any surface coating operation, located at an affected source, that is used exclusively for personal, noncommercial purposes by the affected source's employees or assigned personnel. 


*Magnet wire coatings,* commonly referred to as magnet wire enamels, are applied to a continuous strand of wire which will be used to make turns (windings) in electrical devices such as coils, transformers, or motors. Magnet wire coatings provide high dielectric strength and turn-to-turn conductor insulation. This allows the turns of an electrical device to be placed in close proximity to one another which leads to increased coil effectiveness and electrical efficiency. 


*Magnet wire coating machine* means equipment which applies and cures magnet wire coatings. 


*Manufacturer's formulation data* means data on a material (such as a coating) that are supplied by the material manufacturer based on knowledge of the ingredients used to manufacture that material, rather than based on testing of the material with the test methods specified in ยง 63.3941. Manufacturer's formulation data may include, but are not limited to, information on density, organic HAP content, volatile organic matter content, and coating solids content. 


*Mass fraction of organic HAP* means the ratio of the mass of organic HAP to the mass of a material in which it is contained, expressed as kg of organic HAP per kg of material. 


*Month* means a calendar month or a pre-specified period of 28 days to 35 days to allow for flexibility in recordkeeping when data are based on a business accounting period. 


*Non-HAP coating* means, for the purposes of this subpart, a coating that contains no more than 0.1 percent by mass of any individual organic HAP that is listed in Table 5 to this subpart and no more than 1.0 percent by mass for any other individual HAP.


*Organic HAP content* means the mass of organic HAP emitted per volume of coating solids used for a coating calculated using Equation 2 of ยง 63.3941. The organic HAP content is determined for the coating in the condition it is in when received from its manufacturer or supplier and does not account for any alteration after receipt. For reactive adhesives in which some of the HAP react to form solids and are not emitted to the atmosphere, organic HAP content is the mass of organic HAP that is emitted, rather than the organic HAP content of the coating as it is received. 


*Permanent total enclosure (PTE)* means a permanently installed enclosure that meets the criteria of Method 204 of appendix M, 40 CFR part 51, for a PTE and that directs all the exhaust gases from the enclosure to an add-on control device. 


*Personal watercraft* means a vessel (boat) which uses an inboard motor powering a water jet pump as its primary source of motive power and which is designed to be operated by a person or persons sitting, standing, or kneeling on the vessel, rather than in the conventional manner of sitting or standing inside the vessel. 


*Protective oil* means an organic material that is applied to metal for the purpose of providing lubrication or protection from corrosion without forming a solid film. This definition of protective oil includes, but is not limited to, lubricating oils, evaporative oils (including those that evaporate completely), and extrusion oils. Protective oils used on miscellaneous metal parts and products include magnet wire lubricants and soft temporary protective coatings that are removed prior to installation or further assembly of a part or component. 


*Reactive adhesive* means adhesive systems composed, in part, of volatile monomers that react during the adhesive curing reaction, and, as a result, do not evolve from the film during use. These volatile components instead become integral parts of the adhesive through chemical reaction. At least 70 percent of the liquid components of the system, excluding water, react during the process. 


*Research or laboratory facility* means a facility whose primary purpose is for research and development of new processes and products, that is conducted under the close supervision of technically trained personnel, and is not engaged in the manufacture of final or intermediate products for commercial purposes, except in a *de minimis* manner. 


*Responsible official* means responsible official as defined in 40 CFR 70.2. 


*Rubber-to-metal coatings* are coatings that contain heat-activated polymer systems in either solvent or water that, when applied to metal substrates, dry to a non-tacky surface and react chemically with the rubber and metal during a vulcanization process. 


*Startup, initial* means the first time equipment is brought online in a facility. 


*Surface preparation* means use of a cleaning material on a portion of or all of a substrate. This includes use of a cleaning material to remove dried coating, which is sometimes called depainting. 


*Temporary total enclosure* means an enclosure constructed for the purpose of measuring the capture efficiency of pollutants emitted from a given source as defined in Method 204 of appendix M, 40 CFR part 51. 


*Thinner* means an organic solvent that is added to a coating after the coating is received from the supplier. 


*Total volatile hydrocarbon (TVH)* means the total amount of nonaqueous volatile organic matter determined according to Methods 204 and 204A through 204F of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 and substituting the term TVH each place in the methods where the term VOC is used. The TVH includes both VOC and non-VOC. 


*Uncontrolled coating operation* means a coating operation from which none of the organic HAP emissions are routed through an emission capture system and add-on control device. 


*Volatile organic compound (VOC)* means any compound defined as VOC in 40 CFR 51.100(s). 


*Volume fraction of coating solids* means the ratio of the volume of coating solids (also known as the volume of nonvolatiles) to the volume of a coating in which it is contained; liters (gal) of coating solids per liter (gal) of coating. 


*Wastewater* means water that is generated in a coating operation and is collected, stored, or treated prior to being discarded or discharged. 



---

[N] [69 FR 157, Jan. 2, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 41144, July 8, 2020]





