# § 322.6   Pay for time lost.

(a) *Definition.* The term “pay for time lost” means any payment made to an employee with respect to an identifiable period of time during which the employee was absent from the active service of the person or company making the payment, including absence on account of personal injury. The entire amount paid to an employee who was absent on account of personal injury is pay for time lost if such amount includes pay for time lost, unless at the time of payment the parties, by agreement, specify a different amount as the amount of the pay for time lost and the period of time covered by such pay. The amount allocated to time lost is remuneration for every day in the period of time lost. The amount of a payment for personal injury that is apportioned to factors other than time lost is, nevertheless, a portion of “damages” for the purposes of part 341 of this chapter.


(b) *Employment relationship required.* Pay for time lost shall not be deemed to have been earned on any day after the day of the employee's resignation or other termination of his employment relationship.


(c) *Initial evidence.* A report that an employee has received or is to receive pay for time lost shall, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, be considered sufficient for a finding that remuneration is payable with respect to each day in the period to which the pay is assigned.



---

[N] [Board Order 59-73, 24 FR 2487, Mar. 31, 1959, as amended at 65 FR 14460, Mar. 17, 2000]




