# ยง 503.22   Site limitations.

(a) *Eligibility.* Section 211(a)(2) of the Act provides for a temporary exemption due to a site limitation. To qualify for such an exemption, a petitioner must certify that:


(1) One or more specific physical limitations relevant to the location or operation of the proposed facility exist which, despite diligent good faith efforts, cannot be overcome before the end of the proposed exemption period;


(2) The petitioner will be able to comply with the applicable prohibitions of the Act at the end of the proposed exemption period; and


(3) No alternate power supply exists, as required under ยง 503.8 of these regulations. 


(i) Inaccessability of alternate fuels as a result of a specific physical limitation;


(ii) Unavailability of transportation facilities for alternate fuels;


(iii) Unavailability of adequate land or facilities for handling, using, or storing an alternate fuel;


(iv) Unavailability of adequate land or facilities for controlling and disposing of wastes, including pollution control equipment or devices necessary to assure compliance with applicable environmental requirements;


(v) Unavailability of adequate and reliable supply of water, including water for use in compliance with applicable environmental requirements; or


(vi) Other site limitations exist which will not permit the location or operation of the proposed unit using an alternate fuel.


(b) *Evidence required in support of a petition.* The petition must include the following evidence in order to make the demonstration required by this section:


(1) Duly executed certifications required under paragraph (a) of this section;


(2) Exhibits containing the basis for the certifications required under paragraph (a) of this section (including those factual and analytical materials deemed by the petitioner to be sufficient to support the granting of this exemption); and


(3) The anticipated duration of the site limitation which constitutes the basis for the exemption.


(c) *Duration.* This temporary exemption, taking into account any extensions and renewals, may not exceed five years.



---

[N] [46 FR 59903, Dec. 7, 1981, as amended at 54 FR 52894, Dec. 22, 1989]




