# ยง 2885.21   How must I make rental payments for a linear grant or TUP?

(a) *Term grants or TUPs.* For TUPs you must make a one-time nonrefundable payment for the term of the TUP. For grants, except those that have been issued in perpetuity, you must make either nonrefundable annual payments or a nonrefundable payment for more than 1 year, as follows:


(1) *One-time payments.* You may pay in advance the total rent amount for the entire term of the grant or any remaining years.


(2) *Multiple payments.* If you choose not to make a one-time payment, you must pay according to one of the following methods:


(i) *Payments by individuals.* If your annual rent is $100 or less, you must pay at 10-year intervals not to exceed the term of the grant. If your annual rent is greater than $100, you may pay annually or at 10-year intervals, not to exceed the term of the grant. For example, if you have a grant with a remaining term of 30 years, you may pay in advance for 10 years, 20 years, or 30 years, but not any other multi-year period.


(ii) *Payments by all others.* If your annual rent is $500 or less, you must pay rent at 10-year intervals, not to exceed the term of the grant. If your annual rent is greater than $500, you may pay annually or at 10-year intervals, not to exceed the term of the grant.


(b) *Perpetual grants issued prior to November 16, 1973.* Except as provided by ยง 2885.22(a), you must make either nonrefundable annual payments or a nonrefundable payment for more than 1 year, as follows:


(1) *Payments by individuals.* If your annual rent is $100 or less, you must pay at 10-year intervals, not to exceed 30 years. If your annual rent is greater than $100, you may pay annually or at 10-year intervals, not to exceed 30 years.


(2) *Payments by all others.* If your annual rent is $500 or less, you must pay rent at 10-year intervals, not to exceed 30 years. If your annual rent is greater than $500, you may pay annually or at 10-year intervals, not to exceed 30 years.


(c) *Proration of payments.* The BLM considers the first partial calendar year in the initial rental payment period (the length of time for which the holder is paying rent) to be the first year of the term. The BLM prorates the first year rental amount based on the number of months left in the calendar year after the effective date of the grant.



---

[N] [73 FR 65074, Oct. 31, 2008]




