# § 133.134   Cream cheese with other foods.

(a) *Description.* Cream cheese with other foods is the class of foods prepared by mixing, with or without the aid of heat, cream cheese with one or a mixture of two or more types of foods (except other cheeses) listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, in an amount sufficient to differentiate the mixture from cream cheese. One or more of the other optional ingredients in paragraph (b)(2) of this section may be used. The maximum moisture content of the mixture is 60 percent by weight. The minimum milkfat is 33 percent by weight of the cream cheese and in no case less than 27 percent of the finished food. The moisture and fat contents will be determined by the methods described in § 133.5, except that the method for determination of fat content is not applicable when the added food contains fat.


(b) *Optional ingredients.* The following safe and suitable optional ingredients may be used:


(1) *Foods.* Properly prepared fresh, cooked, canned, or dried fruits or vegetables; cooked or canned meats, relishes, pickles, or other suitable foods.


(2) *Other optional ingredients.* (i) Stabilizers, in a total amount not to exceed 0.8 percent, with or without the addition of dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate in a maximum amount of 0.5 percent of the weight of the stabilizer(s) used.


(ii) Coloring.


(c) *Nomenclature.* The name of the food is “cream cheese with ______” or, alternatively, “cream cheese and ______”, the blank being filled in with the name of the foods used in order of predominance by weight.


(d) *Label declaration.* Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter, except that:


(1) Enzymes of animal, plant, or microbial origin may be declared as “enzymes”; and


(2) The dairy ingredients may be declared, in descending order of predominance, by the use of the terms “milkfat and nonfat milk” or “nonfat milk and milkfat”, as appropriate.



---

[N] [54 FR 32053, Aug. 4, 1989, as amended at 58 FR 2893, Jan. 6, 1993]




