# § 725.503   Date from which benefits are payable.

(a) In accordance with the provisions of section 6(a) of the Longshore Act as incorporated by section 422(a) of the Act, and except as provided in § 725.504, the provisions of this section shall be applicable in determining the date from which benefits are payable to an eligible claimant for any claim filed after March 31, 1980. Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the date from which benefits are payable for any claim approved under part 727 shall be determined in accordance with § 727.302 (see § 725.4(d)). 


(b) *Miner's claim.* Benefits are payable to a miner who is entitled beginning with the month of onset of total disability due to pneumoconiosis arising out of coal mine employment. Where the evidence does not establish the month of onset, benefits shall be payable to such miner beginning with the month during which the claim was filed. In the case of a miner who filed a claim before January 1, 1982, benefits shall be payable to the miner's eligible survivor (if any) beginning with the month in which the miner died. 


(c) *Survivor's claim.* Benefits are payable to a survivor who is entitled beginning with the month of the miner's death, or January 1, 1974, whichever is later. 


(d) If a claim is awarded pursuant to section 22 of the Longshore Act and § 725.310, then the date from which benefits are payable shall be determined as follows: 


(1) *Mistake in fact.* The provisions of paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section, as applicable, shall govern the determination of the date from which benefits are payable. 


(2) *Change in conditions.* Benefits are payable to a miner beginning with the month of onset of total disability due to pneumoconiosis arising out of coal mine employment, provided that no benefits shall be payable for any month prior to the effective date of the most recent denial of the claim by a district director or administrative law judge. Where the evidence does not establish the month of onset, benefits shall be payable to such miner from the month in which the claimant requested modification. 


(e) In the case of a claim filed between July 1, 1973, and December 31, 1973, benefits shall be payable as provided by this section, except to the extent prohibited by § 727.303 (see § 725.4(d)). 


(f) No benefits shall be payable with respect to a claim filed after December 31, 1973 (a part C claim), for any period of eligibility occurring before January 1, 1974. 


(g) Each decision and order awarding benefits shall indicate the month from which benefits are payable to the eligible claimant. 




