# ยง 721.9518   

(a) *Microorganism and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The microorganism identified as *Sinorhizobium meliloti* strain RMBPC-2 (PMN P-92-403) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Commercial activities before submitting a TSCA section 5(a) notice.* For any manufacturer or importer who has not previously submitted a premanufacture notice or significant new use notice for this microorganism, the significant new use is any use.


(ii) *Commercial activities after submitting a TSCA section 5(a) notice.* For any manufacturer or importer who has previously submitted a premanufacture notice or a significant new use notice for this microorganism, the significant new use is manufacture, import, or processing greater than a maximum production volume of 500,000 lbs in any consecutive 12-month period.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Persons who must report.* Section 721.5 applies to this section except for ยง 721.5(a)(2). A person who intends to manufacture or import this substance for commercial purposes must have submitted a premanufacture notice or submit a significant new use notice.


(2) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in ยง 721.125 (a) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and importers of this substance.


(3) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of ยง 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [63 FR 29648, June 1, 1998]




