# § 417.572   Budget and enrollment forecast and interim reports.

(a) *Annual submittal.* The HMO or CMP must submit an annual operating budget and enrollment forecast, in the form and detail required by CMS, at least 90 days before the beginning of each contract period. The forecast must be based on financial and statistical data and records that can be verified if CMS requires a detailed review of supporting records. The data and records include, but are not limited to, all ledgers, books, records, and original evidence of costs, and statistical data used in the determination of reasonable cost.


(b) *Effect of failure to submit on time.* If the HMO or CMP does not submit the budget and enrollment forecast on time, CMS may—


(1) Establish an interim per capita rate of payment on the basis of the best available data and adjust payments on the basis of that rate until the required reports are submitted and a new interim per capita rate can be established; or


(2) If there is not enough data on which to base an interim per capita rate, inform the HMO or CMP that interim payments will not be made until the required reports are submitted.


(c) *Interim cost reports.* (1) An HMO or CMP must submit interim cost reports on a quarterly basis in the form and detail prescribed by CMS. These interim cost reports must be submitted no later than 60 days after the close of each quarter of the contract period.


(2) CMS may reduce the frequency of the reports required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section if CMS determines that, on the basis of the HMO's or CMP's reporting experience, there is good cause to do so. 



---

[N] [50 FR 1346, Jan. 10, 1985, as amended at 58 FR 38082, July 15, 1993]




