# § 25.2704-1   Lapse of certain rights.

(a) *Lapse treated as transfer*—(1) *In general.* The lapse of a voting right or a liquidation right in a corporation or partnership (an “entity”) is a transfer by the individual directly or indirectly holding the right immediately prior to its lapse (the “holder”) to the extent provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. This section applies only if the entity is controlled by the holder and members of the holder's family immediately before and after the lapse. The amount of the transfer is determined under paragraph (d) of this section. If the lapse of a voting right or a liquidation right occurs during the holder's lifetime, the lapse is a transfer by gift. If the lapse occurs at the holder's death, the lapse is a transfer includible in the holder's gross estate.


(2) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply for purposes of this section.


(i) *Control.* Control has the meaning given it in § 25.2701-2(b)(5).


(ii) *Member of the family.* Member of the family has the meaning given it in § 25.2702-2(a)(1).


(iii) *Directly or indirectly held.* An interest is directly or indirectly held only to the extent the value of the interest would have been includible in the gross estate of the individual if the individual had died immediately prior to the lapse.


(iv) *Voting right.* Voting right means a right to vote with respect to any matter of the entity. In the case of a partnership, the right of a general partner to participate in partnership management is a voting right. The right to compel the entity to acquire all or a portion of the holder's equity interest in the entity by reason of aggregate voting power is treated as a liquidation right and is not treated as a voting right.


(v) *Liquidation right.* Liquidation right means a right or ability to compel the entity to acquire all or a portion of the holder's equity interest in the entity, including by reason of aggregate voting power, whether or not its exercise would result in the complete liquidation of the entity.


(vi) *Subordinate.* Subordinate has the meaning given it in § 25.2701-3(a)(2)(iii).


(3) *Certain temporary lapses.* If a lapsed right may be restored only upon the occurrence of a future event not within the control of the holder or members of the holder's family, the lapse is deemed to occur at the time the lapse becomes permanent with respect to the holder, *i.e.* either by a transfer of the interest or otherwise. 


(4) *Source of right or lapse.* A voting right or a liquidation right may be conferred by and may lapse by reason of a State law, the corporate charter or bylaws, an agreement, or other means.


(b) *Lapse of voting right.* A lapse of a voting right occurs at the time a presently exercisable voting right is restricted or eliminated.


(c) *Lapse of liquidation right*—(1) *In general.* A lapse of a liquidation right occurs at the time a presently exercisable liquidation right is restricted or eliminated. Except as otherwise provided, a transfer of an interest that results in the lapse of a liquidation right is not subject to this section if the rights with respect to the transferred interest are not restricted or eliminated. However, a transfer that results in the elimination of the transferor's right or ability to compel the entity to acquire an interest retained by the transferor that is subordinate to the transferred interest is a lapse of a liquidation right with respect to the subordinate interest.


(2) *Exceptions.* Section 2704(a) does not apply to the lapse of a liquidation right under the following circumstances.


(i) *Family cannot obtain liquidation value*—(A) *In general.* Section 2704(a) does not apply to the lapse of a liquidation right to the extent the holder (or the holder's estate) and members of the holder's family cannot immediately after the lapse liquidate an interest that the holder held directly or indirectly and could have liquidated prior to the lapse.


(B) *Ability to liquidate.* Whether an interest can be liquidated immediately after the lapse is determined under the State law generally applicable to the entity, as modified by the governing instruments of the entity, but without regard to any restriction described in section 2704(b). Thus, if, after any restriction described in section 2704(b) is disregarded, the remaining requirements for liquidation under the governing instruments are less restrictive than the State law that would apply in the absence of the governing instruments, the ability to liquidate is determined by reference to the governing instruments.


(ii) *Rights valued under section 2701.* Section 2704(a) does not apply to the lapse of a liquidation right previously valued under section 2701 to the extent necessary to prevent double taxation (taking into account any adjustment available under § 25.2701-5).


(iii) *Certain changes in State law.* Section 2704(a) does not apply to the lapse of a liquidation right that occurs solely by reason of a change in State law. For purposes of this paragraph, a change in the governing instrument of an entity is not a change in State law.


(d) *Amount of transfer.* The amount of the transfer is the excess, if any, of—


(1) The value of all interests in the entity owned by the holder immediately before the lapse (determined immediately after the lapse as if the lapsed right was nonlapsing); over


(2) The value of the interests described in the preceding paragraph immediately after the lapse (determined as if all such interests were held by one individual).


(e) *Application to similar rights.* [Reserved]


(f) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of this section:



---

[N] [T.D. 8395, 57 FR 4274, Feb. 4, 1992]




