# § 1.995-4   Gain on disposition of stock in a DISC.

(a) *Disposition in which gain is recognized*—(1) *In general.* If a shareholder disposes, or is treated as disposing, of stock in a DISC, or former DISC, then any gain recognized on such disposition shall be included in the shareholder's gross income as a dividend, notwithstanding any other provision of the Code, to the extent of the accumulated DISC income amount (described in paragraph (d) of this section). To the extent the recognized gain exceeds the accumulated DISC income amount, it is taxable as gain from the sale or exchange of the stock.


(2) *Nonapplication of subparagraph (1).* The provisions of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph do not apply (i) to the extent gain is not recognized (such as, for example, in the case of a gift or an exchange of stock to which section 354 applies) and (ii) to the amount of any recognized gain which is taxable as a dividend (such as, for example, under section 301 or 356(a)(2)) or as gain from the sale or exchange of property which is not a capital asset. The amount taxable as a dividend under section 301 or 356(a)(2) is subject to the rules provided in § 1.995-1(c) for the treatment of actual distributions by a DISC.


(b) *Disposition in which separate corporate existence of DISC is terminated*—(1) *General.* If stock in a corporation that is a DISC, or former DISC, is disposed of in a transaction in which its separate corporate existence as a DISC, or former DISC, is terminated, then, notwithstanding any other provision of the Code, an amount of realized gain shall be recognized and included in the transferor's gross income as a dividend. The realized gain shall be recognized to the extent that such gain—


(i) Would not have been recognized but for the provisions of this paragraph, and


(ii) Does not exceed the accumulated DISC income amount (described in paragraph (d) of this section).


(2) *Cessation of separate corporate existence as a DISC, or former DISC.* For purposes of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, separate corporate existence as a DISC, or former DISC, will be treated as having ceased if, as a result of the transaction, there is no separate entity which is a DISC and to which is carried over the accumulated DISC income and other tax attributes of the DISC, or former DISC, the stock of which is disposed of. Thus, for example, if stock in a DISC, or former DISC, is exchanged in a transaction described in section 381(a) (relating to carryovers in certain corporate acquisitions), the gain realized on the transfer of such stock will not be recognized under subparagraph (1) of this paragraph if the assets of such DISC, or former DISC, are acquired by a corporation which immediately after the acquisition qualifies as a DISC. For a further example, if a DISC, or former DISC, is liquidated in a transaction to which section 332 (relating to complete liquidations of subsidiaries) applies, the transaction will be subject to subparagraph (1) of this paragraph if the basis to the transferee corporation of the assets acquired on the liquidation is determined under section 334(b)(2) (as in effect prior to amendment by the Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982) or if immediately after such liquidation the transferee of such assets does not qualify as a DISC. However, separate corporate existence as a DISC, or former DISC, will not be treated as having ceased in the case of a mere change in place of organization, however effected. See § 1.996-7 for rules for the carryover of the divisions of a DISC's earnings and profits to one or more DISC's.


(c) *Disposition to which section 311, 336, or 337 applies*—(1) *In general.* If, after December 31, 1976, a shareholder distributes, sells, or exchanges stock in a DISC, or former DISC, in a transaction to which section 311, 336, or 337 applies, then an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of such stock over its adjusted basis in the hands of the shareholder shall, notwithstanding any other provision of the Code, be included in gross income of the shareholder as a dividend to the extent of the accumulated DISC income amount (described in paragraph (d) of this section).


(2) *Nonapplication of subparagraph (1).* Subparagraph (1) shall not apply if the person receiving the stock in the disposition has a holding period for the stock which includes the period for which the stock was held by the shareholder disposing of such stock.


(d) *Accumulated DISC income amount*—(1) *General.* For purposes of this section, the accumulated DISC income amount is the accumulated DISC income of the DISC or former DISC which is attributable to the stock disposed of and which was accumulated in taxable years of such DISC or former DISC during the period or periods such stock was held by the shareholder who disposed of such stock.


(2) *Period during which a shareholder has held stock.* For purposes of this section, the period during which a shareholder has held stock includes the period he is considered to have held it by reason of the application of section 1223 and, if his basis is determined in whole or in part under the provisions of section 1014(d) (relating to special rule for DISC stock acquired from decedent) or section 1022 (relating to property acquired from certain decedents who died in 2010), the holding period of the decedent. Such holding period is to exclude the day of acquisition but include the day of disposition. Thus, for example, if A purchases stock in a DISC on December 31, 1972, and makes a gift of such stock to B on June 30, 1973, then on December 31, 1974, B will be treated as having held the stock for 2 full years. If the basis of the stock in C's hands is determined under section 1014(d) upon a transfer from B's estate on December 31, 1976, by reason of B's death on June 30, 1974, then on December 31, 1976, C will be treated as having held the stock for 4 full years.


(e) *Accumulated DISC income allocable to shareholder under section 995(c)(2)*—(1) *In general.* Under this paragraph, rules are prescribed for purposes of paragraph (d) of this section as to the manner of determining, with respect to the stock of a DISC, or former DISC, disposed of, the amount of accumulated DISC income which is attributable to such stock and which was accumulated in taxable years of the corporation during the period or periods the stock disposed of was held or treated under paragraph (d)(2) of this section as held by the transferor. Subparagraphs (2), (3), and (4) of this paragraph set forth a method of computation which may be employed to determine such amount. Any other method may be employed so long as the result obtained would be the same as the result obtained under such method.


(2) *Step 1.* Determine the increase (or decrease) in accumulated DISC income for each taxable year of the DISC, or former DISC, by subtracting from the amount of accumulated DISC income (as defined in § 1.996-3(b)) at the close of each taxable year the amount thereof as of the close of the immediately preceding taxable year.


(3) *Step 2.* (i) Determine for each taxable year of the DISC, or former DISC, the increase (or decrease) in accumulated DISC income per share by dividing such increase (or decrease) for the year by the number of shares outstanding or deemed outstanding on each day of such year.


(ii) If the number of shares of stock in the corporation outstanding on each day of a taxable year of the DISC, or former DISC, is not constant, then the number of such shares deemed outstanding on each day of such year shall be the sum of the fractional amounts in respect of each share which was outstanding on any day of the taxable year. The fractional amount in respect of a share shall be determined by dividing the number of days in the taxable year on which such share was outstanding (excluding the day the share became outstanding, but including the day the share ceased to be outstanding), by the total number of days in such taxable year.


(iii) If for any taxable year of a DISC, or former DISC, the share disposed of was not held (or treated under paragraph (d)(2) of this section as held) by the disposing shareholder for the entire year, then the amount of increase (or decrease) in accumulated DISC income attributable to such share for such year is the amount determined as if he held the share until the end of such year multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of days in the taxable year on which the shareholder held (or under paragraph (d)(2) of this section is treated as having held) such share and the denominator of which is the total number of days in the taxable year.


(4) *Step 3.* Add the amounts computed in step 2 for each taxable year of the DISC, or former DISC, in which the shareholder held such share of stock.


(5) *Examples.* This paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:


(f) *Effective/applicability date.* This section applies on and after January 19, 2017. For rules before January 19, 2017, see § 1.995-4 as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2016.



---

[N] [T.D. 7324, 39 FR 35112, Sept. 30, 1974, as amended by T.D. 7854, 47 FR 51741, Nov. 17, 1982; T.D. 9811, 82 FR 6240, Jan. 19, 2017]




