# § 1218.101   Definitions.

(a) *Administrator* means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, with power to redelegate, or any officer or employee of the U.S. Department of Agriculture to whom authority has been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act in the Administrator's stead. 


(b) *Blueberries* means cultivated blueberries grown in or imported into the United States of the genus Vaccinium *Corymbosum* and *Ashei,* including the northern highbush, southern highbush, rabbit eye varieties, and any hybrid, and excluding the lowbush (native) blueberry Vaccinium *Angustifolium.*

(c) *Eligible importer* means any person who imported 2,000 pounds or more of fresh or processed blueberries, that are identified by the numbers 0810.40.0028 and 0811.90.2028, respectively, in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States or any other numbers used to identify fresh and frozen blueberries. Importation occurs when commodities originating outside the United States are entered or withdrawn from the U.S. Customs Service for consumption in the United States. Included are persons who hold title to foreign-produced blueberries immediately upon release by the U.S. Customs Service, as well as any persons who act on behalf of others, as agents or brokers, to secure the release of blueberries from the U.S. Customs Service when such blueberries are entered or withdrawn for consumption in the United States. 


(d) *Eligible producer* means any person who produced 2,000 pounds or more of blueberries in the United States during the representative period who: 


(1) Owns, or shares the ownership and risk of loss of, the crop; 


(2) Rents blueberry production facilities and equipment resulting in the ownership of all or a portion of the blueberries produced; 


(3) Owns blueberry production facilities and equipment but does not manage them and, as compensation, obtains the ownership of a portion of the blueberries produced; or 


(4) Is a party in a landlord-tenant relationship or a divided ownership arrangement involving totally independent entities cooperating only to produce blueberries who share the risk of loss and receive a share of the blueberries produced. No other acquisition of legal title to blueberries shall be deemed to result in persons becoming eligible producers. 


(e) *Order* means the Blueberry Promotion, Research, and Information Order. 


(f) *Person* means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity. For the purpose of this definition, the term “partnership” includes, but is not limited to: 


(1) A husband and a wife who have title to, or leasehold interest in, a blueberry farm as tenants in common, joint tenants, tenants by the entirety, or, under community property laws, as community property; and 


(2) So-called “joint ventures” wherein one or more parties to an agreement, informal or otherwise, contributed land and others contributed capital, labor, management, or other services, or any variation of such contributions by two or more parties. 


(g) *Processed blueberries* means blueberries which have been frozen, dried, pureed, or made into juice. 


(h) *Referendum agent* or *agent* means the individual or individuals designated by the Secretary to conduct the referendum. 


(i) *Representative period* means the period designated by the Secretary. 


(j) *United States* means collectively the 50 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States. 




