# ยง 303.5   FOIA Library.

(a) The public reading room is no longer physically available. The Peace Corps makes information available to the public electronically through the Peace Corps' FOIA Library on its public website at *https://www.peacecorps.gov/about/open-government/.*

(b) Subject to the limitation stated in paragraph (c) of this section, the following records will be made available in the FOIA Library:


(1) All final public opinions, including concurring and dissenting opinions, and orders issued in the adjudication of cases that involve the Peace Corps;


(2) Statements of policy and interpretations adopted by the Peace Corps that are not published in the _Federal Register_;


(3) Administrative staff manuals and instructions to the staff that affect the public;


(4) Copies of frequently requested records, regardless of form or format, with a general index of such records:


(i) Released to any person in response to a public request for records which the Peace Corps determines are likely to become subject to subsequent requests for substantially the same records or


(ii) For which there have been 3 or more requests;


(5) The index required by ยง 303.6; and


(6) Other records the Peace Corps has determined are of general interest to members of the public in understanding activities of the Peace Corps or in dealing with the Peace Corps in connection with those activities.


(c) Records required by the FOIA to be available in the FOIA Library may be exempt from mandatory disclosure pursuant to section 552(b) of the FOIA. Such records will not be made available in the FOIA Library. Other records maintained in the FOIA Library may be edited by the redaction of information protected under section 552(b) of the FOIA. The extent of the redaction shall be indicated, unless doing so would harm an interest protected by the exemption under which the redaction is made. If technically feasible, the extent of the redaction shall be indicated at the place in the record where the redaction was made.


(d) Records required by the FOIA to be maintained shall be made available in the Peace Corps' electronic FOIA Library.


(e) Most public electronic records will also be made available to the public on the Peace Corps website at *https://www.peacecorps.gov.*


---

[N] [89 FR 25523, Apr. 11, 2024]




