# § 219.5   Mitigation requirements.

When conducting the activities identified in § 219.1(a), the mitigation measures contained in any LOA issued under §§ 216.106 of this chapter and 219.7 must be implemented.


(a) *General conditions.* (1) SWFSC must take all necessary measures to coordinate and communicate in advance of each specific survey with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) Office of Marine and Aviation Operations (OMAO) or other relevant parties on non-NOAA platforms to ensure that all mitigation measures and monitoring requirements described herein, as well as the specific manner of implementation and relevant event-contingent decision-making processes, are clearly understood and agreed upon.


(2) SWFSC must coordinate and conduct briefings at the outset of each survey and as necessary between ship's crew (Commanding Officer/master or designee(s), as appropriate) and scientific party in order to explain responsibilities, communication procedures, marine mammal monitoring protocol, and operational procedures.


(3) SWFSC must coordinate as necessary on a daily basis during survey cruises with OMAO personnel or other relevant personnel on non-NOAA platforms to ensure that requirements, procedures, and decision-making processes are understood and properly implemented.


(4) When deploying any type of sampling gear at sea, SWFSC must at all times monitor for any unusual circumstances that may arise at a sampling site and use best professional judgment to avoid any potential risks to marine mammals during use of all research equipment.


(5) SWFSC must implement handling and/or disentanglement protocols as specified in guidance provided to SWFSC survey personnel.


(b) *Trawl survey protocols.* (1) SWFSC must conduct trawl operations as soon as is practicable upon arrival at the sampling station.


(2) SWFSC must initiate marine mammal watches (visual observation) at least 15 minutes prior to beginning of net deployment (or for the amount of time to travel between stations if less than 15 minutes) but must also conduct monitoring during any pre-set activities including CTD casts and plankton or bongo net hauls.


(3) In the CCE, SWFSC must implement the move-on rule mitigation protocol, as described in this paragraph. If one or more marine mammals, with the exception of baleen whales, are observed within 1 nautical mile (nmi) of the planned sampling location during the visual observation period, SWFSC must move on to another sampling location. If, after moving on, marine mammals remain within 1 nmi, the SWFSC must move again or skip the station. SWFSC may use best professional judgment in making these decisions but may not elect to conduct trawl survey activity when marine mammals other than baleen whales remain within the 1-nmi zone.


(4) SWFSC must maintain visual monitoring effort during the entire period of time that trawl gear is in the water (*i.e.,* throughout gear deployment, fishing, and retrieval). If marine mammals are sighted before the gear is fully removed from the water, SWFSC must take the most appropriate action to avoid marine mammal interaction. SWFSC may use best professional judgment in making this decision.


(5) If trawling operations have been suspended because of the presence of marine mammals, SWFSC may resume trawl operations when practicable only when the animals are believed to have departed the 1 nmi area. SWFSC may use best professional judgment in making this determination.


(6) SWFSC must implement standard survey protocols to minimize potential for marine mammal interactions, including maximum tow durations at target depth and maximum tow distance, and shall carefully empty the trawl as quickly as possible upon retrieval. Trawl nets must be cleaned prior to deployment.


(7) SWFSC must install and use a marine mammal excluder device at all times when the Nordic 264 trawl net or any other net is used for which the device is appropriate.


(8) SWFSC must install and use acoustic deterrent devices whenever any midwater trawl net is used, with two to four devices placed along the footrope and/or headrope of the net. SWFSC must ensure that the devices are operating properly before deploying the net.


(c) *Pelagic longline survey protocols.* (1) SWFSC must deploy longline gear as soon as is practicable upon arrival at the sampling station.


(2) SWFSC must initiate marine mammal watches (visual observation) no less than 15 minutes (or for the duration of transit between locations, if shorter than 15 minutes) prior to both deployment and retrieval of longline gear.


(3) SWFSC must implement the move-on rule mitigation protocol, as described in this paragraph. If one or more marine mammals, with the exception of groups of five or fewer California sea lions, are observed within 1 nmi of the planned sampling location during the visual observation period, SWFSC must move on to another sampling location. If, after moving on, marine mammals remain within 1 nmi, the SWFSC must move again or skip the station. SWFSC may use best professional judgment in making these decisions but may not elect to conduct pelagic longline survey activity when animals remain within the 1-nmi zone.


(4) SWFSC must maintain visual monitoring effort during the entire period of gear deployment and retrieval. If marine mammals are sighted before the gear is fully deployed or retrieved, SWFSC must take the most appropriate action to avoid marine mammal interaction. SWFSC may use best professional judgment in making this decision.


(5) If deployment or retrieval operations have been suspended because of the presence of marine mammals, SWFSC may resume such operations when practicable only when the animals are believed to have departed the 1 nmi area. SWFSC may use best professional judgment in making this decision.


(6) SWFSC must implement standard survey protocols, including maximum soak durations and a prohibition on chumming.


(d) *Purse seine survey protocols.* (1) SWFSC must conduct purse seine operations as soon as is practicable upon arrival at the sampling station.


(2) SWFSC must conduct marine mammal watches (visual observation) prior to beginning of net deployment.


(3) SWFSC must implement the move-on rule mitigation protocol, as described in this paragraph for use of purse seine gear. If one or more killer whales or small cetaceans (*i.e.,* dolphin or porpoise) or five or more pinnipeds are observed within 500 m of the planned sampling location before setting the purse seine gear, SWFSC must either remain onsite or move on to another sampling location. If remaining onsite, the set must be delayed. If the animals depart or appear to no longer be at risk of interacting with the vessel or gear, a further observation period must be conducted. If no further observations are made or the animals still do not appear to be at risk of interaction, then the set may be made. If the vessel is moved to a different area, the move-on rule mitigation protocol would begin anew. If, after moving on, marine mammals remain at risk of interaction, the SWFSC must move again or skip the station. Marine mammals that are sighted further than 500 m from the vessel must be monitored to determine their position and movement in relation to the vessel to determine whether the move-on rule mitigation protocol should be implemented. SWFSC may use best professional judgment in making these decisions.


(4) SWFSC must maintain visual monitoring effort during the entire period of time that purse seine gear is in the water (*i.e.,* throughout gear deployment, fishing, and retrieval). If marine mammals are sighted before the gear is fully removed from the water, SWFSC must take the most appropriate action to avoid marine mammal interaction. SWFSC may use best professional judgment in making this decision.


(5) If purse seine operations have been suspended because of the presence of marine mammals, SWFSC may resume seine operations when practicable only when the animals are believed to have departed the area. SWFSC may use best professional judgment in making this determination.


(6) If any cetaceans are observed in a purse seine net, SWFSC must immediately open the net and free the animals.




