# ยง 301.1   Terms defined.

(a) As used in this part, unless the context otherwise specifically requires:


(1) The term *act* means the *Fur Products Labeling Act* (approved Aug. 8, 1951, Pub. L. 110, 82d Cong., 1st Sess.; 15 U.S.C.A. sec. 69; 65 Stat. 179).


(2) The terms *rule, rules, regulations,* and *rules and regulations,* mean the rules and regulations prescribed by the Commission pursuant to section 8 (b) of the act.


(3) The definitions of terms contained in section 2 of the act shall be applicable also to such terms when used in rules promulgated under the act.


(4) The terms *Fur Products Name Guide* and *Name Guide* mean the register of names of hair, fleece, and fur-bearing animals issued and amended by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of section 7 of the act.


(5) The terms *required information* and *information required* mean the information required to be disclosed on labels, invoices and in advertising under the act and rules and regulations, and such further information as may be permitted by the regulations, when and if used.


(6) The terms *invoice* and *invoice or other document* mean an account, order, memorandum, list, or catalog, which is issued to a purchaser, consignee, bailee, correspondent, agent, or any other person, electronically, in writing, or in some other form capable of being read and preserved in a form that is capable of being accurately reproduced for later reference, whether by transmission, printing, or otherwise, in connection with the marketing or handling of any fur or fur product transported or delivered to such person.


(b) The term *wearing apparel* as used in the definition of a fur product in section 2(d) of the Act means (1) Any articles of clothing or covering for any part of the body; and (2) shall include any assembled furs, used furs, or waste furs, in attached form, including mats, plates or garment shells or furs flat off the board, and furs which have been dyed, tip-dyed, bleached or artificially colored, intended for use as or in wearing apparel: *Provided, however,* That the provisions of section 4(2) of the Act shall not be applicable to those fur products set out in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.



---

[N] [17 FR 6075, July 8, 1952, as amended at 26 FR 3186, Apr. 14, 1961; 61 FR 67709, Dec. 24, 1996; 65 FR 82270, Dec. 28, 2000; 79 FR 30458, May 28, 2014]




