# ยง 361.10   Submission, approval, and disapproval of the State plan.

(a) *Purpose.* (1) To be eligible to receive funds under this part for a fiscal year, a State must submit, and have approved, a vocational rehabilitation services portion of a Unified or Combined State Plan in accordance with section 102 or 103 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act.


(2) The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must satisfy all requirements set forth in this part.


(b) *Separate part relating to the vocational rehabilitation of individuals who are blind.* If a separate State agency administers or supervises the administration of a separate part of the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan relating to the vocational rehabilitation of individuals who are blind, that part of the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must separately conform to all applicable requirements under this part.


(c) *Public participation.* Prior to the adoption of any substantive policies or procedures specific to the provision of vocational rehabilitation services under the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan, including making any substantive amendment to those policies and procedures, the designated State agency must conduct public meetings throughout the State, in accordance with the requirements of ยง 361.20.


(d) *Submission, approval, disapproval, and duration.* All requirements regarding the submission, approval, disapproval, and duration of the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan are governed by regulations set forth in subpart D of this part.


(e) *Submission of policies and procedures.* The State is not required to submit policies, procedures, or descriptions required under this part that have been previously submitted to the Secretary and that demonstrate that the State meets the requirements of this part, including any policies, procedures, or descriptions submitted under this part that are in effect on July 22, 2014.


(f) *Due process.* If the Secretary disapproves the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan, the Secretary will follow these procedures:


(1) *Informal resolution.* Prior to disapproving the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan, the Secretary attempts to resolve disputes informally with State officials.


(2) *Notice.* If, after reasonable effort has been made to resolve the dispute, no resolution has been reached, the Secretary provides notice to the State agency of the intention to disapprove the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan and of the opportunity for a hearing.


(3) *State plan hearing.* If the State agency requests a hearing, the Secretary designates one or more individuals, either from the Department or elsewhere, not responsible for or connected with the administration of this program, to conduct a hearing in accordance with the provisions of 34 CFR part 81, subpart A.


(4) *Initial decision.* The hearing officer issues an initial decision in accordance with 34 CFR 81.41.


(5) *Petition for review of an initial decision.* The State agency may seek the Secretary's review of the initial decision in accordance with 34 CFR part 81.


(6) *Review by the Secretary.* The Secretary reviews the initial decision in accordance with 34 CFR 81.43.


(7) *Final decision of the Department.* The final decision of the Department is made in accordance with 34 CFR 81.44.


(8) *Judicial review.* A State may appeal the Secretary's decision to disapprove the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan by filing a petition for review with the United States Court of Appeals for the circuit in which the State is located, in accordance with section 107(d) of the Act.



---

[N] [81 FR 55741, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 55779, Aug. 19, 2016]




