# § 412.433   Procedural requirements under the IPFQR Program.

(a) *Statutory authority.* Section 1886(s)(4) of the Act requires the Secretary to implement a quality reporting program for inpatient psychiatric hospitals and psychiatric units. Under section 1886(s)(4) of the Act, for an IPF paid under the IPF PPS that fails to submit data required for the quality measures selected by the Secretary in a form and manner and at a time specified by the Secretary, we reduce the otherwise applicable annual update to the standard Federal rate by 2.0 percentage points with respect to the applicable fiscal year.


(b) *Participation in the IPFQR Program.* To participate in the IPFQR Program, an IPF (as defined under § 412.402) that is paid under the IPF PPS must:


(1) Register and maintain an account on the CMS-designated information system before beginning to report data, identification of a security official is necessary to complete such registration; and


(2) Submit a notice of participation (NOP).


(c) *Withdrawal from the IPFQR Program.* An IPF may withdraw from the IPFQR Program by changing the NOP status in the secure portion of the CMS-designated information system. The IPF may withdraw at any time up to and including August 15 before the beginning of each respective payment determination year. A withdrawn IPF is subject to a reduced annual payment update as specified under paragraph (a) of this section and is mandatory to renew participation as specified in paragraph (b) of this section in order to participate in any future year of the IPFQR Program.


(d) *Submission of IPFQR Program data.* In general, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, IPFs that participate in the IPFQR Program must submit to CMS data on measures selected under section 1886(s)(4)(D) of the Act and specified non-measure data in a form and manner, and at a time specified by CMS.


(e) *Quality measure updates, retention, and removal*—(1) *General rule for updates to quality measures.* CMS uses rulemaking to make substantive updates to the specifications of measures used in the IPFQR Program


(2) *General rule for the retention of quality measures.* Quality measures adopted for the IPFQR Program measure set for a previous payment determination year are retained for use in subsequent payment determination years, except when they are removed, suspended, or modified as set forth in paragraph (3) of this section.


(3) *Measure removal, suspension, or modification through the rulemaking process.* CMS will use the regular rulemaking process to remove, suspend, or modify quality measures in the IPFQR Program to allow for public comment.


(i) *Factors for consideration in removal or replacement of quality measures.* CMS will weigh whether to remove or modify measures based on the following factors:


(A) Factor 1: Measure performance among IPFs is so high and unvarying that meaningful distinctions and improvements in performance can no longer be made;


(B) Factor 2: Measure does not align with current clinical guidelines or practice;


(C) Factor 3: Measure can be replaced by a more broadly applicable measure (across settings or populations) or a measure that is more proximal in time to desired patient outcomes for the particular topic;


(D) Factor 4: Measure performance or improvement does not result in better patient outcomes;


(E) Factor 5: Measure can be replaced by a measure that is more strongly associated with desired patient outcomes for the particular topic;


(F) Factor 6: Measure collection or public reporting leads to negative unintended consequences other than patient harm;


(G) Factor 7: Measure is not feasible to implement as specified; and


(H) Factor 8: The costs associated with a measure outweigh the benefit of its continued use in the program.


(ii) *Retention.* CMS may retain a quality measure that meets one or more of the measure removal factors described in paragraph (i) of this subsection if the continued collection of data on the quality measure would align with other CMS and HHS policy goals, align with other CMS programs, or support efforts to move IPFs toward reporting electronic measures.


(f) *Extraordinary circumstances exception.* CMS may grant an exception to one or more data submissions deadlines and requirements in the event of extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the IPF, such as when an act of nature affects an entire region or locale or a systemic problem with one of CMS's data collection systems directly or indirectly affects data submission. CMS may grant an exception as follows:


(1) Upon request by the IPF.


(2) At the discretion of CMS. CMS may grant exceptions to IPFs that have not requested them when CMS determines that an extraordinary circumstance has occurred.


(g) *Public reporting of IPFQR Program data.* Data that an IPF submits to CMS for the IPFQR Program will be made publicly available on a CMS website after providing the IPF an opportunity to review the data to be made public. IPFs will have a period of 30 days to review and submit corrections to errors resulting from CMS calculations prior to the data being made public.



---

[N] [88 FR 51161, Aug. 2, 2023]






