# ยง 42.03-10   Foreign vessels subject to this subchapter.

(a) *General.* All existing foreign merchant vessels of 150 gross tons or over, and new foreign vessels of 79 feet in length or more, loading at or proceeding from any port or place within the jurisdiction of the United States or its possessions for a foreign voyage by sea, or arriving within the jurisdiction of the United States or its possessions from a foreign voyage by sea, in both cases the Great Lakes excepted, are subject to 46 U.S.C. 5101-5116, and the regulations in this part applicable to such service. All foreign merchant vessels of 150 gross tons or over, loading at or proceeding from any port or place within the United States on the Great Lakes of North America, or arriving within the jurisdiction of the United States on the Great Lakes, are subject to 46 U.S.C. 5101-5116 and the regulations in part 45 of this subchapter applicable to such service.


(b) *Canadian vessels.* All vessels of Canadian registry and holding valid certificates issued pursuant to Canadian laws and regulations are assumed to be in compliance with the applicable provisions of 46 U.S.C. 5101-5116, the International Convention on Load Lines, 1966, and the regulations in this subchapter.


(c) *Vessels of countries signatory to or adhering to the 1966 Convention.* The enforcement and control of load line requirements regarding vessels of countries signatory to or adhering to The International Convention on Load Lines, 1966, (the 1966 Convention) are as described in ยง 42.07-60 in this part, which is in accord with provisions of Article 21 of the 1966 Convention. Such vessels when holding currently valid certificates issued pursuant to the 1966 Convention, or recognized under such Convention, are assumed to be in compliance with the applicable provisions of such Convention. Such vessels are deemed to be in compliance with the load line requirements found to be equally effective as those established in this part and therefore in compliance with the applicable load line provisions of 46 U.S.C. 5101-5116, as amended, and the regulations in this part as authorized by such laws. Vessels engaged in navigation on the Great Lakes are subject to application of seasonal international marks as specified in part 45 of this subchapter.


(d) *Vessels of countries not signatory to or adhering to the 1966 Convention.* (1) Vessels of countries not signatory to or adhering to the 1966 Convention, when within the jurisdiction of the United States, shall be subject to 46 U.S.C. 5101-5116, and the regulations in this subchapter as authorized by such laws.


(2) Vessels of countries signatory to or adhering only to International Load Line Convention, London, 1930 (the 1930 Convention), and holding valid certificates issued under that Convention, are subject to the applicable law described in paragraph (a) of this section and the regulations prescribed thereunder in this subchapter.



---

[N] [CGD 80-120, 47 FR 5722, Feb. 8, 1982, as amended by CGD 97-057, 62 FR 51043, Sept. 30, 1997; USCG-1998-4442, 63 FR 52190, Sept. 30, 1998]




