# ยง 1774.2   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to subparts A and B of this part.


*Agency.* The Rural Utilities Service of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) within the Rural Development mission area of the Under Secretary for Rural Development. The Processing Official will administer this water and waste program on behalf of the Rural Utilities Service.


*Approval official.* The Agency official at the State level who has been delegated the authority to approve grants.


*ConAct.* Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926(a)(2)).


*Design assistance.* Preliminary design and engineering analysis necessary for an application for funding. Design assistance does not include financial assistance for development of plans, specifications, or bidding documents.




*Eligible entity.* Entity that meets eligibility requirements to obtain a loan, loan guarantee or grant under Paragraphs 1, 2 or 24 of Section 306(a) of the ConAct (codified at 7 U.S.C. Section 1926(a)(1)(2) and (24)).


*Feasibility study.* Documentation associated with an objective analysis of project-related technical engineering or environmental impact analyses required to support applications for funding water or waste disposal projects through USDA, Rural Utilities Service or other agencies.


*Financially distressed area.* An area is considered financially distressed if the median household income of the area to be served is either below the poverty line or below 80 percent of the statewide non-metropolitan median household income according to the 5-year income data from the American Community Survey (ACS) or, if needed, other Census Bureau data. If there is reason to believe that the ACS or other Census Bureau data does not accurately represent the median household income of the area to be served, the reasons will be documented and the borrower may furnish, or RD may obtain, additional information regarding such median household income data. Information must consist of reliable data from local, regional, State or Federal sources or from a survey conducted by a reliable impartial source.


*Grantee.* The applicant receiving financial assistance directly from the RUS to carry out the project or program under this program.


*Poverty line.* The level of income for a family of four, as defined in section 673(2) of the Community Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9902(2)).


*Processing Official.* The Agency official designated by the approval official as having the authority to accept and process applications for water and waste disposal assistance.


*Rural area.* For the purposes of this SEARCH program, any communities in a city, town, or unincorporated area with populations of 2,500 or fewer inhabitants, according to the most recent decennial Census of the United States (decennial Census), and which excludes certain populations pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(H) and (I).


*State.* Any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Territory of Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of Palau, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.


*Technical Assistance.* Supervision, oversight, or training by an organization for the development of an application for financial assistance.



---

[N] [75 FR 35963, June 24, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 9862, Feb. 24, 2015; 84 FR 3669, Feb. 13, 2019; 87 FR 38642, June 29, 2022; 89 FR 34958, May 1, 2024]




