# ยง 282.3   Definitions.

(a) *Armed Forces.* The Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Marine Corps, and the Coast Guard.


(b) *Claim.* A demand for money or property under one of the following statutes: 31 U.S.C. 3702, 10 U.S.C. 2575, 10 U.S.C. 2771, 24 U.S.C. 420, 10 U.S.C. 4712, 10 U.S.C. 9712, 37 U.S.C. 554, or 32 U.S.C. 714.


(c) *Committee.* The person or persons invested, by order of a proper court, with the guardianship of a minor or incompetent person and /or the estate of a minor or incompetent person.


(d) *Component Concerned.* The agency/activity (as well as the official designated by the Head of the agency/activity) required to perform the function or take the action indicated or from whose activity a claim arose.


(e) *Final Action.* A finding by the appropriate official under this part concerning a claim from which there is no right to appeal or request reconsideration, or concerning which the time limit prescribed in this part for submitting an appeal or request for reconsideration has expired without such a submission.


(f) *Member.* A member or former member of the Uniformed Services.


(g) *Secretary Concerned.* The Secretary of the Army, addressing matters concerning the Army. The Secretary of the Navy, addressing matters concerning the Navy, the Marine Corps, and the Coast Guard when it is operating as a Service in the Navy. The Secretary of the Air Force, addressing matters concerning the Air Force. The Secretary of Homeland Security, addressing matters concerning the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a Service in the Navy. The Secretary of Health and Human Services, addressing matters concerning the PHS. The Secretary of Commerce, addressing matters concerning the NOAA.


(h) *Settlement.* A claim and the amount due that is administratively determined to be valid.


(i) *Uniformed Services.* The Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Marine Corps, the Coast Guard, and the Commissioned Corps of the PHS and the NOAA.




