# § 300.222   Prohibitions.

In addition to the prohibitions in § 300.4, it is unlawful for any person to:


(a) Fail to obtain and have on board a fishing vessel a valid WCPFC Area Endorsement as required in § 300.212.


(b) Fail to report a change in the information required in an application for a WCPFC Area Endorsement as required in § 300.212(g).


(c) Fail to provide information on vessels and fishing authorizations or fail to report changes in such information as required in § 300.213.


(d) Fish for, retain on board, or land fish, including HMS, in areas under the jurisdiction of a nation other than the United States without authorization by such nation to do so, as provided in § 300.214(a)(1) and (b)(1).


(e) Operate a fishing vessel in violation of, or fail to ensure the vessel crew complies with, the applicable national laws of a member of the Commission other than the United States, including any laws related to carrying vessel observers or the operation of VMS units, as provided in § 300.214(a)(2) and (b)(2).


(f) Fail to carry, allow on board, or assist a WCPFC observer as required in § 300.215.


(g) Assault, obstruct, resist, delay, refuse boarding to, intimidate, harass, or interfere with a WCPFC observer, or attempt to do any of the same, or fail to provide a WCPFC observer with food, accommodation or medical facilities, as required in § 300.215.


(h) Offload, receive, or load fish from a purse seine vessel at sea in the Convention Area, in contravention of § 300.216.


(i) Fail to mark a fishing vessel or a boat, skiff, or other watercraft on board the fishing vessel as required in § 300.217, or remove, obscure, or obstruct such markings, or attempt to do so.


(j) Fail to maintain and report catch and effort information or transshipment information as required in § 300.218.


(k) Fail to install, activate, or operate a VMS unit as required in § 300.219(c).


(l) In the event of VMS unit failure or interruption, fail to repair or replace a VMS unit, fail to notify the SAC and follow the instructions provided, or otherwise fail to act as provided in § 300.219(c)(4).


(m) Disable, destroy, damage or operate improperly a VMS unit installed under § 300.219, or attempt to do any of the same, or fail to ensure that its operation is not impeded or interfered with, as provided in § 300.219(e).


(n) Fail to make a VMS unit installed under § 300.219 or the position data obtained from it available for inspection, as provided in § 300.219(f) and (g).


(o) Fail to carry on board and monitor communication devices as required in § 300.219(h).


(p) Fail to carry on board and make available the required vessel documentation and authorizations as required in § 300.221(a)(1).


(q) Fail to continuously monitor the specified radio frequencies as required in § 300.221(a)(2).


(r) Fail to carry on board, and keep accessible, an up-to-date copy of the International Code of Signals as required in § 300.221(a)(3).


(s) Fail to provide access to, or fail to allow and assist, a WCPFC transshipment monitor as required in § 300.221(a)(4).


(t) Fail to comply with the instructions of, or fail to accept and facilitate prompt and safe boarding by, a WCPFC inspector, or fail to cooperate and assist a WCPFC inspector in the inspection of a fishing vessel, as provided in § 300.221(b).


(u) Fail to stow fishing gear or fishing equipment as required in § 300.221(c).


(v) Use a fishing vessel equipped with purse seine gear to fish in an area closed to purse seine fishing under § 300.223(a).


(w) Set a purse seine around, near or in association with a FAD or a vessel, deploy, activate, or service a FAD, or use lights in contravention of § 300.223(b).


(x) Discard fish at sea in the Convention Area in contravention of § 300.223(d).


(y) Fail to comply with the sea turtle mitigation gear and handling requirements of § 300.223(f).


(z) Use a fishing vessel to retain on board, transship, or land bigeye tuna captured by longline gear in the Convention Area or to fish in contravention of § 300.224(f)(1) or (f)(2).


(aa) Use a fishing vessel to fish in the Pacific Ocean using longline gear both inside and outside the Convention Area on the same fishing trip in contravention of § 300.224(f)(3).


(bb) Fail to stow longline gear as required in § 300.224(f)(4).


(cc) Fail to carry on board a WCPFC observer during a transshipment at sea, as required in § 300.215(d).


(dd) Offload, receive, or load fish caught in the Convention Area from a purse seine vessel at sea in contravention of § 300.216.


(ee) Fail to ensure that a WCPFC observer is on board at least one of the vessels involved in the transshipment for the duration of the transshipment in contravention of § 300.216(b)(2)(i), except as specified at § 300.216(b)(4).


(ff) Receive transshipments from more than one fishing vessel at a time in contravention of § 300.216(b)(2)(ii), except as specified at § 300.216(b)(4).


(gg) Transship to or from another vessel, in contravention of § 300.216(b)(3)(i), except as specified at § 300.216(b)(4).


(hh) Provide bunkering, receive bunkering, or exchange supplies or provisions with another vessel, in contravention of § 300.216(b)(3)(ii).


(ii) Engage in net sharing except as specified under § 300.216(c).


(jj) Fail to submit, or ensure submission of, a transshipment report as required in § 300.218(b), except as specified under § 300.218(c).


(kk) Fail to submit, or ensure submission of, a transshipment notice as required in § 300.218(d).


(ll) Transship more than 24 nautical miles from the location indicated in the transshipment notice, in contravention of § 300.218(d)(3).


(mm) Fail to submit, or ensure submission of, a discard report as required in § 300.218(e).


(nn) Fail to submit, or ensure submission of, a net sharing report as required in § 300.218(f).


(oo) Transship in the Eastern High Seas Special Management Area in contravention of § 300.225.


(pp) Fail to submit, or ensure submission of, a daily purse seine fishing effort report as required in § 300.218(g).


(qq) Fail to submit, or ensure submission of, a whale shark encirclement report as required in § 300.218(h).


(rr) Set or attempt to set a purse seine on or around a whale shark (*Rhincodon typus*) in contravention of § 300.223(g).


(ss) Fail to release a whale shark encircled in a purse seine net of a fishing vessel as required in § 300.223(h).


(tt) Use a fishing vessel to retain on board, transship, store, or land any part or whole carcass of an oceanic whitetip shark (*Carcharhinus longimanus*) or silky shark (*Carcharhinus falciformis*) in contravention of § 300.226(a).


(uu) Fail to release an oceanic whitetip shark or silky shark as required in § 300.226(b).


(vv) Fail to obtain an IMO number for a fishing vessel as required in § 300.217(c).


(ww) Fail to carry an observer as required in § 300.223(e).


(xx) Fail to comply with any of the limits, restrictions, prohibitions, or requirements specified under § 300.227.




(yy) Fail to comply with the requirements of any temporary specification issued under § 300.228.




(zz) Fail to comply with the observer safety requirements in § 300.215(f).




(aaa) Fail to provide pre-trip notification per requirements in § 300.215(b).




(bbb) Fail to comply with the FAD design requirements in § 300.223(b)(4).


(ccc) Fail to comply with the requirements of any exemption under § 300.226(e).


(ddd) Fail to comply with any of the restrictions, prohibitions or requirements specified in § 300.229.


(eee) Fail to comply with the handling and release requirements in § 300.230.







---

[N] [74 FR 38554, Aug. 4, 2009, as amended at 74 FR 64010, Dec. 7, 2009; 75 FR 3355, Jan. 21, 2010; 77 FR 51714, Aug. 27, 2012; 77 FR 71512, Dec. 3, 2012; 79 FR 71331, Dec. 2, 2014; 80 FR 8815, Feb. 19, 2015; 80 FR 59048, Oct. 1, 2015; 81 FR 41250, June 24, 2016; 83 FR 33869, July 18, 2018; 86 FR 31181, June 11, 2021; 86 FR 35659, July 7, 2021; 88 FR 30678, May 12, 2023]




