# § 28.10   Permitted and prohibited uses.

(a) *The Community Development District*—(1) *Permitted uses.* (i) The construction, alteration, expansion, movement, reconstruction, and maintenance of a detached building which is used principally as a single-family home, church, school, or community facility; as an accessory structure; or as an office for a professional occupation, as defined in approved local ordinances is permitted. Reconstruction of non-conforming uses is permitted in accordance with § 28.11. A professional office may be maintained only incidental to a residential use and shall be utilized by a person residing on the premises.


(ii) A commercial or industrial use in continuous and unchanged operation since September 11, 1964 is permitted. Any change in use of a commercial or industrial use since September 11, 1964 including construction, expansion, or conversion of an existing structure or a change in type, mode or manner of operation constitutes a new commercial or industrial use and may be permitted subject to the approval of the local zoning authority and review by the Superintendent.


(iii) A commercial or industrial use initiated after September 11, 1964 constitutes a new commercial or industrial use and may be permitted with the approval of the local zoning authority and review by the Superintendent. Any change in use of a commercial or industrial use approved by a local zoning authority after September 11, 1964, including construction, expansion, or conversion of an existing structure, or a change in type, location, mode or manner of operation, shall constitute a new commercial or industrial use and may be permitted with approval of the local zoning authority and review by the Superintendent.


(2) *Prohibited uses.* (i) The construction or expansion of an apartment building or other building with multiple dwelling units or conversion of an existing building into a multiple family home is prohibited.


(ii) The construction or expansion of a guest house with cooking facilities, or conversion of an existing structure to a guest house with cooking facilities is prohibited.


(iii) The subdivision of land into lots which are less than 4000 feet, or that do not meet the requirements of the applicable approved zoning ordinance is prohibited.


(iv) The rezoning of an area zoned residential to commercial or industrial without review by the Secretary is prohibited.


(b) *The Seashore District*—(1) *Permitted uses.* (i) The alteration, expansion, movement, and maintenance of privately-held “improved property” used as a single-family home or as an accessory structure is permitted. Reconstruction is permitted in accordance with § 28.11.


(ii) Any use consistent with the purposes of this Act, which is not likely to cause significant harm to the natural resources of the Seashore, on any lands, whether publicly or privately-held, which lie below mean high water in either the Atlantic Ocean or the Great South Bay is allowable. 


(2) *Prohibited uses.* Construction, development or expansion of any property other than “improved property” is prohibited. The provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section apply to all privately-held property in the Seashore District.


(c) *The Dune District*—(1) *Permitted uses.* (i) A community vehicular and private or community pedestrian dune crossing approved by the zoning authority and reviewed by the Superintendent as necessary for access to areas behind the dune. Such dune protection measures as snow fencing, poles, beach nourishment, dune grass planting, or other scientifically sanctioned biological or ecological sand enhancing or stabilization methods are allowable.


(ii) Residential use and maintenance of an existing structure or reconstruction in accordance with § 28.11 is allowable.


(2) *Prohibited uses.* (i) Any development subsequent to November 10, 1978 including construction of a new structure or expansion of an existing structure, such as a building, bulkhead, pile, septic system, revetment, deck, swimming pool, or other structure or man-made dune stabilization device except as allowed under paragraph (c)(i) of this section.


(ii) Any use of the dune, other than those outlined in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, including recreational use.


(3) *Conflict with other provisions.* If a development or lot lies partially within the Dune District and partially in the Community Development District, or partially within the Dune District and partially within the Seashore District, and the standards applicable to the development, lot, or use are in conflict, the standards for the Dune District prevail for the portion of the development, lot, or use which lies within the Dune District. (d) General recreation, environmental and historic preservation and education, and natural resource protection uses and facilities consistent with the uses and facilities appropriate for each zone as set forth in the General Management Plan and Final Environmental Impact Statement are permitted on publicly-held property.




