# § 63.6000   How do I conduct tests and procedures for puncture sealant application affected sources?

(a) *Methods to determine compliance with the puncture sealant application emission limitations in Table 3 to this subpart.* Use the methods and equations in paragraph (b) of this section to demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with the overall control efficiency compliance alternatives described in § 63.5989(a) and (b). Use the methods and equations in paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section to demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with the HAP constituent compliance alternative described in § 63.5989(c) and (d). 


(b) *Methods to determine compliance with the emission limits in Table 3 to this subpart, option 1.* Follow the test procedures described in § 63.5993 to determine the overall control efficiency of your system. 


(1) You must also meet the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. 


(i) Conduct the performance test using a puncture sealant with an average mass percent HAP content that is representative of the puncture sealants typically used at your puncture sealant application affected source. 


(ii) Establish all applicable operating limit ranges that correspond to the control system efficiency as described in Table 5 to this subpart. 


(2) Use Equation 1 of this section to calculate the overall efficiency of the control system. If you have a permanent total enclosure that satisfies EPA Method 204 (found in 40 CFR part 51, appendix M) criteria, assume 100 percent capture efficiency for variable F. Equation 1 follows: 


(3) Monitor the established operating limits as appropriate. 


(i) If you use a thermal oxidizer, monitor the firebox secondary chamber temperature. 


(ii) If you use a carbon adsorber, monitor the total regeneration stream mass or volumetric flow for each regeneration cycle, and the carbon bed temperature after each regeneration, and within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle.


(iii) For each control device used other than a thermal oxidizer or a regenerative carbon adsorber, install and operate a continuous parameter monitoring system according to your site-specific performance test plan submitted according to § 63.7(c)(2)(i). 


(iv) If you use a permanent total enclosure, monitor the face velocity across the NDO in the enclosure. Also, if you use an enclosure, monitor to ensure that the sizes of the NDO have not changed, that there are no new NDO, and that a HAP emission source has not been moved closer to an NDO since the last performance test was conducted. 


(v) If you use other capture systems, monitor the parameters identified in your monitoring plan. 


(vi) Maintain the operating parameter within the operating range established during the performance test. 


(c) *Methods to determine the mass percent of each HAP in puncture sealants.* To determine the HAP content in the puncture sealant used at your puncture sealant application affected source, use EPA Method 311 of appendix A of 40 CFR part 63, an approved alternative method, or any other reasonable means for determining the HAP content of your puncture sealants. Other reasonable means include, but are not limited to: an MSDS, provided it contains appropriate information; a CPDS; or a manufacturer's hazardous air pollutant data sheet. You are not required to test the materials that you use, but the Administrator may require a test using EPA Method 311 (or an approved alternative method) to confirm the reported HAP content. If the results of an analysis by EPA Method 311 are different from the HAP content determined by another means, the EPA Method 311 results will govern compliance determinations. 


(d) *Methods to determine compliance with the emission limits in Table 3 to this subpart, option 2.* Use the equations in this paragraph (d) to demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with the HAP constituent emission limits for puncture sealant application affected sources using the compliance alternatives described in § 63.5989(c) and (d). 


(1) Use Equation 2 of this section to calculate the monthly average HAP emission rate when complying by using puncture sealants without using an add-on control device to show that the monthly average HAP emissions do not exceed the emission limits in Table 3 to this subpart, option 2. Equation 2 follows: 


(2) Use Equation 3 of this section to calculate the monthly average HAP emission rate when complying by using puncture sealants by using an add-on control device to show that the monthly average HAP emissions do not exceed the emission limits in Table 3 to this subpart, option 2. Equation 3 follows: 


(3) Each monthly calculation is a compliance demonstration for the purpose of this subpart. 


(e) *Specific compliance demonstration requirements for puncture sealant application affected sources.* (1) Conduct any required compliance demonstrations according to the requirements in § 63.5993. 


(2) Conduct the compliance demonstration using a puncture sealant with average mass percent HAP content that is representative of the puncture sealants typically used at your puncture sealant application affected source. 


(3) Establish an operating range that corresponds to the appropriate control efficiency described in Table 5 to this subpart. 


(f) *How to take credit for HAP emissions reductions from add-on control devices.* If you want to take credit in Equation 3 of this section for HAP emissions reduced using a control system, you must monitor the established operating parameters as appropriate and meet the requirements in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. 


(g) *How to take credit for HAP emissions reductions when streams are combined.* When performing material balances to demonstrate compliance, if the storage of materials, exhaust, or the wastewater from more than one affected source are combined at the point where control systems are applied, any credit for emissions reductions needs to be prorated among the affected sources based on the ratio of their contribution to the uncontrolled emissions. 




