# § 220.11   Reimbursement procedures.

(a) To be entitled to reimbursement under this part, each School Food Authority shall submit to the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, a monthly Claim for Reimbursement.


(b) Claims for Reimbursement shall include data in sufficient detail to justify the reimbursement claimed and to enable the State agency to provide the Reports of School Program Operations required under § 220.13(b)(2). Unless otherwise approved by FNS, the Claim for Reimbursement for any month shall include only breakfasts served in that month except if the first or last month of Program operations for any year contains 10 operating days or less, such month may be added to the Claim for Reimbursement for the appropriate adjacent month; however, Claims for Reimbursement may not combine operations occurring in two fiscal years. If a single State agency administers any combination of the Child Nutrition Programs, the SFA shall be able to use a common claim form with respect to claims for reimbursement for meals served under those programs. A final Claim for Reimbursement shall be postmarked and/or submitted to the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, not later than 60 days following the last day of the full month covered by the claim. State agencies may establish shorter deadlines at their discretion. Claims not postmarked and/or submitted within 60 days shall not be paid with Program funds unless FNS determines that an exception should be granted. The State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, shall promptly take corrective action with respect to any Claim for Reimbursement as determined necessary through its claim review process or otherwise. In taking such corrective action, State agencies may make upward adjustments in Program funds claimed on claims filed within the 60 day deadline if such adjustments are completed within 90 days of the last day of the claim month and are reflected in the final Report of School Program Operations (FNS-10) for the claim month which is required under § 220.13(b)(2). Upward adjustments in Program funds claimed which are not reflected in the final FNS-10 for the claim month shall not be made unless authorized by FNS. Downward adjustments in Program funds claimed shall always be made, without FNS authorization, regardless of when it is determined that such adjustments are necessary.


(c) Where a school participates in both the National School Lunch Program and the School Breakfast Program, the State agency or FNSRO, where applicable, may authorize the submission of one claim for reimbursement to cover both programs.


(d) The school food authority shall establish internal controls which ensure the accuracy of breakfast counts prior to the submission of the monthly Claim for Reimbursement. At a minimum, these internal controls shall include: an on-site review of the breakfast counting and claiming system employed by each school within the jurisdiction of the school food authority; comparisons of daily free, reduced price and paid breakfast counts against data which will assist in the identification of breakfast counts in excess of the number of free, reduced price and paid breakfasts served each day to children eligible for such breakfasts; and a system for following up on those breakfast counts which suggest the likelihood of breakfast counting problems.


(1) *On-site reviews.* Every school year, each school food authority with more than one school shall perform no less than one on-site review of the breakfast counting and claiming system and the readily observable general areas of review identified under § 210.18(h) of this chapter, as specified by FNS, for a minimum of 50 percent of schools under its jurisdiction with every school within the jurisdiction being reviewed at least once every two years. The on-site review shall take place prior to February 1 of each school year. Further, if the review discloses problems with a school's meal counting or claiming procedures or general review areas, the school food authority shall ensure that the school implements corrective action, and within 45 days of the review, conduct a follow-up on-site review to determine that the corrective action resolved the problems. Each on-site review shall ensure that the school's claim is based on the counting system and that the counting system, as implemented, yields the actual number of reimbursable free, reduced price and paid breakfasts, respectively, served for each day of operation.


(2) *School food authority claims review process.* Prior to the submission of a monthly Claim for Reimbursement, each school food authority shall review the breakfast count data for each school under its jurisdiction to ensure the accuracy of the monthly Claim for Reimbursement. The objective of this review is to ensure that monthly claims include only the number of free, reduced price and paid breakfasts served on any day of operation to children currently eligible for such breakfasts.


(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, may advance funds available for the School Breakfast Program to a School Food Authority in an amount equal to the reimbursement estimated for the total number of breakfasts, including free and reduced price breakfasts, to be served to children for 1 month. The State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, shall require School Food Authorities who receive advances of funds under the provisions of this paragraph to make timely submissions of claims for reimbursement on a monthly basis and shall suspend advances of funds in the absence of such timely submissions. Following the receipt of claims the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, shall make such adjustments as are necessary in such advances of funds to insure that the total amount of reimbursement received by a School Food Authority for the fiscal year will not exceed an amount equal to the number of breakfasts, including free and reduced price breakfast, served to children times the respective rates of reimbursement assigned by the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, in accordance with § 220.9.



---

[N] [32 FR 35, Jan. 5, 1967, as amended by Amdt. 9, 37 FR 9613, May 13, 1972; 40 FR 30924, July 24, 1975; 45 FR 82622, Dec. 16, 1980; 47 FR 31376, July 20, 1982; 48 FR 40196, Sept. 6, 1983; Amdt. 49, 49 FR 18987, May 4, 1984; 64 FR 50742, Sept. 20, 1999; 81 FR 50193, July 29, 2016]




