# § 22.102   Prohibited uses.

(a) *Usage.* Under no circumstances may tax-free alcohol withdrawn under this part be used for beverage purposes, food products, or in any preparation used in preparing beverage or food products.


(b) *Selling.* Persons qualified under this part are prohibited from selling tax-free alcohol, using tax-free alcohol in the manufacture of any product for sale, or selling any products resulting from the use of tax-free alcohol. A separate charge may be made by a hospital, sanitarium or clinic for medicines compounded with tax-free alcohol and dispensed to patients for use on the premises, as provided in §§ 22.105 and 22.106. Hospitals may not furnish tax-free alcohol for use of physicians in their private practice.


(c) *Removal from premises.* Persons qualified under this part may not remove tax-free alcohol or products resulting from the use of tax-free alcohol from the permit premises unless specifically authorized by the terms of their permit, or permission is obtained from the appropriate TTB officer, except that:


(1) Products made through the use of tax-free alcohol which contain no alcohol may be removed to other premises for the sole purpose of further research; or


(2) Under the provisions of §§ 22.105 and 22.106, clinics operated for charity and not for profit may compound bona fide medicines with tax-free alcohol, and dispense the medicine from the premises for use by its patients outside of the clinic, if the furnishing of the medicine is not conditioned upon payment.


(d) *Liability for tax.* Permittees who use tax-free alcohol in any manner prohibited by this section become liable for the tax on the alcohol. Any permittee who sells tax-free alcohol becomes subject to the provisions of part 31 of this chapter.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-199, 50 FR 9183, Mar. 6, 1985, as amended by T.D. TTB-79, 74 FR 37404, July 28, 2009]




