# ยง 349.27   Notice of transfers.

(a) *Prior notice generally required.* Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an FDIC-supervised insured depository institution must provide a retail forex customer with 30 days' prior notice of any assignment of any position or transfer of any account of the retail forex customer. The notice must include a statement that the retail forex customer is not required to accept the proposed assignment or transfer and may direct the FDIC-supervised insured depository institution to liquidate the positions of the retail forex customer or transfer the account to a retail forex counterparty of the retail forex customer's selection.


(b) *Exceptions.* The requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to transfers:


(1) Requested by the retail forex customer;


(2) Made by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation as receiver or conservator under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act; or


(3) Otherwise authorized by applicable law.


(c) *Obligations of transferee FDIC-supervised insured depository institution.* An FDIC-supervised insured depository institution to which retail forex accounts or positions are assigned or transferred under paragraph (a) of this section must provide to the affected retail forex customers the risk disclosure statements and forms of acknowledgment required by this part and receive the required signed acknowledgments within sixty days of such assignments or transfers. This requirement shall not apply if the FDIC-supervised insured depository institution has clear written evidence that the retail forex customer has received and acknowledged receipt of the required disclosure statements.



---

[N] [76 FR 40789, July 12, 2011. Redesignated at 80 FR 74912, Nov. 30, 2015]




