# ยง 616.9   Responsibilities of transferring States.

(a) *Transfer of employment and wages.* Each transferring State shall promptly transfer to the Paying State the employment and wages the Combined-Wage Claimant had in covered employment during the base period of the paying State. Any employment and wages so transferred shall be transferred without restriction as to their use for determination and benefit payments under the provisions of the paying State's law. 


(b) *Employment and wages not transferable.* Employment and wages transferred to the paying State by a transferring State shall not include: 


(1) Any employment and wages which have been transferred to any other paying State and not returned unused, or which have been used in the transferring State as the basis of a monetary determination which established a benefit year. 


(2) Any employment and wages which have been canceled or are otherwise unavailable to the claimant as a result of a determination by the transferring State made prior to its receipt of the request for transfer, if such determination has become final or is in the process of appeal but is still pending. If the appeal is finally decided in favor of the Combined-Wage Claimant, any employment and wages involved in the appeal shall forthwith be transferred to the paying State and any necessary redetermination shall be made by such paying State. 


(c) *Reimbursement of paying State.* Each transferring State shall, as soon as practicable after receipt of a quarterly statement of charges described herein, reimburse the paying State accordingly. 



---

[N] [36 FR 24992, Dec. 28, 1971, as amended at 45 FR 47109, July 11, 1980]




