# § 72.30   Requirement to apply.

(a) *Duty to apply.* The designated representative of any source with an affected unit shall submit a complete Acid Rain permit application by the applicable deadline in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, and the owners and operators of such source and any affected unit at the source shall not operate the source or unit without a permit that states its Acid Rain program requirements.


(b) *Deadlines*—(1) *Phase 1.* (i) The designated representative shall submit a complete Acid Rain permit application governing an affected unit during Phase I to the Administrator on or before February 15, 1993 for:


(A) Any source with such a unit under § 72.6(a)(1); and


(B) Any source with such a unit under § 72.6(a) (2) or (3) that is designated a substitution or compensating unit in a substitution plan or reduced utilization plan submitted to the Administrator for approval or conditional approval.


(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, if a unit at a source not previously permitted is designated a substitution or compensating unit in a submission requesting revision of an existing Acid Rain permit, the designated representative of the unit shall submit a complete Acid Rain permit application on the date that the submission requesting the revision is made.


(2) *Phase II.* (i) For any source with an existing unit under § 72.6(a)(2), the designated representative shall submit a complete Acid Rain permit application governing such unit during Phase II to the permitting authority on or before January 1, 1996.


(ii) For any source with a new unit under § 72.6(a)(3)(i), the designated representative shall submit a complete Acid Rain permit application governing such unit to the permitting authority at least 24 months before the later of January 1, 2000 or the date on which the unit commences operation.


(iii) For any source with a unit under § 72.6(a)(3)(ii), the designated representative shall submit a complete Acid Rain permit application governing such unit to the permitting authority at least 24 months before the later of January 1, 2000 or the date on which the unit begins to serve a generator with a nameplate capacity greater than 25 MWe.


(iv) For any source with a unit under § 72.6(a)(3)(iii), the designated representative shall submit a complete Acid Rain permit application governing such unit to the permitting authority at least 24 months before the later of January 1, 2000 or the date on which the auxiliary firing commences operation.


(v) For any source with a unit under § 72.6(a)(3)(iv), the designated representative shall submit a complete Acid Rain permit application governing such unit to the permitting authority before the later of January 1, 1998 or March 1 of the year following the three calendar year period in which the unit sold to a utility power distribution system an annual average of more than one-third of its potential electrical output capacity and more than 219,000 MWe-hrs actual electric output (on a gross basis).


(vi) For any source with a unit under § 72.6(a)(3)(v), the designated representative shall submit a complete Acid Rain permit application governing such unit to the permitting authority before the later of January 1, 1998 or March 1 of the year following the calendar year in which the facility fails to meet the definition of qualifying facility.


(vii) For any source with a unit under § 72.6(a)(3)(vi), the designated representative shall submit a complete Acid Rain permit application governing such unit to the permitting authority before the later of January 1, 1998 or March 1 of the year following the calendar year in which the facility fails to meet the definition of an independent power production facility.


(viii) For any source with a unit under § 72.6(a)(3)(vii), the designated representative shall submit a complete Acid Rain permit application governing such unit to the permitting authority before the later of January 1, 1998 or March 1 of the year following the three calendar year period in which the incinerator consumed 20 percent or more fossil fuel (on a Btu basis).


(c) *Duty to reapply.* The designated representative shall submit a complete Acid Rain permit application for each source with an affected unit at least 6 months prior to the expiration of an existing Acid Rain permit governing the unit during Phase II or an opt-in permit governing an opt-in source or such longer time as may be approved under part 70 of this chapter that ensures that the term of the existing permit will not expire before the effective date of the permit for which the application is submitted.


(d) The original and three copies of all permit applications for Phase I and where the Administrator is the permitting authority, for Phase II, shall be submitted to the EPA Regional Office for the Region where the affected source is located. The original and three copies of all permit applications for Phase II, where the Administrator is not the permitting authority, shall be submitted to the State permitting authority for the State where the affected source is located.


(e) Where two or more affected units are located at a source, the permitting authority may, in its sole discretion, allow the designated representative of the source to submit, under paragraph (a) or (c) of this section, two or more Acid Rain permit applications covering the units at the source, *provided* that each affected unit is covered by one and only one such application.



---

[N] [58 FR 3650, Jan. 11, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 15649, Mar. 23, 1993; 60 FR 17113, Apr. 4, 1995; 62 FR 55480, Oct. 24, 1997]




