# § 707.25   Appeals.

An individual may appeal a denial made under §§ 707.21 through 707.23 within thirty (30) days of the notification of such denial.


(a) *How to submit.* The appeal must be in writing, labeled “Privacy Act Appeal,” and should be addressed to the Executive Vice President. The request may either be mailed to DFC or delivered to the receptionist at 1100 New York Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20527, during regular business hours, between 8:45 a.m. and 5:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding public holidays.


(b) *Information to include.* All requests under this section must:


(1) Be in writing and be signed by the requester;


(2) Be clearly labeled “PRIVACY ACT APPEAL” on both the letter and the envelope;


(3) Clearly reference the determination being appealed; and


(4) Provide support for your information, including documentation provided in the initial determination and any additional information.


(b) *Appeal determination.* The Executive Vice President will advise the individual of DFC's determination within thirty (30) business days. If the Executive Vice President is unable to provide a determination within thirty business days, the individual will be advised in writing of the reason before the expiry of the thirty business days.


(1) *Overturn initial determination.* If the Executive Vice President grants the appeal and overturns the initial determination in whole or part, the individual will be notified in writing and the requested action taken promptly along with any other steps DFC would have taken had the initial determination come to the same result as the appeal.


(2) *Uphold initial determination.* If the Executive Vice President denies the appeal and upholds the initial determination in whole or in part, the individual will be notified in writing and provided with an explanation. In cases where a denial of amendment or correction is upheld, the individual will also be notified of the ability to file a statement of disagreement under paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Statement of disagreement.* If an individual is denied a request to amend a record in whole or in part and that denial is upheld on appeal, the individual may file a statement of disagreement. Statements of disagreement must be concise, clearly identify each part of any record that is disputed, and should be no longer than one typed page for each fact disputed. The statement of disagreement will be placed in the system of records that contains the disputed record and the record will be marked to indicate that a statement of disagreement has been filed. The statement of disagreement will be attached to any future releases of the disputed record and may be accompanied by a concise statement from DFC explaining its denial.




