# ยง 31.500   Program purposes.

Funds are available under the Juvenile Accountability Incentive Block Grants (JAIBG) in FY 1998, FY 1999, and each subsequent fiscal year as funds are made available, for State and local grants to support the following program purposes:


(a) *Program purpose no. 1:* Building, expanding, renovating, or operating temporary or permanent juvenile correction or detention facilities, including the training of correctional personnel;


(b) *Program purpose no. 2:* Developing and administering accountability-based sanctions for juvenile offenders;


(c) *Program purpose no. 3:* Hiring additional juvenile judges, probation officers, and court-appointed defenders, and funding pre-trial services for juveniles, to ensure the smooth and expeditious administration of the juvenile justice system;


(d) *Program purpose no. 4:* Hiring additional prosecutors, so that more cases involving violent juvenile offenders can be prosecuted and backlogs reduced;


(e) *Program purpose no. 5:* Providing funding to enable prosecutors to address drug, gang, and youth violence more effectively;


(f) *Program purpose no. 6:* Providing funding for technology, equipment, and training to assist prosecutors in identifying and expediting the prosecution of violent juvenile offenders;


(g) *Program purpose no. 7:* Providing funding to enable juvenile courts and juvenile probation offices to be more effective and efficient in holding juvenile offenders accountable and reducing recidivism;


(h) *Program purpose no. 8:* The establishment of court-based juvenile justice programs that target young firearms offenders through the establishment of juvenile gun courts for the adjudication and prosecution of juvenile firearms offenders;


(i) *Program purpose no. 9:* The establishment of drug court programs for juveniles so as to provide continuing judicial supervision over juvenile offenders with substance abuse problems and to provide the integrated administration of other sanctions and services;


(j) *Program purpose no. 10:* Establishing and maintaining interagency information sharing programs that enable the juvenile and criminal justice system, schools, and social services agencies to make more informed decisions regarding the early identification, control, supervision, and treatment of juveniles who repeatedly commit serious delinquent or criminal acts;


(k) *Program purpose no. 11:* Establishing and maintaining accountability-based programs that work with juvenile offenders who are referred by law enforcement agencies, or which are designed, in cooperation with law enforcement officials, to protect students and school personnel from drug, gang, and youth violence; and,


(l) *Program purpose no. 12:* Implementing a policy of controlled substance testing for appropriate categories of juveniles within the juvenile justice system.




