# ยง 2100.031   Farm recordkeeping and reporting standards.

(a) Farm producers must keep records demonstrating implementation of the CSA practices used in calculation of a CI.


(1) For reduced till or no-till, see ยง 2100.051(c), titled Tillage management recordkeeping standards.


(2) For cover crops, see ยง 2100.052(b), titled Cover crop recordkeeping standards.


(3) For nutrient management, see ยง 2100.053(g), titled Nutrient management recordkeeping standards.


(b) Farm producers must keep records demonstrating all sales of crop as a reduced-CI crop. These records must indicate the total amount sold, the purchasing entity, and the date of the transaction.


(c) For each crop that is sold as a reduced-CI crop, farm producers must prepare and maintain a Biofuel Feedstock Report. Farm producers must provide the Biofuel Feedstock Report to any entity purchasing reduced-CI crop. The Biofuel Feedstock Report must:


(1) State the farm name, farm producer name, and farm location (county and state);


(2) Demonstrate the quantification of the farm-level crop-specific CI, including:


(i) Documentation of USDA FD-CIC calculation for each field or management unit (for example, screenshots or printouts from the USDA FD-CIC excel tool, or similar documentation showing USDA FD-CIC inputs and outputs including CI for each field or management unit) including a unique identifier for each field or management unit; and


(ii) Calculation of the farm-level crop-specific CI for each crop; and


(3) Include a Farm Producer Attestation declaring that the farm producer:


(i) Has operational control over all fields using CSA practices and has decision-making authority to manage fields as specified for practice standards in subpart F of this part;


(ii) Implemented CSA practice(s) that were used in calculation of the CI according to the implementation standards in subpart F of this part;


(iii) Calculated the farm-level CI as specified in subpart C of this part;


(iv) Will retain required records for 5 years and make records available upon request to accredited third-party verifier;


(v) Will not double sell greenhouse gas benefits resulting from CSA practice(s) that are used in calculation of the CI (that is, will not sell the CI information, attributes, or greenhouse gas benefits associated with CSA crops in more than one market);


(vi) When implementing no-till, will continue no-till for a minimum of four out of every five years; and


(vii) Did not convert the land used to produce CSA biofuel feedstock crops into crop production after the date that this rule was published.






