# § 1136.605   Content of OAR Article VI.

(a) *Requirement.* A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify requirements related to closeout of awards and subawards, including recipients' liquidations of obligations, refunds of unobligated balances, and submission of final reports.


(b) *Award terms and conditions*—(1) *General.* To implement the requirement in paragraph (a) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix F to this part provides for OAR Article VI.


(2) *Exception related to due dates for final reports other than performance, financial, and invention reports.* Consistent with OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.343(a), a DoD Component may grant extensions to due dates for final reports.


(i) To pre-approve a 30-day extension for final reports other than performance, financial, and invention reports, a DoD Component may substitute “120 calendar days” for “90 calendar days” in the wording appendix F to this part provides for paragraph C.4 of OAR Article VI. These pre-approved 30-day extensions in the general terms and conditions are for all awards using those terms and conditions; they therefore are separate and distinct from any additional extensions a recipient may later request for an individual award.


(ii) The parallel authorities for pre-approved extensions of due dates for final performance and invention reports are elsewhere. DoDGARs provisions in:


(A) 2 CFR 1134.125 authorize a DoD Component to pre-approve a 30-day extension for due dates of performance reports by an appropriate substitution of wording in REP Article I of the general terms and conditions.


(B) 2 CFR 1130.610 authorize a DoD Component to pre-approve a 30-day extension for due dates of final reports listing subject inventions under awards by an appropriate substitution of wording in PROP Article VI of the general terms and conditions.


(C) 2 CFR 1134.505 authorize a DoD Component to pre-approve a 30-day extension for due dates of other types of final reports by inclusion of appropriate wording in REP Article V of the general terms and conditions.




