# § 1090.610   Temporary research, development, and testing exemptions.

(a) *Requests for an exemption.* (1) Any person may receive an exemption from the provisions of this part for fuel used for research, development, or testing (“R&D”) purposes by submitting the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section as specified in § 1090.10.


(2) Any person that is performing emissions certification testing for a motor vehicle or motor vehicle engine under 42 U.S.C. 7525 or nonroad engine or nonroad vehicle under 42 U.S.C. 7546 is exempt from the provisions of this part for the fuel they are using for emissions certification testing if they have an exemption under 40 CFR parts 85 and 86 to perform such testing.


(b) *Criteria for an R&D exemption.* For an R&D exemption to be granted, the person requesting an exemption must meet all the following conditions:


(1) Demonstrate that the exemption is for an appropriate R&D purpose.


(2) Demonstrate that an exemption is necessary.


(3) Design an R&D program that is reasonable in scope.


(4) Have a degree of control consistent with the purpose of the program and EPA's monitoring requirements.


(5) Meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.


(c) *Information required to be submitted.* To aid in demonstrating each of the elements in paragraph (b) of this section, the person requesting an exemption must include, at a minimum, all the following information:


(1) A concise statement of the purpose of the program demonstrating that the program has an appropriate R&D purpose.


(2) An explanation of why the stated purpose of the program is unable to be achieved in a practicable manner without meeting the requirements of this part.


(3) A demonstration of the reasonableness of the scope of the program, including all the following:


(i) An estimate of the program's duration in time (including beginning and ending dates).


(ii) An estimate of the maximum number of vehicles, engines, and equipment involved in the program, and the number of miles and engine hours that will be accumulated on each.


(iii) The manner in which the information on vehicles, engines, or equipment used in the program will be recorded and made available to EPA upon request.


(iv) The quantity of the fuel that does not comply with the requirements of this part, as applicable.


(v) The specific applicable standard(s) of this part that would apply to the fuel expected to be used in the program.


(4) With regard to control, a demonstration that the program affords EPA a monitoring capability, including all the following:


(i) A description of the technical and operational aspects of the program.


(ii) The site(s) of the program (including facility name, street address, city, county, state, and ZIP code).


(iii) The manner in which information on vehicles, engines, and equipment used in the program will be recorded and made available to EPA upon request.


(iv) The manner in which information on the fuel used in the program (including quantity, fuel properties, name, address, telephone number, and contact person of the supplier, and the date received from the supplier) will be recorded and made available to EPA upon request.


(v) The manner in which the party will ensure that the fuel will be segregated from fuel that meets the requirements of subparts C and D of this part, as applicable, and how fuel dispensers will be labeled to ensure that the fuel is not dispensed for use in motor vehicles or nonroad engines, vehicles, or equipment, including locomotive or marine engines, that are part of the R&D test program.


(vi) The name, business address, telephone number, and title of the person(s) in the organization requesting an exemption from whom further information on the application may be obtained.


(vii) The name, business address, telephone number, and title of the person(s) in the organization requesting an exemption who is responsible for recording and making available the information specified in this paragraph (c), and the location where such information will be maintained.


(viii) Any other information requested by EPA to determine whether the test program satisfies the criteria of paragraph (b) of this section.


(d) *Additional requirements.* (1) The PTDs associated with fuel must comply with the requirements of subpart L of this part.


(2) The fuel must be designated as exempt fuel by the fuel manufacturer or supplier, as applicable.


(3) The fuel must be kept segregated from non-exempt fuel at all points in the distribution system.


(4) The fuel must not be sold, distributed, offered for sale or distribution, dispensed, supplied, offered for supply, transported to or from, or stored by a retail outlet or WPC facility, unless the WPC facility is associated with the R&D program that uses the fuel.


(5) At the completion of the program, any emission control systems or elements of design that are damaged or rendered inoperative must be replaced on vehicles remaining in service or the responsible person will be liable for a violation of 42 U.S.C. 7522(a)(3), unless sufficient evidence is supplied that the emission controls or elements of design were not damaged.


(e) *Approval of exemption.* EPA may grant an R&D exemption upon a demonstration that the requirements of this section have been met. The R&D exemption approval may include such terms and conditions as EPA determines necessary to monitor the exemption and to carry out the purposes of this part, including restoration of emission control systems.


(1) The volume of fuel subject to the approval must not exceed the estimated amount in paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section, unless EPA grants an approval for a greater amount.


(2) Any exemption granted under this section will expire at the completion of the test program or 1 year from the date of approval, whichever occurs first, and may only be extended upon re-application consistent with the requirements of this section.


(3) If any information required by paragraph (c) of this section changes after approval of the exemption, the responsible person must notify EPA in writing immediately.


(f) *Notification of completion.* Any person with an approved exemption under this section must notify EPA in writing within 30 days after completion of the R&D program.




