# § 124.516   Charitable facility compliance alternative.

(a) *Effect of certification.* The Secretary may certify as a “charitable facility” a facility which meets the applicable requirements of this section. A facility which is certified or provisionally certified as a charitable facility is not required to comply with this subpart except as provided in this section. 


(b) *Methods of qualification for certification or provisional certification.* (1) A facility may qualify for certification under this section if it meets the criteria of paragraph (c)(1) or paragraph (c)(2) of this section. 


(2) A facility may qualify for a provisional certification under this section if it provides an assurance that meets the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section. 


(c) *Criteria for certification under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.* A facility may qualify for certification under paragraph (b)(1) of this section if it met the criteria of either paragraph (c)(1) or paragraph (c)(2) of this section for the fiscal year preceding the request for certification. A facility that seeks certification under paragraph (c)(2) of this section must also meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(i) or paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section during each year of certification. 


(1)(i) *For facilities that are nursing homes:* It received no monies directly from patients with incomes up to triple the current poverty line issued by the Secretary pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 9902, exclusive of amounts charged or received for purposes of claiming reimbursement under third party insurance or governmental programs, such as Medicaid or Medicare deductible or co-insurance amounts. 


(ii) *For all other facilities.* It received no monies directly from patients with incomes up to double the current poverty line issued by the Secretary pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 9902, exclusive of amounts charged or received for purposes of claiming reimbursement under third party insurance or governmental programs, such as Medicaid or Medicare deductible or coinsurance amounts. 


(2) It received at least 10 percent of its total operating revenue (net patient revenue plus other operating revenue, exclusive of any amounts received, or if not received, claimed, as reimbursement under Medicaid or Medicare) from philanthropic sources to cover operating deficits attributable to the provision of discounted services. Philanthropic sources include private trusts, foundations, churches, charitable organizations, state and/or local funding, and individual donors; and either— 


(i) Provides health services without charge or at a substantially reduced rate (exclusive of amounts charged or received for purposes of claiming reimbursement under third party insurance or governmental programs, such as Medicaid or Medicare deductible or coinsurance amounts) to persons who are determined by the facility to qualify for such reduced charges under a program of discounted health services. A “program of discounted health services” must provide for financial and other objective eligibility criteria and procedures, including notice prior to nonemergency service, that assure effective opportunity for all persons to apply for and obtain a determination of eligibility for such services, including a determination prior to service where requested; or 


(ii) Makes all services of the facility available to all persons at no more than a nominal charge, exclusive of amounts charged or received for purposes of claiming reimbursement under third party insurance or governmental programs, such as Medicaid or Medicare deductible or coinsurance amounts. 


(d) *Procedures for certification*—(1) *Certification under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.* To be certified under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a facility must submit to the Secretary, in addition to other materials that the Secretary may from time to time require, copies of the following: 


(i) An audited financial statement for the fiscal year preceding the request or other documents prescribed by the Secretary, sufficient to show that the facility meets the criteria of paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section, as applicable; 


(ii) Where a facility claims qualification under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, a complete description, and documentation where requested, of its program of discounted health services, including charging and collection policies of the facility, and eligibility criteria and notice and determination procedures used under its program(s) of discounted health services; 


(iii) Where the facility claims qualification under paragraph (c)(1) or paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, a complete description, and documentation where requested, of its admission, charging, and collection policies. 


(2) *Provisional certification under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.* (i) In order to receive a provisional certification under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, prior to the beginning of the fiscal year for which provisional certification will be sought, the facility must submit to the Secretary an assurance, together with such documentation and in such form and manner as the Secretary may require, that it will operate during the fiscal year a program that qualifies for certification under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. 


(ii) No later than 90 days following the end of the fiscal year in which a facility has operated a provisionally certified program, the facility must submit to the Secretary, the documentation required, as applicable, under paragraph (d)(1) of this section. 


(e) *Period of effectiveness*—(1) *Certification under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.* A certification by the Secretary under paragraph (b)(1) of this section remains in effect until withdrawn. The Secretary may disallow credit under this subpart when the Secretary determines that there has been a material change in any factor upon which certification was based or substantial noncompliance with this section. The Secretary may withdraw certification where the change or noncompliance has not been, in the Secretary's judgment, adequately remedied or otherwise continues. 


(2) *Provisional certification under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.* Where the Secretary is satisfied, based on the documentation submitted by the facility in accordance with paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section and any other information available to the Secretary, that the facility has complied with the terms of its provisional certification under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the Secretary shall certify the facility under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. If the Secretary finds that the facility has not complied with the terms of its provisional certification under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the facility will receive no credit towards its uncompensated services obligation during the fiscal year of provisional certification. 


(f) *Deficits*—(1) *Title VI-assisted facilities*—(i) *Title VI-assisted facilities with assessed deficits.* Where a facility assisted under title VI of the Act has been assessed as having a deficit under § 124.503(b) that has not been made up prior to certification under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the facility may make up that deficit by either— 


(A) Demonstrating to the Secretary's satisfaction that it met the applicable requirements of paragraph (c) of this section for each year in which a deficit was assessed; or 


(B) Providing an additional period of service under this section on the basis of one year (or portion of a year) of certification for each year (or portion of a year) of deficit assessed. The period of obligation applicable to the facility under § 124.501(b) shall be extended until the deficit is made up in accordance with the preceding sentence. 


(ii) *Title VI-assisted facilities with unassessed deficits.* Where any period of compliance under this subpart of a facility assisted under title VI of the Act has not been assessed, the facility will be presumed to have no allowable credit for the unassessed period. The facility may either—


(A) Make up such deficit in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section; or 


(B) Submit an independent certified audit, conducted in accordance with procedures specified by the Secretary, of the facility's records maintained pursuant to § 124.510. If the audit establishes to the Secretary's satisfaction that no, or a lesser, deficit exists for the period in question, the facility will receive credit for the period so justified. Any deficit which the Secretary determines still remains must be made up in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(i)(B) of this section. 


(2) *Title XVI-assisted facilities*—(i) *Title XVI-assisted facilities with assessed deficits.* A facility assisted under title XVI of the Act which has an assessed deficit which was not made up prior to certification under paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall make up that deficit in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section. If it cannot make the showing required by that paragraph, it shall make up the deficit when its certification under paragraph (b)(1) of this section is withdrawn. 


(ii) *Title XVI-assisted facilities with unassessed deficits.* Where any period of compliance under this subpart of a facility assisted under title XVI of the Act has not been assessed, the facility will be presumed to have no allowable credit for the unassessed period. The facility may either—


(A) Make up such deficit in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section; or 


(B) Submit an independent certified audit, conducted in accordance with procedures specified by the Secretary, of the facility's records maintained pursuant to § 124.510. If the audit establishes to the Secretary's satisfaction that no, or a lesser, deficit exists for the period in question, the facility will receive credit for the period so justified. Any deficit which the Secretary determines still remains must be made up in accordance with paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section.



---

[N] [66 FR 49267, Sept. 26, 2001]




