# ยง 250.10   Availability and ordering of donated foods.

(a) *Ordering donated foods.* The distributing agency must utilize a request-driven ordering system in submitting orders for donated foods to FNS. As part of such system, the distributing agency must provide recipient agencies with the opportunity to submit input, on at least an annual basis, in determining the donated foods from the full list that are made available to them for ordering. Based on the input received, the distributing agency must ensure that the types and forms of donated foods that recipient agencies may best utilize are made available to them for ordering. The distributing agency must also ensure that donated foods are ordered and distributed only in amounts that may be utilized efficiently and without waste.


(b) *Provision of information on donated foods.* The distributing agency must provide recipient agencies, at their request, information that will assist them in ordering or utilization of donated foods, including information provided by USDA. Information provided to recipient agencies must include:


(1) The types and quantities of donated foods that they may order;


(2) Donated food specifications and nutritional value; and


(3) Procedures for the disposition of donated foods that are out-of-condition or that are subject to a food recall.


(c) *Normal food expenditures.* Section 416 donated foods must not be distributed to any recipient agencies or recipients whose normal food expenditures are reduced because of the receipt of donated foods.




