# § 301.32-2   Regulated articles.

(a) *List of regulated articles.* Certain berries, fruits, nuts, and vegetables are regulated articles for one or more species of fruit fly unless the berries, fruits, nuts, or vegetables are canned, dried, or frozen below −17.8 °C (0 °F). The relevant commodity (both botanical name and common name), as well as the fruit fly species for which it is a regulated article, is found at *www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/plant-pest-and-disease-programs/pests-and-diseases/fruit-flies/fruit-flies-home.*

(b) *Normal process for adding regulated articles.* (1) If the Administrator determines that an article not already listed at *www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/plant-pest-and-disease-programs/pests-and-diseases/fruit-flies/fruit-flies-home* presents a risk of spreading one or more species of fruit flies, APHIS will publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ proposing to designate the article as a regulated article for the relevant species of fruit flies. The notice will provide the basis for this determination and will request public comment.


(2) If no comments are received on the notice, or if the comments do not change the Administrator's determination, APHIS will publish a second notice in the _Federal Register_ designating the article as a regulated article for the relevant species of fruit flies and listing it.


(c) *Soil and plants as regulated articles.* Soil is a regulated article if it is within the dripline of a regulated article that is listed at *www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/plant-pest-and-disease-programs/pests-and-diseases/fruit-flies/fruit-flies-home* and that is annotated with an asterisk. Plants are regulated articles if they are producing or have produced species in the family Cucurbitaceae that are listed at *www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/plant-pest-and-disease-programs/pests-and-diseases/fruit-flies/fruit-flies-home* as regulated articles for melon fruit fly.


(d) *Immediate designation of other regulated articles.* Any other product, article, or means of conveyance not listed at *www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/plant-pest-and-disease-programs/pests-and-diseases/fruit-flies/fruit-flies-home* is a regulated article, if an inspector determines it presents a risk of spreading fruit flies, when the inspector notifies the person in possession of the product, article, or means of conveyance that it is subject to the restrictions of this subpart.





---

[N] [88 FR 80003, Dec. 29, 2022]










