# § 51.19   Issuance of certificates.

(a)(1) A separate certificate shall be issued for each lot inspected, except that when an application covers more than one lot a single certificate may be issued to cover all such lots. The person signing and issuing the certificate shall be one of the following:


(i) The inspector who performed the inspection;


(ii) An inspector designated by the Administrator as the “inspector in charge,” when the certificate represents composite inspection of several persons;


(iii) Another employee of the Inspection Service who has been authorized by the Administrator to act in a supervisory capacity; or


(iv) With the approval of the administrator, the signature of the person performing the inspection or that of an employee of the Inspection Service who has been authorized to act in a supervisory capacity may be affixed by computer to an official certificate.


(2) *Provided,* That in all cases the inspection certificate shall be prepared in accordance with the official memoranda of the inspector or inspectors who performed the inspection.


(b) When the inspection is made for the purpose of determining whether food products for use by the applicant comply with contract specifications therefor, a formal certificate need not be issued, but the fact of such compliance or noncompliance may be indicated by affixing an appropriate stamp or mark on such products or the containers thereof, at the discretion of the inspector.



---

[N] [35 FR 13571, Aug. 26, 1970. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981; 51 FR 8478, Mar. 12, 1986; 84 FR 8590, Mar. 11, 2019]




