# § 621.2   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part, the following definitions shall apply: 


*Accounts and exposures* means data related to any loan, lease, letter of credit, derivative, or, any other asset, liability, other balance sheet account, or off-balance-sheet exposure of a System institution.


*Accrual basis of accounting* means the accounting method in which expenses are recorded when incurred, whether paid or unpaid, and income is reported when earned, whether received or not received. 


*Adequately secured* means the loan is secured by either or both:


(1) Collateral in the form of perfected security interests in, or pledges of, real and/or personal property (including securities with an estimable value) having a net realizable value sufficient to repay the loan's outstanding principal and accrued interest.


(2) The guarantee of a financially responsible party in an amount sufficient to repay the loan's outstanding principal and accrued interest.


*Banks and associations* mean all Farm Credit Banks, Agricultural credit banks, and associations.


*Borrowing entity* means the individual(s), partnership, joint venture, trust, corporation, or other business entity, or any combination thereof, that is primarily obligated on the loan instrument. 


*Central data repository* means a central data warehouse that electronically collects and stores current and historical data and is created by integrating data from one or more disparate sources.


*Generally accepted accounting principles* means that body of conventions, rules, and procedures necessary to define accepted accounting practices at a particular time, as promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and other authoritative sources recognized as setting standards for the accounting profession in the United States. Generally accepted accounting principles include not only broad guidelines of general application but also detailed practices and procedures that constitute standards by which financial presentations are evaluated. 


*Generally accepted auditing standards* means the standards and guidelines that are generally accepted in the United States of America and that are adopted by the authoritative body that governs the overall quality of audit performance.


*In the process of collection* means debt collection or loan servicing efforts are proceeding in due course and are reasonably expected to result in the recovery of the loan's principal balance, accrued interest and penalties or reinstatement of the loan to current status within a reasonable time period.


*Institution* means any bank, association, or service corporation chartered under the Act; the Federal Farm Credit Banks Funding Corporation, and where specifically noted, the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation. 


*Loan* means any extension of credit or lease that is recorded as an asset of a reporting institution, whether made directly or purchased from another lender. The term “loan” includes, but is not limited to: 


(1) Loans originated through direct negotiations between the reporting institution and a borrower; 


(2) Purchased loans or interests in loans, including participation interests, retained subordinated participation interests in loans sold, and interests in pools of subordinated participation interests that are held in lieu of retaining a subordinated participation interest in loans sold; 


(3) Contracts of sale; notes receivable; and 


(4) Other similar obligations and lease financing. 


*Material* means the magnitude of an omission or misstatement of accounting information that, in light of surrounding circumstances, makes it probable that the judgment of a reasonable person relying on the information would have been changed or influenced by the omission or misstatement. 


*Net realizable value* means the net amount the lender would expect to be realized from the acquisition and subsequent sale or disposition of a loan's underlying collateral. Generally, net realizable value is equal to the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of acquisition, completion, and disposal. 


*Past due* means a contractually scheduled loan payment has not been received in full on or before the contractual due date and remains due.


*Recorded investment* means the face amount of the loan increased or decreased by applicable accrued interest and unamortized premium, discount, finance charges, or acquisition costs, and may also reflect a previous direct write-down of the investment. 


*Reporting entity* means the Federal Farm Credit Banks Funding Corporation, or other entity approved by the Farm Credit Administration.


*Shared asset* means any account or exposure where two or more Farm Credit institutions have assumed a portion of the asset's benefits or risks. An institution's share in the asset may be established through means such as syndications, participation agreements, assignments, or other arrangements with System entities.


*Sustained performance* means the borrower has resumed on-time payment of the full amount of scheduled contractual loan payments over a sustained period. In accordance with the contractual payment schedule, the sustained on-time repayment period is demonstrated by making 6 consecutive monthly payments, 4 consecutive quarterly payments, 3 consecutive semiannual payments, or 2 consecutive annual payments. The payments considered are those listed in the loan contract as due during the sustained performance period, regardless of whether scheduled payments are interest-only, unequally amortized principal and interest, equally amortized principal and interest, or a combination of payment amounts.



---

[N] [58 FR 48786, Sept. 20, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 76120, Dec. 20, 2006; 74 FR 28600, June 17, 2009; 78 FR 31835, May 28, 2013; 78 FR 77562, Dec. 24, 2013; 85 FR 52253, Aug. 25, 2020]




