# § 103.6   Reporting options and sexual assault reporting procedures.

(a) *Reporting options.* Service members and military dependents 18 years and older who have been sexually assaulted have two reporting options: Unrestricted or Restricted Reporting. Unrestricted Reporting of sexual assault is favored by the DoD. However, Unrestricted Reporting may represent a barrier for victims to access services, when the victim desires no command or DoD law enforcement involvement. Consequently, the DoD recognizes a fundamental need to provide a confidential disclosure vehicle via the Restricted Reporting option. Regardless of whether the victim elects Restricted or Unrestricted Reporting, DoD shall maintain confidentiality of medical information. For further information see paragraph (j) of Appendix A to this part. DoD civilian employees and their family dependents and DoD contractors are only eligible for Unrestricted Reporting and for limited emergency care medical services at an MTF, unless that individual is otherwise eligible as a Service member or TRICARE beneficiary of the military health system to receive treatment in an MTF at no cost to them in accordance with this part.


(1) *Unrestricted reporting.* This reporting option triggers an investigation, command notification, and allows a person who has been sexually assaulted to access healthcare treatment and the assignment of a SARC and a SAPR VA. When a sexual assault is reported through Unrestricted Reporting, a SARC shall be notified, respond or direct a SAPR VA to respond, offer the victim healthcare treatment and a SAFE, and inform the victim of available resources. The SARC or SAPR VA will explain the contents of the DD Form 2910 and request that the victim elect a reporting option on the form. If the victim elects the Unrestricted Reporting option, a victim may not change from an Unrestricted to a Restricted Report. If the Unrestricted option is elected, the completed DD Form 2701, which sets out victims' rights and points of contact, shall be distributed to the victim in Unrestricted Reporting cases by DoD law enforcement agents. If a victim elects this reporting option, a victim may not change from an Unrestricted to a Restricted Report.


(2) *Restricted Reporting.* This reporting option does not trigger an investigation. The command is notified that “an alleged sexual assault” occurred but is not given the victim's name or other personally identifying information. Restricted Reporting allows Service members and military dependents who are adult sexual assault victims to confidentially disclose the assault to specified individuals (SARC, SAPR VA, or healthcare personnel) and receive healthcare treatment and the assignment of a SARC and SAPR VA. A sexual assault victim can report directly to a SARC, who will respond or direct a SAPR VA to respond, offer the victim healthcare treatment and a SAFE, and explain to the victim the resources available through the DD Form 2910, where the reporting option is elected. The Restricted Reporting option is only available to Service members and adult military dependents. Restricted Reporting may not be available in a jurisdiction that requires mandatory reporting if a victim first reports to a civilian facility or civilian authority, which will vary by state, territory, and overseas agreements. See paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part for additional information. However, section 536 of the NDAA for FY 2016 preempts mandatory reporting laws, provided the victim first reports to an MTF, except when reporting is necessary to prevent or mitigate a serious and imminent threat to the health or safety of an individual, thereby preserving the Restricted Reporting option. If a victim elects this reporting option, a victim may convert a Restricted Report to an Unrestricted Report at any time. The conversion to an Unrestricted Report will be documented with a signature by the victim and the signature of the SARC or SAPR VA in the appropriate block on the DD Form 2910.


(i) Only the SARC, SAPR VA, and healthcare personnel are designated as authorized to accept a Restricted Report. Healthcare personnel, to include psychotherapists and other personnel listed in Military Rule of Evidence (MRE) 513 of Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, “DoD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms,” who received a Restricted Report (meaning that a victim wishes to file a DD Form 2910 or have a SAFE) shall contact a SARC or SAPR VA. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.


(ii) A SAFE and the information contained in its accompanying Kit are provided the same confidentiality as is afforded victim statements under the Restricted Reporting option. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.


(iii) The victim's decision not to participate in an investigation or prosecution will not affect access to SARC and SAPR VA services, medical and psychological care, or services from an SVC or VLC. These services shall be made available to all eligible sexual assault victims.


(iv) If a victim approaches a SARC, SAPR VA, or healthcare provider and begins to make a report, but then changes his or her mind and leaves without signing the DD Form 2910 (the form where the reporting option is selected), the SARC, SAPR VA, or healthcare provider is not under any obligation or duty to inform investigators or commanders about this report and will not produce the report or disclose the communications surrounding the report.


(b) *Disclosure of confidential communications.* In cases where a victim elects Restricted Reporting, the SARC, SAPR VA, and healthcare personnel may not disclose confidential communications or the SAFE and the accompanying Kit to DoD law enforcement or command authorities, either within or outside the DoD. In certain situations, information about a sexual assault may come to the commander's or DoD law enforcement official's (to include MCIO's) attention from a source independent of the Restricted Reporting avenues and an independent investigation is initiated. In these cases, SARCs, SAPR VAs, and healthcare personnel are prevented from disclosing confidential communications under Restricted Reporting, unless an exception applies. An independent investigation does not, in itself, convert the Restricted Report to an Unrestricted Report. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.


(c) *Independent investigations.* Independent investigations are not initiated by the victim. If information about a sexual assault comes to a commander's attention from a source other than a victim (victim may have elected Restricted Reporting or where no report has been made by the victim), that commander shall immediately report the matter to an MCIO and an official (independent) investigation may be initiated based on that independently acquired information.


(1) If there is an ongoing independent investigation, the sexual assault victim will no longer have the option of Restricted Reporting when:


(i) DoD law enforcement informs the SARC of the investigation, and


(ii) The victim has not already elected Restricted Reporting.


(2) The timing of filing a Restricted Report is crucial. In order to take advantage of the Restricted Reporting option, the victim must file a Restricted Report by signing a DD Form 2910 before the SARC is informed of an ongoing independent investigation of the sexual assault.


(i) If a SARC is notified of an ongoing independent investigation and the victim has not signed a DD Form 2910 electing Restricted Report, the SARC must inform the victim that the option to file a Restricted Report is no longer available. However, all communications between the victim and the victim advocate will remain privileged, subject to regulatory exceptions, except for the minimum necessary to make the Unrestricted Report.


(ii) If an independent investigation begins after the victim has formally elected Restricted Reporting (by signing the DD Form 2910), the independent investigation has no impact on the victim's Restricted Report, and the victim's communications and SAFE Kit remain confidential, to the extent authorized by law and DoD regulations.


(d) *Mandatory reporting laws and cases investigated by civilian law enforcement.* Health care may be provided, and SAFE Kits may be performed in a civilian healthcare facility in civilian jurisdictions which may require certain personnel (usually health care personnel) to report the sexual assault to civilian agencies or law enforcement. In some cases, civilian law enforcement may take investigative responsibility for the sexual assault case, or the civilian jurisdiction may inform the military law enforcement or investigative community of a sexual assault that was reported to it. In such instances, it may not be possible for a victim to make a Restricted Report or it may not be possible to maintain the report as a Restricted Report. Consistent with the NDAA for FY 2016, to the extent possible, DoD will honor the Restricted Report; however, sexual assault victims need to be aware that the confidentiality afforded their Restricted Report is not guaranteed due to circumstances surrounding the independent investigation and requirements of individual State laws for civilian healthcare facilities.


(e) *Initiating medical care and treatment upon receipt of report.* Healthcare personnel will initiate the emergency care and treatment of sexual assault victims, notify the SARC or the SAPR VA and make appropriate medical referrals for specialty care, if indicated. Upon receipt of a Restricted Report, only the SARC or the SAPR VA will be notified. There will be NO report to DoD law enforcement, a supervisory official, or the victim's chain of command by the healthcare personnel, unless an exception to Restricted Reporting applies or applicable law requires other officials to be notified. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.


(f) *Victim's perception of the military justice system.* The DoD seeks increased reporting by victims of sexual assault. The Restricted Reporting option is intended to give victims additional time and increased control over the release and management of their personal information and empowers them to seek relevant information and support to make more informed decisions about participating in the criminal investigation. A victim who receives support, appropriate care and treatment, and is provided an opportunity to make an informed decision about a criminal investigation is more likely to develop increased trust of the system which may increase a victim's desire to cooperate with an investigation and convert the Restricted Report to an Unrestricted Report.


(g) *Resources for victims to report retaliation, reprisal, ostracism, maltreatment, sexual harassment, or to request an expedited/safety transfer or Military Protective Order (MPO)/Civilian Protective Order (CPO).* SARCs and SAPR VAs must inform victims of the resources available to report allegations of retaliation, reprisal, ostracism, maltreatment, sexual harassment, or to request a transfer or MPO. If the allegation is criminal in nature and the victim filed an Unrestricted Report, the crime should be immediately reported to an MCIO, even if the crime is not something normally reported to an MCIO (*e.g.,* victim's personal vehicle was defaced). Victims can seek assistance on how to report allegations by requesting assistance from:


(1) A SARC or SAPR VA or SVC/VLC.


(2) An SVC or VLC, trial counsel and VWAP, or a legal assistance attorney to facilitate reporting with a SARC or SAPR VA.


(3) IG DoD, invoking whistle-blower protections. For further information see paragraph (g) of Appendix A to this part.


(h) *SARC procedures.* The SARC shall:


(1) Serve as the single point of contact to coordinate sexual assault response when a sexual assault is reported. All SARCs shall be authorized to perform victim advocate duties in accordance with Military Service regulations and will be acting in the performance of those duties.


(2) Comply with DoD Sexual Assault Advocate Certification requirements.


(3) Be trained in and understand the confidentiality requirements of Restricted Reporting and MRE 514. Training must include exceptions to Restricted Reporting and MRE 514.


(4) Be authorized to accept reports of sexual assault along with the SAPR VA and healthcare personnel. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.


(5) Provide a 24 hour, 7 days per week, response capability to victims of sexual assault, to include deployed areas.


(6) In accordance with policy, ensure a safety assessment is performed in every sexual assault case. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.


(i) SARCs shall respond to every Restricted and Unrestricted Report of sexual assault on a military installation, and the response shall be in person, unless otherwise requested by the victim. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.


(ii) Based on the locality, the SARC may ask the SAPR VA to respond and speak to the victim.


(A) There will be situations where a sexual assault victim receives medical care and a SAFE outside of a military installation under an MOU or MOA with local private or public sector entities. In these cases, pursuant to the MOU or MOA the SARC or SAPR VA shall be notified, and a SARC or SAPR VA shall respond.


(B) When contacted by the SARC or SAPR VA, a sexual assault victim can elect not to speak to the SARC or SAPR VA, or the sexual assault victim may ask to schedule an appointment at a later time to speak to the SARC or SAPR VA.


(iii) SARCs shall provide a response that recognizes the high prevalence of pre-existing trauma (prior to the present sexual assault incident) and empowers an individual to make informed decisions about all aspects in the reporting process and to access available resources.


(iv) SARCs shall provide a response that is gender-responsive, culturally competent, and recovery-oriented.


(v) SARCs shall offer appropriate referrals to sexual assault victims and facilitate access to referrals. Provide referrals at the request of the victim.


(A) Encourage sexual assault victims to follow-up with the referrals and facilitate these referrals, as appropriate.


(B) In order to competently facilitate referrals, inquire whether the victim is a Reservist or an NG member to ensure that victims are referred to the appropriate geographic location.


(7) Explain to the victim that the services of the SARC and SAPR VA are optional and these services may be declined, in whole or in part, at any time. The victim may decline advocacy services, even if the SARC or SAPR VA holds a position of higher rank or authority than the victim. Explain to victims the option of requesting a different SAPR VA (subject to availability, depending on locality staffing) or continuing without SAPR VA services.


(i) Explain the available reporting options to the victim.


(A) Assist the victim in filling out the DD Form 2910, where the victim elects to make a Restricted or Unrestricted Report. However, the victims, not the SARCs or SAPR VAs, must fill out the DD Form 2910. Explain that sexual assault victims have the right and ability to consult with an SVC/VLC before deciding whether to make a Restricted Report, Unrestricted Report, or no report at all. Additionally, the SARC or SAPR VA shall explain the eligibility requirements for an SVC/VLC, as well as the option to request SVC or VLC services even if the victim does not fall within the eligibility requirements.


(B) Inform the victim that the DD Form 2910 signed by the victim will be uploaded to DSAID and retained for 50 years in Unrestricted Reports. The DD Forms 2910 and 2911 filed in connection with the Restricted Report shall be retained for 50 years, in a manner that protects confidentiality.


(C) The SARC or SAPR VA shall inform the victim of any local or State sexual assault reporting requirements that may limit the possibility of Restricted Reporting. At the same time, the victims shall be briefed about the protections and exceptions to MRE 514.


(ii) Give the victim a hard copy of the DD Form 2910 with the victim's signature. Advise the victim to keep the copy of the DD Form 2910 and the DD Form 2911 in their personal permanent records as these forms may be used by the victim in other matters before other agencies (*e.g.,* Department of Veterans Affairs) or for any other lawful purpose.


(iii) Explain SAFE confidentiality to victims and the confidentiality of the contents of the SAFE Kit. Inform the victim that information concerning the prosecution shall be provided to them. For further information see paragraph (aa) of Appendix A to this part.


(iv) Activate victim advocacy 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, for all incidents of reported sexual assault occurring either on or off the installation involving Service members and other covered persons. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.


(v) Consult with command legal representatives, healthcare personnel, and MCIOs, (or when feasible, civilian law enforcement), to assess the potential impact of State laws or exceptions governing compliance with the Restricted Reporting option and develop or revise applicable MOUs and MOAs, as appropriate.


(vi) Collaborate with MTFs within their respective areas of responsibility to establish protocols and procedures to direct notification of the SARC and SAPR VA for all incidents of reported sexual assault and facilitate ongoing training of healthcare personnel on the roles and responsibilities of the SARC and SAPR VAs.


(vii) Collaborate with local private or public sector entities that provide medical care to Service members or TRICARE eligible beneficiaries who are sexual assault victims and a SAFE outside of a military installation through an MOU or MOA.


(viii) Establish protocols and procedures with these local private or public sector entities to facilitate direct notification of the SARC for all incidents of reported sexual assault and facilitate training of healthcare personnel of local private or public sector entities on the roles and responsibilities of SARCs and SAPR VAs, for Service members and persons covered by this policy.


(ix) Provide off installation referrals to civilian resources available to sexual assault victims, as needed.


(x) Document and track the services referred to and requested by the victim from the time of the initial report of a sexual assault through the final case disposition or until the victim no longer desires services.


(xi) Maintain in DSAID an account of the services referred to and requested by the victim for all reported sexual assault incidents, from medical treatment through counseling, and from the time of the initial report of a sexual assault through the final case disposition or until the victim no longer desires services. Should the victim return to the SARC or SAPR VA and request SAPR services after indicating that he or she no longer desired services, the case will be reopened and addressed at the CMG meeting.


(xii) A SARC will open a case in DSAID as an “Open with Limited Information” case when there is no signed DD 2910 (*e.g.,* an independent investigation or third-party report, or when a civilian victim alleged sexual assault with a Service member subject) to comply with section 563(d) of Public Law 110-417 and to ensure system accountability.


(xiii) Participate in the CMG to review individual cases of Unrestricted Reports of sexual assault.


(xiv) Offer victims the opportunity to participate in surveys asking for victim feedback on the reporting experience. Inform victims regarding what the survey will ask them and uses of the data collected.


(i) *SAPR VA procedures.* (1) The SAPR VA shall:


(i) Comply with DoD Sexual Assault Advocate Certification requirements in D-SAACP.


(ii) Be trained in and understand the confidentiality requirements of Restricted Reporting and MRE 514. Training must include exceptions to Restricted Reporting and MRE 514.


(iii) Facilitate care and provide referrals and non-clinical support to the adult victim of a sexual assault. Provide a response consistent with requirements for the SARC response. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.


(iv) Support will include providing information on available options and resources so the victim can make informed decisions about his or her case.


(v) Be notified and immediately respond upon receipt of a report of sexual assault.


(vi) Provide coordination and encourage victim service referrals and ongoing non-clinical support to the victim of a reported sexual assault and facilitate care in accordance with the Sexual Assault Response Protocols prescribed SAPR Policy Toolkit located on *www.sapr.mil.* Assist the victim in navigating those processes required to obtain care and services needed. It is neither the SAPR VA's role nor responsibility to be the victim's mental health provider or to act as an investigator.


(vii) Report directly to the SARC while carrying out sexual assault advocacy responsibilities.


(2) [Reserved]


(j) *Healthcare professional procedures.* This paragraph (j) provides guidance on medical management of victims of sexual assault to ensure standardized, timely, accessible, and comprehensive healthcare for victims of sexual assault, to include the ability to elect a SAFE Kit. This policy is applicable to all MHS personnel who provide or coordinate medical care for victims of sexual assault covered by this part.


(1) Require that a SARC be immediately notified when a victim discloses a sexual assault so that the SARC can inform the victim of both reporting options (Restricted and Unrestricted) and all available services (*e.g.,* SVC/VLC, Expedited Transfers, Military Protective Orders, document retention mandates). The victim can then make an informed decision as to which reporting option to elect and which services to request (or none at all). The victim is able to decline services in whole or in part at any time.


(2) There must be selection, training, and certification standards for healthcare providers performing SAFEs in MTFs.


(i) *Selection.* (A) Have specified screening and selection criteria consistent with Public Law 112-81. For further information see paragraphs (h) and (ff) of Appendix A to this part.


(B) In addition to the requirements in Public Law 104-191, licensed DoD providers eligible to take SAFE training must pass a National Agency Check that will determine if they have been convicted of sexual assault, child abuse, domestic violence, violent crime (as defined by the Federal Bureau of Investigation's Uniform Crime Reporting Program) or other felonies.


(C) If the candidate is a non-licensed professional, he or she must meet the same screening standards as those for SARCs in the D-SAACP certification program.


(ii) *Training for healthcare providers performing SAFEs in MTFs.* Healthcare providers who may be called on to provide comprehensive medical treatment to a sexual assault victim, including performing SAFEs, are: Obstetricians, gynecologists, and other licensed practitioners (preferably family physicians, emergency medicine physicians, and pediatricians); advanced practice nurses with specialties in midwifery, women's health, family health, and pediatrics; physician assistants trained in family practice or women's health; and registered nurses. These individuals must receive specialized training aimed at preparing them to proficiently perform the duties of conducting a SAFE.


(A) In addition to the responder training requirements and the healthcare personnel training requirements, healthcare providers performing SAFEs shall be trained and remain proficient in conducting SAFEs.


(B) All providers conducting SAFEs must have documented education, training, and clinical practice in sexual assault examinations. For further information see paragraphs (h) and (ff) of Appendix A to this part.


(iii) *Certification.* (A) Provider must pass all selection and screening criteria.


(B) Provider must submit documentation by trainer that healthcare provider has successfully completed SAFE training and is competent to conduct SAFEs independently. Documentation can be in the form of a certificate or be recorded in an electronic medical training tracking system.


(C) Provider must obtain a letter of recommendation from her or his commander.


(D) Upon successful completion of the selection, training, and certification requirements, the designated medical certifying authority will issue the certification for competency. Certification is good for 3 years from date of issue and must be reassessed and renewed at the end of the 3-year period.


(3) In cases of MTFs that do not have an emergency department that operates 24 hours per day, require that a sexual assault forensic medical examiner be made available to a patient of the facility when a determination is made regarding the patient's need for the services of a sexual assault medical forensic examiner. For further information see paragraphs (h) and (ff) of Appendix A to this part.


(i) The MOU or MOA will require that a SARC be notified and that SAFE Kits be collected. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.


(ii) When the forensic examination is conducted at a civilian facility through an MOU or a MOA with the DoD, the requirements for the handling of the forensic kit will be explicitly addressed in the MOU or MOA. The MOU or MOA with the civilian facility will address the processes for contacting the SARC and for contacting the appropriate DoD agency responsible for accepting custody of the forensic kit.


(4) Require that MTFs that provide SAFEs for Service members or TRICARE eligible beneficiaries through an MOU or MOA with private or public sector entities verify initially and periodically that those entities meet or exceed standards of the recommendations for conducting forensic exams of adult sexual victims. For further information see paragraphs (h) and (ff) of Appendix A to this part. In addition, verify that as part of the MOU or MOA, a SARC or SAPR VA is notified and responds and meets with the victim in a timely manner.


(5) Require that medical providers providing healthcare to victims of sexual assault in remote areas or while deployed have access to the proper equipment for conducting forensic exams. For further information see paragraphs (h) and (ff) of Appendix A to this part.


(6) Implement procedures to provide the victim information regarding the availability of a SAFE Kit, which the victim has the option of refusing. If performed in the MTF, the healthcare provider shall use a SAFE Kit and the most current edition of the DD Form 2911.


(7) Require that care provided to sexual assault victims shall be gender-responsive, culturally competent, and recovery-oriented.


(8) In the absence of a properly trained DoD healthcare provider, the victim shall be offered the option to be transported to a non-DoD healthcare provider for the SAFE Kit, if the victim wants a forensic exam. Victims who are not beneficiaries of the Military Healthcare System shall be advised that they can obtain a SAFE Kit through a local civilian healthcare provider at no cost. For further information see paragraphs (h) and (ff) of Appendix A to this part.


(9) Upon completion of the SAFE, the sexual assault victim shall be provided with a hard copy of the completed DD Form 2911. Advise the victim to keep the copy of the DD Form 2911 in his or her personal permanent records as this form may be used by the victim in other matters before other agencies (*e.g.,* Department of Veterans Affairs) or for any other lawful purpose.


(10) Require that healthcare personnel maintain the confidentiality of a Restricted Report to include communications with the victim, the SAFE, and the contents of the SAFE Kit, unless an exception to Restricted Reporting applies. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.


(11) Require that psychotherapy and counseling records and clinical notes pertaining to sexual assault victims contain only information that is required for diagnosis and treatment. Any record of an account of a sexual assault incident created as part of a psychotherapy exercise will remain the property of the patient making the disclosure and should not be retained within the psychotherapist's record.


(i) *Timely medical care.* To comply with the requirement to provide timely medical care, the Surgeons General of the Military Departments shall provide sexual assault victims with priority treatment as emergency cases, regardless of evidence of physical injury, recognizing that every minute a patient spends waiting to be examined may cause loss of evidence and undue trauma. Priority treatment as emergency cases includes activities relating to access to healthcare, coding, and medical transfer or evacuation, and complete physical assessment, examination, and treatment of injuries, including immediate emergency interventions.


(ii) *Clinically stable.* Require the healthcare provider to consult with the victim, once clinically stable, regarding further healthcare options to the extent eligible, which shall include, but are not limited to:


(A) Testing, prophylactic treatment options, and follow-up care for possible exposure to human immunodeficiency virus and other sexually transmitted diseases or infections (STD/I).


(B) Assessment of the risk of pregnancy, options for emergency contraception, and any follow-up care and referral services to the extent authorized by law.


(C) Assessment of the need for behavioral health services and provisions for a referral, if necessary or requested by the victim.


(k) *Safe kit collection and preservation.* For the purposes of the SAPR Program, forensic evidence collection and document and evidence retention shall be completed in accordance with established policy, taking into account the medical condition, needs, requests, and desires of each sexual assault victim covered by this part. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.


(1) Medical services offered to eligible victims of sexual assault include the ability to elect a SAFE in addition to the general medical management related to sexual assault response, to include medical services and mental healthcare.


(2) The forensic component includes gathering information in DD Form 2911 from the victim for the medical forensic history, an examination, documentation of biological and physical findings, collection of evidence from the victim, and follow-up as needed to document additional evidence.


(3) The process for collecting and preserving sexual assault evidence for the Restricted Reporting option is the same as the Unrestricted Reporting option, except that the Restricted Reporting option does not trigger the official investigative process, and any evidence collected has to be placed inside the SAFE Kit, which is marked with the RRCN in the location where the victim's name would have otherwise been written. The victim's SAFE and accompanying Kit is treated as a confidential communication under this reporting option. The healthcare provider shall encourage the victim to obtain referrals for additional medical, psychological, chaplain, victim advocacy, or other SAPR services, as needed. The victim shall be informed that the SARC will assist them in accessing SAPR services.


(4) The SARC or SAPR VA shall inform the victim of any local or State sexual assault reporting requirements that may limit the possibility of Restricted Reporting before proceeding with the SAFE.


(5) Upon completion of the SAFE in an Unrestricted Reporting case, the healthcare provider shall package, seal, and label the evidence container(s) with the victim's name and notify the MCIO. The SAFE Kit will be retained for 5 years in accordance with section 586 of Public Law 112-81. When the forensic examination is conducted at a civilian facility through an MOU or a MOA with the DoD, the requirement for the handling of the forensic kit will be explicitly addressed in the MOU or MOA. The MOU or MOA with the civilian facility will address the processes for contacting the SARC and for contacting the appropriate DoD agency responsible for accepting custody of the forensic kit. Personal property retained as evidence collected in association with a sexual assault investigation may be returned to the rightful owner of such property after the conclusion of all legal, adverse action and administrative proceedings related to such incidents in accordance with section 538 of Public Law 113-291.


(6) MOUs and MOAs, with off-base, non-military facilities for the purposes of providing medical care to eligible victims of sexual assault shall include instructions for the notification of a SARC (regardless of whether a Restricted or Unrestricted Report of sexual assault is involved), and procedures for the receipt of evidence and disposition of evidence back to the DoD law enforcement agency or MCIO. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.


(7) Upon completion of the SAFE in a Restricted Reporting case, the healthcare provider shall package, seal, and label the evidence container(s) with the RRCN and store it in accordance with Service regulations. The SAFE Kit will be retained for 5 years in a location designated by the Military Service concerned. When the forensic examination is conducted at a civilian facility through an MOU or an MOA with the DoD, the requirement for the handling of the forensic kit will be explicitly addressed in the MOU or MOA. The MOU or MOA with the civilian facility will address the processes for contacting the SARC and for contacting the appropriate DoD agency responsible for accepting custody of the forensic kit. The 5-year time frame will start from the date the victim signs the DD Form 2910, but if there is no DD Form 2910, the timeframe will start from the date the SAFE Kit is completed.


(8) Any evidence and the SAFE Kit in Restricted Reporting cases shall be stored for 5 years from the date of the victim's Restricted Report of the sexual assault.


(9) The SARC will contact the victim at the 1-year mark of the report to inquire whether the victim wishes to change his or her reporting option to Unrestricted.


(i) If the victim does not change to Unrestricted Reporting, the SARC will explain to the victim that the SAFE Kit will be retained for a total of 5 years from the time the victim signed the DD Form 2910 (electing the Restricted Report) and will then be destroyed. The DD Forms 2910 and 2911 will be retained for 50 years in a manner that protects confidentiality. The SARC will emphasize to the victim that his or her privacy will be respected and he or she will not be contacted again by the SARC. The SARC will stress it is the victim's responsibility from that point forward, if the victim wishes to change from a Restricted to an Unrestricted Report, to affirmatively contact a SARC before the 5-year SAFE Kit retention period elapses.


(ii) If the victim needs another copy of either of these forms, he or she can request it at this point, and the SARC shall assist the victim in accessing the requested copies within 7 business days. The SARC will document this request in the DD Form 2910.


(iii) At least 30 days before the expiration of the 5-year SAFE Kit storage period, the DoD law enforcement or MCIO shall notify the installation SARC that the storage period is about to expire and confirm with the SARC that the victim has not made a request to change to Unrestricted Reporting or made a request for any personal effects.


(iv) If there has been no change, then at the expiration of the storage period in compliance with established procedures for the destruction of evidence, the designated activity, generally the DoD law enforcement agency or MCIO, may destroy the evidence maintained under that victim's RRCN.


(v) If, before the expiration of the 5-year SAFE Kit storage period, a victim changes his or her reporting preference to the Unrestricted Reporting option, the SARC shall notify the respective MCIO, which shall then assume custody of the evidence maintained by the RRCN from the DoD law enforcement agency or MCIO, pursuant to established chain of custody procedures. MCIO established procedures for documenting, maintaining, and storing the evidence shall thereafter be followed.


(A) The DoD law enforcement agency, which will receive forensic evidence from the healthcare provider if not already in custody, and label and store such evidence shall be designated.


(B) The designated DoD law enforcement agency must be trained and capable of collecting and preserving evidence in Restricted Reports prior to assuming custody of the evidence using established chain of custody procedures.


(10) Evidence will be stored by the DoD law enforcement agency until the 5-year storage period for Restricted Reporting is reached or a victim changes to Unrestricted Reporting.




