# ยง 2001.90   Agency annual reporting requirements.

(a) *Delegations of original classification authority.* Agencies shall report delegations of original classification authority to ISOO annually in accordance with section 1.3(c) of the Order and ยง 2001.11(c).


(b) *Statistical reporting.* Each agency that creates or safeguards classified information shall report annually to the Director of ISOO statistics related to its security classification program. The Director will instruct agencies what data elements are required, and how and when they are to be reported.


(c) *Accounting for costs.* (1) Information on the costs associated with the implementation of the Order will be collected from the agencies. The agencies will provide data to ISOO on the cost estimates for classification-related activities. ISOO will report these cost estimates annually to the President. The agency senior official should work closely with the agency comptroller to ensure that the best estimates are collected.


(2) The Secretary of Defense, acting as the executive agent for the National Industrial Security Program under E.O.12829, as amended, *National Industrial Security Program,* and consistent with agreements entered into under section 202 of E.O. 12989, as amended, will collect cost estimates for classification-related activities of contractors, licensees, certificate holders, and grantees, and report them to ISOO annually. ISOO will report these cost estimates annually to the President.


(d) *Self-Inspections.* Agencies shall report annually to the Director of ISOO as required by section 5.4(d)(4) of the Order and outlined in ยง 2001.60(f).




