# ยง 92.453   Competitive reallocations.

(a) HUD will invite applications through _Federal Register_ publication of a Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA), in accordance with section 102 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3545) and the requirements of sec. 217(c) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12747(c)), for HOME funds that become available for competitive reallocation under ยง 92.451 or ยง 92.452, or both. The NOFA will describe the application requirements and procedures, including the total funding available for the competition and any maximum amount of individual awards. The NOFA will also describe the selection criteria and any special factors to be evaluated in awarding points under the selection criteria. 


(b) The NOFA will include the selection criteria at sec. 217(c) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12747(c)), with the following maximum number of points awarded for each category of criteria: 


(1) *Commitment.* Up to 25 points for the criteria at sec. 217(c)(1) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12747(c)(1)); 


(2) *Actions.* Up to 50 points for the criteria at sec. 217(c)(2) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12747(c)(2)); and 


(3) *Policies.* Up to 25 points for the criteria at sec. 217(c)(3) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12747(c)(3)). 



---

[N] [62 FR 44840, Aug. 22, 1997]




