# § 63.1318   PET and polystyrene affected sources—testing and compliance demonstration provisions.

(a) Except as specified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, continuous process vents using a control or recovery device to comply with § 63.1316 shall comply with the applicable testing and compliance provisions for continuous process vents specified in § 63.1315(a) except that, for purposes of this paragraph (a), references to group determinations (i.e., total resource effectiveness) do not apply and owners or operators are not required to comply with § 63.113.


(b) *PET affected sources using a dimethyl terephthalate process—Applicability determination procedure.* Owners or operators shall calculate organic HAP emissions from the collection of material recovery sections at an existing affected source producing PET using a continuous dimethyl terephthalate process to determine whether § 63.1316(b)(1)(i) is applicable using the procedures specified in either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section. 


(1) Use Equation 1 of this subpart to determine mass emissions per mass product as specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(1)(ii) of this section. During periods of startup or shutdown, as an alternative to using Equation 1 of this subpart, the owner or operator may divide the emission rate of total organic HAP or TOC during startup or shutdown by the rate of polymer produced from the most recent performance test associated with a production rate greater than zero to determine compliance with the emission limit. 


(i) The mass emission rate for each continuous process vent, E_i_, shall be determined according to the procedures specified in § 63.116(c)(4). The sampling site for determining whether § 63.1316(b)(1)(i) is applicable shall be at the outlet of the last recovery or control device. When the provisions of § 63.116(c)(4) specify that Method 18, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be used, Method 18 or Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A may be used for the purposes of this subpart. The use of Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall comply with paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A) and (b)(1)(i)(B) of this section. 


(A) The organic HAP used as the calibration gas for Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be the single organic HAP representing the largest percent by volume of the emissions.


(B) The use of Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A is acceptable if the response from the high-level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.


(ii) The rate of polymer produced, P_p_ (kg/hr), shall be determined by dividing the weight (kg) of polymer pulled from the process line during the performance test by the number of hours taken to perform the performance test. The weight of polymer pulled shall be determined by direct measurement or by an alternate methodology, such as materials balance. If an alternate methodology is used, a description of the methodology, including all procedures, data, and assumptions shall be submitted as part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.1335(e)(5).


(2) Use engineering assessment, as described in § 63.1323(b)(6)(i), to demonstrate that mass emissions per mass product are less than or equal to 0.07 kg organic HAP/Mg product. If engineering assessment shows that mass emissions per mass product are greater than 0.07 kg organic HAP/Mg product and the owner or operator wishes to demonstrate that mass emissions per mass product are less than the threshold emission rate of 0.12 kg organic HAP/Mg product, the owner or operator shall use the procedures specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(c) *Compliance with mass emissions per mass product standards.* Owners or operators complying with § 63.1316(b)(1)(i)(A), (b)(1)(ii), (b)(2)(i), (b)(2)(ii), and (c)(1)(i) shall demonstrate compliance with the mass emissions per mass product requirements using the procedures specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. During periods of startup or shutdown, as an alternative to using the procedures specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner or operator may divide the emission rate of total organic HAP or TOC during startup or shutdown by the rate of polymer produced from the most recent performance test associated with a production rate greater than zero to comply with the emission limit.


(d) *Compliance with Temperature Limits for Final Condensers.* Owners or operators complying with § 63.1316(b)(1)(i)(B) or § 63.1316(c)(1)(ii) shall demonstrate continuous compliance based on an average exit temperature determined for each operating day. Calculation of the daily average exit temperature shall follow the provisions of § 63.1335(d)(3). The provisions of § 63.1334(f) and (g) shall apply for the purposes of determining whether or not an owner or operator is to be deemed out of compliance for a given operating day. 



---

[N] [61 FR 48229, Sept. 12, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 38111, June 19, 2000; 66 FR 36938, July 16, 2001; 79 FR 17366, Mar. 27, 2014]




