# § 200.433   Contingency provisions.

(a) Contingency provisions are part of a budget estimate of future costs (typically of large construction projects, IT systems, or other items approved by the Federal agency) which are associated with possible events or conditions arising from causes for which the precise outcome is indeterminable at the time of estimate and that are likely to result, in the aggregate, in additional costs for the approved activity or project. Contingency amounts for major project scope changes, unforeseen risks, or extraordinary events must not be included in the budget estimates for a Federal award.


(b) It is permissible for contingency amounts other than those excluded in paragraph (a) of this section to be explicitly included in budget estimates to the extent necessary to improve their precision. Contingency amounts must be estimated using broadly-accepted cost estimating methodologies, specified in the budget documentation of the Federal award, and accepted by the Federal agency. As such, contingency amounts are to be included in the Federal award. In order for actual costs incurred to be allowable, they must comply with the cost principles and other requirements of this part (see §§ 200.300 and 200.403), be necessary and reasonable for proper and efficient accomplishment of project or program objectives, and be verifiable from the recipient's or subrecipient's records.


(c) Payments to a recipient's or subrecipient's “contingency reserve” or any similar payment made for events the occurrence of which cannot be foretold with certainty as to the time or intensity, or with an assurance of their happening, are unallowable, except as noted in §§ 200.431 and 200.447.






