# § 3175.133   Testing of influence effects.

(a) *General requirements.* (1) Reference conditions (see § 3175.132), with the exception of the influence effect being tested under this section, must be maintained for the duration of these tests.


(2) After completing the required tests for each influence effect under this section, the transducer under test must be returned to reference conditions and tested for accuracy under § 3175.132.


(b) *Ambient temperature.* (1) The transducer's accuracy must be tested at the following temperatures ( °F): +68, +104, +140, + 68, 0, −4, −40, +68.


(2) The ambient temperature must be held to ±4 °F from each required temperature during the accuracy test at each point.


(3) The rate of temperature change between tests must not exceed 2 °F per minute.


(4) The transducer must be allowed to stabilize at each test temperature for at least 1 hour.


(5) For each required temperature test point listed in this paragraph, the transducer must be tested for accuracy under § 3175.131(h).


(c) *Static-pressure effects (differential-pressure transducers only).* (1) For single-variable transducers, the following pressures must be applied equally to both sides of the transducer, expressed in percent of maximum rated working pressure: 0, 50, 100, 75, 25, 0.


(2) For multivariable transducers, the following pressures must be applied equally to both sides of the transducer, expressed in percent of the URL of the static-pressure transducer: 0, 50, 100, 75, 25, 0.


(3) For each point required in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, the transducer must be tested for accuracy under § 3175.131(h).


(d) *Mounting position effects.* The transducer must be tested for accuracy at four different orientations under § 3175.131(h) as follows:


(1) At an angle of −10° from a vertical plane;


(2) At an angle of +10° from a vertical plane;


(3) At an angle of −10° from a vertical plane perpendicular to the vertical plane required in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section; and


(4) At an angle of +10° from a vertical plane perpendicular to the vertical plane required in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.


(e) *Over-range effects.* (1) A pressure of 150 percent of the URL, or to the maximum rated working pressure of the transducer, whichever is less, must be applied for at least 1 minute.


(2) After removing the applied pressure, the transducer must be tested for accuracy under § 3175.131(h).


(3) No more than 5 minutes must be allowed between performing the procedures described in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.


(f) *Vibration effects.* (1) An initial resonance test must be conducted by applying the following test vibrations to the transducer along each of the three major axes of the transducer while measuring the output of the transducer with no pressure applied:


(i) The amplitude of the applied test frequency must be at least 0.35mm below 60 Hertz (Hz) and 49 meter per second squared (m/s
2) above 60 Hz; and


(ii) The applied frequency must be swept from 10 Hz to 2,000 Hz at a rate not greater than 0.5 octaves per minute.


(2) After the initial resonance search, an endurance conditioning test must be conducted as follows:


(i) Twenty frequency sweeps from 10 Hz to 2,000 Hz to 10 Hz must be applied to the transducer at a rate of 1 octave per minute, repeated for each of the 3 major axes; and


(ii) The measurement of the transducer's output during this test is unnecessary.


(3) A final resonance test must be conducted under paragraph (f)(1) of this section.




