# ยง 3565.204   Maximum loan amount.

(a) *Section 207(c) limits and exceptions.* For that part of the property that is attributable to dwelling use, the principal obligation of each guaranteed loan must not exceed the applicable maximum per-unit limitations under section 207(c) of the National Housing Act.


(b) *Loan-to-value limits.* (1) In the case of a borrower that is a nonprofit organization or an agency or body of any State, local or tribal government, each guaranteed loan must involve a principal obligation that does not exceed the lesser of 97 percent of:


(i) The development costs of the housing and related facilities, or


(ii) The lender's determination of value not to exceed the appraised value of the housing and facilities.


(2) In the case of a borrower that is a for-profit entity or other entity not referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, each guaranteed loan must involve a principal obligation that does not exceed the lesser of 90 percent of:


(i) The development costs of the housing and related facilities, or


(ii) The lender's determination of value not to exceed the appraised value of the housing and facilities.


(3) To protect the interest of the Agency or to further the objectives of the program, the Agency may establish lower loan-to-value limits or further restrict the statutory maximum limits based upon its evaluation of the credit quality of the loan.


(c) *Necessary assistance review.* (1) A lender requesting a loan guarantee must review all loans to determine the appropriate amount of assistance necessary to complete and maintain the project. The lender shall recommend to the Agency an adjustment in the loan amount if appropriate as a result of this review.


(2) Where the project financing combines a guaranteed loan with Low-Income Housing Tax Credits or other Federal assistance, the project must conform to the policies regarding necessary assistance in 7 CFR 3560.63 (d) or successor provision.



---

[N] [63 FR 39458, July 22, 1998, as amended at 69 FR 69176, Nov. 26, 2004]




