# § 530.7   Duty to labor organizations.

(a) *Terms.* When used in this section, the following terms will have these meanings:


(1) *Dock area* and *within the port area* shall have the same meaning and scope as defined in the applicable collective bargaining agreement.


(2) *Reasonable period of time* ordinarily means:


(i) If the cargo in question is due to arrive in less than five (5) days from the date of receipt of the request as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, two (2) days from the date of receipt of the request; but


(ii) If cargo in question is due to arrive in more than five (5) days from the date of receipt of the request as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, four (4) days from the date of receipt of the request.


(3) *Movement* includes, but is not necessarily limited to, the normal and usual aspects of the loading and discharging of cargo in containers; placement, positioning and re-positioning of cargo or of containers; the insertion and removal of cargo into and from containers; and the storage and warehousing of cargo.


(4) *Assignment* includes, but is not limited to, the carrier's direct or indirect control over the parties which, the manner by which, or the means by which the shipper's cargo is moved, regardless of whether such movement is completed within or outside of containers.


(5) *Transmit* means communication by first-class mail, facsimile, telegram, hand-delivery, or electronic mail (“e-mail”).


(b) *Procedure.* In response to a written request transmitted from a labor organization with which it is a party or is subject to the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement with a labor organization, an ocean common carrier shall state, within a reasonable period of time, whether it is responsible for the following work at dock areas and within port areas in the United States with respect to cargo transported under a service contract:


(1) The movement of the shipper's cargo on a dock area or within the port area or to or from railroad cars on a dock area or within a port area;


(2) The assignment of intraport carriage of the shipper's cargo between areas on a dock or within the port area;


(3) The assignment of the carriage of the shipper's cargo between a container yard on a dock area or within the port area and a rail yard adjacent to such container yard; or


(4) The assignment of container freight station work and maintenance and repair work performed at a dock area or within the port area.


(c) *Applicability.* This section requires the disclosure of information by an ocean common carrier only if there exists an applicable and otherwise lawful collective bargaining agreement which pertains to that carrier.


(d) *Disclosure not deemed admission or agreement.* No disclosure made by an ocean common carrier shall be deemed to be an admission or agreement that any work is covered by a collective bargaining agreement.


(e) *Dispute resolution.* Any dispute regarding whether any work is covered by a collective bargaining agreement and the responsibility of the ocean common carrier under such agreement shall be resolved solely in accordance with the dispute resolution procedures contained in the collective bargaining agreement and the National Labor Relations Act, and without reference to this section.


(f) *Jurisdiction and lawfulness.* Nothing in this section has any effect on the lawfulness or unlawfulness under the Shipping Act of 1984, the National Labor Relations Act, the Taft-Hartley Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act, the antitrust laws, or any other federal or state law, or any revisions or amendments thereto, of any collective bargaining agreement or element thereof, including any element that constitutes an essential term of a service contract under section 8(c) of the Act (46 U.S.C. 40502).



---

[N] [64 FR 11206, Mar. 8, 1999, as amended at 74 FR 50723, Oct. 1, 2009]




