# § 46.4701-1   Tax on issuer of registration-required obligation not in registered form.

(a) *In general.* Section 4701 imposes a tax (determined under paragraph (c) of this section) on any person (referred to as the issuer) who issues an obligation that—


(1) Is a registration-required obligation, and


(2) Is not issued in registered form.


(b) *Definitions*—(1) *Person.* The term “person” includes all governmental entities.


(2) *Obligation.* The term “obligation” includes bonds debentures, notes, certificates and other evidences of indebtedness regardless of how denominated.


(3) *Registration-required obligation.* The term “registration-required obligation” has the same meaning as when used in section 163(f) (and the regulations thereunder) which relates to the denial of a deduction for interest on certain obligations not in registered form. However, the term “registration-required obligation” does not include any obligation which would otherwise be exempt from Federal income tax under section 103(a) or any other provision of law.


(4) *Registered form.* The term “registered form” has the same meaning as when used in section 103(j) (and the regulations thereunder) which relates to obligations which must be in registered form to be tax-exempt.


(5) *Issuer.* Except as provided in § 1.163-5T(d) (relating to pass-through certificates) and § 1.163-5T(e) (relating to REMICs), the “issuer” is the person whose interest deduction would be disallowed solely by reason of section 163(f)(1).


(6) *Date of Issuance.* (i) For obligations intended to be offered to the public, the term “date of issuance” means the date the obligation is first sold to the public at the issue price.


(ii) For an obligation which is privately placed, the term “date of issuance” is the date the obligation is first sold by the issuer.


(7) *Issue price.* See section 1273 (b) and the regulations thereunder for the definition of “issue price”.


(c) *Rate and computation of tax.* The tax under section 4701(a) is imposed in an amount equal to the product of—


(1) 1 percent of the principal amount of the obligation, multiplied by


(2) The number of calendar years (or portions thereof) during the period beginning on the date of issuance of the obligation and ending on the date of maturity.


(d) *Payment of tax.* Every person who incurs liability for the tax imposed by section 4701 is required to file a return in accordance with section 6011 and § 46.6011(a)-1 relating to the general requirement of a return, statement or list.


(e) *Effective date.* The provisions of this section shall apply to obligations issued after December 31, 1982, unless issued on the exercise of a warrant or the conversion of a convertible obligation if the warrant or obligation was offered or sold outside the United States without registration under the Securities Act of 1933 and was issued before August 10, 1982. See section 310(d)(3) of the Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982.



---

[N] [T.D. 8102, 51 FR 33594, Sept. 22, 1986; 51 FR 36392, Oct. 10, 1986, as amended by T.D. 8300, 55 FR 19627, May 10, 1990]






