# ยง 582.110   Matching requirements.

(a) *Matching rental assistance with supportive services.* (1) To qualify for rental assistance grants, an applicant must certify that it will provide or ensure the provision of supportive services, including funding the services itself if the planned resources do not become available for any reason, appropriate to the needs of the population being served, and at least equal in value to the aggregate amount of rental assistance funded by HUD. The supportive services may be newly created for the program or already in operation, and may be provided or funded by other Federal, State, local, or private programs in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 11403b. This statute provides that a recipient may use funds from any source, including any other Federal source (but excluding the specific statutory subtitle from which S+C funds are provided), as well as State, local, and private sources, provided that funds from the other source are not statutorily prohibited to be used as a match.


(2) Only services that are provided after the execution of the grant agreement may count toward the match.


(3) It is the responsibility of the recipient to ensure that any funds or services used to satisfy the matching requirements of this section are eligible under the laws governing the funds or services to be used as matching funds or services for a grant awarded under this program.


(b) *Availability to participants.* Recipients must give reasonable assurances that supportive services will be available to participants for the entire term of the rental assistance. The value of the services provided to a participant, however, does not have to equal the amount of rental assistance provided that participant, nor does the value have to be equal to the amount of rental assistance on a year-to-year basis.


(c) *Calculating the value of supportive services.* In calculating the amount of the matching supportive services, applicants may count:


(1) Salaries paid to staff of the recipient to provide supportive services to S+C participants;


(2) The value of supportive services provided by other persons or organizations to S+C participants;


(3) The value of time and services contributed by volunteers at the rate of $10.00 an hour, except for donated professional services which may be counted at the customary charge for the service provided (professional services are services ordinarily performed by donors for payment, such as the services of health professionals, that are equivalent to the services they provide in their occupations);


(4) The value of any lease on a building used for the provision of supportive services, provided the value included in the match is no more than the prorated share used for the program; and 


(5) The cost of outreach activities, as described in ยง 582.325(a) of this part.



---

[N] [58 FR 13892, Mar. 15, 1993, as amended at 73 FR 75325, Dec. 11, 2008]




