# § 704.14   Representation.

(a) *Board representation.* The board will be determined as stipulated in its bylaws governing election procedures, provided that:


(1) At least a majority of directors, including the chair of the board, must serve on the board as representatives of member credit unions;


(2) Only an individual who currently holds a senior staff position (e.g., position of chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating officer, chief information officer, chief risk officer, treasurer/manager, etc.) at a member credit union, and will hold that position at the time he or she is seated on the corporate credit union board if elected, may seek election or re-election to the corporate credit union board;


(3) No individual may be elected or appointed to serve on the board if, after such election or appointment, the individual would be a director at more than one corporate credit union;


(4) No individual may be elected or appointed to serve on the board if, after such election or appointment, any member of the corporate credit union would have more than one representative on the board of the corporate credit union;


(5) The chair of the board may not serve simultaneously as an officer, director, or employee of a credit union trade association;


(6) A majority of directors may not serve simultaneously as officers, directors, or employees of the same credit union trade association or its affiliates (not including chapters or other subunits of a state trade association);


(7) For purposes of meeting the requirements of paragraphs (a)(5) and (a)(6) of this section, an individual may not serve as a director or chair of the board if that individual holds a subordinate employment relationship to another employee who serves as an officer, director, or employee of a credit union trade association;


(8) In the case of a corporate credit union whose membership is composed of more than 25 percent non-credit unions, the majority of directors serving as representatives of member credit unions, including the chair, must be elected only by member credit unions; and


(9) At least a majority of directors of every corporate credit union, including the chair of the board, must serve on the corporate board as representatives of natural person credit union members.


(b) *Credit union trade association.* As used in this section, a credit union trade association includes but is not limited to, state credit union leagues and league service corporations and national credit union trade associations. 


(c) *Representatives of organizational members.* (1) An organizational member of a corporate credit union is a member that is not a natural person. An organizational member may appoint one of its members or officials as a representative to the corporate credit union. The representative shall be empowered to attend membership meetings, to vote, and to stand for election on behalf of the member. No individual may serve as the representative of more than one organizational member in the same corporate credit union. 


(2) Any vacancy on the board of a corporate credit union caused by a representative being unable to complete his or her term shall be filled by the board of the corporate credit union according to its bylaws governing the filling of board vacancies. 


(d) *Recusal provision.* (1) No director, committee member, officer, or employee of a corporate credit union shall in any manner, directly or indirectly, participate in the deliberation upon or the determination of any question affecting his or her pecuniary interest or the pecuniary interest of any entity (other than the corporate credit union) in which he or she is interested, except if the matter involves general policy applicable to all members, such as setting dividend or loan rates or fees for services. 


(2) An individual is “interested” in an entity if he or she: 


(i) Serves as a director, officer, or employee of the entity; 


(ii) Has a business, ownership, or deposit relationship with the entity; or 


(iii) Has a business, financial, or familial relationship with an individual whom he or she knows has a pecuniary interest in the entity. 


(3) In the event of the disqualification of any directors, by operation of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the remaining qualified directors present at the meeting, if constituting a quorum with the disqualified directors, may exercise, by majority vote, all the powers of the board with respect to the matter under consideration. Where all of the directors are disqualified, the matter must be decided by the members of the corporate credit union. 


(4) In the event of the disqualification of any committee member by operation of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the remaining qualified committee members, if constituting a quorum with the disqualified committee members, may exercise, by majority vote, all the powers of the committee with respect to the matter under consideration. Where all of the committee members are disqualified, the matter shall be decided by the board of directors. 


(e) *Administration.* (1) A corporate credit union shall be under the direction and control of its board of directors. While the board may delegate the performance of administrative duties, the board is not relieved of its responsibility for their performance. The board may employ a chief executive officer who shall have such authority and such powers as delegated by the board to conduct business from day to day. Such chief executive officer must answer solely to the board of the corporate credit union, and may not be an employee of a credit union trade association. 


(2) The provisions of § 701.14 of this chapter apply to corporate credit unions, except that where “Regional Director” is used, read “Director of the Office of National Examinations and Supervision.”



---

[N] [62 FR 12938, Mar. 19, 1997, as amended at 67 FR 65657, Oct. 25, 2002; 75 FR 64844, Oct. 20, 2010; 80 FR 25938, May 6, 2015; 85 FR 62211, Oct. 2, 2020; 85 FR 71827, Nov. 12, 2020]




