# § 1003.502   Agreements with subrecipients.

(a) Before disbursing any ICDBG funds to a subrecipient, the grantee shall sign a written agreement with the subrecipient. The agreement shall remain in effect during any period that the subrecipient has control over ICDBG funds, including program income. 


(b) At a minimum, the written agreement with the subrecipient shall include provisions concerning the following items: 


(1) *Statement of work.* The agreement shall include a description of the work to be performed, a schedule for completing the work, and a budget. These items shall be in sufficient detail to provide a sound basis for the grantee effectively to monitor performance under the agreement. 


(2) *Records and reports.* The grantee shall specify in the agreement the particular records the subrecipient must maintain and the particular reports the subrecipient must submit in order to assist the grantee in meeting its recordkeeping and reporting requirements. 


(3) *Program income.* The agreement shall include the program income requirements set forth in § 2 CFR 200.307 as modified by § 1003.503. 


(4) *Uniform administrative requirements.* The agreement shall require the subrecipient to comply with applicable administrative requirements, as described in § 1003.501. 


(5) *Other program requirements.* The agreement shall require the subrecipient to carry out each activity in compliance with all Federal laws and regulations described in subpart G of this part, except that the subrecipient does not assume the grantee's environmental responsibilities described at § 1003.605. 


(6) *Conditions for religious organizations.* Where applicable, the conditions prescribed by HUD for the use of ICDBG funds by religious organizations shall be included in the agreement. 


(7) *Suspension and termination.* The agreement shall set forth remedies for noncompliance and provisions on termination in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D.


(8) *Reversion of assets.* The agreement shall specify that upon its expiration the subrecipient shall transfer to the grantee any ICDBG funds on hand at the time of expiration and any accounts receivable attributable to the use of ICDBG funds. It shall also include provisions designed to ensure that any real property under the subrecipient's control that was acquired or improved in whole or in part with ICDBG funds (including ICDBG funds provided to the subrecipient in the form of a loan) in excess of $25,000 is either: 


(i) Used to meet the primary objective as stated in § 1003.208 until five years after expiration of the agreement, or for such longer period of time as determined to be appropriate by the grantee; or 


(ii) Not used in accordance with paragraph (b)(8)(i) of this section, in which event the subrecipient shall pay to the grantee an amount equal to the current market value of the property less any portion of the value attributable to expenditures of non-ICDBG funds for the acquisition of, or improvement to, the property. The payment is program income to the grantee if it is received during the grant period. (No payment is required after the period of time specified in paragraph (b)(8)(i) of this section.) 



---

[N] [62 FR 12349, Mar. 12, 1998, as amended at 80 FR 75945, Dec. 7, 2015]




