# § 3.503   Children.

(a) The effective date of discontinuance of pension, compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation to or for a child, or to or for a veteran or surviving spouse on behalf of such child, will be the earliest of the dates stated in this section. Where an award is reduced, the reduced rate will be payable the day following the date of discontinuance of the greater benefit.


(1) *Age 18 (or 23) (38 U.S.C. 5112(a); § 3.57).* Day before 18th (or 23d birthday). 


(2) *Enters service.* Date of last payment of apportioned disability benefits for child not in custody of estranged spouse. Full rate payable to veteran. No change where payments are being made for the child to the veteran, his (her) estranged spouse, his (her) surviving spouse, or to the fiduciary of a child not in the surviving spouse's custody.


(3) *Permanently incapable of selfsupport (38 U.S.C. 5112(a), (b)(6); Pub. L. 87-825; §§ 3.57, 3.950)*—(i) *Pension.* Date of last payment. 


(ii) *Compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation.* Last day of month following 60 days after notice to payee. 


(4) *Marriage.* See § 3.500(n). 


(5) *School attendance.* See § 3.667. 


(6) *Stepchild no longer member of veteran's household* (§ *3.57*). Last day child was a member of household. 


(7) *Two parent cases* (§ *3.703*). Day preceding beginning date of award based on service of the other parent. 


(8) *Dependents' educational assistance* (§§ *3.707, 3.807, and* § *21.3023 of this chapter*). Day preceding beginning date of educational assistance allowance. 


(9) *Surviving spouse becomes entitled.* Date of last payment. See § 3.657.


(10) *Interlocutory adoption decree or adoptive placement agreement.* Date child left custody of adopting parent during the interlocutory period or during adoptive placement agreement, or date of rescission of the decree or date of termination of the adoptive placement agreement, whichever first occurs. 


(b) *Monetary allowance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 18 for certain individuals who are children of Vietnam veterans or children of veterans with covered service in Korea.* The effective date of discontinuance of the monthly allowance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 18 will be the last day of the month before the month in which the death of the individual occurred. 


(c) *Medicaid-covered nursing home care (§ 3.551(i)).* (1) Last day of the calendar month in which Medicaid payments begin, last day of the month following 60 days after issuance of a prereduction notice required under § 3.103(b)(2), or the earliest date on which payment may be reduced without creating an overpayment, whichever date is later; or


(2) If the child or the child's custodian willfully conceals information necessary to make the reduction, the last day of the month in which that willful concealment occurred.



---

[N] [26 FR 1597, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 27 FR 11890, Dec. 1, 1962; 30 FR 14983, Dec. 3, 1965; 34 FR 839, Jan. 18, 1969; 38 FR 872, Jan. 5, 1973; 41 FR 55875, Dec. 23, 1976; 53 FR 23237, June 21, 1988; 62 FR 51279, Sept. 30, 1997; 67 FR 49587, July 31, 2002; 76 FR 4248, Jan. 25, 2011; 83 FR 47275, Sept. 18, 2018]




