# ยง 28.6001-1   Records required to be kept.

(a) *In general.* Every U.S. recipient (as defined in ยง 28.2801-2(e)) subject to taxation under chapter 15 of subtitle B must keep, for the purpose of determining the total amount of covered gifts and covered bequests, such permanent books of account or records as are necessary to establish the amount of that person's aggregate covered gifts and covered bequests, and the other information required to be shown on Form 708, *United States Return of Tax for Gifts and Bequests Received from Covered Expatriates,* or any successor form. All documents and vouchers used in preparing Form 708 must be retained by the person required to file the return so as to be available for inspection so long as the contents thereof may become material in the administration of any internal revenue law.


(b) *Supplemental information.* The U.S. recipient, as defined in ยง 28.2801-2(e), must furnish such supplemental information as may be deemed necessary by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to allow the IRS to determine the correct amount of tax. Therefore, the U.S. recipient must furnish, upon request, copies of all documents relating to the covered gift or covered bequest, appraisals of any items included in the aggregate amount of covered gifts and covered bequests, copies of balance sheets and other financial statements obtainable by that person relating to the value of stock or other property constituting the covered gift or covered bequest, and any other information obtainable by that person that may be necessary in the determination of the tax. See section 2801 of the Code and the corresponding regulations. For every policy of life insurance listed on the return, the U.S. recipient must procure a statement from the insurance company on Form 712, *Life Insurance Statement,* or any successor form, and file it with the IRS office where the return is filed. If specifically requested by the IRS, the insurance company must file this statement directly with the IRS.


(c) *Applicability date.* This section applies on and after January 14, 2025.






