# § 17.185   Requirements for intermediate products and unfinished nonbeverage products.

(a) *General.* Self-manufactured ingredients made with taxpaid spirits may be accounted for either as intermediate products or as unfinished nonbeverage products. The manufacturer may choose either method of accounting for such self-manufactured ingredients (see § 17.127). However, the method selected determines the requirements that will apply to those ingredients, as prescribed in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.


(b) *Intermediate products.* Intermediate products shall be used exclusively in the manufacture of nonbeverage products. Intermediate products may be accumulated and stored indefinitely and may be used in any nonbeverage product whose formula calls for such use. Intermediate products shall be manufactured by the same entity that manufactures the finished nonbeverage products. Intermediate products shall not be sold or transferred between separate and distinct entities. However, they may be transferred to another branch or plant of the same manufacturer, for use there in the manufacture of approved nonbeverage products. (See § 17.169 for recordkeeping requirement.) For the purposes of this section, the phrase “separate and distinct entities” includes parent and subsidiary corporations, regardless of any corporate (or other) relationship, and even if the stock of both the manufacturing firm and the receiving firm is owned by the same persons.


(c) *Unfinished nonbeverage products.* An unfinished nonbeverage product shall only be used in the particular nonbeverage product for which it was manufactured, and shall be entirely so used within the time limit stated in the approved TTB Form 5154.1. Spirits dissipated or recovered in the manufacture of unfinished nonbeverage products shall be regarded as having been dissipated or recovered in the manufacture of nonbeverage products. Spirits contained in such unfinished products shall be accounted for in the supporting data under § 17.147 and inventoried under § 17.167 as “in process” in nonbeverage products. Production of unfinished nonbeverage products shall be recorded as an integral part of the production records for the related nonbeverage products. Unfinished nonbeverage products shall not be transferred to other premises.




