# § 488.835   Temporary management.

(a) *Application.* (1) CMS may impose temporary management of an HHA if it determines that an HHA has a condition-level noncompliance and CMS determines that management limitations or the deficiencies are likely to impair the HHA's ability to correct deficiencies and return the HHA to full compliance with the conditions of participation within the timeframe required.


(2) [Reserved]


(b) *Procedures.* (1) CMS notifies the HHA that a temporary manager is being appointed.


(2) If the HHA fails to relinquish authority and control to the temporary manager, CMS terminates the HHA's provider agreement in accordance with § 488.865.


(c) *Duration and effect of sanction.* Temporary management continues until—


(1) CMS determines that the HHA has achieved substantial compliance and has the management capability to ensure continued compliance with all the conditions of participation;


(2) CMS terminates the provider agreement; or


(3) The HHA reassumes management control without CMS approval. In such case, CMS initiates termination of the provider agreement and may impose additional sanctions.


(4) Temporary management will not exceed a period of 6 months from the date of the survey identifying noncompliance.


(d) *Payment of salary.* (1) The temporary manager's salary—


(i) Is paid directly by the HHA while the temporary manager is assigned to that HHA; and


(ii) Must be at least equivalent to the sum of the following:


(A) The prevailing salary paid by providers for positions of this type in what the State considers to be the HHA's geographic area (prevailing salary based on the Geographic Guide by the Department of Labor (BLS Wage Data by Area and Occupation);


(B) Any additional costs that would have reasonably been incurred by the HHA if such person had been in an employment relationship; and


(C) Any other costs incurred by such a person in furnishing services under such an arrangement or as otherwise set by the State.


(2) An HHA's failure to pay the salary and other costs of the temporary manager described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section is considered a failure to relinquish authority and control to temporary management.




