# ยง 403.5   Declassification and downgrading.

(a) *Authority and policy for declassification and downgrading.* Information that continues to meet the classification requirements prescribed in ยง 403.3(c) despite the passage of time will continue to be safeguarded. However, information which is properly classified at the time it is developed may not necessarily require protection indefinitely. National security information over which the Bank exercises final classification jurisdiction shall be declassified or downgraded as soon as national security considerations permit. Information shall be declassified or downgraded by:


(1) The official who authorized the original classification, if that official is still serving in the same position, by a successor, or by a supervisory official of either; or


(2) Officials specifically delegated this authority in writing by the Chairman or by the Security Officer. A list of those who may be so delegated shall be maintained by the Security Officer.


(3) If the Director of the Information Security Oversight Office determines that information is unlawfully classified, the Director may require the Export-Import Bank to declassify it. Any such decision by the Director may be appealed to the National Security Council. The information shall remain classified until the appeal is decided.


(b) *Declassification Procedure.* Information marked with a specific declassification date or event shall be declassified on that date or upon occurrence of that event. The overall classification markings shall be lined through a statement placed on the cover or first page to indicate the declassification authority, by name and title, and the date of declassification. If practicable, the classification markings on each page shall be cancelled; otherwise, the statement on the cover or first page shall indicate that the declassification applies to the entire document.


(c) *Notification to Holders.* When classified information has been properly marked with specific dates or events for declassification it is not necessary to issue notices of declassification to any holders. However, when declassification action is taken earlier than originally scheduled, or the duration of classification is extended, the authority making such changes shall promptly notify all holders to whom the information was originally transmitted. This notification shall include the marking action to be taken, the authority for the change (name and title), and the effective date of the change. Upon receipt of notification, recipients shall make the proper changes and shall notify holders to whom they have transmitted the classified information.


(d) *Downgrading.* Information designated a particular level of classification may be assigned a lower classification level by the original classifier or by an official authorized to declassify the same information. Prompt notice of such downgrading shall be provided to known holders of the information. Classified information marked for automatic downgrading under previous Executive Orders shall be reviewed to determine that it no longer continues to meet classification requirements despite the passage of time.


(e) *Transferred Information.* Classified information transferred from one agency to another in conjunction with a transfer of functions, and not merely for storage purposes, shall be considered under the control of the receiving agency for purposes of downgrading and declassification, subject to consultation with any other agency that has an interest in the subject matter of the information. Prior to forwarding classified information to an approved storage facility of the Bank, to a Federal records center, or to the National Archives for permanent preservation, the information shall be reviewed for downgrading or declassification.




