# § 7.57   Lake Meredith National Recreation Area.

(a)(1) *What terms do I need to know?* In addition to the definitions found in § 1.4 of this chapter, the following definition applies to this § 7.57 only.


*All-terrain vehicle or ATV* means a motor vehicle that is:


(i) Equipped with a seat or seats for the use of the rider and a passenger, if the motor vehicle is designed by the manufacturer to transport a passenger;


(ii) Designed to propel itself with three or more tires in contact with the ground;


(iii) Designed by the manufacturer for off-highway use;


(iv) Not designed by the manufacturer primarily for farming or lawn care; and


(v) Not more than 50 inches wide.


(2) *Off-road motor vehicle use.* Operating a motor vehicle is allowed within the boundaries of Lake Meredith National Recreation Area off roads under the conditions in this paragraph (a).


(3) *Permit requirement.* (i) A special use permit issued and administered by the superintendent is required to operate a motor vehicle off roads at designated locations in the recreation area. There is no limit to the number of permits that the Superintendent may issue.


(ii) The NPS charges a fee to recover the costs of administering the special use permits. Permit applicants must pay the fee charged by the NPS in order to obtain a special use permit.


(iii) Annual permits are valid for the calendar year for which they are issued. Three-day permits are valid on the day designated on the permit and the following two days. One-day permits are valid on the day designated on the permit.


(iv) A permit applicant must acknowledge in writing that he or she understands the rules governing off-road vehicle use in the recreation area.


(v) Each motor vehicle permitted to operate off roads must display an NPS decal issued by the superintendent. The NPS decal must be affixed to the vehicle in a manner and location specified by the superintendent.


(vi) Permits may be requested from the recreation area headquarters in Fritch, Texas, or on the recreation area Web site.


(4) *Designated locations.* (i) The operation of a motor vehicle off roads within the recreation area is prohibited except at the locations designated by this paragraph (a). Designated locations are identified on maps available at the recreation area headquarters and on the recreation area Web site, and are marked on the ground with signs, posts, or cables.


(ii) Permitted motor vehicles may be used off roads at the following locations at Blue Creek, an area at the northern end of the recreational area that empties into Lake Meredith:


(iii) Permitted motor vehicles may be used off roads at the following locations at Rosita, an area of the Canadian River at the southern end of the recreation area:


(5) *Management zones.* Some of the designated locations for off-road motor vehicle use enter into or abut one or more management zones that further manage this activity. These zones are identified on maps available at headquarters and on the recreation area Web site. Each zone has special restrictions governing off-road motor vehicle use as set forth in the following table:


(6) *Camping at Blue Creek and Rosita.* Camping is prohibited in designated ORV areas, routes, and access points and within 100 feet of these locations, except for marked camping zones where camping is allowed in or next to a motor vehicle, including a tent trailer, RV, or van.


(7) *Operational and vehicle requirements.* The following requirements apply to the use of motor vehicles off roads in the recreation area:


(i) At Rosita, operating a motor vehicle in an isolated pool of water that is not connected to or touching flowing water is prohibited.


(ii) Operating a motor vehicle on vegetation is prohibited.


(iii) Glass containers are prohibited in designated areas, routes, and access points, and in camping zones.


(iv) Operating a motor vehicle in excess of 35 mph (unless otherwise posted) on designated routes and access points at Blue Creek and Rosita is prohibited.


(v) Operating a motor vehicle in excess of the speed limits identified in paragraph (a)(5) (unless otherwise posted) in specific management zones is prohibited.


(vi) Operating a motor vehicle in excess of 55 mph (unless otherwise posted) in the designated areas that are not part of a Low-Speed Zone on the river bottoms at Blue Creek and Rosita is prohibited.


(vii) All ATVs must be equipped with a whip—a pole, rod, or antenna—that is securely mounted on the vehicle and stands upright at least eight feet from the surface of the ground when the vehicle is stopped. This whip must have a solid red or orange safety flag with a minimum size of six inches by twelve inches that is attached no more than ten inches from the top of the whip. Flags must have a pennant, triangle, square, or rectangular shape.


(viii) A motor vehicle must display lighted headlights and taillights during the period from one-half hour before sunset to one half hour after sunrise.


(ix) Motor vehicles must have a functioning muffler system. Motor vehicles that emit more than 96 decibels of sound (using the SAE J1287 test standard) are prohibited.


(x) Operating a motor vehicle with a wheel width greater than 65 inches in a Resource Protection Zone is prohibited.


(8) *Prohibited acts.* Violating any provision of this paragraph (a), including the special restrictions for each management zone, or the terms, conditions, or requirements of an off-road vehicle permit is prohibited. A violation may also result in the suspension or revocation of the applicable permit by the superintendent.


(9) *Superintendent's authority.* The superintendent may open or close designated areas, routes, or access points to motor vehicle use, or portions thereof, or impose conditions or restrictions for off-road motor vehicle use after taking into consideration public health and safety, natural and cultural resource protection, and other management activities and objectives. The superintendent will provide public notice of all such actions through one or more of the methods listed in § 1.7 of this chapter. Violating any such closure, condition, or restriction is prohibited.


(b) *Safety Helmets.* The operator and each passenger of a motorcycle shall wear a safety helmet while riding on a motorcycle in an off-road area designated in paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) *Powerless flight.* The use of devices designed to carry persons through the air in powerless flight is allowed except in locations designated as closed to this activity. The superintendent may designate times and locations where such activity is allowed only under the terms and conditions of a permit. 


(d) *Fishing.* Unless otherwise designated, fishing in a manner authorized under applicable State law is allowed. 


(e) *Hunting.* Hunting is allowed at times and locations designated as open for hunting. 


(f) *Trapping.* Trapping is allowed at times and locations designated as open for trapping.


(g) *Personal watercraft (PWC).* (1) PWC may operate on Lake Meredith except in the following closed areas: stilling basin below Sanford Dam, within 750 feet of the Sanford Dam intake tower, and on the waters of the Canadian River.


(2) PWC may operate on Lake Meredith under the following conditions:


(i) Fueling of PWC is prohibited on the lake, except at the marina fuel dock with an attendant providing the fuel service, or onshore and out of the water.


(ii) Carrying of fuel in an external or portable container onboard a PWC is prohibited.


(iii) PWC may only be launched at designated launch sites established by the Superintendent in accordance with 36 CFR 1.5 and 1.7.


(iv) PWC may not operate at greater than flat wake speed in the following designated areas: North Turkey Creek, Bugbee Canyon, North Canyon, North Cove, South Canyon, Sexy Canyon, Amphitheater Canyon, the coves between day markers 9 and 11, Fritch Canyon, Short Creek, Evans Canyon and Canal Canyon. Flat wake areas are designated by buoys marked with “flat wake” or other similar markings. The location of those buoys may be adjusted by the Superintendent based on reservoir water levels.


(3) The Superintendent may temporarily limit, restrict or terminate access to the areas designated for PWC use after taking into consideration public health and safety, natural and cultural resource protection, and other management activities and objectives.


(h) *Bicycling.* (1) The Superintendent may designate for bicycle use routes or portions of routes in the following sections of the park's multi-use recreational trail:


(i) Harbor Bay-Fritch Canyon area (approximately 5.7 miles);


(ii) Harbor Bay Short-Creek area (approximately 3.3 miles);


(iii) Short Creek-South Turkey Creek area (approximately 2.8 miles);


(iv) South Turkey Creek area (approximately 4.4 miles); and


(v) Fritch Fortress area (approximately 5.2 miles).


(2) Designation of bicycle routes or portions of routes shall be implemented with a written determination that the route is open for public use and that such bicycle use is consistent with the protection of the park area's natural, scenic and aesthetic values, safety considerations and management objectives, and will not disturb wildlife or park resources. Notice may be provided by posting signs and identifying routes on maps which shall be available in the office of the Superintendent and on the park's Web site.


(3) The Superintendent may open or close designated bicycle routes, or portions thereof, or impose conditions or restrictions for bicycle use after taking into consideration public health and safety, natural and cultural resource protection, carrying capacity, and other management activities and objectives.


(i) The Superintendent will provide public notice of all such actions through one or more of the methods listed in § 1.7 of this chapter.


(ii) Violating a closure, condition, or restriction is prohibited.



---

[N] [36 FR 14694, Aug. 10, 1971, as amended at 40 FR 762, Jan. 3, 1975; 48 FR 30295, June 30, 1983; 49 FR 18451, Apr. 30, 1984; 52 FR 10686, Apr. 2, 1987; 69 FR 30223, May 27, 2004; 72 FR 13706, Mar. 23, 2007; 79 FR 15696, Mar. 21, 2014; 80 FR 55264, Sept. 15, 2015]




