# ยง 113.66   Control of containers and instruments of international traffic bond conditions.

A bond for control of containers and instruments of international traffic must contain the conditions listed in this section and must be a continuous bond.


(a) *Agreement to Enter Any Diverted Instrument of International Traffic.* If a principal brings in and takes out of the customs territory of the United States an instrument of international traffic without entry and without payment of duty, as provided by the CBP regulations and section 322(a), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1322(a)) the principal agrees to:


(1) Report promptly to CBP when the instrument is diverted to point-to-point local traffic in the customs territory of the United States or when the instrument is otherwise withdrawn in the customs territory of the United States from its use as an instrument of international traffic.


(2) Promptly enter the instrument unless exempt from entry; and


(3) Pay any duty due on the instrument at the rate in effect and in its condition on the date of diversion or withdrawal.


(b) *Agreement to Comply With the Provisions of subheading 9801.00.10, or 9803.00.50 Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS).* If the principal gets free release of any serially numbered shipping container classifiable under subheading 9801.00.10 or 9803.00.50, HTSUS, the principal agrees:


(1) Not to advance the value or improve its condition abroad or claim (or make a previous claim) drawback on, any container released under subheading 9801.00.10, HTSUS;


(2) To pay the initial duty due and otherwise comply with every condition in subheading 9803.00.50, HTSUS, on any container released under that item;


(3) To mark that container in the manner required by CBP;


(4) To keep records which show the current status of that container in service and the disposition of that container if taken out of service; and


(5) To remove or strike out the markings on that container when it is taken out of service or when the principal transfers ownership of it.


(c) *Agreement to comply with application approved under 19 CFR 10.41b(b).* If the principal establishes a program for the cross-border movements of shipping devices based upon an application approved as provided in ยง 10.41b(b) of this chapter (19 CFR 10.41b(b)), the principal agrees:


(1) To timely file complete and accurate reports on the shipping devices, and to pay any applicable duty due on the devices and repairs made to such devices, as provided in the approved application;


(2) To retain complete and accurate records regarding the shipping devices, and to make such records available to CBP for inspection and audit upon reasonable notice, as also required in the approved application; and


(3) To otherwise comply with every other condition of the approved application.


(d) *Consequence of Default.* (1) If the principal defaults on agreements in these conditions, the obligors (principal and surety, jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages equal to the value of the merchandise involved in the default or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation.


(2) It is understood and agreed that the amount to be collected under these conditions will be based upon the quantity and value of the merchandise as determined by CBP.


(3) If the principal defaults on the agreements in these conditions and the default does not involve merchandise, the obligors agree to pay liquidated damages of $1,000 for each default or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation. It is understood and agreed that whether the default involves merchandise is determined by CBP.



---

[N] [T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended by T.D. 88-72, 53 FR 45902, Nov. 15, 1988; T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51255, Dec. 21, 1988; T.D. 96-20, 61 FR 7990, Mar. 1, 1996; CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70169, Nov. 13, 2015]




