# § 137.250   White corn meal.

(a) White corn meal is the food prepared by so grinding cleaned white corn that when tested by the method prescribed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section not less than 95 percent passes through a No. 12 sieve, not less than 45 percent through a No. 25 sieve, but not more than 35 percent through a No. 72 grits gauze. Its moisture content is not more than 15 percent. In its preparation coarse particles of the ground corn may be separated and discarded, or reground and recombined with all or part of the material from which they were separated, but in any such case the crude fiber content of the finished corn meal is not less than 1.2 percent and not more than that of the cleaned corn from which it was ground, and its fat content does not differ more than 0.3 percent from that of such corn. The contents of crude fiber and fat in all the foregoing provisions relating thereto are on a moisture-free basis.


(b)(1) For the purposes of this section, moisture, fat, and crude fiber content will be determined by the following methods of analysis from “Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists,” 13th Ed. (1980), which is incorporated by reference (copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html*):


(i) Moisture content—sections 14.062 and 14.063 (Official Final Action).


(ii) Fat content—sections 14.062 and 14.067 (Official Final Action).


(iii) Crude fiber content—sections 14.062 and 14.065 (Official Final Action).


(2) The method referred to in paragraph (a) of this section is as follows: Use No. 12 and No. 25 sieves, having standard 20.3 centimeter (8-inch) diameter full-height frames, complying with the specifications for wire cloth and sieve frames in “Nominal Dimensions of Standard Test Sieves (U.S.A. Standard Series)” prescribed in § 137.105(a), which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.* A sieve with frame of the same dimensions as the Nos. 12 and 25 and fitted with 72 XXX grits gauze is used as the third sieve. It is referred to hereafter as the No. 72 sieve. The 72 XXX grits gauze has openings equivalent in size with those of No. 70 woven-wire cloth, complying with specifications for such cloth contained in such “Standard Specifications for Sieves.” Attach bottom pan to No. 72 sieve. Fit the No. 25 sieve into the No. 72 sieve and the No. 12 sieve into the No. 25 sieve. Pour 100 grams of sample into the No. 12 sieve, attach cover and hold the assembly in a slightly inclined position and shake the assembly of sieves by striking the sides against one hand with an upward stroke, at the rate of about 150 times per minute. Turn the assembly of sieves about one-sixth of a revolution, each time in the same direction, after each 25 strokes. Continue shaking for 2 minutes. Weigh separately the material remaining on each sieve and in the pan, and calculate each weight as percent of sample. Sometimes when meals are tested, fine particles clog the sieve openings. If any sieve is clogged by fine material smaller than its openings, empty the contents onto a piece of paper. Remove the entrapped material on the bottom of the sieve by a hair brush and add to the sieve below. In like manner, clean the adhering material from inside the sieve and add to the material on the paper. Return mixture on the paper to the sieve, reassemble the sieves, and shake in the same manner as before for 1 minute. Repeat cleaning procedure if necessary until a 5-gram or less loss in weight occurs in any sieve during a 1-minute shaking. The percent of sample passing through No. 12 sieve shall be determined by subtracting from 100 percent, the percent of material remaining on the No. 12 sieve. The percent passing through a No. 25 sieve shall be determined by adding the percents remaining on the No. 72 sieve and the percent in pan. The percent in the pan shall be considered as the percent passing through a No. 72 XXX grits gauze.



---

[N] [42 FR 14402, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 47 FR 11828, Mar. 19, 1982; 49 FR 10098, Mar. 19, 1984; 54 FR 24894, June 12, 1989]




