# § 26.301   Record of shipment.

(a) *Preparation of records.* (1) The importer bringing distilled spirits, natural wines, or beer into the United States from the Virgin Islands under this subpart must prepare a transfer record according to § 26.273a. A separate transfer record must be prepared for each conveyance. The importer bringing in the distilled spirits, natural wines, or beer must maintain these records and any additional records necessary to substantiate the information provided under paragraph (b) of this section, in accordance with the record retention requirements of § 26.276, and must make them available upon request of the appropriate TTB officer or a customs officer. The importer must also provide a copy of the record to the recipient, if the recipient is not the importer.


(2) For distilled spirits, if the spirits are in packages, the person bringing the spirits into the United States must be in possession of a package gauge record for each bulk container, as provided in § 26.273b, at the time the distilled spirits are withdrawn from customs custody. The package gauge record may be prepared by the insular gauger at the time of their withdrawal from an insular bonded warehouse, as provided in § 26.204, or, if not prepared by the insular gauger, the package gauge record must be prepared by the insular consignor.


(b) *Reporting information for release from customs custody.* A person bringing distilled spirits, natural wines, or beer into the United States from the Virgin Islands under this subpart, if filing electronically, must file with U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) the information specified in this section at the time of filing the entry or entry summary, as appropriate, along with any other information that is required by CBP to be filed with the entry or entry summary for purposes of administering the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and Federal Alcohol Administration Act (FAA Act). Any information required by this section that is also required by, and filed with, CBP as part of the entry or entry summary for purposes of meeting CBP requirements will satisfy the requirements of this section. Regardless of the method of filing, the importer must retain all of the information required by this section and any supporting documentation and make it available for inspection by the appropriate TTB officer or a customs officer. The following information is required:


(1) The number of the importer's basic permit issued under the FAA Act and the regulations issued pursuant to the FAA Act (27 CFR part 1), if applicable, as required by 27 CFR 1.20, and the importer's employer identification number (EIN) associated with that permit;


(2) The name and address of the ultimate consignee;


(3) The TTB-issued IRC registry number of the ultimate consignee;


(4) The quantity of each distilled spirit, natural wine, or beer in the shipment (in proof liters or proof gallons, for distilled spirits); and


(5) Information identifying each product for Internal Revenue Code and/or FAA Act purposes.


(c) *Maintenance of substantiating records.* The importer bringing the distilled spirits, wines, or beer into the United States must maintain records to substantiate the information required under paragraph (b) of this section in accordance with the record retention requirements of § 26.276 and must provide them upon request of the appropriate TTB officer or a customs officer.



---

[N] [T.D. TTB-145, 81 FR 94203, Dec. 22, 2016]




