# § 1222.101   Definitions.

For the purposes of this subpart:


(a) *Administrator* means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, with power to delegate, or any officer or employee of the U.S. Department of Agriculture to whom authority has been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act in the Administrator's stead.


(b) *Converted products* means products made from paper and paper-based packaging.


(c) *Customs or CBP* means the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, an agency of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.


(d) *Department* or *USDA* means the U.S. Department of Agriculture or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.


(e) *Eligible domestic manufacturer or producer* means any person who is currently a domestic manufacturer or producer and who manufactured 100,000 short tons or more of paper and paper-based packaging during the representative period.


(f) *Eligible importer* means any person who is currently an importer and who imported 100,000 short tons or more of paper and paper-based packaging into the United States during the representative period as a principal or as an agent, broker, or consignee of any person who manufactured paper and paper-based packaging outside of the United States for sale in the United States, and who is listed as the importer of record for such paper and paper-based packaging. Importation occurs when paper and paper-based packaging manufactured outside of the United States is released from custody by Customs and introduced into the stream of commerce in the United States. Included are persons who hold title to foreign-manufactured paper and paper-based packaging immediately upon release by Customs, as well as any persons who act on behalf of others, as agents or brokers, to secure the release of paper and paper-based packaging from Customs when such paper and paper-based packaging is entered or withdrawn for use in the United States.


(g) *Kraft process* means a process that transforms wood into a high quality strong pulp for making paper and paper-based packaging.


(h) *Linerboard* means a grade of containerboard that is used as facing material in the manufacture of corrugated or solid fiber shipping boxes.


(i) *Manufacture or produce* means the process of transforming pulp into paper and paper-based packaging.


(j) *Order* means the Paper and Paper-Based Packaging Promotion, Research and Information Order.


(k) *Paper and paper-based packaging* means:


(1) Printing, writing and related paper, which is coated or uncoated paper that is subsequently converted into products used for printing, writing and other communication purposes, such as file folders, envelopes, catalogues, magazines and brochures. For purposes of this Order, printing, writing and related paper includes thermal paper but does not include carbonless paper;


(2) Kraft packaging paper, which is coarse unbleached, semi-bleached or fully bleached grades of paper that are subsequently converted into products such as grocery bags, multiwall sacks, waxed paper and other products;


(3) Containerboard, which is all forms of linerboard and medium that is used to manufacture corrugated boxes, shipping containers and related products; and


(4) Paperboard, which is solid bleached kraft board, recycled board and unbleached kraft board that is subsequently converted into a wide variety of end uses, including folding boxes, food and beverage packaging, tubes, cans, and drums, and other miscellaneous products. Paperboard does not include construction-related products such as gypsum wallboard facings and panel board.


(5) For purposes of this Order, paper and paper-based packaging does not include tissue paper, newsprint or converted products.


(l) *Person* means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity. For the purpose of this definition, the term “partnership” includes, but is not limited to:


(1) A husband and a wife who have title to, or leasehold interest in, a paper and paper-based packaging manufacturing entity as tenants in common, joint tenants, tenants by the entirety, or, under community property laws, as community property; and


(2) So called “joint ventures” wherein one or more parties to an agreement, informal or otherwise, contributed land, facilities, capital, labor, management, equipment, or other services, or any variation of such contributions by two or more parties, so that it results in the manufacturing or importation of paper and paper-based packaging and the authority to transfer title to the paper and paper-based packaging so manufactured or imported.


(m) *Referendum agent* or *agent* means the individual or individuals designated by the Secretary to conduct the referendum.


(n) *Representative period* means the period designated by the Department.


(o) *Short ton or ton* means a measure of weight equal to 2,000 pounds.


(p) *United States* means collectively the 50 states of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.




