# ยง 381.210   How do I request a waiver?

(a) You must send a written request (for example, a typed or handwritten (printed) letter), which includes all of the information required by this section, to the Administrator, Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE., Washington, DC 20590-0001.


(b) You must identify the person who would be covered by the waiver. The application for a waiver must include:


(1) Your name, job title, mailing address, and daytime telephone number;


(2) The name of the individual, motor carrier, or other entity that would be responsible for the use or operation of CMVs during the unique, non-emergency event;


(3) Principal place of business for the motor carrier or other entity (street address, city, State, and zip code); and


(4) The USDOT identification number for the motor carrier, if applicable.


(c) You must provide a written statement that:


(1) Describes the unique, non-emergency event for which the waiver would be used, including the time period during which the waiver is needed;


(2) Identifies the regulation that you believe needs to be waived;


(3) Provides an estimate of the total number of drivers and CMVs that would be operated under the terms and conditions of the waiver; and


(4) Explains how you would ensure that you could likely achieve a level of safety that is equivalent to, or greater than, the level of safety that would be obtained in the absence of the waiver.



---

[N] [72 FR 67608, Dec. 8, 1998, as amended at 72 FR 55699, Oct. 1, 2007; 89 FR 90619, Nov. 18, 2024]




