# § 177.2260   Filters, resin-bonded.

Resin-bonded filters may be safely used in producing, manufacturing, processing, and preparing food, subject to the provisions of this section.


(a) Resin-bonded filters are prepared from natural or synthetic fibers to which have been added substances required in their preparation and finishing, and which are bonded with resins prepared by condensation or polymerization of resin-forming materials, together with adjuvant substances required in their preparation, application, and curing.


(b) The quantity of any substance employed in the production of the resin-bonded filter does not exceed the amount reasonably required to accomplish the intended physical or technical effect or any limitation further provided.


(c) Any substance employed in the production of resin-bonded filters that is the subject of a regulation in parts 174, 175, 176, 177, 178 and § 179.45 of this chapter conforms with any specification in such regulation.


(d) Substances employed in the production of resin-bonded filters include the following, subject to any limitations provided:


(1) *Fibers:*

(2) *Substances employed in fiber finishing:*

(3) *Resins:*

(4) *Adjuvant substances:*

(5) *Colorants:* Colorants used in accordance with § 178.3297 of this chapter.


(e) Resin-bonded filters conforming with the specifications of paragraph (e)(1) of this section are used as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section:


(1) *Total extractives.* The finished filter, when exposed to distilled water at 100 °F for 2 hours, yields total extractives not to exceed 2.8 percent by weight of the filter.


(2) *Conditions of use.* It is used to filter milk or potable water at operating temperatures not to exceed 100 °F.


(f) Resin-bonded filters conforming with the specifications of paragraph (f)(1) of this section are used as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section:


(1) *Total extractives.* The finished filter, when exposed to distilled water at 145 °F for 2 hours, yields total extractives not to exceed 4 percent by weight of the filter.


(2) *Conditions of use.* It is used to filter milk or potable water at operating temperatures not to exceed 145 °F.


(g) Resin-bonded filters conforming with the specifications of paragraph (g)(1) of this section are used as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section:


(1) *Total extractives.* The finished filter, when exposed to *n-*hexane at reflux temperature for 2 hours, yields total extractives not to exceed 0.5 percent by weight of the filter.


(2) *Conditions of use.* It is used to filter edible oils.


(h) Resin-bonded filters conforming with the specifications of paragraph (h)(1) of this section are used as provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section:


(1) *Total extractives.* The finished filter, when exposed to distilled water at 212 °F for 2 hours, yields total extractives not to exceed 4 percent by weight of the filter.


(2) *Conditions of use.* It is used to filter milk, coffee, tea, and potable water at temperatures not to exceed 212 °F.


(i) Resin-bonded filters conforming with the specifications of paragraph (i)(1) of this section are used as provided in paragraph (i)(2) of this section:


(1) *Total extractives.* The finished filter, when exposed to distilled water for 2 hours at a temperature equivalent to, or higher than, the filtration temperature of the aqueous food, yields total extractives not to exceed 4 percent, by weight, of the filter.


(2) *Conditions of use.* It is used in commercial filtration of bulk quantities of nonalcoholic, aqueous foods having a pH above 5.0.


(j) Resin-bonded filters conforming with the specifications of paragraph (j)(1) of this section are used as provided in paragraph (j)(2) of this section:


(1) *Total extractives.* The finished filter, when exposed to 5 percent (by weight) acetic acid for 2 hours at a temperature equivalent to, or higher than, the filtration temperature of the aqueous food, yields total extractives not to exceed 4 percent, by weight, of the filter.


(2) *Conditions of use.* It is used in commercial filtration of bulk quantities of nonalcoholic, aqueous foods having a pH of 5.0 or below.


(k) Resin-bonded filters conforming with the specifications of paragraph (k)(1) of this section are used as provided in paragraph (k)(2) of this section:


(1) *Total extractives.* The finished filter, when exposed to 8 percent (by volume) ethyl alcohol in distilled water for 2 hours at a temperature equivalent to, or higher than, the filtration temperature of the alcoholic beverage, yields total extractives not to exceed 4 percent, by weight, of the filter.


(2) *Conditions of use.* It is used in commercial filtration of bulk quantities of alcoholic beverages containing not more than 8 percent alcohol.


(l) Resin-bonded filters conforming with the specifications of paragraph (l)(1) of this section are used as provided in paragraph (l)(2) of this section:


(1) *Total extractives.* The finished filter, when exposed to 50 percent (by volume) ethyl alcohol in distilled water for 2 hours at a temperature equivalent to, or higher than, the filtration temperature of the alcoholic beverage, yields total extractives not to exceed 4 percent, by weight, of the filter.


(2) *Conditions of use.* It is used in commercial filtration of bulk quantities of alcoholic beverages containing more than 8 percent alcohol.


(m) Resin-bonded filters fabricated from acrylic polymers as provided in paragraph (d)(3) of this section together with other substances as provided in paragraph (d), (1), (2), and (4) of this section may be used as follows:


(1) The finished filter may be used to filter milk or potable water at operating temperatures not to exceed 100 °F, provided that the finished filter when exposed to distilled water at 100 °F for 2 hours yields total extractives not to exceed 1 percent by weight of the filter.


(2) The finished filter may be used to filter milk or potable water at operating temperatures not to exceed 145 °F, provided that the finished filter when exposed to distilled water at 145 °F for 2 hours yields total extractives not to exceed 1.2 percent by weight of the filter.


(n) Acrylonitrile copolymers identified in this section shall comply with the provisions of § 180.22 of this chapter.



---

[N] [42 FR 14572, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 56 FR 42933, Aug. 30, 1991]




