# § 31.3121(b)(1)-1   Certain services performed by foreign agricultural workers, or performed before 1959 in connection with oleoresinous products.

(a) *Services of workers from Mexico.* Services performed before 1965 by foreign agricultural workers from the Republic of Mexico under contracts entered into in accordance with title V of the Agricultural Act of 1949, as amended, are excepted from employment. Contracts entered into pursuant to the provisions of such title V may provide for the performance only of services which constitute “agricultural employment”. The term “agricultural employment” includes certain services which do not constitute “agricultural labor” as that term is defined in section 3121(g) (see § 31.3121(g)-1. For purposes of title V of the Agricultural Act of 1949, as amended, the term “agricultural employment” includes services or activities included within the provisions of section 3(f) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended, or section 3121(g) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under section 507 of the Agricultural Act of 1949, as amended, and as in effect before October 3, 1961, the term “agricultural employment” included also horticultural employment, cotton ginning, compressing and storing, crushing of oil seeds, and the packing, canning, freezing, drying, or other processing of perishable or seasonable agricultural products.


(b) *Services of workers from British West Indies.* Services performed by a foreign agricultural worker lawfully admitted to the United States from the Bahamas, Jamaica, or the other British West Indies, on a temporary basis to perform form agricultural labor are excepted from employment.


(c) *Services performed after 1956 by foreign workers.* Services performed after 1956 by a foreign agricultural worker lawfully admitted to the United States from any foreign country or possession thereof, including the Republic of Mexico, on a temporary basis to perform agricultural labor are excepted from employment.


(d) *Services performed before 1959 in connection with the production or harvesting of certain oleoresinous products.* Services performed before 1959 in connection with the production or harvesting of crude gum (oleoresin) from a living tree or the processing of such crude gum into gum spirits of turpentine and gum rosin, provided the processing is carried on by the original producer of the crude gum, are expected from employment. However, the services to which this paragraph relates constitute agricultural labor as defined in section 3121(g) (see paragraph (d) of § 31.3121(g)-1). Thus, any cash remuneration paid for such services, to the extent that the services are deemed to constitute employment by reason of the rules relating to included and excluded services continued in section 3121(c) (see § 31.3121(c)-1), is taken into account in applying the test prescribed in section 3121(a)(8)(B) for determining whether cash remuneration paid for agricultural labor constitutes wages (see paragraph (c) of § 31.3121(a)(8)-1).


(e) *Cross-reference.* See paragraph (b) of § 31.3121(b)-2 for provisions relating to the status of services of the character to which paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section apply which were performed before 1955 and the remuneration for which is paid after 1954.



---

[N] [T.D. 6744, 29 FR 8310, July 2, 1964]




