# § 162.060-30   Testing requirements for ballast water management system (BWMS) components.

(a) The electrical and electronic components, including each alarm and control and monitoring device of the BWMS, must be subjected to the following environmental tests when in the standard production configuration:


(1) A resonance search vertically up and down, horizontally from side to side, and horizontally from end to end, at a rate sufficiently low as to permit resonance detection made over the following ranges of oscillation frequency and amplitude:


(i) At 2 to 13.3 Hz with a vibration amplitude of ±1 mm.


(ii) At 13.2 to 80 Hz with an acceleration amplitude of ±0.7 g.


(2) The components must be vibrated in the planes specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section at each major resonant frequency for a period of 4 hours.


(3) In the absence of any resonant frequency, the components must be vibrated in each of the planes specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section at 30 Hz with an acceleration of ±0.7 g for a period of 4 hours.


(4) Components that may be installed in exposed areas on the open deck or in enclosed spaces not environmentally controlled must be subjected to a low temperature test of −25 °C and a high temperature test of 55 °C for a period of 2 hours at each temperature. At the end of each test, the components are to be switched on and must function normally under the test conditions.


(5) Components that may be installed in enclosed spaces that are environmentally controlled, including an engine room, must be subjected to a low temperature test at 0 °C and a high temperature test at 55 °C, for a period of 2 hours at each temperature. At the end of each test, the components are to be switched on and must function normally under the test conditions.


(6) Components must be switched off for a period of 2 hours at a temperature of 55 °C in an atmosphere with a relative humidity of 90 percent. At the end of this period, the components must be switched on and must operate satisfactorily for 1 hour under the test conditions.


(7) Components that may be installed in exposed areas on the open deck must be subjected to tests for protection against heavy seas in accordance with IP 56 of publication IEC 60529 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 162.060-5) or its equivalent.


(8) Components must operate satisfactorily with a voltage variation of ±10 percent together with a simultaneous frequency variation of ±5 percent, and a transient voltage of ±20 percent together with a simultaneous transient frequency of ±10 percent and transient recovery time of 3 seconds.


(9) The components of a BWMS must be designed to operate when the vessel is upright and inclined at any angle of list up to and including 15° either way under static conditions and 22.5° under dynamic, rolling conditions either way and simultaneously inclined dynamically (pitching) 7.5° by bow or stern. Deviation from these angles may be permitted only upon approval of a written waiver submitted to the Coast Guard in accordance with § 162.060-10(b)(1) of this subpart, taking into consideration the type, size, and service conditions and locations of the vessels and operational functioning of the equipment for where the system will be used. Any deviation permitted must be documented in the type-approval certificate.


(10) The same component(s) must be used for each test required by this section and testing must be conducted in the order in which the tests are described, unless otherwise authorized by the Coast Guard.


(b) There must be no cracking, softening, deterioration, displacement, breakage, leakage, or damage of components or materials that affect the operation or safety of the BWMS after each test. The components must remain operable after all tests.




