# § 200.949   Building product standards and certification program for exterior insulated steel door systems.

(a) *Applicable standards.* (1) All Exterior Insulated Steel Door Systems shall be designed, manufactured, and tested in compliance with the following standards from the American Society for Testing and Materials and Insulated Steel Door Systems Institute: 


(i) ASTM A591/A591M-89—Standard Specification for Steel Sheet, Electrolytic-Zinc Coated, for Light Coating Mass Applications; 


(ii) ISDSI-100-90—Door Size Dimensional Standard and Assembly Tolerances for Insulated Steel Door Systems; 


(iii) ISDSI-101-83—(Reapproved 1989) Air Infiltration Performance Standard for Insulated Steel Door Systems; 


(iv) ISDSI-102-84—Installation Standard for Insulated Steel Door Systems; 


(v) ISDSI-104-86—Water Penetration Performance Standard for Insulated Steel Door Systems; 


(vi) ISDSI-105-80—Test Procedure and Acceptance Criteria for Physical Endurance for Steel Doors and Hardware Reinforcings; 


(vii) ISDSI-106-80—Test Procedure and Acceptance Criteria for Prime Painted Steel Surfaces for Steel Doors and Frames; 


(viii) ISDSI-107-80—Thermal Performance Standard for Insulated Steel Door Systems; 


(ix) ASTM F476-84—(Reapproved 1991) Standard Test Methods for Security of Swinging Door Assemblies. 


(2) These standards have been approved by the Director of the Federal Register for incorporation by reference. These standards are available from the American Society for Testing and Materials, 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103 or the Insulated Steel Door Institute, 712 Lakewood Center North, 14600 Detroit Avenue, Cleveland, OH 44107. These standards are also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(b) *Labeling.* Under the procedures set forth in § 200.935(d)(6) concerning labeling of a product, the administrator's certification of compliance with the applicable standards is required to be on the certification label issued by the administrator to the manufacturer. 


(c) *Periodic tests and quality assurance inspection.* Under the procedure set forth in § 200.935(d)(8), testing and inspection shall be conducted as follows: 


(1) At least every four years, the administrator shall visit the manufacturer's facility to select a sample of each certified exterior insulated steel door system for testing by an approved laboratory in accordance with the applicable standard. 


(2) The administrator also shall review the quality assurance procedures every year to assure that they are being followed by the manufacturer. 



---

[N] [58 FR 67675, Dec. 22, 1993]




