# § 143.1   Eligibility.

The Automated Broker Interface (ABI) allows participants to transmit data electronically to CBP through ABI and to receive transmissions from Automated Commercial Environment (ACE) or any other CBP-authorized electronic data interchange system. Its purposes are to improve administrative efficiency, enhance enforcement of customs and related laws, lower costs and expedite the release of cargo.


(a) *Participants for entry and entry summary purposes.* Participants in ABI for the purposes of transmitting data relating to entry and entry summary may be:


(1) Customs brokers as defined in § 111.1 of this chapter;


(2) Importers as defined in § 101.1 of this chapter; and


(3) ABI service bureaus, that is, an individual, partnership, association or corporation which provides communications facilities and data processing services for brokers and importers, but which does not engage in the conduct of customs business as defined in § 111.1 of this chapter.


(b) *Participants for Importer Security Filing purposes.* Any party may participate in ABI solely for the purposes of filing the Importer Security Filing pursuant to § 149.2 of this chapter if that party fulfills the eligibility requirements contained in § 149.5 of this chapter. If a party other than a customs broker as defined in § 111.1 of this chapter or an importer as defined in 19 U.S.C. 1484 submits the Importer Security Filing, no portion of the Importer Security Filing can be used for entry or entry summary purposes pursuant to § 149.5 of this chapter.


(c) *Participants for other purposes.* Upon approval by CBP, any party may participate in ABI for other purposes, including transmission of protests, filing of in-bond applications, and applications for FTZ admission (CBP Form 214).



---

[N] [CBP Dec. 08-46, 73 FR 71782, Nov. 25, 2008, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61290, Oct. 13, 2015; CBP Dec. 17-13, 82 FR 45406, Sept. 28, 2017]




