# § 231.13   Passenger-train cars with open-end platforms.

(a) *Hand brakes*—(1) *Number.* Each passenger-train car shall be equipped with an efficient hand brake, which shall operate in harmony with the power brake thereon.


(2) *Location.* Each hand brake shall be so located that it can be safely operated while car is in motion.


(b) *End handholds*—(1) *Number.* Four.


(2) *Dimensions.* Minimum diameter, five-eighths of an inch, wrought iron or steel. Minimum clear length, 16 inches. Minimum clearance, 2, preferably 2
1/2 inches. Handholds shall be flush with or project not more than 1 inch beyond surface of end sill.


(3) *Location.* Horizontal, one near each side of each end on face of platform end sill, projecting downward. Clearance of outer end of handhold shall be not more than 16 inches from end of end sill.


(4) *Manner of application.* End-handholds shall be securely fastened with bolts or rivets.


(c) *End-platform handholds*—(1) *Number.* Four. (Cars equipped with safety gates do not require end-platform handholds.)


(2) *Dimensions.* Minimum clearance, 2, preferably 2
1/2 inches, metal.


(3) *Location.* Horizontal from or near door post to a point not more than 12 inches from corner of car, then approximately vertical to a point not more than 6 inches from top of platform. Horizontal portion shall be not less than 24 inches in length nor more than 40 inches above platform.


(4) *Manner of application.* End-platform handholds shall be securely fastened with bolts, rivets, or screws.


(d) *Uncoupling levers.* (1) Uncoupling attachments shall be applied so they can be operated by a person standing on the ground.


(2) Minimum length of ground uncoupling attachment, 42 inches, measured from center of end of car to handle of attachment.


(3) On passenger-train cars used in freight or mixed-train service the uncoupling attachments shall be so applied that the coupler can be operated from left side of car.




