# § 71.702   Asbestos standard.

(a) *Definitions.* Asbestos is a generic term for a number of asbestiform hydrated silicates that, when crushed or processed, separate into flexible fibers made up of fibrils.


*Asbestos* means chrysotile, cummingtonite-grunerite asbestos (amosite), crocidolite, anthophylite asbestos, tremolite asbestos, and actinolite asbestos.


*Asbestos fiber* means a fiber of asbestos that meets the criteria of a fiber.


*Fiber* means a particle longer than 5 micrometers (µm) with a length-to-diameter ratio of at least 3-to-1.


(b) *Permissible Exposure Limits (PELs)*—(1) *Full-shift limit.* A miner's personal exposure to asbestos shall not exceed an 8-hour time-weighted average full-shift airborne concentration of 0.1 fiber per cubic centimeter of air (f/cc).


(2) *Excursion limit.* No miner shall be exposed at any time to airborne concentrations of asbestos in excess of 1 fiber per cubic centimeter of air (f/cc) as averaged over a sampling period of 30 minutes.


(c) *Measurement of airborne asbestos fiber concentration.* Potential asbestos fiber concentration shall be determined by phase contrast microscopy (PCM) using the OSHA Reference Method in OSHA's asbestos standard found in 29 CFR 1910.1001, Appendix A, or a method at least equivalent to that method in identifying a potential asbestos exposure exceeding the 0.1 f/cc full-shift limit or the 1 f/cc excursion limit. When PCM results indicate a potential exposure exceeding the 0.1 f/cc full-shift limit or the 1 f/cc excursion limit, samples shall be further analyzed using transmission electron microscopy according to NIOSH Method 7402 or a method at least equivalent to that method.



---

[N] [73 FR 11304, Feb. 29, 2008, as amended at 73 FR 66172, Nov. 7, 2008]




