# § 49.104   Requirements regarding threatened or endangered species and historic properties.

(a) *What are sources required to do to address threatened or endangered species and historic properties?* An owner/operator subject to the requirements contained in §§ 49.101 through 49.105 to satisfy its obligation under § 49.151(c)(1)(iii)(B) to obtain a minor NSR permit shall meet either paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, as appropriate.


(1) *Prior completion of assessment by another federal agency.* The owner/operator shall submit to the EPA Regional Office (and to the relevant tribe for the area where the source is located/locating) valid documentation demonstrating that prior Endangered Species Act (ESA) and/or National Historic Preservation Act (NHPA) compliance has been completed by another federal agency in connection with the specific oil and natural gas activity operated under this FIP (we would consider a document no longer valid if the issuing agency has reopened consultation for the prior approval). The appropriate documents shall clearly show that the other federal agency had met its obligations under both the ESA and NHPA. A simple reference to a Record of Decision or other final decision document will not be acceptable. For listed species, acceptable documentation can include a copy of a letter or biological opinion from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service addressing the effects of the project on listed species and critical habitat and demonstrating compliance by the federal action agency with ESA requirements. Where the federal action agency prepares a biological assessment of the action as part of its ESA compliance, that document shall also be provided to the EPA Regional Office. For historic properties, acceptable documentation can include: a letter from the appropriate historic preservation office, or a memorandum of agreement with that office, addressing the effects of the project on historic properties and demonstrating compliance by the federal action agency with NHPA requirements. All documentation shall be attached to the Part 1 Registration Form submitted in accordance with § 49.160(c)(1)(iv).


(2) *Screening procedures completed by the owner/operator.* The owner/operator shall submit to the EPA Regional Office (and to the relevant tribe for the area where the source is located/locating) documentation demonstrating that it has completed the required screening procedures specified for consideration of threatened or endangered species and historic properties and receive written confirmation from the EPA stating that the owner/operator has satisfactorily completed these procedures. The completed screening procedures documentation may be submitted together with the source's required § 49.160(c)(1)(iv) Part 1 Registration Form. (The procedures are contained in the following document: “Procedures to Address Threatened and Endangered Species and Historic Properties for the Federal Implementation Plan for Managing Air Emissions from True Minor Sources in Indian Country in the Oil and Natural Gas Production and Natural Gas Processing Segments of the Oil and Natural Gas Sector,” *https://www.epa.gov/tribal-air/tribal-minor-new-source-review*). Review of your submittal will be conducted by the EPA Regional Office in accordance with the procedure in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section:


(i) Within 30 days of receipt of your documentation, by written notification to you, the EPA Regional Office must provide one of the following determinations:


(A) The documentation satisfactorily demonstrates completion of the screening procedures; or


(B) The documentation is not adequate, and additional information is needed. If the initial submittal is deficient, the EPA Regional Office will note any such deficiencies and may offer further direction on completing the screening procedures. Once you have addressed the noted deficiencies, you must resubmit your revised screening procedure documentation for review. An additional 15-day review notification period will be used for the EPA Regional Office to determine whether the listed species and/or historic property screening procedures have been satisfied. If the EPA Regional Office makes such a determination, it will send you written notification stating that conclusion.


(ii) You must obtain written notification from the EPA Regional Office indicating that the source has adequately completed the screening procedures. The EPA Regional Office may send written notification by mail, email, or any other written means of notification. You may not begin construction under this FIP until the following two conditions are met:


(A) At least 30 days has passed from the date the Part 1 Registration Form was submitted; and


(B) The EPA Regional Office has provided this notification.


(b) [Reserved]



---

[N] [81 FR 35977, June 3, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 15732, Mar. 19, 2020]




