# ยง 9301.17   Requests to amend records.

(a) *Requirement for written requests.* Individuals desiring to amend a record that pertains to them in a system of records maintained by SIGAR must submit their request in writing in accordance with the procedures set forth herein unless this requirement is waived by the official having responsibility for the system of records. Records not subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 will not be amended in accordance with these provisions. However, individuals who believe that such records are inaccurate may bring this to the attention of SIGAR.


(b) *Procedures.* (1)(i) The request to amend a record in a system of records shall be addressed to the Privacy Officer. Included in the request shall be the name of the system and a brief description of the record proposed for amendment. In the event the request to amend the record is the result of the individual's having gained access to the record in accordance with the provisions concerning access to records as set forth in this paragraph, copies of previous correspondence between the individual and SIGAR will serve in lieu of a separate description of the record.


(ii) When the individual's identity has been previously verified pursuant to ยง 9301.14(b)(2)(vi), further verification of identity is not required as long as the communication does not suggest that a need for verification has reappeared. If the individual's identity has not been previously verified, SIGAR may require identification validation as described in ยง 9301.14(b)(2)(vi). Individuals desiring assistance in the preparation of a request to amend a record should contact the Privacy Officer at the address cited above.


(iii) The exact portion of the record the individual seeks to have amended should be clearly indicated. If possible, the desired proposed alternative language should also be set forth, or at a minimum, the facts which the individual believes are not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete should be set forth with such particularity as to permit SIGAR to understand the basis for the request and to make an appropriate amendment to the record.


(iv) The request should also set forth the reasons why the individual believes his record is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete. In order to avoid the retention by SIGAR of personal information merely to permit verification of records, the burden of persuading SIGAR to amend a record will be upon the individual. The individual must furnish sufficient facts or credible documentation to persuade the official in charge of the system of the inaccuracy, irrelevancy, untimeliness, or incompleteness of the record.


(2) *SIGAR action on the request.* To the extent possible, a decision upon a request to amend a record will be made within 10 days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal Federal holidays. In the event a decision cannot be made within this time frame, the individual making the request will be informed within 10 days of the expected date for a decision. The decision upon a request for amendment will include the following:


(i) The decision of SIGAR whether to grant in whole, or deny any part of the request to amend the record.


(ii) The reasons for the determination for any portion of the request which is denied.


(iii) The name and address of the official with whom an appeal of the denial may be lodged.


(iv) The name and address of the official designated to assist, as necessary, and upon request of, the individual making the request in the preparation of the appeal.


(v) A description of the review of the appeal within SIGAR (see ยง 9301.18).


(vi) A description of any other procedures which may be required of the individual in order to process the appeal.




