# ยง 983.304   Other subsidy: effect on rent to owner.

(a) *General.* In addition to the rent limits established in accordance with ยง 983.301 and 24 CFR 982.302, the following restrictions apply to certain units.


(b) *HOME.* For units assisted under the HOME program, rents may not exceed rent limits as required by the HOME program (24 CFR 92.252).


(c) *Subsidized projects.* (1) This paragraph (c) applies to any contract units in any of the following types of federally subsidized project:


(i) An insured or non-insured Section 236 project;


(ii) A formerly insured or non-insured Section 236 project that continues to receive Interest Reduction Payment following a decoupling action;


(iii) A Section 221(d)(3) below market interest rate (BMIR) project;


(iv) A Section 515 project of the Rural Housing Service;


(v) Any other type of federally subsidized project specified by HUD.


(2) The rent to owner may not exceed the subsidized rent (basic rent) as determined in accordance with requirements for the applicable federal program listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(d) *Combining subsidy.* Rent to owner may not exceed any limitation required to comply with HUD subsidy layering requirements. See ยง 983.55.


(e) *Other subsidy: rent reduction.* To comply with HUD subsidy layering requirements, at the direction of HUD or its designee, a PHA shall reduce the rent to owner because of other governmental subsidies, including tax credits or tax exemptions, grants, or other subsidized financing.


(f) *Prohibition of other subsidy.* For provisions that prohibit PBV assistance to units in certain types of subsidized housing, see ยง 983.54.



---

[N] [70 FR 59913, Oct. 13, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 65207, Nov. 19, 2007; 79 FR 36170, June 25, 2014]




