# ยง 13.18   Civil penalties: Administrative assessment against an individual acting as a pilot, flight engineer, mechanic, or repairman.

(a) *General.* (1) This section applies to each action in which the FAA seeks to assess a civil penalty by administrative procedures against an individual acting as a pilot, flight engineer, mechanic, or repairman under 49 U.S.C. 46301(d)(5) for a violation listed in 49 U.S.C. 46301(d)(2). This section does not apply to a civil penalty assessed for a violation of 49 U.S.C. chapter 51, or a rule, regulation, or order issued thereunder.


(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the U.S. district courts have exclusive jurisdiction of any civil penalty action involving an individual acting as a pilot, flight engineer, mechanic, or repairman for violations described in paragraph (a)(1), or under 49 U.S.C. 46301(d)(4), if:


(i) The amount in controversy is more than $50,000;


(ii) The action involves an aircraft subject to a lien that has been seized by the government; or


(iii) Another action has been brought for an injunction based on the same violation.


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this part, the following definitions apply:


(1) *Flight engineer* means an individual who holds a flight engineer certificate issued under part 63 of this chapter.


(2) *Individual acting as a pilot, flight engineer, mechanic, or repairman* means an individual acting in such capacity, whether or not that individual holds the respective airman certificate issued by the FAA.


(3) *Mechanic* means an individual who holds a mechanic certificate issued under part 65 of this chapter.


(4) *Pilot* means an individual who holds a pilot certificate issued under part 61 of this chapter.


(5) *Repairman* means an individual who holds a repairman certificate issued under part 65 of this chapter.


(c) *Delegation of authority.* The authority of the Administrator is delegated to the Chief Counsel and each Deputy Chief Counsel, and the Assistant Chief Counsel for Enforcement, as follows:


(1) To initiate and assess civil penalties under 49 U.S.C. 46301(d)(5);


(2) To refer cases to the Attorney General of the United States, or the delegate of the Attorney General, for collection of civil penalties; and


(3) To compromise the amount of a civil penalty under 49 U.S.C. 46301(f).


(d) *Notice of proposed assessment.* A civil penalty action is initiated by sending a notice of proposed assessment to the individual charged with a violation specified in paragraph (a) of this section. The notice of proposed assessment contains a statement of the charges and the amount of the proposed civil penalty. The individual charged with a violation may do the following:


(1) Submit the amount of the proposed civil penalty or an agreed-upon amount, in which case either an order of assessment or a compromise order will be issued in that amount.


(2) Answer the charges in writing by submitting information, including documents and witness statements, demonstrating that a violation of the regulations did not occur or that a penalty, or the amount of the penalty, is not warranted by the circumstances.


(3) Submit a written request to reduce the proposed civil penalty, stating the amount of reduction and the reasons, and providing any documents supporting a reduction of the proposed civil penalty, including records indicating a financial inability to pay.


(4) Submit a written request for an informal conference to discuss the matter with an agency attorney and submit relevant information or documents.


(5) Request that an order of assessment be issued so that the individual charged may appeal to the National Transportation Safety Board.


(e) *Failure to respond to notice of proposed assessment.* An order of assessment may be issued if the individual charged with a violation fails to respond to the notice of proposed assessment within 15 days after receipt of that notice.


(f) *Order of assessment.* An order of assessment, which imposes a civil penalty, may be issued for a violation described in paragraph (a) of this section after notice and an opportunity to answer any charges and be heard as to why such order should not be issued.


(g) *Appeal.* Any individual who receives an order of assessment issued under this section may appeal the order to the National Transportation Safety Board. The appeal stays the effectiveness of the Administrator's order.


(h) *Judicial review.* A party may seek judicial review only of a final decision and order of the National Transportation Safety Board under 49 U.S.C. 46301(d)(6) and 46110. Neither an initial decision, nor an order issued by an administrative law judge that has not been appealed to the National Transportation Safety Board, nor an order compromising a civil penalty action, may be appealed under any of those sections.


(i) *Compromise.* The FAA may compromise any civil penalty imposed under this section at any time before referring the action to the United States Attorney General, or the delegate of the Attorney General, for collection.


(1) When a civil penalty is compromised with a finding of violation, an agency attorney issues an order of assessment.


(2) When a civil penalty is compromised without a finding of violation, the agency attorney issues a compromise order of assessment that states the following:


(i) The individual has paid a civil penalty or has signed a promissory note providing for installment payments;


(ii) The FAA makes no finding of violation; and


(iii) The compromise order will not be used as evidence of a prior violation in any subsequent civil penalty proceeding or certificate action proceeding.


(j) *Payment.* (1) An individual must pay a civil penalty by:


(i) Sending a certified check or money order, payable to the Federal Aviation Administration, to the FAA office identified in the order of assessment; or


(ii) Making an electronic payment according to the directions specified in the order of assessment.


(2) The civil penalty must be paid within 30 days after service of the order of assessment, unless an appeal is filed with the National Transportation Safety Board. In cases where an appeal is filed with the National Transportation Safety Board, or a petition for review is filed with a U.S. court of appeals, the civil penalty must be paid within 30 days after all litigation in the matter is completed and the civil penalty is affirmed in whole or in part.


(k) *Collection of civil penalties.* If an individual does not pay a civil penalty imposed by an order of assessment or other final order, the Administrator may take action provided under the law to collect the penalty.




