# ยง 1321.1   Basis and purpose of this part.

(a) The purpose of this part is to implement Title III of the Older Americans Act, as amended (the Act) (42 U.S.C. 3001 *et seq.*). This part prescribes requirements State agencies shall meet to receive grants to develop comprehensive and coordinated systems for the delivery of the following services: supportive, nutrition, evidence-based disease prevention and health promotion, caregiver, legal, and, where appropriate, other services. These services are provided via State agencies, area agencies on aging, and local service providers under the Act. These requirements include:


(1) Responsibilities of State agencies;


(2) Responsibilities of area agencies on aging;


(3) Service requirements; and


(4) Emergency and disaster requirements.


(b) The requirements of this part are based on Title III of the Act. Title III provides for formula grants to State agencies on aging, under approved State plans described in ยง 1321.27, to develop or enhance comprehensive and coordinated community-based systems resulting in a continuum of person-centered services to older persons and family caregivers, with special emphasis on older individuals with the greatest economic need and greatest social need, with particular attention to low-income minority older individuals. A responsive community-based system of services shall include collaboration in planning, resource allocation, and delivery of a comprehensive array of services and opportunities for all older adults in the community. Title III funds are intended to be used as a catalyst to bring together public and private resources in the community to assure the provision of a full range of efficient, well-coordinated, and accessible person-centered services for older persons and family caregivers.


(c) Each State designates one State agency to:


(1) Develop and submit a State plan on aging, as set forth in ยง 1321.33;


(2) Administer Title III and VII funds under the State plan and the Act;


(3) Be responsible for planning, policy development, administration, coordination, priority setting, monitoring, and evaluation of all State activities related to the Act;


(4) Serve as an advocate for older individuals and family caregivers;


(5) Designate planning and service areas;


(6) Designate an area agency on aging to serve each planning and service area, except in single planning and service area States; and


(7) Provide funds as set forth in the Act to either:


(i) Area agencies on aging under approved area plans on aging, in States with multiple planning and service areas, for their use in fulfilling requirements under the Act and distribution to service providers to provide direct services,


(ii) Service providers, in single planning and service area States, to provide direct services, or


(iii) The Ombudsman program, as set forth in part 1324 of this chapter.


(d) Terms used, but not otherwise defined, in this part will have the meanings ascribed to them in the Act.






