# ยง 585.655   What activities require a revision to my GAP, and when will BOEM approve the revision?

(a) You must notify BOEM in writing before conducting any activities on the OCS not described in your approved GAP. Your notice must describe in detail the type of activities you propose to conduct. We will determine whether the activities you propose require a revision to your GAP. We may request additional information from you, if necessary, to make this determination. Upon receipt of your revised GAP, BOEM will make a determination as to whether it deems the facility or combination of facilities described in your revised GAP to be complex or significant.


(1) If BOEM determines that your revised GAP is not complex or significant, you may conduct your approved activities in accordance with ยง 585.650.


(2) If BOEM determines that your revised GAP is complex or significant, then you must comply with the requirements of ยง 585.651.


(b) BOEM will periodically review the activities conducted under an approved GAP. The frequency and extent of the review will be based on the significance of any changes in available information and on onshore or offshore conditions affecting, or affected by, the activities conducted under your GAP. If the review indicates that the GAP should be revised to meet the requirement of this part, BOEM will require you to submit the needed revisions.


(c) Activities for which a proposed revision to your GAP likely will be necessary include:


(1) Activities on the OCS not described in your approved GAP that could have significant environmental impacts or that may affect threatened or endangered species, or that may affect designated critical habitat of such species or that may result in incidental take of marine mammals;


(2) Modifications to the number, size, or type of facilities (including associated components) or equipment you will use outside of the PDE that was approved for your project;


(3) Changes in the geographical location or layout of bottom disturbances, offshore facilities, or onshore support bases beyond the range of possible locations described in your approved GAP;


(4) Structural failure of any facility operated under your approved GAP; or


(5) Change to any other activity specified by BOEM.


(d) We may begin the appropriate NEPA analysis and any relevant consultations when we determine that a proposed revision could:


(1) Result in a significant change in the impacts previously identified and evaluated;


(2) Require any additional Federal authorizations; or


(3) Involve activities not previously identified and evaluated that could have significant environmental impacts or that may affect threatened or endangered species, or that may affect designated critical habitat of such species, or that may result in incidental take of marine mammals.


(e) When you propose a revision, we may approve the revision if we determine that the revision is:


(1) Designed not to cause undue harm or damage to natural resources; life (including human and wildlife); property; the marine, coastal, or human environment; or sites, structures, or objects of historical or archaeological significance; and


(2) Otherwise consistent with the provisions of subsection 8(p) of the OCS Lands Act.






