# § 494.110   Condition: Quality assessment and performance improvement.

The dialysis facility must develop, implement, maintain, and evaluate an effective, data-driven, quality assessment and performance improvement program with participation by the professional members of the interdisciplinary team. The program must reflect the complexity of the dialysis facility's organization and services (including those services provided under arrangement), and must focus on indicators related to improved health outcomes and the prevention and reduction of medical errors. The dialysis facility must maintain and demonstrate evidence of its quality improvement and performance improvement program for review by CMS. 


(a) *Standard: Program scope.* (1) The program must include, but not be limited to, an ongoing program that achieves measurable improvement in health outcomes and reduction of medical errors by using indicators or performance measures associated with improved health outcomes and with the identification and reduction of medical errors. 


(2) The dialysis facility must measure, analyze, and track quality indicators or other aspects of performance that the facility adopts or develops that reflect processes of care and facility operations. These performance components must influence or relate to the desired outcomes or be the outcomes themselves. The program must include, but not be limited to, the following: 


(i) Adequacy of dialysis. 


(ii) Nutritional status. 


(iii) Mineral metabolism and renal bone disease. 


(iv) Anemia management. 


(v) Vascular access. 


(vi) Medical injuries and medical errors identification. 


(vii) Hemodialyzer reuse program, if the facility reuses hemodialyzers. 


(viii) Patient satisfaction and grievances. 


(ix) Infection control; with respect to this component the facility must— 


(A) Analyze and document the incidence of infection to identify trends and establish baseline information on infection incidence; 


(B) Develop recommendations and action plans to minimize infection transmission, promote immunization; and 


(C) Take actions to reduce future incidents. 


(b) *Standard: Monitoring performance improvement.* The dialysis facility must continuously monitor its performance, take actions that result in performance improvements, and track performance to ensure that improvements are sustained over time. 


(c) *Standard: Prioritizing improvement activities.* The dialysis facility must set priorities for performance improvement, considering prevalence and severity of identified problems and giving priority to improvement activities that affect clinical outcomes or patient safety. The facility must immediately correct any identified problems that threaten the health and safety of patients. 




