# § 220.183   Notice that the annuitant is not disabled.

(a) *General.* If the Board determines that the annuitant does not meet the disability requirements of the law, the disability annuity will generally stop. Except in the circumstance described in paragraph (d) of this section, the Board will give the annuitant advance written notice when the Board has determined that he or she is not now disabled.


(b) *What the advance written notice will tell the annuitant.* The advance written notice will provide—


(1) A summary of the information the Board has and an explanation of why the Board believes the annuitant is no longer disabled. If it is because of medical reasons, the notice will tell the annuitant what the medical information in his or her file shows. If it is because of the annuitant's work activity, the notice will tell the annuitant what information the Board has about the work he or she is doing or has done, and why this work shows that he or she is not disabled. If it is because of the annuitant's failure to give the Board information the Board needs or failure to do what the Board asks, the notice will tell the annuitant what information the Board needs and why, or what the annuitant has to do and why;


(2) The date the disability annuity will stop;


(3) An opportunity for the annuitant to submit evidence within a specified period to support continuance of disability before the decision becomes final; and


(4) An explanation of the annuitant's rights to reconsideration and appeal after the decision becomes final.


(c) *What the annuitant should do if he or she receives an advance written notice.* If the annuitant agrees with the advance written notice, he or she does not need to take any action. If the annuitant desires further information or disagrees with what the Board has told him or her, the annuitant should immediately write or visit a Board office. If the annuitant believes he or she is now disabled, the annuitant should tell the Board why. The annuitant may give the Board any additional or new information, including reports from doctors, hospitals, railroad or non-railroad employers, or others that he or she believes the Board should have. The annuitant should send these as soon as possible to a Board office.


(d) *When the Board will not give the annuitant advance written notice.* The Board will not give the annuitant advance written notice when the Board determines that he or she is not now disabled if the Board recently told the annuitant that—


(1) The information the Board has shows that he or she is not disabled;


(2) The Board was gathering more information; and


(3) The disability annuity would stop.




