# § 184.1901   Triacetin.

(a) Triacetin (C_8_ H_14_O_6_, CAS Reg. No. 102-76-1), also known as 1,2,3,-propanetriol triacetate or glyceryl triacetate, is the triester of glycerin and acetic acid. Triacetin can be prepared by heating glycerin with acetic anhydride alone or in the presence of finely divided potassium hydrogen sulfate. It can also be prepared by the reaction of oxygen with a liquid-phase mixture of allyl acetate and acetic acid using a bromide salt as a catalyst.


(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), pp. 337-338, as revised by the First Supplement to the 3d Ed., which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a). Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2102 Constitution Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) In accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) as a direct human food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:


(1) The ingredient is used in food as a flavoring agent and adjuvant as defined in § 170.3(o)(12) of this chapter; a formulation aid as defined in § 170.3(o)(14) of this chapter; and humectant as defined in § 170.3(o)(16) of this chapter; and a solvent and vehicle as defined in § 170.3(o)(27) of this chapter.


(2) The ingredient is used in the following foods at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice: baked goods and baking mixes as defined in § 170.3(n)(1) of this chapter, alcoholic beverages as defined in § 170.3(n)(2) of this chapter; nonalcoholic beverages and beverage bases as defined in § 170.3(n)(3) of this chapter; chewing gum as defined in § 170.3(n)(6) of this chapter; confections and frostings as defined in § 170.3(n)(9) of this chapter; frozen dairy dessert and mixes as defined in § 170.3(n)(20) of this chapter; gelatins, puddings, and fillings as defined in § 170.3(n)(22) of this chapter; hard candy as defined in § 170.3(n)(25) of this chapter; and soft candy as defined in § 170.3(n)(38) of this chapter.


(d) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.



---

[N] [54 FR 7404, Feb. 21, 1989]




