# § 13.107   Tank vessel endorsements: General.

(a) If an applicant meets the requirements of subpart B of this part, the Coast Guard may endorse their MMC as Tank Vessel-PIC with the appropriate cargo classification or classifications. A person holding this endorsement and meeting the other requirements of 33 CFR 155.710(a) may act as a PIC of a transfer of fuel oil, of a transfer of liquid cargo in bulk, or of cargo-tank cleaning on any tank vessel. That person may also act as a Tank Vessel-Engineer, provided they also hold an engineer License or engineer endorsement.


(b) If an applicant meets the requirements of subpart C of this part, the Coast Guard may endorse their MMC as Tank Barge-PIC with the appropriate cargo classification or classifications. A person holding this endorsement and meeting the other requirements of 33 CFR 155.710(b) may act as a PIC of a transfer of liquid cargo in bulk only on a tank barge.


(c) If an applicant meets the requirements of subpart D of this part, the Coast Guard may endorse their MMC as Tank Vessel-Assistant with the appropriate cargo classification or classifications. No person holding this endorsement may act as a PIC of any transfer of fuel oil, of any transfer of liquid cargo in bulk, or of cargo-tank cleaning unless they also hold an endorsement authorizing service as PIC. They may, however, without being directly supervised by the PIC, perform duties relative to cargo and cargo-handling equipment assigned by the PIC of transfers of fuel oil, of transfers of liquid cargo in bulk, or of cargo-tank cleaning. When performing these duties, they must maintain continuous two-way voice communications with the PIC.


(d) If an applicant meets the requirements of subpart E of this part, the Coast Guard may endorse their MMC as Tank Vessel-Engineer. No person holding this endorsement may act as a PIC or Tank Vessel-Assistant of any transfer of liquid cargo in bulk, or of cargo-tank cleaning unless they also hold an endorsement authorizing such service. A person holding this endorsement and acting in this capacity has the primary responsibility, on their self-propelled tank vessel carrying dangerous liquid (DL) or liquefied gas (LG), for maintaining both the cargo systems and equipment for transfer of liquid cargo in bulk. No person licensed or credentialed under part 11 of this chapter may serve as a Chief Engineer, First Assistant Engineer, or Cargo Engineer aboard an inspected self-propelled tank vessel when liquid cargo in bulk or cargo residue is carried unless they hold an endorsement as Tank Vessel-Engineer or equivalent.


(e) If an applicant meets the requirements of § 13.111, the Coast Guard may place, on their MMC, an endorsement as a Tank Vessel-PIC restricted according to the definitions of “restricted tank vessel endorsement” in § 10.107 of this subchapter.


(f) This section does not apply to any person solely by reason of their involvement in bunkering or fueling.



---

[N] [CGD 79-116, 60 FR 17142, Apr. 4, 1995, as amended by CGD 79-116, 62 FR 25127, May 8, 1997; USCG-2008-0906, 73 FR 56508, Sept. 29, 2008; USCG-2006-24371, 74 FR 11259, Mar. 16, 2009; USCG-2004-17914, 78 FR 77988, Dec. 24, 2013]




