# § 68.10   Applicability.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (i) of this section, an owner or operator of a stationary source that has more than a threshold quantity of a regulated substance in a process, as determined under § 68.115, shall comply with the requirements of this part no later than the latest of the following dates:




(1) June 21, 1999;


(2) Three years after the date on which a regulated substance is first listed under § 68.130;


(3) The date on which a regulated substance is first present above a threshold quantity in a process; or


(4) For any revisions to this part, the effective date of the final rule that revises this part.


(b) By March 14, 2018, the owner or operator of a stationary source shall comply with the emergency response coordination activities in § 68.93, as applicable.


(c) Within three years of when the owner or operator determines that the stationary source is subject to the emergency response program requirements of § 68.95, pursuant to § 68.90(a), the owner or operator must develop and implement an emergency response program in accordance with § 68.95.




(d) By December 19, 2023, the owner or operator shall have developed plans for conducting emergency response exercises in accordance with provisions of § 68.96, as applicable.




(e) The owner or operator of a stationary source shall comply with the public meeting requirement in § 68.210(b) within 90 days of any RMP reportable accident at the stationary source with known offsite impacts specified in § 68.42(a), that occurs after March 15, 2021.




(f) After December 19, 2024, for any risk management plan initially submitted as required by § 68.150(b)(2) or (3) or submitted as an update required by § 68.190, the owner or operator shall comply with the following risk management plan provisions of subpart G of this part:


(1) Reporting a public meeting after an RMP reportable accident under § 68.160(b)(21) as promulgated on December 19, 2019;


(2) Reporting emergency response program information under § 68.180(a)(1) as promulgated on December 19, 2019;


(3) Reporting emergency response program information under § 68.180(a)(2) and (3) as promulgated on January 13, 2017, as applicable; and,


(4) Reporting emergency response program and exercises information under § 68.180(b) as promulgated on January 13, 2017, as applicable. The owner or operator shall submit dates of the most recent notification, field and tabletop exercises in the risk management plan, for exercises completed as required under § 68.96 at the time the risk management plan is either submitted under § 68.150(b)(2) or (3), or is updated under § 68.190.


(g) By May 10, 2027, the owner or operator shall comply with the following provisions promulgated on May 10, 2024:


(1) Standby or backup power for continuous operation of monitoring equipment associated with prevention and detection of accidental releases from covered processes in §§ 68.50(a)(3) and 68.67(c)(3);


(2) Third-party audit provisions in §§ 68.58(f) through (h), 68.59, 68.79(f) through (h), and 68.80;


(3) Incident investigation root cause analysis provisions in §§ 68.60(h) and 68.81(h);


(4) Safer technology and alternatives analysis provisions in § 68.67(c)(9) and (h);


(5) Employee participation provisions in §§ 68.62 and 68.83;


(6) Emergency response provisions in §§ 68.90(b) and 68.95(a); and


(7) Availability of information provisions in § 68.210(d) through (h).


(h) By March 15, 2027, or within 10 years of the date of an emergency response field exercise conducted between March 15, 2017, and August 31, 2022, in accordance with § 68.96(b)(1)(ii).


(i) By May 10, 2028, the owner or operator shall comply with the risk management plan provisions of subpart G of this part promulgated on May 10, 2024.


(j) A covered process is eligible for Program 1 requirements as provided in § 68.12(b) if it meets all of the following requirements: 


(1) For the five years prior to the submission of an RMP, the process has not had an accidental release of a regulated substance where exposure to the substance, its reaction products, overpressure generated by an explosion involving the substance, or radiant heat generated by a fire involving the substance led to any of the following offsite: 


(i) Death; 


(ii) Injury; or 


(iii) Response or restoration activities for an exposure of an environmental receptor; 


(2) The distance to a toxic or flammable endpoint for a worst-case release assessment conducted under subpart B and § 68.25 is less than the distance to any public receptor, as defined in § 68.3; and


(3) Emergency response procedures have been coordinated between the stationary source and local emergency planning and response organizations.




(k) A covered process is subject to Program 2 requirements if it does not meet the eligibility requirements of either paragraph (g) or paragraph (i) of this section. 


(l) A covered process is subject to Program 3 if the process does not meet the requirements of paragraph (g) of this section, and if either of the following conditions is met: 


(1) The process is in NAICS code 32211, 32411, 32511, 325181, 325188, 325192, 325199, 325211, 325311, or 32532; or


(2) The process is subject to the OSHA process safety management standard, 29 CFR 1910.119. 


(m) If at any time a covered process no longer meets the eligibility criteria of its Program level, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of the new Program level that applies to the process and update the RMP as provided in § 68.190. 


(n) The provisions of this part shall not apply to an Outer Continental Shelf (“OCS”) source, as defined in 40 CFR 55.2. 



---

[N] [61 FR 31717, June 20, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 645, Jan. 6, 1998; 64 FR 979, Jan. 6, 1999; 82 FR 4696, Jan. 13, 2017; 84 FR 69913, Dec. 19, 2019; 89 FR 17686, Mar. 11, 2024]








