# § 1.1295-1   Qualified electing funds.

(a) *In general.* [Reserved]


(b) *Application of section 1295 election.* [Reserved]


(1) *Election personal to shareholder.* [Reserved]


(2) *Election applicable to specific corporation only—*

(i) *In general.* [Reserved]


(ii) *Stock of QEF received in a nonrecognition transfer.* [Reserved]


(iii) *Exception for options.* A shareholder's section 1295 election does not apply to any option to buy stock of the PFIC.


(3) *Application of general rules to stock held by a pass through entity*—(i) *Stock subject to a section 1295 election transferred to a pass through entity.* A shareholder's section 1295 election will not apply to a domestic pass through entity to which the shareholder transfers stock subject to section 1295 election, or to any other U.S. person that is an interest holder or beneficiary of the domestic pass through entity. However, as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section (relating to a transfer to a domestic pass through entity of stock subject to a section 1295 election), a shareholder that transfers stock subject to a section 1295 election to a pass through entity will continue to be subject to the section 1295 election with respect to the stock indirectly owned through the pass through entity and any other stock of that PFIC owned by the shareholder.


(ii) *Limitation on application of pass through entity's section 1295 election.* Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section, a section 1295 election made by a domestic pass through entity does not apply to other stock of the PFIC held directly or indirectly by the interest holder or beneficiary.


(iii) *Effect of partnership termination on section 1295 election.* Termination of a section 1295 election made by a domestic partnership by reason of the termination of the partnership under section 708(b) will not terminate the section 1295 election with respect to partners of the terminated partnership that are partners of the new partnership. Except as otherwise provided, the stock of the PFIC of which the new partners are indirect shareholders will be treated as stock of a QEF only if the new domestic partnership makes a section 1295 election with respect to that stock.


(iv) *Characterization of stock held through a pass through entity.* Stock of a PFIC held through a pass through entity will be treated as stock of a pedigreed QEF with respect to an interest holder or beneficiary only if—


(A) In the case of PFIC stock acquired (other than in a transaction in which gain is not recognized pursuant to regulations under section 1291(f) with respect to that stock) and held by a domestic pass through entity, the pass through entity makes the section 1295 election and the PFIC has been a QEF with respect to the pass through entity for all taxable years that are included wholly or partly in the pass through entity's holding period of the PFIC stock and during which the foreign corporation was a PFIC within the meaning of § 1.1291-9(j)(1); or


(B) In the case of PFIC stock transferred by an interest holder or beneficiary to a pass through entity in a transaction in which gain is not fully recognized (including pursuant to regulations under section 1291(f)), the pass through entity makes the section 1295 election with respect to the PFIC stock transferred for the taxable year in which the transfer was made. The PFIC stock transferred will be treated as stock of a pedigreed QEF by the pass through entity, however, only if that stock was treated as stock of a pedigreed QEF with respect to the interest holder or beneficiary at the time of the transfer, and the PFIC has been a QEF with respect to the pass through entity for all taxable years of the PFIC that are included wholly or partly in the pass through entity's holding period of the PFIC stock during which the foreign corporation was a PFIC within the meaning of § 1.1291-9(j). 


(v) *Characterization of stock distributed by a partnership.* In the case of PFIC stock distributed by a partnership to a partner in a transaction in which gain is not fully recognized, the PFIC stock will be treated as stock of a pedigreed QEF by the partners only if that stock was treated as stock of a pedigreed QEF with respect to the partnership for all taxable years of the PFIC that are included wholly or partly in the partnership's holding period of the PFIC stock during which the foreign corporation was a PFIC within the meaning of § 1.1291-9(j), and the partner has a section 1295 election in effect with respect to the distributed PFIC stock for the partner's taxable year in which the distribution was made. If the partner does not have a section 1295 election in effect, the stock shall be treated as stock in a section 1291 fund. See paragraph (k) of this section for special applicability date of paragraph (b)(3)(v) of this section. 


(4) *Application of general rules to a taxpayer filing a joint return under section 6013.* A section 1295 election made by a taxpayer in a joint return, within the meaning of section 6013, will be treated as also made by the spouse that joins in the filing of that return. See paragraph (k) of this section for special applicability date of paragraph (b)(4) of this section. 


(c) *Effect of section 1295 election*—(1) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (c), the effect of a shareholder's section 1295 election is to treat the foreign corporation as a QEF with respect to the shareholder for each taxable year of the foreign corporation ending with or within a taxable year of the shareholder for which the election is effective. A section 1295 election is effective for the shareholder's election year and all subsequent taxable years of the shareholder unless invalidated, terminated or revoked as provided in paragraph (i) of this section. The terms shareholder and shareholder's election year are defined in paragraph (j) of this section.


(2) *Years to which section 1295 election applies*—(i) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (c), a foreign corporation with respect to which a section 1295 election is made will be treated as a QEF for its taxable year ending with or within the shareholder's election year and all subsequent taxable years of the foreign corporation that are included wholly or partly in the shareholder's holding period (or periods) of stock of the foreign corporation.


(ii) *Effect of PFIC status on election.* A foreign corporation will not be treated as a QEF for any taxable year of the foreign corporation that the foreign corporation is not a PFIC under section 1297(a) and is not treated as a PFIC under section 1298(b)(1). Therefore, a shareholder shall not be required to include pursuant to section 1293 the shareholder's pro rata share of ordinary earnings and net capital gain for such year and shall not be required to satisfy the section 1295 annual reporting requirement of paragraph (f)(2) of this section for such year. Cessation of a foreign corporation's status as a PFIC will not, however, terminate a section 1295 election. Thus, if the foreign corporation is a PFIC in any taxable year after a year in which it is not treated as a PFIC, the shareholder's original election under section 1295 continues to apply and the shareholder must take into account its pro rata share of ordinary earnings and net capital gain for such year and comply with the section 1295 annual reporting requirement. 


(iii) *Effect on election of complete termination of a shareholder's interest in the PFIC.* Complete termination of a shareholder's direct and indirect interest in stock of a foreign corporation will not terminate a shareholder's section 1295 election with respect to the foreign corporation. Therefore, if a shareholder reacquires a direct or indirect interest in any stock of the foreign corporation, that stock is considered to be stock for which an election under section 1295 has been made and the shareholder is subject to the income inclusion and reporting rules required of a shareholder of a QEF. 


(iv) *Effect on section 1295 election of transfer of stock to a domestic pass through entity.* The transfer of a shareholder's direct or indirect interest in stock of a foreign corporation to a domestic pass through entity (as defined in paragraph (j) of this section) will not terminate the shareholder's section 1295 election with respect to the foreign corporation, whether or not the pass through entity makes a section 1295 election. For the rules concerning the application of section 1293 to stock transferred to a domestic pass through entity, see § 1.1293-1(c).


(v) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (c)(2).


(d) *Who may make a section 1295 election*—(1) *General rule.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (d), any U.S. person that is a shareholder (as defined in paragraph (j) of this section) of a PFIC, including a shareholder that holds stock of a PFIC in bearer form, may make a section 1295 election with respect to that PFIC. The shareholder need not own directly or indirectly any stock of the PFIC at the time the shareholder makes the section 1295 election provided the shareholder is a shareholder of the PFIC during the taxable year of the PFIC that ends with or within the taxable year of the shareholder for which the section 1295 election is made. Except in the case of a shareholder that is an exempt organization that may not make a section 1295 election, as provided in paragraph (d)(6) of this section, in a chain of ownership only the first U.S. person that is a shareholder of the PFIC may make the section 1295 election.


(2) *Application of general rule to pass through entities*—(i) *Partnerships*—(A) *Domestic partnership.* A domestic partnership that holds an interest in stock of a PFIC makes the section 1295 election with request to that PFIC. The partnership election applies only to the stock of the PFIC held directly or indirectly by the partnership and not to any other stock held directly or indirectly by any partner. As provided in § 1.1293-1(c)(1), shareholders owning stock of a QEF by reason of an interest in the partnership take into account the section 1293 inclusions with respect to the QEF shares owned by the partnership under the rules applicable to inclusions of income from the partnership.


(B) *Foreign partnership.* A U.S. person that holds an interest in a foreign partnership that, in turn, holds an interest in stock of a PFIC makes the section 1295 election with respect to that PFIC. A partner's election applies to the stock of the PFIC owned directly or indirectly by the foreign partnership and to any other stock of the PFIC owned by that partner. A section 1295 election by a partner applies only to that partner.


(ii) *S corporation.* An S corporation that holds an interest in stock of a PFIC makes the section 1295 election with respect to that PFIC. The S corporation election applies only to the stock of the PFIC held directly or indirectly by the S corporation and not to any other stock held directly or indirectly by any S corporation shareholder. As provided in § 1.1293-1(c)(1), shareholders owning stock of a QEF by reason of an interest in the S corporation take into account the section 1293 inclusions with respect to the QEF shares under the rules applicable to inclusions of income from the S corporation.


(iii) *Trust or estate*—(A) *Domestic trust or estate*—(*1*) *Nongrantor trust or estate.* A domestic nongrantor trust or a domestic estate that holds an interest in stock of a PFIC makes the section 1295 election with respect to that PFIC. The trust or estate's election applies only to the stock of the PFIC held directly or indirectly by the trust or estate and not to any other stock held directly or indirectly by any beneficiary. As provided in § 1.1293-1(c)(1), shareholders owning stock of a QEF by reason of an interest in a domestic trust or estate take into account the section 1293 inclusions with respect to the QEF shares under the rules applicable to inclusions of income from the trust or estate.


(*2*) *Grantor trust.* A U.S. person that is treated under sections 671 through 678 as the owner of the portion of a domestic trust that owns an interest in stock of a PFIC makes the section 1295 election with respect to that PFIC. If that person ceases to be treated as the owner of the portion of the trust that owns an interest in the PFIC stock and is a beneficiary of the trust, that person's section 1295 election will continue to apply to the PFIC stock indirectly owned by that person under the rules of paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section as if the person had transferred its interest in the PFIC stock to the trust. However, the stock will be treated as stock of a PFIC that is not a QEF with respect to other beneficiaries of the trust, unless the trust makes the section 1295 election as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(A)(*1*) of this section.


(B) *Foreign trust or estate*—(*1*) *Nongrantor trust or estate.* A U.S. person that is a beneficiary of a foreign nongrantor trust or estate that holds an interest in stock of a PFIC makes the section 1295 election with respect to that PFIC. A beneficiary's section 1295 election applies to all the PFIC stock owned directly and indirectly by the trust or estate and to the other PFIC stock owned directly or indirectly by the beneficiary. A section 1295 election by a beneficiary applies only to that beneficiary.


(*2*) *Grantor trust.* A U.S. person that is treated under sections 671 through 679 as the owner of the portion of a foreign trust that owns an interest in stock of a PFIC stock makes the section 1295 election with respect to that PFIC. If that person ceases to be treated as the owner of the portion of the trust that owns an interest in the PFIC stock and is a beneficiary of the trust, that person's section 1295 election will continue to apply to the PFIC stock indirectly owned by that person under the rules of paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section. However, as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(B)(*1*) of this section, any other shareholder that is a beneficiary of the trust and that wishes to treat the PFIC as a QEF must make the section 1295 election.


(iv) *Indirect ownership of the pass through entity or the PFIC.* The rules of this paragraph (d)(2) apply whether or not the shareholder holds its interest in the pass through entity directly or indirectly and whether or not the pass through entity holds its interest in the PFIC directly or indirectly.


(3) *Indirect ownership of a PFIC through other PFIC*s—(i) *In general.* An election under section 1295 shall apply only to the foreign corporation for which an election is made. Therefore, if a shareholder makes an election under section 1295 to treat a PFIC as a QEF, that election applies only to stock in that foreign corporation and not to the stock in any other corporation which the shareholder is treated as owning by virtue of its ownership of stock in the QEF. 


(ii) *Example.* The following example illustrates the rules of paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section:


(4) *Member of consolidated return group as shareholder.* Pursuant to § 1.1502-77(a), the common parent of an affiliated group of corporations that join in filing a consolidated income tax return makes a section 1295 election for all members of the affiliated group. An election by a common parent will be effective for all members of the affiliated group with respect to interests in PFIC stock held at the time the election is made or at any time thereafter. A separate election must be made by the common parent for each PFIC of which a member of the affiliated group is a shareholder.


(5) *Option holder.* A holder of an option to acquire stock of a PFIC may not make a section 1295 election that will apply to the option or to the stock subject to the option.


(6) *Exempt organization.* A tax-exempt organization that is not taxable under section 1291, pursuant to § 1.1291-1(e), with respect to a PFIC may not make a section 1295 election with respect to that PFIC. In addition, such an exempt organization will not be subject to any section 1295 election made by a domestic pass through entity.


(e) *Time for making a section 1295 election—(1) In general.* Except as provided in § 1.1295-3, a shareholder making the section 1295 election must make the election on or before the due date, as extended under section 6081 (election due date), for filing the shareholder's income tax return for the first taxable year to which the election will apply. The section 1295 election must be made in the original return for that year, or in an amended return, provided the amended return is filed on or before the election due date. 


(2) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of paragraph (e)(1) of this section:


(f) *Manner of making a section 1295 election and the annual election requirements of the shareholder*—(1) *Manner of making the election.* A shareholder must make a section 1295 election by—


(i) Completing Form 8621 in the manner required by that form and this section for making the section 1295 election;


(ii) Attaching Form 8621 to its Federal income tax return filed by the election due date for the shareholder's election year; and


(iii) Receiving and reflecting in Form 8621 the information provided in the PFIC Annual Information Statement described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the Annual Intermediary Statement described in paragraph (g)(3) of this section, or the applicable combined statement described in paragraph (g)(4) of this section, for the taxable year of the PFIC ending with or within the taxable year for which Form 8621 is being filed. If the PFIC Annual Information Statement contains a statement described in paragraph (g)(1)(ii)(C) of this section, the shareholder must attach a statement to Form 8621 that indicates that the shareholder rather than the PFIC calculated the PFIC's ordinary earnings and net capital gain.


(2) *Annual election requirements*—(i) *In general.* A shareholder that makes a section 1295 election with respect to a PFIC held directly or indirectly, for each taxable year to which the section 1295 election applies, must—


(A) Complete Form 8621 in the manner required by that form and this section;


(B) Attach Form 8621 to its Federal income tax return filed by the due date of the return, as extended; and


(C) Receive and reflect in Form 8621 the PFIC Annual Information Statement described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the Annual Intermediary Statement described in paragraph (g)(3) of this section, or the applicable combined statement described in paragraph (g)(4) of this section, for the MTtaxable year of the PFIC ending with or within the taxable year for which Form 8621 is being filed. If the PFIC Annual Information Statement contains a statement described in paragraph (g)(1)(ii)(C) of this section, the shareholder must attach a statement to its Form 8621 that the shareholder rather than the PFIC provided the calculations of the PFIC's ordinary earnings and net capital gain.


(ii) *Retention of documents.* For all taxable years subject to the section 1295 election, the shareholder must retain copies of all Forms 8621, with their attachments, and PFIC Annual Information Statements or Annual Intermediary Statements. Failure to produce those documents at the request of the Commissioner in connection with an examination may result in invalidation or termination of the shareholder's section 1295 election.


(3) *Effective date.* See paragraph (k) of this section for special applicability date of paragraph (f) of this section. 


(g) *Annual election requirements of the PFIC or intermediary*—(1) *PFIC Annual Information Statement.* For each year of the PFIC ending in a taxable year of a shareholder to which the shareholder's section 1295 election applies, the PFIC must provide the shareholder with a PFIC Annual Information Statement. The PFIC Annual Information Statement is a statement of the PFIC, signed by the PFIC or an authorized representative of the PFIC, that contains the following information and representations—


(i) The first and last days of the taxable year of the PFIC to which the PFIC Annual Information Statement applies;


(ii) Either—


(A) The shareholder's pro rata shares of the ordinary earnings and net capital gain (as defined in § 1.1295-1(a)(2)) of the PFIC for the taxable year indicated in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section; or


(B) Sufficient information to enable the shareholder to calculate its pro rata shares of the PFIC's ordinary earnings and net capital gain, for that taxable year; or


(C) A statement that the foreign corporation has permitted the shareholder to examine the books of account, records, and other documents of the foreign corporation for the shareholder to calculate the amounts of the PFIC's ordinary earnings and the net capital gain according to Federal income tax accounting principles and to calculate the shareholder's pro rata shares of the PFIC's ordinary earnings and net capital gain;


(iii) The amount of cash and the fair market value of other property distributed or deemed distributed to the shareholder during the taxable year of the PFIC to which the PFIC Annual Information Statement pertains; and


(iv) Either—


(A) A statement that the PFIC will permit the shareholder to inspect and copy the PFIC's permanent books of account, records, and such other documents as may be maintained by the PFIC to establish that the PFIC's ordinary earnings and net capital gain are computed in accordance with U.S. income tax principles, and to verify these amounts and the shareholder's pro rata shares thereof; or


(B) In lieu of the statement required in paragraph (g)(1)(iv)(A) of this section, a description of the alternative documentation requirements approved by the Commissioner, with a copy of the private letter ruling and the closing agreement entered into by the Commissioner and the PFIC pursuant to paragraph (g)(2) of this section.


(2) *Alternative documentation.* In rare and unusual circumstances, the Commissioner will consider alternative documentation requirements necessary to verify the ordinary earnings and net capital gain of a PFIC other than the documentation requirements described in paragraph (g)(1)(iv)(A) of this section. Alternative documentation requirements will be allowed only pursuant to a private letter ruling and a closing agreement entered into by the Commissioner and the PFIC describing an alternative method of verifying the PFIC's ordinary earnings and net capital gain. If the PFIC has not obtained a private letter ruling from the Commissioner approving an alternative method of verifying the PFIC's ordinary earnings and net capital gain by the time a shareholder is required to make a section 1295 election, the shareholder may not use an alternative method for that taxable year.


(3) *Annual Intermediary Statement.* In the case of a U.S. person that is an indirect shareholder of a PFIC that is owned through an intermediary, as defined in paragraph (j) of this section, an Annual Intermediary Statement issued by an intermediary containing the information described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section and reporting the indirect shareholder's pro rata share of the ordinary earnings and net capital gain of the QEF as described in paragraph (g)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, may be provided to the indirect shareholder in lieu of the PFIC Annual Information Statement if the following conditions are satisfied— 


(i) The intermediary receives a copy of the PFIC Annual Information Statement or the intermediary receives an annual intermediary statement from another intermediary which contains a statement that the other intermediary has received a copy of the PFIC Annual Information Statement and represents that the conditions of paragraphs (g)(3)(ii) and (g)(3)(iii) of this section are met;


(ii) The representations and information contained in the Annual Intermediary Statement reflect the representations and information contained in the PFIC Annual Information Statement; and


(iii) The PFIC Annual Information Statement issued to the intermediary contains either the representation set forth in paragraph (g)(1)(iv)(A) of this section, or, if alternative documentation requirements were approved by the Commissioner pursuant to paragraph (g)(2) of this section, a copy of the private letter ruling and closing agreement between the Commissioner and the PFIC, agreeing to an alternative method of verifying PFIC ordinary earnings and net capital gain as described in paragraph (g)(2) of this section;


(4) *Combined statements*—(i) *PFIC Annual Information Statement.* A PFIC that owns directly or indirectly any stock of one or more PFICs with respect to which a shareholder may make the section 1295 election may prepare a PFIC Annual Information Statement that combines with its own information and representations the information and representations of all the PFICs. The PFIC may use any format for a combined PFIC Annual Information Statement provided the required information and representations are separately stated and identified with the respective corporations.


(ii) *Annual Intermediary Statement.* An intermediary described in paragraph (g)(3) of this section that owns directly or indirectly stock of one or more PFICs with respect to which an indirect shareholder may make the section 1295 election may prepare an Annual Intermediary Statement that combines with its own information and representations the information and representations with respect to all the PFICs. The intermediary may use any format for a combined Annual Intermediary Statement provided the required information and representations are separately stated and identified with the intermediary and the respective corporations.


(5) *Effective date.* See paragraph (k) of this section for special applicability date of paragraph (g) of this section. 


(h) *Transition rules.* Taxpayers may rely on Notice 88-125 (1988-2 C.B. 535) (see § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter), for rules on making and maintaining elections for shareholder election years (as defined in paragraph (j) of this section) beginning after December 31, 1986, and before January 1, 1998. Elections made under Notice 88-125 must be maintained as provided in § 1.1295-1 for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1997. A section 1295 election made prior to February 2, 1998 that was intended to be effective for the taxable year of the PFIC that began during the shareholder's election year will be effective for that taxable year of the foreign corporation provided that it is clear from all the facts and circumstances that the shareholder intended the election to be effective for that taxable year of the foreign corporation.


(i) *Invalidation, termination, or revocation of section 1295 election*—(1) *Invalidation or termination of election at the discretion of the Commissioner*—(i) *In general.* The Commissioner, in the Commissioner's discretion, may invalidate or terminate a section 1295 election applicable to a shareholder if the shareholder, the PFIC, or any intermediary fails to satisfy the requirements for making a section 1295 election or the annual election requirements of this section to which the shareholder, PFIC, or intermediary is subject, including the requirement to provide, on request, copies of the books and records of the PFIC or other documentation substantiating the ordinary earnings and net capital gain of the PFIC.


(ii) *Deferral of section 1293 inclusion.* The Commissioner may invalidate any pass through entity section 1295 election with respect to an interest holder or beneficiary if the section 1293 inclusion with respect to that interest holder or beneficiary is not included in the gross income of either the pass through entity, an intermediate pass through entity, or the interest holder or beneficiary within two years of the end of the PFIC's taxable year due to nonconforming taxable years of the interest holder and the pass through entity or any intermediate pass through entity.


(iii) *When effective.* Termination of a shareholder's section 1295 election will be effective for the taxable year of the PFIC determined by the Commissioner in the Commissioner's discretion. An invalidation of a shareholder's section 1295 election will be effective for the first taxable year to which the section 1295 election applied, and the shareholder whose election is invalidated will be treated as if the section 1295 election was never made.


(2) *Shareholder revocation*—(i) *In general.* In the Commissioner's discretion, upon a finding of a substantial change in circumstances, the Commissioner may consent to a shareholder's request to revoke a section 1295 election. Request for revocation must be made by the shareholder that made the election and at the time and in the manner provided in paragraph (i)(2)(ii) of this section.


(ii) *Time for and manner of requesting consent to revoke*—(A) *Time.* The shareholder must request consent to revoke the section 1295 election no later than 12 calendar months after the discovery of the substantial change of circumstances that forms the basis for the shareholder's request to revoke the section 1295 election.


(B) *Manner of making request.* A shareholder requests consent to revoke a section 1295 election by filing a ruling request with the Office of the Associate Chief Counsel (International). The ruling request must satisfy the requirements, including payment of the user fee, for filing ruling requests with that office.


(iii) *When effective.* Unless otherwise determined by the Commissioner, revocation of a section 1295 election will be effective for the first taxable year of the PFIC beginning after the date the Commissioner consents to the revocation.


(3) *Automatic termination.* If a United States person, or the United States shareholder on behalf of a controlled foreign corporation, makes an election pursuant to section 1296 and the regulations thereunder with respect to PFIC stock for which a QEF election is in effect, or marks to market such stock under another provision of chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code, the QEF election is automatically terminated with respect to such stock that is marked to market under section 1296 or another provision of chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code. Such termination shall be effective on the last day of the shareholder's taxable year preceding the first taxable year for which the section 1296 election is in effect or such stock is marked to market under another provision of chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code. 


(4) *Effect of invalidation, termination, or revocation.* An invalidation, termination, or revocation of a section 1295 election—


(i) Terminates all section 1294 elections, as provided in § 1.1294-1T(e), and the undistributed PFIC earnings tax liability and interest thereon are due by the due date, without regard to extensions, for the return for the last taxable year of the shareholder to which the section 1295 election applies;


(ii) In the Commissioner's discretion, results in a deemed sale of the QEF stock on the last day of the PFIC's last taxable year as a QEF, in which gain, but not loss, will be recognized and with respect to which appropriate basis and holding period adjustments will be made; and


(iii) Subjects the shareholder to any other terms and conditions that the Commissioner determines are necessary to ensure the shareholder's compliance with sections 1291 through 1298 or any other provisions of the Code.


(5) *Effect after invalidation, termination, or revocation*—(i) *In general.* Without the Commissioner's consent, a shareholder whose section 1295 election was invalidated, terminated, or revoked under this paragraph (i) may not make the section 1295 election with respect to the PFIC before the sixth taxable year in which the invalidation, termination, or revocation became effective.


(ii) *Special rule.* Notwithstanding paragraph (i)(5)(i) of this section, a shareholder whose section 1295 election was terminated pursuant to paragraph (i)(3) of this section, and either whose section 1296 election has subsequently been terminated because its PFIC stock ceased to be marketable or who no longer marks to market such stock under another provision of chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code, may make a section 1295 election with respect to its PFIC stock before the sixth taxable year in which its prior section 1295 election was terminated.


(j) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section—


*Intermediary* is a nominee or shareholder of record that holds stock on behalf of the shareholder or on behalf of another person in a chain of ownership between the shareholder and the PFIC, and any direct or indirect beneficial owner of PFIC stock (including a beneficial owner that is a pass through entity) in the chain of ownership between the shareholder and the PFIC.


*Pass through entity* is a partnership, S corporation, trust, or estate.


*Shareholder* has the same meaning as the term shareholder in § 1.1291-9(j)(3), except that for purposes of this section, a partnership and an S corporation also are treated as shareholders. Furthermore, unless otherwise provided, an interest holder of a pass through entity, which is treated as a shareholder of a PFIC, also will be treated as a shareholder of the PFIC.


*Shareholder's election year* is the taxable year of the shareholder for which it made the section 1295 election.


(k) *Effective dates.* Except as otherwise provided, paragraphs (b)(2)(iii), (b)(3), (b)(4), and (c) through (j) of this section are applicable to taxable years of shareholders beginning after December 31, 1997. However, taxpayers may apply the rules under paragraphs (b)(4), (f) and (g) of this section to a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1998, provided the statute of limitations on the assessment of tax has not expired as of April 27, 1998, and, in the case of paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the taxpayers who filed the joint return have consistently applied the rules of that section to all taxable years following the year the election was made. Paragraph (b)(3)(v) of this section is applicable as of February 7, 2000, however, a taxpayer may apply the rules to a taxable year prior to the applicable date provided the statute of limitations on the assessment of tax for that taxable year has not expired. Paragraphs (i)(3) and (i)(5)(ii) of this section are applicable for taxable years beginning on or after May 3, 2004.



---

[N] [T.D. 8750, 63 FR 15, Jan. 2, 1998. Redesignated and amended by T.D. 8870, 65 FR 5779, 5781, Feb. 7, 2000; T.D. 9123, 69 FR 24073, May 3, 2004]




