# § 1065.670   NO

See the standard-setting part to determine if you may correct NO_X_ emissions for the effects of intake-air humidity or temperature. Use the NO_X_ intake-air humidity and temperature corrections specified in the standard-setting part instead of the NO_X_ intake-air humidity correction specified in this part 1065. If the standard-setting part does not prohibit correcting NO_X_ emissions for intake-air humidity according to this part 1065, correct NO_X_ concentrations for intake-air humidity as described in this section. See § 1065.650(c)(1) for the proper sequence for applying the NO_X_ intake-air humidity and temperature corrections. You may use a time-weighted mean intake air humidity to calculate this correction if your intake air humidity remains within a tolerance of ±0.0025 mol/mol of the mean value over the test interval. For intake-air humidity correction, use one of the following approaches:




(a) For compression-ignition engines operating on carbon-containing fuels and lean-burn combustion engines operating on fuels other than carbon-containing fuels, correct for intake-air humidity using the following equation:


(b) For spark-ignition engines operating on carbon-containing fuels and stoichiometric combustion engines operating on fuels other than carbon-containing fuels, correct for intake-air humidity using the following equation:




(c) Develop your own correction, based on good engineering judgment.



---

[N] [75 FR 23056, Apr. 30, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 57466, Sept. 15, 2011; 88 FR 4686, Jan. 24, 2023; 89 FR 29822, Apr. 22, 2024]




