# ยง 404.1205   Absolute coverage groups.

(a) *General.* An absolute coverage group is a permanent grouping of employees, e.g., all the employees of a city or town. It is a coverage group for coverage and reporting purposes. When used for coverage purposes, the term refers to groups of employees whose positions are not under a retirement system. An absolute coverage group may include positions which were formerly under a retirement system and, at the State's option, employees who are in positions under a retirement system but who are ineligible (see ยง 404.1208) to become members of that system.


(b) *What an absolute coverage group consists of.* An absolute coverage group consists of one of the following employee groups:


(1) State employees performing services in connection with the State's governmental functions;


(2) State employees performing services in connection with a single proprietary function of the State;


(3) Employees of a State's political subdivision performing services in connection with that subdivision's governmental functions;


(4) Employees of a State's political subdivision performing services in connection with a single proprietary function of the subdivision;


(5) Civilian employees of a State's National Guard units; and


(6) Individuals employed under an agreement between a State and the U.S. Department of Agriculture as agricultural products inspectors.


(c) *Designated coverage groups.* A State may provide coverage for designated (*i.e.*, selected) absolute coverage groups of the State or a political subdivision. When coverage is extended to these designated groups, the State must specifically identify each group as a designated absolute coverage group and furnish the effective date of coverage and any optional exclusion(s) for each group. Where a State has provided coverage to designated absolute coverage groups, the State may, by modifying its agreement, extend that coverage to any absolute coverage group in the State.




