# § 99.3   General definitions.

For the purposes of §§ 99.1 through 99.9 of this part:


*Criminal history record information:* information collected by criminal justice agencies on individuals consisting of identifiable descriptions and notations of arrests, indictments, information, or other formal criminal charges and any disposition arising therefrom, sentencing, correction supervision, and release. The term does not include identification information such as fingerprint records to the extent that such information does not indicate involvement of the individual in the criminal justice system. The term does not include those records of a State or locality sealed pursuant to law from access by State and local criminal justice agencies of that State or locality.


*Criminal justice agency:* Federal, State, and local agencies including (a) courts, or (b) a government agency or any subunit thereof which performs the administration of criminal justice pursuant to a statute or executive order, and which allocates a substantial part of its annual budget to the administration of criminal justice.


*Department of Defense:* the Defense Investigative Service, National Security Agency, Naval Investigative Service, Air Force Office of Special Investigations, and Army Intelligence and Security Command.


*Federal agency:* the Department of Defense, the Office of Personnel Management, or the Central Intelligence Agency, or any other Federal agency subsequently authorized by Congress to obtain access to criminal history records information.


*Locality:* any local government authority or agency or component thereof within a State having jurisdiction over matters at a county, municipal or other local government level.


*State:* any of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of Pacific Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States.




