# § 435.4   Definitions and use of terms.

As used in this part—


*AABD* means aid to the aged, blind, and disabled under title XVI of the Act; 


*AB* means aid to the blind under title X of the Act; 


*Advance payments of the premium tax credit* (APTC) has the meaning given the term in 45 CFR 155.20.


*AFDC* means aid to families with dependent children under title IV-A of the Act; 


*Affordable Care Act* means the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (Pub. L. 111-148), as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (Pub. L. 111-152), as amended by the Three Percent Withholding Repeal and Job Creation Act (Pub. L. 112-56).


*Affordable Insurance Exchanges (Exchanges)* has the meaning given the term “Exchanges” in 45 CFR 155.20.


*Agency* means a single State agency designated or established by a State in accordance with § 431.10(b) of this subchapter.


*Applicable modified adjusted gross income (MAGI) standard* has the meaning provided in § 435.911(b)(1) of this part.


*Applicant* means an individual who is seeking an eligibility determination for himself or herself through an application submission or a transfer from another agency or insurance affordability program.


*Application* means the single streamlined application described at § 435.907(b) of this part or an application described in § 435.907(c)(2) of this part submitted by or on behalf of an individual.


*APTD* means aid to the permanently and totally disabled under title XIV of the Act; 


*Beneficiary* means an individual who has been determined eligible and is currently receiving Medicaid.


*Caretaker relative* means a relative of a dependent child by blood, adoption, or marriage with whom the child is living, who assumes primary responsibility for the child's care (as may, but is not required to, be indicated by claiming the child as a tax dependent for Federal income tax purposes), and who is one of the following—


(1) The child's father, mother, grandfather, grandmother, brother, sister, stepfather, stepmother, stepbrother, stepsister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, or niece.


(2) The spouse of such parent or relative, even after the marriage is terminated by death or divorce.


(3) At State option, another relative of the child based on blood (including those of half-blood), adoption, or marriage; the domestic partner of the parent or other caretaker relative; or an adult with whom the child is living and who assumes primary responsibility for the dependent child's care.


*Categorically needy* refers to families and children, aged, blind, or disabled individuals, and pregnant women, described under subparts B and C of this part who are eligible for Medicaid. Subpart B of this part describes the mandatory eligibility groups who, generally, are receiving or deemed to be receiving cash assistance under the Act. These mandatory groups are specified in sections 1902(a)(10)(A)(i), 1902(e), 1902(f), and 1928 of the Act. Subpart C of this part describes the optional eligibility groups of individuals who, generally, meet the categorical requirements or income or resource requirements that are the same as or less restrictive than those of the cash assistance programs and who are not receiving cash payments. These optional groups are specified in sections 1902(a)(10)(A)(ii), 1902(e), and 1902(f) of the Act.


*Citizenship* includes status as a “national of the United States,” and includes both citizens of the United States and noncitizen nationals of the United States described in 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(22).


*Combined eligibility notice* means an eligibility notice that informs an individual or multiple family members of a household of eligibility for each of the insurance affordability programs and enrollment in a qualified health plan through the Exchange, for which a determination or denial of eligibility was made, as well as any right to request a fair hearing or appeal related to the determination made for each program. A combined notice must meet the requirements of § 435.917(a) and contain the content described in § 435.917(b) and (c), except that information described in § 435.917(b)(1)(iii) and (iv) may be included in a combined notice issued by another insurance affordability program or in a supplemental notice provided by the agency. A combined eligibility notice must be issued in accordance with the agreement(s) consummated by the agency in accordance with § 435.1200(b)(3).


*Coordinated content* means information included in an eligibility notice regarding, if applicable -


(1) The transfer of an individual's or household's electronic account to another insurance affordability program;


(2) Any notice sent by the agency to another insurance affordability program regarding an individual's eligibility for Medicaid;


(3) The potential impact, if any, of—


(i) The agency's determination of eligibility or ineligibility for Medicaid on eligibility for another insurance affordability program; or


(ii) A determination of eligibility for, or enrollment in, another insurance affordability program on an individual's eligibility for Medicaid; and


(4) The status of household members on the same application or renewal form whose eligibility is not yet determined.


*Dependent child* means a child who meets both of the following criteria:


(1) Is under the age of 18, or, at State option, is age 18 and a full-time student in secondary school (or equivalent vocational or technical training), if before attaining age 19 the child may reasonably be expected to complete such school or training.


(2) Is deprived of parental support by reason of the death, absence from the home, physical or mental incapacity, or unemployment of at least one parent, unless the State has elected in its State plan to eliminate such deprivation requirement. A parent is considered to be unemployed if he or she is working less than 100 hours per month, or such higher number of hours as the State may elect in its State plan.


*Effective income level* means the income standard applicable under the State plan for an eligibility group, after taking into consideration any disregard of a block of income applied in determining financial eligibility for such group.


*Electronic account* means an electronic file that includes all information collected and generated by the agency regarding each individual's Medicaid eligibility and enrollment, including all documentation required under § 435.914 and including any information collected or generated as part of a fair hearing process conducted under subpart E of this part, the Exchange appeals process conducted under 45 CFR part 155, subpart F or other insurance affordability program appeals process.


*Eligibility determination* means an approval or denial of eligibility in accordance with § 435.911 as well as a renewal or termination of eligibility in accordance with § 435.916 of this part.


*Family size* has the meaning provided in § 435.603(b) of this part.


*Federal poverty level (FPL)* means the Federal poverty level updated periodically in the _Federal Register_ by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under the authority of 42 U.S.C. 9902(2), as in effect for the applicable budget period used to determine an individual's eligibility in accordance with § 435.603(h) of this part.


*Household income* has the meaning provided in § 435.603(d) of this part.


*Insurance affordability program* means a program that is one of the following:


(1) A State Medicaid program under title XIX of the Act.


(2) A State children's health insurance program (CHIP) under title XXI of the Act.


(3) A State basic health program established under section 1331 of the Affordable Care Act.


(4) A program that makes coverage in a qualified health plan through the Exchange with advance payments of the premium tax credit established under section 36B of the Internal Revenue Code available to qualified individuals.


(5) A program that makes available coverage in a qualified health plan through the Exchange with cost-sharing reductions established under section 1402 of the Affordable Care Act.


*Low-Income Subsidy Application data (LIS leads data)* means data from an individual's application for low-income subsidies under section 1860D-14 of the Act that the Social Security Administration electronically transmits to the appropriate State Medicaid agency as described in section 1144(c)(1) of the Act.


*MAGI-based income* has the meaning provided in § 435.603(e) of this part.


*Mandatory State supplement* means a cash payment a State is required to make under section 212, Pub. L. 93-66 (July 9, 1973) to an aged, blind, or disabled individual. Its purpose is to provide an individual with the same amount of cash assistance he was receiving under OAA, AB, APTD, or AABD if his SSI payment is less than that amount; 


*Medically needy* refers to families, children, aged, blind, or disabled individuals, and pregnant women listed under subpart D of this part who are not listed in subparts B and C of this part as categorically needy but who may be eligible for Medicaid under this part because their income and resources are within limits set by the State under its Medicaid plan (including persons whose income and resources fall within these limits after their incurred expenses for medical or remedial care are deducted) (Specific financial requirements for determining eligibility of the medically needy appear in subpart I of this part.);


*Medicare Savings Programs* means four Medicaid eligibility groups authorized under section 1902(a)(10)(E) and 1905(p) and (s) of the Act that serve certain low-income Medicare beneficiaries. These groups include the Qualified Medicare Beneficiary, Specified Low-Income Medicare Beneficiary, Qualifying Individual, and Qualified Disabled and Working Individual eligibility groups, each separately codified in §§ 435.123 through 435.126.


*Minimum essential coverage* means coverage defined in section 5000A(f) of subtitle D of the Internal Revenue Code, as added by section 1401 of the Affordable Care Act, and implementing regulations of such section issued by the Secretary of the Treasury.


*Modified adjusted gross income (MAGI)* has the meaning provided at 26 CFR 1.36B-1(e)(2).


*Non-applicant* means an individual who is not seeking an eligibility determination for himself or herself and is included in an applicant's or beneficiary's household to determine eligibility for such applicant or beneficiary.


*Noncitizen* has the same meaning as the term “alien,” as defined at 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(3) and includes any individual who is not a citizen or national of the United States, defined at 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(22).


*OAA* means old age assistance under title I of the Act; 


*OASDI* means old age, survivors, and disability insurance under title II of the Act; 


*Optional State supplement* means a cash payment made by a State, under section 1616 of the Act, to an aged, blind, or disabled individual; 


*Optional targeted low-income child* means a child under age 19 who meets the financial and categorical standards described below. 


(1) *Financial need.* An optional targeted low-income child: 


(i) Has a household income at or below 200 percent of the Federal poverty line for a family of the size involved; and


(ii) Resides in a State with no Medicaid applicable income level (as defined at § 457.10 of this chapter); or


(iii) Resides in a State that has a Medicaid applicable income level (as defined at § 457.10 of this chapter) and has household income that either: 


(A) Exceeds the Medicaid applicable income level for the age of such child, but not by more than 50 percentage points; or


(B) Does not exceed the income level specified for such child to be eligible for medical assistance under the policies of the State plan under title XIX on June 1, 1997. 


(2) *No other coverage and State maintenance of effort.* An optional targeted low-income child is not covered under a group health plan or health insurance coverage, or would not be eligible for Medicaid under the policies of the State plan in effect on March 31, 1997; except that, for purposes of this standard— 


(i) A child shall not be considered to be covered by health insurance coverage based on coverage offered by the State under a program in operation prior to July 1, 1997 if that program received no Federal financial participation; 


(ii) A child shall not be considered to be covered under a group health plan or health insurance coverage if the child did not have reasonable geographic access to care under that coverage. 


(3) For purposes of this section, policies of the State plan a under title XIX plan include policies under a Statewide demonstration project under section 1115(a) of the Act other than a demonstration project that covered an expanded group of eligible children but that either— 


(i) Did not provide inpatient hospital coverage; or


(ii) Limited eligibility to children previously enrolled in Medicaid, imposed premiums as a condition of initial or continued enrollment, and did not impose a general time limit on eligibility. 


*Pregnant woman* means a woman during pregnancy and the post partum period, which begins on the date the pregnancy ends, extends 60 days, and then ends on the last day of the month in which the 60-day period ends.


*Qualified noncitizen* means:


(1) a “Qualified alien,” as defined in 8 U.S.C. 1641(b) and (c); who is:


(i) A noncitizen who is lawfully admitted for permanent residence under the Immigration and Nationality Act [8 U.S.C. 1101 *et seq.*];


(ii) A noncitizen who is granted asylum under section 208 of such Act [8 U.S.C. 1158];


(iii) A refugee who is admitted to the United States under section 207 of such Act [8 U.S.C. 1157];


(iv) A noncitizen who is paroled into the United States under section 212(d)(5) of such Act [8 U.S.C. 1182(d)(5)] for a period of at least 1 year;


(v) A noncitizen whose deportation is being withheld under section 243(h) of such Act [8 U.S.C. 1253] (as in effect immediately before the effective date of section 307 of division C of Public Law 104-208) or section 241(b)(3) of such Act [8 U.S.C. 1231(b)(3)] (as amended by section 305(a) of division C of Public Law 104-208);


(vi) A noncitizen who is granted conditional entry pursuant to section 203(a)(7) of such Act [8 U.S.C. 1153(a)(7)] as in effect prior to April 1, 1980;


(vii) A noncitizen who is a Cuban and Haitian entrant (as defined in section 501(e) of the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980);


(viii) An individual who lawfully resides in the United States in accordance with a Compact of Free Association referred to in 8 U.S.C. 1612(b)(2)(G);


(ix) A noncitizen who—


(A) Has been battered or subjected to extreme cruelty in the United States by a spouse or a parent, or by a member of the spouse or parent's family residing in the same household as the alien and the spouse or parent consented to, or acquiesced in, such battery or cruelty, but only if (in the opinion of the agency providing such benefits) there is a substantial connection between such battery or cruelty and the need for the benefits to be provided; and


(B) Has been approved or has a petition pending which sets forth a prima facie case for—


(*1*) Status as a spouse or a child of a United States citizen pursuant to clause (ii), (iii), or (iv) of section 204(a)(1)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality Act [8 U.S.C. 1154(a)(1)(A)(ii), (iii), (iv)];


(*2*) Classification pursuant to clause (ii) or (iii) of section 204(a)(1)(B) of the Act [8 U.S.C. 1154(a)(1)(B)(ii), (iii)];


(*3*) Suspension of deportation under section 244(a)(3) of the Immigration and Nationality Act [8 U.S.C. 1254(a)(3)] (as in effect before the title III-A effective date in section 309 of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996);


(*4*) Status as a spouse or child of a United States citizen pursuant to clause (i) of section 204(a)(1)(A) of such Act [8 U.S.C. 1154(a)(1)(A)(i)], or classification pursuant to clause (i) of section 204(a)(1)(B) of such Act [8 U.S.C. 1154(a)(1)(B)(i)]; or


(*5*) Cancellation of removal pursuant to section 240A(b)(2) of such Act [8 U.S.C. 1229b(b)(2)];


(x) A noncitizen—


(A) Whose child has been battered or subjected to extreme cruelty in the United States by a spouse or a parent of the alien (without the active participation of the alien in the battery or cruelty), or by a member of the spouse or parent's family residing in the same household as the alien and the spouse or parent consented or acquiesced to such battery or cruelty, and the alien did not actively participate in such battery or cruelty, but only if (in the opinion of the agency providing such benefits) there is a substantial connection between such battery or cruelty and the need for the benefits to be provided; and


(B) Who meets the requirement of 8 U.S.C. 1641(c)(1)(B);


(xi) A noncitizen child who—


(A) Resides in the same household as a parent who has been battered or subjected to extreme cruelty in the United States by that parent's spouse or by a member of the spouse's family residing in the same household as the parent and the spouse consented or acquiesced to such battery or cruelty, but only if (in the opinion of the agency providing such benefits) there is a substantial connection between such battery or cruelty and the need for the benefits to be provided; and


(B) Who meets the requirement of 8 U.S.C. 1641(c)(1)(B); or


(xii) A noncitizen who has been granted nonimmigrant status under section 101(a)(15)(T) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(T)) or who has a pending application that sets forth a prima facie case for eligibility for such nonimmigrant status.


(2) Noncitizens who are treated as refugees under other Federal statutes:


(i) Noncitizens who are victims of a severe form of trafficking in persons, as described in 22 U.S.C. 7105(b)(1)(C), or who are classified as nonimmigrants under section 101(a)(15)(T)(ii) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(T)(ii)), pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 7105(b)(1)(A);


(ii) Iraqi and Afghan special immigrants, as described in Public Law 110-181, section 1244(g) (2008), Public Law 111-8, section 602(b)(8) (2009), Public Law 111-118, section 8120(b) (2010), and Public Law 113-291, section 1227 (2014);


(iii) Amerasian immigrants, described in Public Law 100-202, section 101(e) (8 U.S.C. 1101 note);


(iv) Certain Afghan parolees, in accordance with Section 2502 of Public Law 117-43, as amended; and


(v) Certain Ukrainian parolees, in accordance with Section 401 of Public Law 117-128, as amended.




*Secure electronic interface* means an interface which allows for the exchange of data between Medicaid and other insurance affordability programs and adheres to the requirements in part 433, subpart C of this chapter.


*Shared eligibility service* means a common or shared eligibility system or service used by a State to determine individuals' eligibility for insurance affordability programs.


*SSI* means supplemental security income under title XVI of the Act. 


*SWICA* means the State Wage Information Collection Agency under section 1137(a) of the Act. It is the State agency administering the State unemployment compensation law; a separate agency administering a quarterly wage reporting system; or a State agency administering an alternative system which has been determined by the Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, to be as effective and timely in providing employment related income and eligibility data.


*Tax dependent* has the same meaning as the term “dependent” under section 152 of the Internal Revenue Code, as an individual for whom another individual claims a deduction for a personal exemption under section 151 of the Internal Revenue Code for a taxable year.



---

[N] [43 FR 45204, Sept. 29, 1978, as amended at 45 FR 24883, Apr. 11, 1980; 46 FR 6909, Jan. 22, 1981; 46 FR 47984, Sept. 30, 1981; 51 FR 7211, Feb. 28, 1986; 58 FR 4925, Jan. 19, 1993; 66 FR 2666, Jan. 11, 2001; 77 FR 17203, Mar. 23, 2012; 81 FR 86450, Nov. 30, 2016; 87 FR 66510, Nov. 3, 2022; 88 FR 65260, Sept. 21, 2023; 89 FR 39435, May 8, 2024]




