# ยง 425.208   Provisions of participation agreement.

(a) *General rules.* (1) Upon being notified by CMS of its approval to participate in the Shared Savings Program, an executive of that ACO who has the ability to legally bind the ACO must sign and submit to CMS a participation agreement.


(2) Under the participation agreement the ACO must agree to comply with the provisions of this part in order to participate in the Shared Savings Program.


(b) *Compliance with laws.* The ACO must agree, and must require its ACO participants, ACO providers/suppliers, and other individuals or entities performing functions or services related to the ACO's activities to agree, or to comply with all applicable laws including, but not limited to, the following:


(1) Federal criminal law.


(2) The False Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3729 *et seq.*).


(3) The anti-kickback statute (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7b(b)).


(4) The civil monetary penalties law (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7a).


(5) The physician self-referral law (42 U.S.C. 1395nn).


(6) The information blocking provision of the 21st Century Cures Act (42 U.S.C. 300jj-52).


(c) *Certifications.* (1) The ACO must agree, as a condition of participating in the program and receiving any shared savings payment, that an individual with the authority to legally bind the ACO will certify the accuracy, completeness, and truthfulness of any data or information requested by or submitted to CMS, including, but not limited to, the application form, participation agreement, and any quality data or other information on which CMS bases its calculation of shared savings payments and shared losses.


(2) Certifications must meet the requirements at ยง 425.302.



---

[N] [76 FR 67973, Nov. 2, 2011, as amended at 89 FR 54717, July 1, 2024]






