# ยง 208.2   Definitions applicable to this part.

For the purposes of this part, the following terms have the meanings hereby assigned to them:


(a) *Act* means the USMCA Implementation Act.


(b) *Border commercial zone* means:


(1) The area of United States territory of the municipalities along the United States-Mexico international border and the commercial zones of such municipalities as described in subpart B of 49 CFR part 372.; and


(2) Any additional border crossing and associated commercial zones listed in the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration OP-2 application instructions or successor documents.


(c) *Cargo originating in Mexico* means any cargo that enters the United States by commercial motor vehicle from Mexico, including cargo that may have originated in a country other than Mexico.


(d) *Change in circumstance* may include a substantial increase in services supplied by the grantee of a grant of authority.


(e) *Commercial motor vehicle* means a commercial motor vehicle, as such term is defined in 49 U.S.C. 31132 (1), that meets the requirements of 49 U.S.C. 31132(1)(A).


(f) *Cross-border long-haul trucking services means:*

(1) The transportation by commercial motor vehicle of cargo originating in Mexico to a point in the United States outside of a border commercial zone; or


(2) The transportation by commercial motor vehicle of cargo originating in the United States from a point in the United States outside of a border commercial zone to a point in a border commercial zone or a point in Mexico.


(g) *Driver* means a person that drives a commercial motor vehicle in cross-border long-haul trucking services.


(h) *Grant of authority* means registration granted pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 13902, or a successor provision, to persons of Mexico to conduct cross-border long-haul trucking services in the United States.


(i) *Interested party* means:


(1) Persons of the United States engaged in the provision of cross-border long-haul trucking services;


(2) A trade or business association, a majority of whose members are part of the relevant United States long-haul trucking services industry;


(3) A certified or recognized union, or representative group of suppliers, operators, or drivers who are part of the United States long-haul trucking services industry;


(4) The Government of Mexico; or


(5) Persons of Mexico.


(j) *Material harm* means a significant loss in the share of the United States market or relevant sub-market for cross-border long-haul trucking services held by persons of the United States.


(k) *Operator* or *supplier* means an entity that has been granted registration under 49 U.S.C. 13902, to provide cross-border long-haul trucking services.


(l) *Persons of Mexico* includes:


(1) Entities domiciled in Mexico organized, or otherwise constituted under Mexican law, including subsidiaries of United States companies domiciled in Mexico, or entities owned or controlled by a Mexican national, which conduct cross-border long-haul trucking services, or employ drivers who are non-United States nationals; and


(2) Drivers who are Mexican nationals.


(m) *Persons of the United States* includes entities domiciled in the United States, organized or otherwise constituted under United States law, and not owned or controlled by persons of Mexico, which provide cross-border long-haul trucking services and long-haul commercial motor vehicle drivers who are United States nationals.


(n) *Threat of material harm* means material harm that is likely to occur.


(o) *Trade Representative* means the United States Trade Representative.


(p) *United States long-haul trucking services industry* means:


(1) United States suppliers, operators, or drivers as a whole providing cross-border long-haul trucking services; or


(2) United States suppliers, operators, or drivers providing cross-border long-haul trucking services in a specific sub-market of the whole United States market.


(q) *USMCA* means United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement.




