# ยง 672.22   Appeal from or review of initial decision.

(a) *Notice of appeal.* Any party may appeal any adverse initial decision of the Presiding Officer by filing a notice of appeal and an accompanying appellate brief with the Hearing Clerk and upon all other parties and amicus curiae within twenty (20) days after the initial decision is served upon the parties. The notice of appeal shall set forth alternative findings of fact, alternative conclusions regarding issues of law or discretion, and a proposed order together with relevant references to the record and the initial decision. The appellant's brief shall contain a statement of the issues presented for review, argument on the issues presented, and a short conclusion stating the precise relief sought, together with appropriate references to the record. Within twenty (20) days of the service of notices of appeal and briefs, any other party or amicus curiae may file with the Hearing Clerk a reply brief responding to argument raised by the appellant, together with references to the relevant portions of the record, initial decision, or opposing brief. Reply briefs shall be limited to the scope of the appeal brief. 


(b) *Sua sponte review by the Director.* Whenever the Director determines sua sponte to review an initial decision, the Hearing Clerk shall serve notice of such intention on the parties within forty-five (45) days after the initial decision is served upon the parties. The notice shall include a statement of issues to be briefed by the parties and a time schedule for the service and filing of briefs. 


(c) *Scope of appeal or review.* The appeal of the initial decision shall be limited to those issues raised by the parties during the course of the proceeding. If the Director determines that issues raised, but not appealed by the parties, should be argued, he shall give the parties or their representatives written notice of such determination to permit preparation of adequate argument. Nothing herein shall prohibit the Director from remanding the case to the Presiding Officer for further proceedings. 


(d) *Argument.* The Director may, upon request of a party or sua sponte, assign a time and place for oral argument. 




