# § 1155.26   Board determinations under 49 U.S.C. 10909.

(a) *Schedule.* (1) The schedule in paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall govern the process for Board consideration and decisions in land-use-exemption-permit application proceedings from the time the application is filed until the time of the Board's decision on the merits:


(2) At least 45 days prior to filing of application—Environmental Report (and/or Historic Report, if applicable) filed and environmental process initiated pursuant to 49 CFR 1155.24. Within 30 days prior to filing of application—Notice of Intent filed with the Board pursuant to the deadlines and requirements described in 49 CFR 1155.20(b)(3).


(i) Day 0—Application filed.


(ii) Day 20—Due date for Notice of Application to be published in the _Federal Register._

(iii) Day 45—Due date for initial comments.


(iv) 30 days after the Final EIS (or other final environmental documentation) is issued by OEA—Due date for final comments.


(v) 45 days after the Final EIS (or other final environmental documentation) is issued by OEA—Due date for replies to final comments.


(3) A decision on the merits will be due 90 days after a full record is developed.


(b) *Standard for review.* (1) The Board will issue a land-use-exemption permit only if it determines that the facility at the existing or proposed location would not pose an unreasonable risk to public health, safety, or the environment. In deciding whether a solid waste rail transfer facility that is or proposed to be constructed or operated by or on behalf of a rail carrier poses an unreasonable risk to public health, safety, or the environment, the Board shall weigh the particular facility's potential benefits to and the adverse impacts on public health, public safety, the environment, interstate commerce, and transportation of solid waste by rail.


(2) The Board will not grant a land-use-exemption permit for a solid waste rail transfer facility proposed to be located on land within any unit of or land affiliated with the National Park System, the National Wildlife Refuge System, the National Wilderness Preservation System, the National Trails System, the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System, a National Reserve, or a National Monument.


(3) The Board will not grant a land-use-exemption permit for a solid waste rail transfer facility proposed to be located on land within any unit of or land affiliated with lands referenced in The Highlands Conservation Act, Public Law No. 108-421, for which a state has implemented a conservation management plan, if operation of the facility would be inconsistent with restrictions placed on such land.


(4) The Board will reject an application from a person who is not a rail carrier, but is instead operating on behalf of a rail carrier unless;


(i) The applicant has sought permission from the applicable state, local, or municipal authority with respect to some or all of the property in the application and received an unsatisfactory result affecting the siting of the facility, or


(ii) The Governor of the state has petitioned the Board to require the facility to apply under subpart B of this part.


(5) The Board will issue a land-use-exemption permit to an applicant that has received an unsatisfactory result from a state, local or municipal authority affecting the siting of the facility only if it finds that the laws, regulations, or other requirements affect the siting of the facility, on their face or as applied, either;


(i) Unreasonably burden the interstate transportation of solid waste by railroad, or


(ii) Discriminate against the railroad transportation of solid waste and a solid waste rail transfer facility.


(6) A land-use-exemption permit will only exempt state, local, or municipal laws, regulations, orders, other requirements, or portions thereof, affecting the siting of the solid waste rail transfer facility.


(c) *Considerations.* As required by 49 U.S.C. 10909(d), the Board will consider and give due weight to the following, as applicable:


(1) The land-use, zoning, and siting regulations or solid waste planning requirements of the state or state subdivision in which the facility is or will be located that are applicable to solid waste transfer facilities, including those that are not owned or operated by or on behalf of a rail carrier;


(2) The land-use, zoning, and siting regulations or solid waste planning requirements applicable to the property where the solid waste rail transfer facility is proposed to be located;


(3) Regional transportation planning requirements developed pursuant to federal and state law;


(4) Regional solid waste disposal plans developed pursuant to federal or state law;


(5) Any federal and state environmental protection laws or regulations applicable to the site;


(6) Any unreasonable burdens imposed on the interstate transportation of solid waste by railroad, or the potential for discrimination against the railroad transportation of solid waste, a solid waste rail transfer facility, or a rail carrier that owns or operates such a facility; and


(7) Any other relevant factors, as determined by the Board.


(d) *Permits.* If the Board grants a land-use-exemption permit for a solid waste rail transfer facility, such permit will only exempt a facility from complying with state laws, regulations, orders, or other requirements affecting the siting of the facility that are specified therein. The permit will require compliance with all other state laws, regulations, orders, or other requirements not otherwise expressly exempted in the permit.




