# ยง 905.735-103   Definitions.

As used in this part:


(a) *Board Member* means any member of the Board of Directors of the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation, appointed or serving under section 3, Pub. L. 92-578, 86 Stat. 1267 (40 U.S.C. 872).


(b) *Chairman* means the Chairman of the Board of Directors and President of the Corporation.


(c) *Conflict* means the subordination of public responsibilities to private interests, and includes the appearance of such subordination.


(d) *Consultant* means an individual who serves as an advisor to an officer or division of the Corporation, as distinguished from an officer or employee who carries out the agency's duties and responsibilities. He gives his views or opinions on problems or questions presented him by the Corporation, but he neither performs nor supervises performance of operating functions. Ordinarily, he is expert in the field in which he advises, but he need not be a specialist. His expertness may lie in his possession of a high order of broad administrative, professional, or technical experience indicating that his ability and knowledge make his advice distinctively valuable to the agency. (Chapter 304, Federal Personnel Manual).


(e) *Corporation* means the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation, created by the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation Act of 1972, Pub. L. 92-578, 86 Stat. 1266 (40 U.S.C. 871).


(f) *Employee* means an officer or employee of the Corporation, but does not include a special Government employee as defined herein. The term includes those Board Members who are determined to be officers or employees of the executive or legislative branches of the United States or of the District of Columbia. The term does not include elected officials.


(g) *Executive order* means Executive Order 11222 of May 8, 1965.


(h) *Expert* means a person with excellent qualifications and a high degree of attainment in a professional, scientific, technical, or other field. His knowledge and mastery of the principles, practices, problems, methods, and techniques of his field of activity, or of a specialized area in the field, are clearly superior to those usually possessed by ordinarily competent individuals in that activity. His attainment is such that he usually is regarded as an authority or as a practitioner of unusual competence and skill by other persons in the profession, occupation, or activity. (Chapter 304, Federal Personnel Manual.)


(i) *Head of the agency* means the Chairman.


(j) *Person* means an individual, a corporation, a company, an association, a firm, a partnership, a society, a joint stock company, or any other institution or organization.


(k) *Special Government Employee* means an officer or employee of the Corporation who is retained, designated, appointed or employed to perform, with or without compensation, for not more than 130 days during any period of 365 consecutive days, temporary duties either on a full time or intermittent basis (18 U.S.C. 202(a)). The term includes those Board Members who are appointed from private life and required to file a statement of financial interests with the Chairman of the Civil Service Commission pursuant to part IV of the Executive order, or who are determined to be special government employees of the executive or legislative branches of the United States or the District of Columbia.




