# ยง 385.27   Project Cooperation Agreements.

(a) *General.* Prior to initiating construction or implementation of a project, the Corps of Engineers shall execute a Project Cooperation Agreement with the non-Federal sponsor in accordance with applicable law. 


(b) *Verification of water reservations.* The Project Cooperation Agreement shall include a finding that the South Florida Water Management District or the Florida Department of Environmental Protection has executed under State law the reservation or allocation of water for the natural system as identified in the Project Implementation Report. Prior to execution of the Project Cooperation Agreement, the District Engineer shall verify in writing that the South Florida Water Management District or the Florida Department of Environmental Protection has executed under State law the reservation or allocation of water for the natural system as identified in the Project Implementation Report. The District Engineer's verification shall provide the basis for the finding in the Project Cooperation Agreement and be made available to the public. 


(c) *Changes to water reservations.* Reservations or allocations of water are a State responsibility. Any change to the reservation or allocation of water for the natural system made under State law shall require an amendment to the Project Cooperation Agreement. 


(1) The District Engineer shall, in consultation with the South Florida Water Management District, the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Commerce, the Seminole Tribe of Florida, the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida, and other Federal, State, and local agencies, verify in writing that the revised reservation or allocation continues to provide for an appropriate quantity, timing, and distribution of water dedicated and managed for the natural system after considering any changed circumstances or new information since completion of the Project Implementation Report. In accordance with applicable State law, the non-Federal sponsor shall provide opportunities for the public to review and comment on any proposed changes in the water reservation made by the State. 


(2) The Secretary of the Army shall notify the appropriate committees of Congress whenever a change to the reservation or allocation of water for the natural system executed under State law as described in the Project Implementation Report has been made. Such notification shall include the Secretary's and the State's reasons for determining that the revised reservation or allocation continues to provide for an appropriate quantity, timing, and distribution of water dedicated and managed for the natural system after considering any changed circumstances or new information since completion of the Project Implementation Report. The Secretary of the Army's notification to the appropriate committees of Congress shall be made available to the public. 


(d) *Savings clause provisions.* The Project Cooperation Agreement shall ensure that the Corps of Engineers and the non-Federal sponsor not: 


(1) Eliminate or transfer existing legal sources of water until a new source of comparable quantity and quality as that available on the date of enactment of WRDA 2000 is available to replace the water to be lost as a result of implementation of the Plan; and 


(2) Reduce levels of service for flood protection that are: 


(i) In existence on the date of enactment of WRDA 2000; and 


(ii) In accordance with applicable law. 




