# § 1065.341   CVS and PFD flow verification (propane check).

This section describes two optional methods, using propane as a tracer gas, to verify CVS and PFD flow streams. You may use good engineering judgment and safe practices to use other tracer gases, such as CO_2_ or CO. The first method, described in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, applies for the CVS diluted exhaust flow measurement system. The first method may also apply for other single-flow measurement systems as described in Table 2 of § 1065.307. Paragraph (g) of this section describes a second method you may use to verify flow measurements in a PFD for determining the PFD dilution ratio.


(a) A propane check uses either a reference mass or a reference flow rate of C_3_H_8_ as a tracer gas in a CVS. Note that if you use a reference flow rate, account for any non-ideal gas behavior of C_3_H_8_ in the reference flow meter. Refer to §§ 1065.640 and 1065.642, which describe how to calibrate and use certain flow meters. Do not use any ideal gas assumptions in §§ 1065.640 and 1065.642. The propane check compares the calculated mass of injected C_3_H_8_ using HC measurements and CVS flow rate measurements with the reference value.


(b) Prepare for the propane check as follows:


(1) If you use a reference mass of C_3_H_8_ instead of a reference flow rate, obtain a cylinder charged with C_3_H_8_. Determine the reference cylinder's mass of C_3_H_8_ within ±0.5% of the amount of C_3_H_8_ that you expect to use. You may substitute a C_3_H_8_ analytical gas mixture (i.e., a prediluted tracer gas) for pure C_3_H_8_. This would be most appropriate for lower flow rates. The analytical gas mixture must meet the specifications in § 1065.750(a)(3).


(2) Select appropriate flow rates for the CVS and C_3_H_8_.


(3) Select a C_3_H_8_ injection port in the CVS. Select the port location to be as close as practical to the location where you introduce engine exhaust into the CVS, or at some point in the laboratory exhaust tubing upstream of this location. Connect the C_3_H_8_ cylinder to the injection system.


(4) Operate and stabilize the CVS.


(5) Preheat or pre-cool any heat exchangers in the sampling system.


(6) Allow heated and cooled components such as sample lines, filters, chillers, and pumps to stabilize at operating temperature.


(7) You may purge the HC sampling system during stabilization.


(8) If applicable, perform a vacuum side leak verification of the HC sampling system as described in § 1065.345.


(9) You may also conduct any other calibrations or verifications on equipment or analyzers.


(c) If you performed the vacuum-side leak verification of the HC sampling system as described in paragraph (b)(8) of this section, you may use the HC contamination procedure in § 1065.520(g) to verify HC contamination. Otherwise, zero, span, and verify contamination of the HC sampling system, as follows:




(1) Select the lowest HC analyzer range that can measure the C_3_H_8_ concentration expected for the CVS and C_3_H_8_ flow rates.


(2) Zero the HC analyzer using zero air introduced at the analyzer port.


(3) Span the HC analyzer using C_3_H_8_ span gas introduced at the analyzer port.


(4) Overflow zero air at the HC probe inlet or into a tee near the outlet of the probe.


(5) Measure the stable HC concentration of the HC sampling system as overflow zero air flows. For batch HC measurement, fill the batch container (such as a bag) and measure the HC overflow concentration.


(6) If the overflow HC concentration exceeds 2 µmol/mol, do not proceed until contamination is eliminated. Determine the source of the contamination and take corrective action, such as cleaning the system or replacing contaminated portions.


(7) When the overflow HC concentration does not exceed 2 µmol/mol, record this value as *x*_THCinit_ and use it to correct for HC contamination as described in § 1065.660.


(d) Perform the propane check as follows:


(1) For batch HC sampling, connect clean storage media, such as evacuated bags.


(2) Operate HC measurement instruments according to the instrument manufacturer's instructions.


(3) If you will correct for dilution air background concentrations of HC, measure and record background HC in the dilution air.


(4) Zero any integrating devices.


(5) Begin sampling, and start any flow integrators.


(6) Release the contents of the C_3_H_8_ reference cylinder at the rate you selected. If you use a reference flow rate of C_3_H_8_, start integrating this flow rate.


(7) Continue to release the cylinder's contents until at least enough C_3_H_8_ has been released to ensure accurate quantification of the reference C_3_H_8_ and the measured C_3_H_8_.


(8) Shut off the C_3_H_8_ reference cylinder and continue sampling until you have accounted for time delays due to sample transport and analyzer response.


(9) Stop sampling and stop any integrators.


(e) Perform post-test procedure as follows:


(1) If you used batch sampling, analyze batch samples as soon as practical.


(2) After analyzing HC, correct for contamination and background.


(3) Calculate total C_3_H_8_ mass based on your CVS and HC data as described in § 1065.650 (40 CFR 1066.605 for vehicle testing) and § 1065.660, using the molar mass of C_3_H_8_, *M*_C3H8_, instead of the effective molar mass of HC, *M*_HC_.


(4) If you use a reference mass, determine the cylinder's propane mass within ±0.5% and determine the C_3_H_8_ reference mass by subtracting the empty cylinder propane mass from the full cylinder propane mass.


(5) Subtract the reference C_3_H_8_ mass from the calculated mass. If this difference is within ±2% of the reference mass, the CVS passes this verification. If not, take corrective action as described in paragraph (f) of this section.


(f) A failed propane check might indicate one or more problems requiring corrective action, as follows:


(g) You may verify flow measurements in a PFD (usually dilution air and diluted exhaust streams) for determining the dilution ratio in the PFD using the following method:


(1) Configure the HC sampling system to extract a sample from the PFD's diluted exhaust stream (such as near a PM filter). If the absolute pressure at this location is too low to extract an HC sample, you may sample HC from the PFD's pump exhaust. Use caution when sampling from pump exhaust because an otherwise acceptable pump leak downstream of a PFD diluted exhaust flow meter will cause a false failure of the propane check.


(2) Perform the propane check described in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, but sample HC from the PFD's diluted exhaust stream. Inject the propane in the same exhaust stream that the PFD is sampling from (either CVS or raw exhaust stack).


(3) Calculate C_3_H_8_ mass, taking into account the dilution from the PFD.


(4) Subtract the reference C_3_H_8_ mass from the calculated mass. If this difference is within ±2% of the reference mass, all PFD flow measurements for determining PFD dilution ratio pass this verification. If not, take corrective action as described in paragraph (f) of this section. For PFDs sampling only for PM, the allowed difference is ±5%.


(h) Table 2 of § 1065.307 describes optional verification procedures you may perform instead of linearity verification for certain flow-measurement systems. Performing carbon balance error verification also replaces any required propane checks.



---

[N] [86 FR 34541, June 29, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 4675, Jan. 24, 2023; 89 FR 29797, Apr. 22, 2024]




