# § 763.86   Sampling.

(a) *Surfacing material.* An accredited inspector shall collect, in a statistically random manner that is representative of the homogeneous area, bulk samples from each homogeneous area of friable surfacing material that is not assumed to be ACM, and shall collect the samples as follows: 


(1) At least three bulk samples shall be collected from each homogeneous area that is 1,000 ft
2 or less, except as provided in § 763.87(c)(2). 


(2) At least five bulk samples shall be collected from each homogeneous area that is greater than 1,000 ft
2 but less than or equal to 5,000 ft
2, except as provided in § 763.87(c)(2). 


(3) At least seven bulk samples shall be collected from each homogeneous area that is greater than 5,000 ft
2, except as provided in § 763.87(c)(2). 


(b) *Thermal system insulation.* (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) (2) through (4) of this section and § 763.87(c), an accredited inspector shall collect, in a randomly distributed manner, at least three bulk samples from each homogeneous area of thermal system insulation that is not assumed to be ACM. 


(2) Collect at least one bulk sample from each homogeneous area of patched thermal system insulation that is not assumed to be ACM if the patched section is less than 6 linear or square feet. 


(3) In a manner sufficient to determine whether the material is ACM or not ACM, collect bulk samples from each insulated mechanical system that is not assumed to be ACM where cement or plaster is used on fittings such as tees, elbows, or valves, except as provided under § 763.87(c)(2). 


(4) Bulk samples are not required to be collected from any homogeneous area where the accredited inspector has determined that the thermal system insulation is fiberglass, foam glass, rubber, or other non-ACBM. 


(c) *Miscellaneous material.* In a manner sufficient to determine whether material is ACM or not ACM, an accredited inspector shall collect bulk samples from each homogeneous area of friable miscellaneous material that is not assumed to be ACM. 


(d) *Nonfriable suspected ACBM.* If any homogeneous area of nonfriable suspected ACBM is not assumed to be ACM, then an accredited inspector shall collect, in a manner sufficient to determine whether the material is ACM or not ACM, bulk samples from the homogeneous area of nonfriable suspected ACBM that is not assumed to be ACM. 




