# § 156.78   Precautionary statements for physical or chemical hazards.

(a) *Requirement.* Warning statements on the flammability or explosive characteristics of the pesticide product are required if a product meets the criteria in this section. Warning statements pertaining to other physical/chemical hazards (e.g., oxidizing potential, conductivity, chemical reactions leading to production of toxic substances) may be required on a case-by-case basis. 


(b) *Pressurized products.* The table below sets out the required flammability label statements for pressurized products. 


(c) *Non-pressurized products.* The table below sets out the required flammability label statements for non-pressurized products.


(d) *Total release fogger products.* (1) A *total release fogger* is defined as a pesticide product in a pressurized container designed to automatically release the total contents in one operation, for the purpose of creating a permeating fog within a confined space to deliver the pesticide throughout the space. 


(2) If a pesticide product is a total release fogger containing a propellant with a flash point at or below 20 °F, then the following special instructions must be added to the “Physical and Chemical Hazards” warning statement, in addition to any flammability statement required by paragraph (b) of this section: 


(3) A graphic symbol depicting fire, such as illustrated in this paragraph, or an equivalent symbol, must be displayed along with the required language adjoining the “Physical and Chemical Hazards” warning statement. The graphic symbol must be no smaller than twice the size of the first character of the human hazard signal word.


