# ยง 141.92   Waiver of invoice requirements.

(a) *When waiver may be granted.* CBP may waive production of a required invoice when he is satisfied that either: 


(1) The importer cannot by reason of conditions beyond his control furnish a complete and accurate invoice; or 


(2) The examination of merchandise, final determination of duties, and collection of statistics can be effected properly without the production of the required invoice. 


(b) *Documents to be filed by importer.* As a condition to the granting of a waiver, the importer shall file the following documents with the entry: 


(1) Any invoice or invoices received from the seller or shipper; 


(2) A statement pointing out in exact detail any inaccuracies, omissions, or other defects in such invoice or invoices; 


(3) An executed pro forma invoice in accordance with ยง 141.85; and 


(4) Any other information required by the Center director for either appraisement or classification of the merchandise, or for statistical purposes. 


(c) *Satisfaction of bond liability.* The liability under the bond on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in ยง 113.62 of this chapter for the production of a correct invoice shall be deemed satisfied when a waiver has been granted pursuant to this section.



---

[N] [T.D. 73-175, 38 FR 17447, July 2, 1973, as amended by T.D. 78-53, 43 FR 6070, Feb. 13, 1978; T.D. 79-221, 44 FR 46821, Aug. 9, 1979; T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41184, Oct. 19, 1984; 49 FR 44867, Nov. 9, 1984; T.D. 93-66, 58 FR 44130, Aug. 19, 1993]




