# § 680.4   Permits.

(a) *General information.* Persons participating in the CR fisheries are required to possess the permits described in this section.


(1) *Approval.* Approval of applications under this part may be conditioned on the payment of fees under § 680.44 or the submission of an EDR as described under § 680.6.


(2) *Issuance.* The Regional Administrator may issue or amend any permits under this section or under § 680.21 annually or at other times as needed under this part.


(3) *Transfer.* Crab QS and PQS permits issued under § 680.40 and Crab IFQ and IPQ permits issued under this section are transferable, as provided under § 680.41. Crab IFQ hired master permits, Federal crab vessel permits, and RCR permits issued under this section are not transferable.


(4) *Inspection.* The holder of a Federal crab vessel permit, crab IFQ permit, crab IPQ permit, or crab IFQ hired master permit, must present a legible copy of the permit on request of any authorized officer or RCR receiving a crab IFQ landing. A legible copy of the RCR permit must be present at the location of a crab IFQ landing and an individual representing the RCR must make the RCR permit available for inspection on request of any authorized officer.


(b) *Crab QS permit.* (1) Crab QS is issued by the Regional Administrator to persons who qualify for an initial allocation under § 680.40 or receive QS by transfer under § 680.41. Once issued, a crab QS permit is valid until modified under paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section, or by transfer under § 680.41; or until the permit is revoked, suspended, or modified pursuant to § 679.43 of this chapter or under 15 CFR part 904. To qualify for a crab QS permit, the applicant must be a U.S. citizen. 


(2) Each unit of Crab QS initially issued under § 680.40 for the Bering Sea Tanner crab (*Chionoecetes bairdi*) CR fishery shall be reissued as one unit of Eastern Bering Sea Tanner crab (EBT) QS and one unit of Western Bering Sea Tanner crab (WBT) QS.


(3) A converted CPO QS permit is valid until the end of the crab fishing year for which the permit is issued.


(c) *Crab PQS permit.* (1) Crab PQS is issued by the Regional Administrator to persons who successfully apply for an initial allocation under § 680.40 or receive PQS by transfer under § 680.41. Once issued, a crab PQS permit is valid until modified under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, or by transfer under § 680.41; or until the permit is revoked, suspended, or modified pursuant to § 679.43 of this chapter or under 15 CFR part 904.


(2) Each unit of Crab PQS initially issued under § 680.40 for the Bering Sea Tanner crab (*Chionoecetes bairdi*) CR fishery shall be reissued as one unit of Eastern Bering Sea Tanner crab (EBT) PQS and one unit of Western Bering Sea Tanner crab (WBT) PQS.


(d) *Crab IFQ permit.* (1) A crab IFQ permit authorizes the person identified on the permit to harvest crab in the fishery identified on the permit at any time the fishery is open during the crab fishing year for which the permit is issued, subject to conditions of the permit. A crab IFQ permit is valid under the following circumstances:


(i) Until the end of the crab fishing year for which the permit is issued;


(ii) Until the amount harvested is equal to the amount specified on the permit;


(iii) Until the permit is modified by transfers under § 680.41; or


(iv) Until the permit is revoked, suspended, or modified pursuant to § 679.43 or under 15 CFR part 904.


(2) A legible copy of the crab IFQ permit must be carried on board the vessel used by the permitted person at all times that IFQ crab are retained on board.


(3) On an annual basis, the Regional Administrator will issue a crab IFQ permit to a person who submits a complete Application for Annual Crab Individual Fishing Quota (IFQ) Permit, described at paragraph (f) of this section, that is subsequently approved by the Regional Administrator.


(4) To qualify for a crab IFQ permit, the applicant must be a U.S. Citizen.


(e) *Crab IPQ permit.* (1) A crab IPQ permit authorizes the person identified on the permit to receive/process the IPQ crab identified on the permit during the crab fishing year for which the permit is issued, subject to conditions of the permit. A crab IPQ permit is valid under the following circumstances:


(i) Until the end of the crab fishing year for which the permit is issued;


(ii) Until the amount received/processed is equal to the amount specified on the permit;


(iii) Until the permit is modified by transfers under § 680.41; or


(iv) Until the permit is revoked, suspended, or modified pursuant to § 679.43 or under 15 CFR part 904.


(2) A legible copy of the crab IPQ permit authorizing receiving/processing of IFQ crab must be retained on the premises or vessel used by the permitted person to process the IFQ crab at all times that IFQ crab are retained on the premises or vessel.


(3) On an annual basis, the Regional Administrator will issue a crab IPQ permit to a person who submits a complete Application for Annual Crab Individual Processing Quota (IPQ) Permit, described at paragraph (f) of this section, that is subsequently approved by the Regional Administrator.


(f) *Contents of annual applications for crab IFQ and IPQ permits.* (1) A complete application must be received by NMFS no later than June 15 (or postmarked by this date, if sent via U.S. mail or a commercial carrier) for the upcoming crab fishing year for which a person is applying to receive IFQ or IPQ. If a complete application is not received by NMFS by this date, or postmarked by this date, the person will not receive IFQ or IPQ for the upcoming crab fishing year. In the event that NMFS has not received a complete and timely application by June 15, NMFS will presume that the application was timely filed if the applicant can provide NMFS with proof of timely filing.


(2) For the application to be considered complete, all fees required by NMFS must be paid, and any EDR required under § 680.6 must be submitted to the DCA. In addition, the applicant must include the following information:


(i) *Applicant information.* Enter applicant's name and NMFS Person ID; applicant's date of birth or, if a non-individual, date of incorporation; applicant's social security number (optional) or tax identification number; applicant's permanent business mailing address and any temporary mailing address the applicant wishes to use; and applicant's business telephone number, facsimile number, and e-mail address.


(ii) *Crab IFQ or IPQ permit identification.* Indicate the type of crab IFQ or IPQ permit for which applicant is applying by QS fishery(ies) and indicate (YES or NO) whether applicant has joined a crab harvesting cooperative. If YES, enter the name of the crab harvesting cooperative(s) the applicant has joined for each crab fishery.


(iii) *Identification of ownership interests.* If the applicant is not an individual, provide the names of all persons, to the individual level, holding an ownership interest in the entity and the percentage ownership each person and individual holds in the applicant.


(iv) *Certification of ROFR contract for crab IPQ permit.* Indicate (YES or NO) whether any of the IPQ for which the applicant is applying to receive is subject to right of first refusal (ROFR). If YES certify (YES or NO) whether there is a ROFR contract currently in place between the applicant and the ECC entity holding the ROFR for the IPQ that includes the required ROFR contract terms specified in Chapter 11 section 3.4.4.1.2 of the Fishery Management Plan for Bering Sea/Aleutian Islands King and Tanner Crabs.


(v) *Documentation of affiliation.* Complete a documentation of affiliation declaring any and all affiliations, as the term “affiliation” is defined at § 680.2. A documentation of affiliation includes affirmations by the applicant pertaining to relationships that may involve direct or indirect ownership or control of the delivery of IFQ crab and any supplemental documentation deemed necessary by NMFS to determine whether an affiliation exists. Indicate whether any entity that holds PQS or IPQ is affiliated with the applicant, as affiliation is defined in § 680.2. If the applicant is considered affiliated, the applicant must provide a list of all PQS or IPQ holders with which he/she is affiliated, including full name, business mailing address, and business telephone number.


(vi) *Certification of applicant.* The applicant must sign and date the application certifying that all information is true, correct, and complete to the best of his/her knowledge and belief. Print the name of the applicant. If the application is completed by an authorized representative, proof of authorization must accompany the application.


(g) *Crab IFQ hired master permit.* (1) A crab IFQ hired master permit is issued on an annual basis and authorizes the individual identified on the permit to harvest and land IFQ crab for debit against the specified crab IFQ permit until the crab IFQ hired master permit expires or is revoked, suspended, or modified pursuant to § 679.43 or under 15 CFR part 904, or on request of the crab IFQ permit holder.


(2) A legible copy of the crab IFQ hired master permit must be on board the vessel used by the hired master to harvest IFQ crab at all times IFQ crab are retained on board. Except as specified in § 680.42, an individual who is issued a crab IFQ hired master permit must remain aboard the vessel used to harvest IFQ crab, specified under that permit, during the crab fishing trip and at the landing site until all crab harvested under that permit are offloaded and the landing report for IFQ crab is completed.


(h) *Contents of application for crab IFQ hired master permit.* In order for the application to be considered complete, a copy of the USCG *Abstract Of Title* or *Certificate Of Documentation* must be included with this application to demonstrate percent of vessel ownership by the IFQ permit holder. A complete application for a crab IFQ hired master permit must include the following information:


(1) *Purpose of application.* Indicate whether the application is to add or to delete a hired master and identification of crab IFQ permit(s) for which this application is submitted.


(2) *IFQ permit holder information.* Enter permit holder's name, NMFS Person ID, and social security number (optional) or tax identification number; permit holder's permanent or temporary business mailing address; and permit holder's business telephone number, facsimile number, and e-mail address (if available).


(3) *Identification of vessel upon which crab IFQ will be harvested.* Enter the vessel's name, ADF&G vessel registration number, and USCG documentation number. Indicate whether (YES or NO) the permit holder has at least a 10 percent ownership interest in the vessel the crab IFQ hired master will use to fish permit holder's IFQ crab. If YES, provide documentation of IFQ permit holder's 10 percent ownership interest.


(4) *IFQ hired master permit holder information.* Complete a separate section for each crab IFQ hired master. Enter the hired master's name, NMFS Person ID, social security number (optional) or tax identification number, and date of birth; hired master's permanent or temporary business mailing address; and hired master's business telephone number, facsimile number, and e-mail address (if available).


(5) *Applicant certification.* The applicant must sign and date the application certifying that all information is true, correct, and complete to the best of his/her knowledge and belief. If the application is completed by an authorized representative, then authorization must accompany the application.


(i) *RCR permit.* (1) An RCR permit is issued on an annual basis. An RCR permit is valid during the crab fishing year for which it is issued until the RCR permit expires or is revoked, suspended, or modified pursuant to § 679.43 or under 15 CFR part 904.


(2) An RCR permit is required for any person who receives unprocessed CR crab from the person(s) who harvested the crab, the owner or operator of a vessel that processes CR crab at sea, any person holding IPQ, and any person required to submit a Departure Report under 50 CFR 679.5(l)(4).


(j) *Contents of application for RCR permit.* For the application to be considered complete, all fees required by NMFS must be paid, and any EDR required under § 680.6 must be submitted to the DCA. In addition, the applicant must include the following information:


(1) *Purpose of application.* Indicate whether the application is a request for a new RCR permit, a renewal of an existing RCR permit, or an amendment to an existing RCR permit. If a renewal of or amendment to an existing RCR permit, include the applicant's RCR permit number.


(2) *Applicant identification.* Enter applicant's name and NMFS Person ID; applicant's social security number or tax ID number (required); name of contact person for the applicant, if applicant is not an individual; applicant's permanent business mailing address; and business telephone number, facsimile number, and e-mail address (if available).


(3) *Type of activity.* Select type of receiving or processing activity and whether catcher/processor or shoreside processor.


(4) *Individual responsible for submission of EDR.* Enter the name of the designated representative submitting the EDR on behalf of the RCR, if an EDR is required at § 680.6. If different from the RCR's contact information, also enter the designated representative's business mailing address, telephone number, facsimile number, and e-mail address (if available).


(5) *Application certification.* The applicant must sign and date the application certifying that all information is true, correct, and complete to the best of his/her knowledge and belief. If the application is completed by an authorized representative, then proof of authorization must accompany the application.


(k) *Federal crab vessel permit.* The owner of a vessel must have a Federal crab vessel permit on board that vessel when used to fish for CR crab.


(1) A Federal crab vessel permit is issued on an annual basis to the owner of the vessel and is in effect from the date of issuance through the end of the crab fishing year for which the permit was issued, unless it is revoked, suspended, or modified under § 600.735 or § 600.740.


(2) A Federal crab vessel permit may not be surrendered at any time during the crab fishing year for which it was issued.


(3) A Federal crab vessel permit issued under this paragraph is not transferable or assignable and is valid only for the vessel for which it is issued.


(4) To qualify for a Federal crab vessel permit, the applicant must be a U.S. Citizen.


(5) The holder of a Federal crab vessel permit must submit an amended application for a Federal crab vessel permit within 10 days of the date of change in: the ownership of the vessel (a copy of the current USCG documentation for the vessel showing the change in ownership must accompany the amended application), or the individual responsible for submission of the EDR on behalf of the vessel's owner(s).


(l) *Contents of application for federal crab vessel permit.* For the application to be considered complete, all fees required by NMFS must be paid, and any EDR required under § 680.6 must be submitted to the DCA. Also, if ownership of the vessel has changed or if the permit application for a vessel to which a Federal crab vessel permit has never been issued, a copy of the USCG *Abstract Of Title* or *Certificate Of Documentation.* In addition the applicant must include the following information:


(1) *Purpose of application.* Indicate whether the application is a request for a new permit, a renewal of an existing permit, or an amendment to an existing permit. If a renewal of or amendment to an existing permit, include the current Federal crab vessel permit number.


(2) *Contact owner information.* The name(s), permanent business mailing address, social security number (voluntary) or tax ID number, business telephone number, business facsimile number, business e-mail address (if available) of all vessel owners, and the name of any person or company (other than the owner) that manages the operation of the vessel.


(3) *Vessel information.* Enter the vessel's name and home port (city and state); ADF&G processor code, if vessel is a catcher/processor or stationary floating crab processor; whether a vessel of the United States; USCG documentation number; ADF&G vessel registration number; and vessel's LOA (in feet), registered length (in feet), gross tonnage, net tonnage, and shaft horsepower. Indicate all types of operations the vessel may conduct during a crab fishing year.


(4) *Designated representative for EDR.* Enter the name of the designated representative who is responsible for completion and submission of the EDR, and the representative's business mailing address, telephone number, facsimile number, and e-mail address (if available).


(5) *Applicant certification.* The applicant must sign and date the application certifying that all information is true, correct, and complete to the best of his/her knowledge and belief. Print the applicant name. If the application is completed by an authorized representative, then authorization must accompany the application.


(m) *Annual crab harvesting cooperative IFQ permit.* See § 680.21. 


(n) *Contents of annual application for converted CPO QS/IFQ permit.* (1)(i) A complete application must be received by NMFS no later than June 15 (or postmarked by this date, if sent via U.S. mail or a commercial carrier) for the upcoming crab fishing year for which a person or crab harvesting cooperative is applying to receive converted CPO QS and the IFQ derived from that converted CPO QS. If a complete application is not received by NMFS by this date, or postmarked by this date, the person or crab harvesting cooperative will not receive converted CPO QS and the IFQ derived from that converted CPO QS for the upcoming crab fishing year. In the event that NMFS has not received a complete and timely application by June 15, NMFS will presume that the application was timely filed if the applicant can provide NMFS with proof of timely filing.


(ii) To receive converted CPO QS/IFQ this application must be accompanied by a timely and complete application for crab IFQ/IPQ described at paragraph (f) of this section or a timely and complete application for a crab harvesting cooperative IFQ permit described at paragraph (m) of this section.


(2) For the application to be considered complete, all fees required by NMFS must be paid, and any EDR required under § 680.6 must be submitted to the DCA. In addition, the applicant must include the following information (see paragraphs (n)(2)(i) through (v) of this section):


(i) *Entity identification.* Indicate the entity (Entity A, B, or C) described in § 680.40(c)(5)(ii) through (c)(5)(iv) for which you are applying to receive converted CPO QS.


(ii) *Applicant information.* Enter applicant's name and NMFS Person ID; applicant's permanent business mailing address and any temporary mailing address the applicant wishes to use; and applicant's business telephone number, facsimile number, and e-mail address.


(A) For Entity A or B:


(*1*) Identify the amount of CVO QS in either the BBR or BSS crab QS fishery with a North Region designation for issuance as converted CPO QS; and


(*2*) Identify the amount of PQS in either the BBR or BSS crab QS fishery initially issued to you by NMFS with a North Region designation for issuance as converted CPO QS.


(B) For Entity C:


(*1*) Identify the amount of CVO QS in either the BBR or BSS crab QS fishery initially issued to you by NMFS with a North Region designation for issuance as converted CPO QS; and


(*2*) Identify the amount of PQS in either the BBR or BSS crab QS fishery with a North Region designation for issuance as converted CPO QS.


(iii) *Affiliate information for Entities A and B.* (A) For Entities A and B described in § 680.40(c)(5)(ii) and (c)(5)(iii), indicate the permanent business mailing address and any temporary mailing address, business telephone number, facsimile number, and e-mail address of any person who is affiliated with you based on information provided in an annual application for IFQ/IPQ that is approved by the Regional Administrator for that crab fishing year


(B) Indicate the amount of PQS in either the BBR or BSS crab QS fishery initially issued to that person with a North Region designation for issuance as converted CPO QS.


(C) Indicate the amount of CVO QS in either the BBR or BSS crab QS fishery with a North Region designation held by the affiliate for issuance as converted CPO QS.


(iv) *Affiliate information for Entity C.* (A) For Entity C described in § 680.40(c)(5)(iv), indicate the permanent business mailing address and any temporary mailing address, business telephone number, facsimile number, and e-mail address of any person who is affiliated with you based on information provided in an annual application for IFQ/IPQ that is approved by the Regional Administrator for that crab fishing year.


(B) Indicate the amount of PQS in either the BBR or BSS crab QS fishery with a North Region designation for issuance as converted CPO QS.


(C) Indicate the amount of CVO QS in either the BBR or BSS crab QS fishery initially issued to the affiliate with a North Region designation for issuance as converted CPO QS.


(v) *Certification of applicant and affiliates.* The applicant and any persons who are affiliated with the applicant and named on the application must sign and date the application certifying that all information is true, correct, and complete to the best of his/her knowledge and belief. If the application is completed by an authorized representative, proof of authorization must accompany the application.


(o) *Exemption from Western Aleutian Islands golden king crab West regional delivery requirements*—(1) *Request for an Annual Exemption from Western Aleutian Islands golden king crab West regional delivery requirements.* The eligible contract signatories (see qualifications at § 680.4(o)(2)(i)) may submit an application to NMFS to request that NMFS exempt West designated IFQ and West designated IPQ for the Western Aleutian Islands golden king crab (WAG) fishery from the West regional delivery requirements at § 680.7(a)(2) and (a)(4). All eligible contract signatories must submit one completed copy of the application form. The application must be submitted to NMFS using one of the following methods:


(i) *Mail:* Regional Administrator, c/o Restricted Access Management Program, NMFS, P.O. Box 21668, Juneau, AK 99802-1668; or


(ii) *Fax:* 907-586-7354; or


(iii) *Hand delivery or carrier:* NMFS, Room 713, 709 West 9th Street, Juneau, AK 99801.


(2) *Application form.* The application form is available on the NMFS Alaska region Web site (*http://alaskafisheries.noaa.gov*) or from NMFS at the address in paragraph (o)(1)(i) of this section. All information fields on the application form must be accurately completed, including—


(i) *Identification of eligible contract signatories.* Full name of each eligible contract signatory; NMFS person ID; and appropriate information that documents the signatories meet the requirements. If the application is completed by an individual who is the authorized representative, then documentation demonstrating the authorization must accompany the application. Eligible contract signatories are—


(A) *QS holders:* Any person that holds in excess of 20 percent of the West designated WAG QS at the time the contract was signed, or their authorized representative.


(B) *PQS holders:* Any person that holds in excess of 20 percent of the West designated WAG PQS at the time the contract was signed, or their authorized representative.


(C) *Municipalities:* designated officials from both the City of Adak and the City of Atka or an authorized representative.


(ii) *Affidavit affirming master contract has been signed.* Each eligible contract signatory, as described in paragraph (o)(2)(i) of this section, must sign and date an Affidavit affirming that a master contract has been signed to authorize the completion of the application to request that NMFS exempt West designated IFQ and West designated IPQ for the WAG fishery from the West regional delivery requirements. The eligible contract signatories must affirm on the Affidavit that all information is true, correct, and complete to the best of his or her knowledge and belief.


(3) *Effective date.* A completed application must be approved by NMFS before any person may use WAG IFQ or IPQ with a West regional designation outside of the West region during a crab fishing year. If approved, the effective date of the exemption is the date the application was approved by NMFS. Any delivery of WAG IFQ or IPQ with a West regional designation outside of the West region prior to the effective date of the exemption is prohibited under § 680.7(a)(2) and (a)(4).


(4) *Duration.* An exemption from West regional delivery requirements is only valid for the remainder of the crab fishing year during which the application was approved by NMFS. The exemption expires at the end of the crab fishing year (June 30).


(5) *Approval.* (i) NMFS will approve a completed application for the exemption from Western Aleutian Islands golden king crab West regional delivery requirements if all eligible contract signatories meet the requirements specified in paragraph (o)(2)(i) of this section.


(ii) The Regional Administrator will not consider an application to have been received if the applicant cannot provide objective written evidence that NMFS Alaska Region received it.


(iii) NMFS approval of an annual exemption from the Western Aleutian Islands golden king crab West regional delivery requirements will be made publicly available at the NMFS Web site at *http://alaskafisheries.noaa.gov.*

(p) *Exemption from regional delivery requirements for the Bristol Bay red king crab, Bering Sea snow crab, St. Matthew blue king crab, Eastern Aleutian Islands golden king crab, Western Aleutian Islands red king crab, and Pribilof red king and blue king crab fisheries*—(1) *Apply for an Exemption.* Eligible applicants may submit an application to exempt North Region IFQ and IPQ or South Region IFQ and IPQ from the prohibitions at §§ 680.7(a)(2) and (a)(4).


(2) *Identification of eligible applicants.* Eligible applicants are:


(i) *IFQ holders.* Any person holding regionally designated IFQ for Bristol Bay red king crab, Bering Sea snow crab, St. Matthew blue king crab, Eastern Aleutian Islands golden king crab, Western Aleutian Islands red king crab, or Pribilof red king and blue king crab, or their authorized representative.


(ii) *IPQ holders.* Any person holding regionally designated IPQ for Bristol Bay red king crab, Bering Sea snow crab, St. Matthew blue king crab, Eastern Aleutian Islands golden king crab, Western Aleutian Islands red king crab, or Pribilof red king and blue king crab, or their authorized representative.


(iii) *Community representatives.* (A) For communities that hold or formerly held the ROFR pursuant to § 679.41(l), the community representative that signs the preseason application, the framework agreement, the inseason notice, and the exemption contract is the ECC entity, as defined at § 680.2.


(B) For North Region St. Matthew blue king crab PQS and North Region Bering Sea snow crab PQS that was issued without a ROFR, the community representative that signs the preseason application, the framework agreement, the inseason notice, and the exemption contract for Saint Paul and Saint George shall be either:


(*1*) Both Aleutian Pribilof Islands Community Development Association (APICDA) and the Central Bering Sea Fishermen's Association (CBSFA), or


(*2*) the community representative that APICDA and CBSFA designate in writing to NMFS by December 9, 2013.


(*i*) Either APICDA or CBSFA may revoke the designated community representative by providing written notice to the other entity and to NMFS.


(*ii*) If either APICDA or CBSFA revokes its designation of a community representative after October 15 of a crab fishing year, the revocation will not affect the validity of any action taken by the designated community representative pursuant to paragraph (p) for that crab fishing year, including signing the preseason application, the framework agreement, the inseason notice, and the exemption contract.


(3) *Required Applicants.* Multiple parties may apply for an exemption; however, a complete preseason application and a complete inseason notice must be submitted by a minimum of one Class A IFQ holder, one IPQ holder, and one community representative.


(4) *Application for an Exemption from the CR Program Regional Delivery Requirements*—(i) *Application Form.* The application form consists of two parts: a preseason application for exemption and an inseason notice of exemption. The application form is available on the NMFS Alaska Region Web site (*http://alaskafisheries.noaa.gov*) or from NMFS at the address below. NMFS must receive both parts of the application form by one of the following methods:


(A) Mail: NMFS Regional Administrator, c/o Restricted Access Management Program, P.O. Box 21668, Juneau, AK 99802-1668; or


(B) Fax: 907-586-7354; or


(C) Hand delivery or carrier: NMFS, Room 713, 709 West 9th Street, Juneau, AK 99801.


(ii) *Part I: Preseason Application.* (A) A complete preseason application must be signed by the required applicants specified in paragraph (p)(3), contain the information specified on the form, have all applicable fields accurately completed, and have all required documentation attached.


(B) Each applicant must certify, through an affidavit, that the applicant has entered into a framework agreement that—


(*1*) Specifies the CR crab fisheries that are the subject of the framework agreement;


(*2*) Specifies the actions that the parties will take to reduce the need for, and amount of, an exemption;


(*3*) Specifies the circumstances that could be an obstacle to delivery or processing under which the parties would execute an exemption contract and receive an exemption;


(*4*) Specifies the actions that the parties would take to mitigate the effects of an exemption;


(*5*) Specifies the compensation, if any, that any party would provide to any other party;


(*6*) Specifies any arrangements for compensatory deliveries in that crab fishing year or the following crab fishing year and;


(*7*) Is signed by the holders of the IFQ and IPQ that are the subject of the framework agreement and by the community representative that is authorized to sign the framework agreement.


(C) Each applicant must sign and date the affidavit and affirm that, under penalty of perjury, the information and the claims provided on the application are true, correct, and complete.


(D) NMFS must receive the preseason application on or before October 15 of the crab fishing year for which the applicants are applying for an exemption.


(*1*) If a preseason application is submitted by mail, the date of receipt of the preseason application by NMFS will be the postmark date of the application;


(*2*) If an applicant disputes whether NMFS received a preseason application on or before October 15, the applicant must provide written documentation that was contemporaneous with NMFS' receipt of the application demonstrating that NMFS received the application by October 15.


(E) If NMFS does not receive a timely and complete preseason application on or before October 15 of a crab fishing year, NMFS will deny the preseason application; those applicants will not be able to receive an exemption for that crab fishing year.


(F) If a preseason application is timely and complete, NMFS will approve the application. If NMFS approves a preseason application for an exemption, the applicants will be able to receive an exemption during the crab fishing year if the applicants comply with the requirements for an inseason notice of exemption specified below at paragraph (p)(4)(iii).


(G) If NMFS denies a preseason application for any reason, the applicants may appeal the denial pursuant to 50 CFR 679.43.


(H) NMFS will notify all of the applicants whether NMFS has approved or denied the preseason application.


(iii) *Part II: Inseason Notice of Exemption.* (A) A complete inseason notice must:


(*1*) Identify the IFQ amount and IPQ amount, by CR crab fishery, subject to the exemption;


(*2*) Contain the information specified on the form, have all applicable fields accurately completed, and have all required documentation attached; and


(*3*) Be signed by the required applicants specified in paragraph (p)(3) of this section that also signed the preseason application.


(B) Each applicant must certify, through an affidavit, that the applicants have entered into an exemption contract that—


(*1*) Identifies the IFQ amount and IPQ amount, by CR crab fishery, that is subject to the exemption contract;


(*2*) Describes the circumstances under which the exemption is being exercised;


(*3*) Specifies the action that the parties must take to mitigate the effects of the exemption;


(*4*) Specifies the compensation, if any, that any party must make to any other party;


(*5*) Specifies any arrangements for compensatory deliveries in that crab fishing year or the following crab fishing year; and


(*6*) Is signed by the holders of the IFQ and IPQ that are the subject of the exemption contract and by the community representative that is authorized to sign the exemption contract.


(C) Each applicant must sign and date the affidavit and affirm that, under penalty of perjury, the information and the claims provided on the notice are true, correct, and complete.


(D) NMFS must receive the inseason notice at least one day prior to the day on which the applicants want the exemption to take effect. If an inseason notice is submitted by mail, the date that NMFS receives the inseason notice is not the postmark date of the notice.


(E) The effective date of the exemption is the day after NMFS receives a complete inseason notice. Any delivery of North Region IFQ or South Region IFQ outside the designated region prior to the effective date of the exemption is prohibited under § 680.7(a)(2) and (4). Any processing of North Region IPQ or South Region IPQ outside the designated region prior to the effective date of the exemption is prohibited under § 680.7(a)(2) and (4).


(F) An exemption is effective for the remainder of the crab fishing year, unless the inseason notice of exemption specifies that compensatory deliveries will occur in the following crab fishing year and then the exemption will remain in effect for the IFQ and IPQ specified for compensatory delivery in the following crab fishing year.


(5) *Regional Delivery Exemption Report.* (i) Each IFQ holder that signs a preseason application, described in paragraph (p)(4)(ii) of this section, must submit a Regional Delivery Exemption Report to NMFS that includes an explanation of—


(A) The amount of IFQ, if any, set aside to reduce the need for, and the amount of, an exemption;


(B) The mitigation measures employed before submitting an inseason notice;


(C) The number of times an exemption was requested and used;


(D) The arrangements for any compensatory deliveries, including all compensatory deliveries made during the crab fishing year and any outstanding compensatory delivery obligations for the following crab fishing year;


(E) Whether the exemption was necessary; and


(F) Any impacts resulting from the exemption on the fishery participants and communities that signed the preseason application.


(ii) On or before July 15, IFQ holders must submit a copy of the Regional Delivery Exemption Report to the IPQ holders and community representatives that also signed the preseason application.


(iii) On or before July 30, IFQ holders must submit the Regional Delivery Exemption Report to NMFS at the address in paragraph (p)(4)(i) of this section.


(6) *Public Notice of the Exemption.* NMFS will post the effective date of an exemption and the Regional Delivery Exemption Reports on the NMFS Alaska Region Web site (*http://alaskafisheries.noaa.gov*).


(q) *Initial administrative determination (IAD).* The Regional Administrator will prepare and send an IAD to the applicant following the expiration of the 30-day evidentiary period if the Regional Administrator determines that the information or evidence provided by the applicant fails to support the applicant's claims and is insufficient to establish that the applicant meets the requirements, or if the additional information, evidence, or revised application is not provided within the time period specified in the letter that notifies the applicant of his or her 30-day evidentiary period. The IAD will indicate the deficiencies in the application, including any deficiencies with the information, the evidence submitted in support of the information, or the revised application. The IAD will also indicate which claims cannot be approved based on the available information or evidence. An applicant who receives an IAD may appeal under the appeals procedures set forth at 15 CFR part 906. If an applicant appeals an IAD denying an Application for Annual Crab IFQ, IPQ, or harvesting Cooperative IFQ Permit because the application was not timely filed, the appeal must be filed within 30 days after the date the IAD is issued. An applicant who avails himself or herself of the opportunity to appeal an IAD will not receive crab IFQ or IPQ until after the final resolution of that appeal in the applicant's favor.



---

[N] [70 FR 10241, Mar. 2, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 32864, June 7, 2006; 73 FR 29982, May 23, 2008; 73 FR 76189, Dec. 15, 2008; 76 FR 35785, June 20, 2011; 78 FR 28529, May 15, 2013; 80 FR 15896, Mar. 26, 2015; 81 FR 1561, Jan. 13, 2016]




