# ยง 165.T08-0953   Security Zone; Corpus Christi Ship Channel. Corpus Christi, TX.

(a) *Location.* The following area is a security zone: All navigable waters encompassing a 500-yard radius around the M/V METHANE JANE ELIZABETH while the vessel is in the Corpus Christi Ship Channel and La Quinta Channel.


(b) *Enforcement period.* This section will be enforced from December 2, 2022 through December 5, 2022.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) The general regulations in ยง 165.33 of this part apply. Entry into the zone is prohibited unless authorized by the Captain of the Port Sector Corpus Christi (COTP) or a designated representative. A designated representative is a commissioned, warrant, or petty officer of the U.S. Coast Guard assigned to units under the operational control of USCG Sector Corpus Christi.


(2) Persons or vessels desiring to enter or pass through the zones described in paragraph (a) of this section must request permission from the COTP Sector Corpus Christi on VHF-FM channel 16 or by telephone at 361-939-0450.


(3) If permission is granted, all persons and vessels shall comply with the instructions of the COTP or designated representative.


(d) *Information broadcasts.* The COTP or a designated representative will inform the public through Broadcast Notices to Mariners (BNMs), Local Notices to Mariners (LNMs), and/or Marine Safety Information Bulletins (MSIBs) as appropriate of the enforcement times and dates for these security zones.



---

[N] [USCG-2022-0953, 87 FR 73650, Dec. 1, 2022]










