# § 426.110   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part, the following definitions apply: 


*Aggrieved party* means a Medicare beneficiary, or the estate of a Medicare beneficiary, who— 


(1) Is entitled to benefits under Part A, enrolled under Part B, or both (including an individual enrolled in fee-for-service Medicare, in a Medicare + Choice plan, or in another Medicare managed care plan); 


(2) Is in need of coverage for a service that is denied based on an applicable LCD (in the relevant jurisdiction) or an NCD, regardless of whether the service was received; and 


(3) Has obtained documentation of the need by the beneficiary's treating physician.


*Board* means the Departmental Appeals Board.


*Clinical and scientific experts* mean experts that are consulted by the ALJ or Board as independent and impartial individuals, with significant experience and/or published work, pertaining to the subject of the review.


*Contractor* means a carrier (including a Durable Medical Equipment Regional Carrier), or a fiscal intermediary (including a Regional Home Health Intermediary) that has jurisdiction for the LCD at issue.


*Deemed NCD* means a determination that the Secretary makes, in response to a request for an NCD under section 1869(f)(4)(B) and (C) of the Act, that no national coverage or noncoverage determination is appropriate, or the Secretary's failure to meet the deadline under section 1869(f)(4)(A)(iv) of the Act.


*New evidence* means clinical or scientific evidence that was not previously considered by the contractor or CMS before the LCD or NCD was issued.


*Party* means an aggrieved party, which is an individual, or estate who has a right to participate in the LCD or NCD review process, and, as appropriate, a contractor or CMS.


*Proprietary data* and *Privileged information* means information from a source external to CMS or a contractor, or protected health information, that meets the following criteria: 


(1) It is ordinarily protected from disclosure in accordance with 45 CFR part 164, under the Trade Secrets Act (18 U.S.C. 1905) or under Exemptions 4 or 5 of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) as specified in 45 CFR 5.31(d) and (e).


(2) The party who possesses the right to protection of the information from public release or disclosure has not provided its consent to the public release or disclosure of the information. Any information submitted by the public that is not marked proprietary is not considered proprietary.


*Reasonableness standard* means the standard that an ALJ or the Board must apply when conducting an LCD or an NCD review. In determining whether LCDs or NCDs are valid, the adjudicator must uphold a challenged policy (or a provision or provisions of a challenged policy) if the findings of fact, interpretations of law, and applications of fact to law by the contractor or CMS are reasonable based on the LCD or NCD record and the relevant record developed before the ALJ or the Board.


*Supplemental LCD/NCD record* is a record that the contractor/CMS provides to the ALJ/Board and any aggrieved party and consists of all materials received and considered during a reconsideration. Materials that are already in the record before the ALJ/Board (for example, new evidence presented in the taking of evidence or hearing) need not be provided but may be incorporated by reference in the supplement to the LCD/NCD record. The contractor/CMS may provide statements, evidence, or other submissions to the ALJ/Board during the proceedings, as provided elsewhere in these regulations, but these submissions are not considered as supplementing the LCD/NCD record. 


*Treating physician* means the physician who is the beneficiary's primary clinician with responsibility for overseeing the beneficiary's care and either approving or providing the service at issue in the challenge. 



---

[N] [68 FR 63716, Nov. 7, 2003, as amended at 85 FR 72909, Nov. 16, 2020]




