# ยง 4.3   Definitions.

*Applicant* includes a person whose application for assistance must be submitted to HUD for any purpose including approval, environmental review, or rent determination. 


*Assistance under any program or discretionary fund administered by the Secretary* is subject to Section 102(a), and means any assistance, under any program administered by the Department, that provides by statute, regulation or otherwise for the competitive distribution of funding. 


*Assistance within the jurisdiction of the Department* is subject to Section 102(b), and means any contract, grant, loan, cooperative agreement, or other form of assistance, including the insurance or guarantee of a loan or mortgage, that is provided with respect to a specific project or activity under a program administered by the Department, whether or not it is awarded through a competitive process. 


*Assistance within the jurisdiction of the Department to any housing project* is subject to Section 102(d), and means: 


(1) Assistance which is provided directly by HUD to any person or entity, but not to subrecipients. It includes assistance for the acquisition, rehabilitation, operation conversion, modernization, renovation, or demolition of any property containing five or more dwelling units that is to be used primarily for residential purposes. It includes assistance to independent group residences, board and care facilities, group homes and transitional housing but does not include primarily nonresidential facilities such as intermediate care facilities, nursing homes and hospitals. It also includes any change requested by a recipient in the amount of assistance previously provided, except changes resulting from annual adjustments in Section 8 rents under Section 8(c)(2)(A) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f); 


(2) Assistance to residential rental property receiving a tax credit under Federal, State or local law. 


(3) For purposes of this definition, assistance includes assistance resulting from annual adjustments in Section 8 rents under Section 8(c)(2)(A) of the United States Housing Act of 1937, unless the initial assistance was made available before April 15, 1991, and no other assistance subject to this subpart A was made available on or after that date. 


*Housing project* means: (1) Property containing five or more dwelling units that is to be used for primarily residential purposes, including (but not limited to) living arrangements such as independent group residences, board and care facilities, group homes, and transitional housing, but excluding facilities that provide primarily non-residential services, such as intermediate care facilities, nursing homes, and hospitals. 


(2) Residential rental property receiving a tax credit under Federal, State, or local law. 


*Interested party* means any person involved in the application for assistance, or in the planning, development or implementation of the project or activity for which assistance is sought and any other person who has a pecuniary interest exceeding the lower of $50,000 or 10 percent in the project or activity for which assistance is sought. 


*Selection criteria* includes, in addition to any objective measures of housing and other need, project merit, or efficient use of resources, the weight or relative importance of each published selection criterion as well as any other factors that may affect the selection of recipients. 




