# § 24.308   Bottled or packed wine record.

A proprietor who bottles, packs, or receives bottled or packed beverage wine in bond shall maintain a record, by tax class, as follows:


(a) The date, kind of wine, the number and size of bottle or other container filled (if not available in another record), and volume of wine bottled or packed, received in bond, returned to bond, and removed, e.g., taxpaid removals, in bond removals, dumped to bulk or destroyed, breakage, used for tasting. The volume recorded as bottled for bottle fermented sparkling wine or bottle fermented sparkling hard cider is determined after the disgorging and refilling process.


(b) The label used on bottles or other containers will be shown in the record by using the “Applicant's Serial No.” which appears as item 2 on the label approval form, TTB F 5100.31 or a similar system which will allow for verification of labels used on bottles or containers.


(c) The fill tests and alcohol tests required by § 24.255 for each lot of wine bottled or packed, or for each bottling or packing line operated each day, showing the date, type of test, item tested and the test results.


(d) If a tax credit under 26 U.S.C. 5041(c) may be claimed, the record will be maintained in sufficient detail to insure that such a tax credit is properly claimed.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-299, 55 FR 24989, June 19, 1990, as amended by T.D. ATF-307, 55 FR 52738, Dec. 21, 1990; T.D. ATF-312, 56 FR 31083, July 9, 1991; T.D. TTB-147, 82 FR 7665, Jan. 23, 2017]




