# ยง 3171.24   Waivers, exceptions, or modifications.

(a) An operator may also request that the BLM waive (permanently remove), except (case-by-case exemption), or modify (permanently change) a lease stipulation for a Federal lease. In the case of Federal leases, a request to waive, except, or modify a stipulation should also include information demonstrating that the factors leading to its inclusion in the lease have changed sufficiently to make the protection provided by the stipulation no longer justified or that the proposed operation would not cause unacceptable impacts.


(b) When the waiver, exception, or modification is substantial, the proposed waiver, exception, or modification is subject to public review for 30 days. Prior to such public review, the BLM, and when applicable the FS, will post it in their local Field Office and, when possible, electronically on the internet. When the request is included in the Notice of Staking or APD, the request will be included as part of the application posting under ยง 3171.5(c). Prior to granting a waiver, exception, or modification, the BLM will obtain the concurrence or approval of the FS or Federal surface managing agency. Decisions on such waivers, exceptions, or modifications are subject to appeal pursuant to 43 CFR part 4.


(c) After drilling has commenced, the BLM and the FS may consider verbal requests for waivers, exceptions, or modifications. However, the operator must submit a written notice within 7 days after the verbal request. The BLM and the FS will confirm in writing any verbal approval. Decisions on waivers, exceptions, or modifications submitted after drilling has commenced are final for the Department of the Interior and not subject to administrative review by the State Director or appeal pursuant to 43 CFR part 4.




