# § 153.3   Definitions.

*Accompanying the Armed Forces Outside the United States.* As defined in section 3267 of the Act, the dependent of:


(1) A member of the Armed Forces; or


(2) A civilian employee of the Department of Defense (including a non-appropriated fund instrumentality of the Department); or


(3) A DoD contractor (including a subcontractor at any tier); or


(4) An employee of a DoD contractor (including a subcontractor at any tier); and


(5) Residing with such member, civilian employee, contractor, or contractor employee outside the United States; and


(6) Not a national of or ordinarily resident in the host nation.


*Active Duty.* Full-time duty in the active military service of the United States. It includes full-time training duty, annual training duty, and attendance, while in the active military service, at a school designated as a service school by law or by the Secretary of the Military Department concerned. See section 101(d)(1) of title 10, United States Code.


*Armed Forces.* The Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Marine Corps, and the Coast Guard. See section 101(a)(4) of title 10, United States Code.


*Arrest.* To be taken into physical custody by law enforcement officials.


*Charged.* As used in the Act and this part, this term is defined as an indictment or the filing of information against a person under the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. See the analysis to Section 3264 of the Report Accompanying the Act.


*Civilian Component.* A person or persons employed by the Armed Forces outside the United States, as defined in this section and section 3267(a)(1), as amended, of the Act. A term used in Status of Forces Agreements.


*Dependent.* A person for whom a member of the Armed Forces, civilian employee, contractor (or subcontractor at any tier) has legal responsibility while that person is residing outside the United States with or accompanying that member of the Armed Forces, civilian employee, contractor (or subcontractor at any tier), and while that responsible person is so assigned, employed or obligated to perform a contractual obligation to the Department of Defense. For purposes of this part, a person's “command sponsorship” status while outside the United States is not to be considered in determining whether the person is a dependent within the meaning of this part, except that there shall be a rebuttable presumption that a command-sponsored individual is a dependent.


*Designated Commanding Officer (DCO).* A single military commander in each foreign country where U.S. Forces are stationed and as contemplated by DoD Directive 5525.1, Status of Forces Policy and Information.


*Detention.* To be taken into custody by law enforcement officials and placed under physical restraint.


*District.* A District Court of the United States.


*Employed by the Armed Forces Outside the United States.* Any person employed as:


(1) A civilian employee of the Department of Defense (including a non-appropriated fund instrumentality of the Department); or


(2) A civilian employee of any other Federal agency, or any provisional authority, to the extent such employment relates to supporting the mission of the Department of Defense overseas; or


(3) A contractor (including a subcontractor at any tier) of the Department of Defense (including a non-appropriated fund instrumentality of the Department of Defense); or


(4) A contractor (including a subcontractor at any tier) of any other Federal agency, or any provisional authority, to the extent such employment relates to supporting the mission of the Department of Defense overseas; or


(5) An employee of a contractor (including a subcontractor at any tier) of the Department of Defense (including a non-appropriated fund instrumentality of the Department of Defense); or


(6) An employee of a contractor (including a subcontractor at any tier) of any other Federal agency, or any provisional authority, to the extent such employment relates to supporting the mission of the Department of Defense overseas; and, when the person:


(i) Is present or resides outside the United States in connection with such employment; and


(ii) Is not a national of or ordinarily resident in the host nation.


*Federal Magistrate Judge.* As used in the Act and this part, this term includes both Judges of the United States and U.S. Magistrate Judges, titles that, in general, should be given their respective meanings found in the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. (See footnote 32 of the Report Accompanying the Act) The term does not include Military Magistrates or Military Judges, as prescribed by the UCMJ, or regulations of the Military Departments or the Department of Defense.


*Felony Offense.* Conduct that is an offense punishable by imprisonment for more than one year if the conduct had been engaged in the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States. See sections 3261 of the Act and 18 U.S.C. 7. Although the Act, uses the conditional phrase “if committed within the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States,” acts that would be a Federal crime regardless of where they are committed in the U.S., such as drug crimes contained in chapter 13 of title 21, United States Code, also fall within the scope of section 3261(a) of the Act. See the analysis to section 3261 of the Report Accompanying the Act.


*Host Country National.* A person who is not a citizen of the United States, but who is a citizen of the foreign country in which that person is located.


*Inactive Duty Training.* Duty prescribed for Reservists by the Secretary of the Military Department concerned under section 206 of title 37, United States Code, or any other provision of law; and special additional duties authorized for Reservists by an authority designated by the Secretary of the Military Department concerned and performed by them on a voluntary basis in connection with the prescribed training or maintenance activities of the units to which they are assigned. Inactive Duty Training includes those duties performed by Reservists in their status as members of the National Guard while in Federal service. See section 101(d)(7) of title 10, United States Code.


*Juvenile.* A person who has not attained his or her eighteenth birthday, as defined in section 5031 of title 18, United States Code.


*Military Department.* The Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, and the Department of the Air Force. See section 101(a)(8) of title 10, United States Code.


*National of the United States.* As defined in section 1101(a)(22), of title 8, United States Code.


*Outside the United States.* Those places that are not within the definition of “United States” below and, with the exception of subparagraph 7(9), those geographical areas and locations that are not within the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States, as defined in sections 7 of title 18, United States Code. The locations defined in subparagraph 7(9) of title 18, United States Code are to be considered “Outside the United States” for the purposes of this part. See 3261-3267 of title 18, United States Code.


*Qualified Military Counsel.* Judge advocates assigned to or employed by the Military Services and designated by the respective Judge Advocate General, or a designee, to be professionally qualified and trained to perform defense counsel responsibilities under the Act.


*Staff Judge Advocate.* A judge advocate so designated in the Army, the Air Force, the Marine Corps, or the Coast Guard; the principal legal advisor of a command in the Navy who is a judge advocate, regardless of job title. See Rule for Courts-Martial 103(17), Manual for Courts-Martial, United States (2002 Edition).


*Third Country National.* A person whose citizenship is that of a country other than the U.S. and the foreign country in which the person is located.


*United States.* As defined in section 5 of title 18, United States Code, this term, as used in a territorial sense, includes all places and waters, continental or insular, subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, except for the Panama Canal Zone.




