# § 301.1474-1   Required use of electronic form for financial institutions filing Form 1042, Form 1042-S, or Form 8966.

(a) *Financial institutions filing certain returns.* If a financial institution is required to file a Form 1042, *Annual Withholding Tax Return for U.S. Source Income of Foreign Persons,* (or successor form) under § 1.1474-1(c) of this chapter, the financial institution must file the return information required by the applicable forms and schedules electronically. If a financial institution is required to file a Form 1042-S, *Foreign Person's U.S. Source Income Subject to Withholding,* (or such other form as the IRS may prescribe) under § 1.1474-1(d) of this chapter, the financial institution must file the information required by the applicable forms and schedules electronically. Additionally, if a financial institution is required to file Form 8966, *FATCA Report,* (or such other form as the IRS may prescribe) to report certain information about U.S. accounts, substantial U.S. owners of foreign entities, or owner-documented FFIs as required under this chapter, the financial institution must file the required information in electronic form. Returns filed electronically must be made in accordance with applicable regulations, revenue procedures, publications, forms, instructions, and the *IRS.gov* internet site. In prescribing regulations, revenue procedures, publications, forms, and instructions, including those on the *IRS.gov* internet site, the Commissioner may direct the type of electronic filing.


(b) *Exclusions from electronic-filing requirements*—(1) *Waivers.* The Commissioner may grant waivers of the requirements of this section in cases of undue hardship. One principal factor in determining hardship will be the amount, if any, by which the cost of filing the return electronically in accordance with this section exceeds the cost of filing the return on paper. A request for a waiver must be made in accordance with applicable IRS revenue procedures, publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, including postings to the *IRS.gov* website. The waiver request will specify the type of filing (that is, a return required under § 1.1474-1(c) or (d) of this chapter, or a Form 8966) and the period to which it applies.


(2) *Exemptions.* The Commissioner may provide exemptions from the requirements of this section to promote effective and efficient tax administration. A submission claiming an exemption must be made in accordance with applicable IRS revenue procedures, publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, including postings to the *IRS.gov* website.


(3) *Additional Exclusion.* If the IRS's systems do not support electronic filing, taxpayers will not be required to file electronically.


(c) *Failure to file.* If a financial institution fails to file a Form 1042 electronically when required to do so by this section, the financial institution has failed to file the return. See section 6651 for the addition to tax for failure to file a return. In determining whether there is reasonable cause for failure to file the return, § 301.6651-1(c) and rules similar to the rules in § 301.6724-1(c)(3) (undue economic hardship related to filing information returns electronically) will apply. If a financial institution fails to file a Form 1042-S or a Form 8966 electronically when required to do so by this section, the financial institution has failed to comply with the information reporting requirements under section 6721 of the Code. See section 6724(c) for failure to meet magnetic media requirements. In determining whether there is reasonable cause for failure to file the return, § 301.6651-1(c) and rules similar to the rules in § 301.6724-1(c)(3) (undue economic hardship related to filing information returns on magnetic media) will apply.






(d) *Meaning of terms.* The following definitions apply for purposes of this section—(1) *Magnetic media or electronic form.* The terms *magnetic media or electronic form* mean any media or form permitted under applicable regulations, revenue procedures, or publications. These generally include electronic filing, as well as magnetic tape, tape cartridge, diskette, and other media specifically permitted under the applicable regulations, procedures, publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance.


(2) *Financial institution.* The term *financial institution* has the meaning set forth in section 1471(d)(5) of the Code and the regulations thereunder.


(e) *Applicability date.* This section applies to any Form 1042 (or successor form) required to be filed for taxable years ending on or after December 31, 2023. This section applies to any Form 1042-S or Form 8966 (or any other form that the IRS may prescribe) filed with respect to calendar years ending after December 31, 2013, except that paragraph (b)(2) of this section only applies to Forms 1042-S or Forms 8966 required to be filed for taxable years ending on or after December 31, 2023.





---

[N] [T.D. 9610, 78 FR 5994, Jan. 28, 2013, as amended by T.D. 9809, 82 FR 2192, Jan. 6, 2017; T.D. 9972, 88 FR 11767, Feb. 23, 2023]




