# § 57.6   Error correction process.

(a) *In general.* Upon receipt of its preliminary fee calculation, each covered entity must review this calculation during the error correction period. If the covered entity identifies one or more errors in its preliminary fee calculation, the covered entity must timely submit to the IRS a corrected Form 8963, “Report of Health Insurance Provider Information,” during the error correction period. The corrected Form 8963 will replace the original Form 8963 for all purposes, including for the purpose of determining whether an accuracy-related penalty applies, except that a covered entity remains subject to the failure to report penalty if it fails to timely submit the original Form 8963. In the case of a controlled group, if the preliminary fee calculation for the controlled group contains one or more errors, the corrected Form 8963 must include all of the required information for the entire controlled group, including members that do not have corrections.


(b) *Time and manner.* The IRS will specify in other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin the time and manner by which a covered entity must submit a corrected Form 8963. The IRS will provide its final determination regarding the covered entity's submission no later than the time the IRS provides a covered entity with a final fee calculation.


(c) *Finality.* Covered entities must assert any basis for contesting their preliminary fee calculation during the error correction period. In the interest of providing finality to the fee calculation process, the IRS will not accept a corrected Form 8963 after the end of the error correction period or alter final fee calculations on the basis of information provided after the end of the error correction period.




