# § 1590.2   Definitions.

These are definitions for terms used in this part. The definitions in 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented in 2 CFR part 400, are also applicable to this part, with the exception that, if a term that is defined in this section is defined differently in 2 CFR part 200 or part 400, the definition in this section will apply to such term as used in this part.


*Activity* means a discrete undertaking within a project to be carried out by a recipient, directly or through a subrecipient, that is specified in an agreement and is intended to fulfill a specific objective of the agreement.


*Agreement* means a legally binding grant or cooperative agreement entered into between FAS and a recipient to implement a field-based project under the USDA LRP Program.


*Codex Alimentarius* means the program of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization and the World Health Organization that was created to develop food standards, guidelines, and related texts, such as codes of practice to protect the health of consumers, ensure fair trade practices in the food trade, and promote the coordination of all food standards work undertaken by international governmental and nongovernmental organizations.


*Cooperative* means a private sector organization whose members own and control the organization and share in its services and its profits and that provides business services and outreach in cooperative development for its membership.


*Cost sharing or matching* means the portion of project expenses, or necessary goods and services provided to carry out the project, not paid or acquired with Federal funds. The term may include cash or in-kind contributions provided by recipients, subrecipients, foreign public entities, foreign organizations, or private donors.


*Country of origin* means the country in which the procured commodities were produced.


*Developing country* means a country that has a shortage of foreign exchange earnings and has difficulty meeting all of its food needs through commercial channels.


*Development assistance* means an activity or activities that will enhance the availability of, access to, or the utilization of adequate food to meet the caloric and nutritional needs of populations suffering from chronic food insecurity, or enhance the ability of such populations to build assets to protect against chronic food insecurity.


*Disaster* means an event or a series of events that creates a need for emergency food assistance by threatening or resulting in significantly decreased availability of, or access to, food or the erosion of the ability of populations to meet food needs. Disasters include, but are not limited to, natural events such as floods, earthquakes, and drought; crop failure; disease; civil strife and war; and economic turmoil. Disasters can be characterized as slow or rapid-onset. The situation caused by a disaster is a “food crisis.”


*Disburse* means to make a payment to liquidate an obligation.


*Eligible commodity* means an agricultural commodity, or the product of an agricultural commodity, that is produced in and procured from a developing country, and that meets each nutritional, quality, and labeling standard of the target country, as determined by the Secretary of Agriculture, as well as any other criteria specified in section § 1590.6(b).


*Emergency response* means an activity that is designed to meet the urgent food and nutritional needs of those affected by acute or transitory food insecurity as a result of a disaster.


*FAS* means the Foreign Agricultural Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.


*FAS-provided funds* means U.S. dollars provided under an agreement to a recipient, or through a subagreement to a subrecipient, for expenses for the purchase, ocean and overland transportation, and storage and handling of the procured commodities; expenses involved in the administration, monitoring, and evaluation of the activities under the agreement; and operational costs related to the implementation of the field-based project under the agreement.


*Field-based project or project* means the totality of the activities to be carried out by a recipient, directly or through a subrecipient, to fulfill the objectives of an agreement. It can either stand alone or be an add-on component to another program that provides other forms of assistance to the food insecure.


*Food assistance* means assistance that is provided to members of a targeted vulnerable group to meet their food needs.


*Local procurement* means the procurement of food by a recipient, directly or through a subrecipient, in the target country to assist beneficiaries within that same country. The use of food vouchers to obtain food under an agreement is a form of local procurement.


*Overland transportation* means any transportation other than ocean transportation. It includes internal transportation within the target country and regional transportation within the target region.


*Private voluntary organization* means a not-for-profit, nongovernmental organization (in the case of a United States organization, an organization that is exempt from Federal income taxes under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) that receives funds from private sources, voluntary contributions of money, staff time, or in-kind support from the public, and that is engaged in or is planning to engage in voluntary, charitable, or development assistance activities (other than religious activities).


*Procured commodities* means the eligible commodities that are procured by a recipient, directly or through a subrecipient, under an agreement.


*Program Income* means funds received by a recipient or subrecipient as a direct result of carrying out an approved activity under an agreement. The term includes but is not limited to income from fees for services performed, the use or rental of real or personal property acquired under a Federal award, the sale of items fabricated under a Federal award, license fees, and royalties on patents and copyrights, and principal and interest on loans made with Federal award funds. Program income does not include FAS-provided funds or interest earned on such funds; or funds provided for cost sharing or matching contributions, refunds or rebates, credits, discounts, or interest earned on any of them.


*Purchase country* means a developing country in which the procured commodities are purchased.


*Recipient* means an entity that enters into an agreement with FAS and receives FAS-provided funds to carry out activities under the agreement. The term recipient does not include a subrecipient.


*Regional procurement* means the procurement of food by a recipient, directly or through a subrecipient, in a developing country that is located on the same continent as the target country. Regional procurement does not include the purchase of food in the target country.


*Subrecipient* means an entity that enters into a subagreement with a recipient for the purpose of implementing in the target country activities described in an agreement. The term does not include an individual that is a beneficiary under the agreement.


*Target country* means the developing country in which activities are implemented under an agreement.


*Target region* means the continent on which the target country is located or nearby.


*USDA* means the United States Department of Agriculture.


*Voluntary committed cost sharing or matching contributions* means cost sharing or matching contributions specifically pledged on a voluntary basis by an applicant in its proposal, which become binding as part of an agreement. Voluntary committed cost sharing or matching contributions may be provided in the form of cash or in-kind contributions.




