# § 247.4   Agreements.

(a) *What agreements are necessary for agencies to administer CSFP?* The following agreements are necessary for agencies to administer CSFP:


(1) *Agreements between FNS and State agencies.* Each State agency must enter into an agreement with FNS (Form FNS-74, the Federal-State Agreement) prior to receiving USDA Foods or administrative funds;


(2) *Agreements between State agencies and local or subdistributing agencies.* The State agency must enter into written agreements with local or subdistributing agencies prior to making USDA Foods or administrative funds available to them. The agreements must contain the information specified in paragraph (b) of this section. Agreements between State and local agencies must also contain the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section. Copies of all agreements must be kept on file by the parties to the agreements; and


(3) *Agreements between local and subdistributing agencies and other agencies.* The State agency must ensure that local and subdistributing agencies enter into written agreements with other agencies prior to making USDA Foods or administrative funds available to these other agencies. The agreements must contain the information specified in paragraph (b) of this section. Copies of all agreements must be kept on file by the parties to the agreements.


(b) *What are the required contents of agreements?* All agreements described under paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section must contain the following:


(1) An assurance that each agency will administer the program in accordance with the provisions of this part and with the provisions of part 250 of this chapter, unless they are inconsistent with the provisions of this part;


(2) An assurance that each agency will maintain accurate and complete records for a period of three years from the close of the fiscal year to which they pertain, or longer if the records are related to unresolved claims actions, audits, or investigations;


(3) A statement that each agency receiving USDA Foods for distribution is responsible for any loss resulting from improper distribution, or improper storage, care, or handling of USDA Foods;


(4) A statement that each agency receiving program funds is responsible for any misuse of program funds;


(5) A description of the specific functions that the State, subdistributing, or local agency is delegating to another agency; and


(6) A statement specifying:


(i) That either party may terminate the agreement by written notice to the other; and


(ii) The minimum number of days of advance notice that must be given. (The advance notification period must be at least 30 days.)


(c) *What other assurances or information must be included in agreements between State and local agencies?* In addition to the requirements under paragraph (b) of this section, agreements between State and local agencies must contain the following:


(1) An assurance that the local agency will provide, or cause to be provided, nutrition education to participants, as required in § 247.18;


(2) An assurance that the local agency will provide information to participants on other health, nutrition, and public assistance programs, and make referrals as appropriate, as required in § 247.14;


(3) An assurance that the local agency will distribute USDA Foods in accordance with the approved food package guide rate;


(4) An assurance that the local agency will take steps to prevent and detect dual participation, as required in § 247.19;


(5) The names and addresses of all certification, distribution, and storage sites under the jurisdiction of the local agency; and


(6) An assurance that the local agency will not subject any person to discrimination under the program on the grounds of race, color, national origin, age, sex, or disability.


(d) *What is the duration of required agreements?* Agreements between FNS and State agencies are considered permanent, but may be amended at the initiation of State agencies or at the request of FNS. All amendments must be approved by FNS. The State agency establishes the duration of agreements it signs with local agencies or subdistributing agencies. The State agency may establish, or permit the local or subdistributing agency to establish, the duration of agreements between local or subdistributing agencies and other agencies. However, State and local agencies must comply with the requirements in § 250.4 of this chapter when entering into agreements with other entities.



---

[N] [70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 85 FR 68721, Oct. 30, 2020; 89 FR 87244, Oct. 31, 2024]




