# § 63.6655   What records must I keep?

(a) If you must comply with the emission and operating limitations, you must keep the records described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5), (b)(1) through (b)(3) and (c) of this section.


(1) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any Initial Notification or Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted, according to the requirement in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).


(2) Records of the occurrence and duration (in hours) of each malfunction of operation (*i.e.,* process equipment) or the air pollution control and monitoring equipment.




(3) Records of performance tests and performance evaluations as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(viii).


(4) Records of all required maintenance performed on the air pollution control and monitoring equipment.


(5) Records of actions taken during periods of malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.6605(b), including corrective actions to restore malfunctioning process and air pollution control and monitoring equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation.


(b) For each CEMS or CPMS, you must keep the records listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) Records described in § 63.10(b)(2)(vi) through (xi).


(2) Previous (*i.e.,* superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan as required in § 63.8(d)(3).


(3) Requests for alternatives to the relative accuracy test for CEMS or CPMS as required in § 63.8(f)(6)(i), if applicable.


(c) If you are operating a new or reconstructed stationary RICE which fires landfill gas or digester gas equivalent to 10 percent or more of the gross heat input on an annual basis, you must keep the records of your daily fuel usage monitors.


(d) You must keep the records required in Table 6 of this subpart to show continuous compliance with each emission or operating limitation that applies to you.


(e) You must keep records of the maintenance conducted on the stationary RICE in order to demonstrate that you operated and maintained the stationary RICE and after-treatment control device (if any) according to your own maintenance plan if you own or operate any of the following stationary RICE;


(1) An existing stationary RICE with a site rating of less than 100 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions.


(2) An existing stationary emergency RICE.


(3) An existing stationary RICE located at an area source of HAP emissions subject to management practices as shown in Table 2d to this subpart.


(f) If you own or operate any of the stationary RICE in paragraphs (f)(1) through (2) of this section, you must keep records of the hours of operation of the engine that is recorded through the non-resettable hour meter. The owner or operator must document how many hours are spent for emergency operation, including what classified the operation as emergency and how many hours are spent for non-emergency operation. If the engine is used for the purpose specified in § 63.6640(f)(4)(ii), the owner or operator must keep records of the notification of the emergency situation, and the date, start time, and end time of engine operation for these purposes.




(1) An existing emergency stationary RICE with a site rating of less than or equal to 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions that does not meet the standards applicable to non-emergency engines.


(2) An existing emergency stationary RICE located at an area source of HAP emissions that does not meet the standards applicable to non-emergency engines.



---

[N] [69 FR 33506, June 15, 2004, as amended at 75 FR 9678, Mar. 3, 2010; 75 FR 51592, Aug. 20, 2010; 78 FR 6706, Jan. 30, 2013; 87 FR 48607, Aug. 10, 2022; 89 FR 70518, Aug. 30, 2024]




