# § 48.4216(b)-2   Constructive sale price; basic rules.

(a) *In general.* Section 4216(b)(1) sets forth the conditions that require the Secretary to construct a sale price on which to compute a tax imposed under Chapter 32 on the price for which an article is sold. The section requires a constructive sale price to be established where a taxable article is (1) sold at retail, (2) sold while on consignment, or (3) sold otherwise than through an arm's-length transaction at less than fair market price. See § 48.4216 (b)-2 (c) for the treatment of articles taxable under section 4061(a).


(b) *Sales at retail.* Section 4216(b)(1)(A) relates to the determination of a constructive sale price for sales of taxable articles sold at arm's length and at retail. In the case of such sales, the constructive sale price is the highest price for which such articles are sold to wholesale distributors, in the ordinary course of trade, by manufacturers or producers thereof, as determined by the Secretary. If the constructive sale price is less than the actual sale price, the constructive sale price shall be used as the tax base. If the constructive sale price is not less than the actual sale price, the actual sale price shall be considered as not less than fair market, and shall be used as the tax base. In determining the highest price for which articles are sold by manufacturers to wholesale distributors, there must be taken into consideration the normal industry practices with respect to section 4216 (a) and (f) inclusions and exclusions. However, once a constructive sale price has been determined by the Secretary or his delegate, no further adjustment of such price shall be made. The provisions of section 4216(b)(1)(A) and this paragraph shall not apply in those instances where the provisions of section 4216(b)(2) and § 48.4216(b)-3 apply.


(c) *Sales of articles taxable under section 4061(a).* With respect to sales made after December 31, 1978, in the case of an article the sale of which is taxable under section 4061(a) and which is sold at retail, the tax under this chapter shall be computed on a percentage (as determined by the Secretary but not greater than 100 percent) of the actual selling price based on the highest price for which such articles are sold by manufacturers and producers in the ordinary course of trade. The constructive sale price under this section shall be determined without regard to any individual manufacturer's or producer's cost.


(d) *Sales on consignment.* As in the case of sales at retail, the constructive sale price for sales on consignment shall be the price for which such articles are sold, in the ordinary course of trade, by manufacturers or producers thereof, as determined by the Secretary or his delegate. For purposes of section 4216(b)(1)(B) and this paragraph, an article is considered to be sold on consignment if it is sold while it is on consignment to a person which has the right to sell, and does sell, such article in its own name, but never receives title to the article from the manufacturer. Ordinarily, the constructive sale price of an article sold on consignment is the net price received by the manufacturer from the consignee. The provisions of section 4216(b)(1)(B) and this paragraph shall not apply if the provisions of section 4216(b)(2) and § 48.4216(b)-3 apply.


(e) *Sales not at arm's length.* For purposes of section 4216(b)(1)(C) and this paragraph, a sale is considered to be made under circumstances otherwise than at “arm's length” if:


(1) One of the parties is controlled (in law or in fact) by the other, or there is common control, whether or not such control is actually exercised to influence the sale price, or


(2) The sale is made pursuant to special arrangements between a manufacturer and a purchaser.



---

[N] [T.D. 7613, 44 FR 23825, Apr. 23, 1979; 44 FR 47767, Aug. 15, 1979]




