# § 98.257   Records that must be retained.

In addition to the records required by § 98.3(g), you must retain the records specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.


(a) The records of all parameters monitored under § 98.255. If you comply with the combustion methodology in § 98.252(a), then you must retain under this subpart the records required for the Tier 3 and/or Tier 4 Calculation Methodologies in § 98.37 and you must keep records of the annual average flow calculations.


(b) *Verification software records.* You must keep a record of the file generated by the verification software specified in § 98.5(b) for the applicable data specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (73) of this section. Retention of this file satisfies the recordkeeping requirement for the data in paragraphs (b)(1) through (73) of this section.


(1) Volume of flare gas combusted during measurement period (scf) (Equation Y-1b of § 98.253).


(2) Mole percent CO_2_ concentration in the flare gas stream during the measurement period (mole percent) (Equation Y-1b).


(3) Mole percent concentration of compound “x” in the flare gas stream during the measurement period (mole percent) (Equation Y-1b).


(4) Carbon mole number of compound “x” in the flare gas stream during the measurement period (mole carbon atoms per mole compound) (Equation Y-1b).


(5) Molar volume conversion factor (scf per kg-mole) (Equation Y-1b).


(6) Annual volume of flare gas combusted for each flare during normal operations from company records (million (MM) standard cubic feet per year, MMscf/year) (Equation Y-3 of § 98.253).


(7) Higher heating value for fuel gas or flare gas for each flare from company records (British thermal units per scf, Btu/scf = MMBtu/MMscf) (Equation Y-3).


(8) Volume of flare gas combusted during indexed start-up, shutdown, or malfunction event from engineering calculations (scf) (Equation Y-3).


(9) Average molecular weight of the flare gas, from the analysis results or engineering calculations for the event (kg/kg-mole) (Equation Y-3).


(10) Molar volume conversion factor (scf per kg-mole) (Equation Y-3).


(11) Average carbon content of the flare gas, from analysis results or engineering calculations for the event (kg C per kg flare gas) (Equation Y-3).


(12) Weight fraction of carbon in the flare gas prior to combustion in each flare that is contributed by methane from measurement values or engineering calculations (kg C in methane in flare gas/kg C in flare gas) (Equation Y-4 of § 98.253).


(13) Annual throughput of unit from company records for each catalytic cracking unit or fluid coking unit (barrels/year) (Equation Y-8 of § 98.253).


(14) Coke burn-off factor from engineering calculations (default for catalytic cracking units = 7.3; default for fluid coking units = 11) (kg coke per barrel of feed) (Equation Y-8).


(15) Carbon content of coke based on measurement or engineering estimate (kg C per kg coke) (Equation Y-8).


(16) Value of unit-specific CH_4_ emission factor, including the units of measure, for each catalytic cracking unit, traditional fluid coking unit, and catalytic reforming unit (calculation method in § 98.253(c)(4)).


(17) Annual activity data (*e.g.* , input or product rate), including the units of measure, in units of measure consistent with the emission factor, for each catalytic cracking unit, traditional fluid coking unit, and catalytic reforming unit (calculation method in § 98.253(c)(4)).


(18) Value of unit-specific N_2_O emission factor, including the units of measure, for each catalytic cracking unit, traditional fluid coking unit, and catalytic reforming unit (calculation method in § 98.253(c)(5)).


(19) Annual activity data (*e.g.* , input or product rate), including the units of measure, in units of measure consistent with the emission factor, for each catalytic cracking unit, traditional fluid coking unit, and catalytic reforming unit (calculation method in § 98.253(c)(5)).










(20) Carbon content of coke based on measurement or engineering estimate (default = 0.94) (kg C per kg coke) (Equation Y-11 of § 98.253).


(21) Volumetric flow rate of sour gas (including sour water stripper gas) feed sent off site for sulfur recovery in the year (scf/year) (Equation Y-12 of § 98.253).


(22) Mole fraction of carbon in the sour gas feed sent off site for sulfur recovery (kg-mole C/kg-mole gas) (Equation Y-12).


(23) Molar volume conversion factor for sour gas sent off site (scf per kg-mole) (Equation Y-12).


(24) Volumetric flow rate of sour gas (including sour water stripper gas) fed to the onsite sulfur recovery plant (scf/year) (Equation Y-12).


(25) Mole fraction of carbon in the sour gas fed to the onsite sulfur recovery plant (kg-mole C/kg-mole gas) (Equation Y-12).


(26) Molar volume conversion factor for onsite sulfur recovery plant (scf per kg-mole) (Equation Y-12).


(27)-(31)


(32) Quantity of asphalt blown for each asphalt blowing unit (million barrels per year (MMbbl/year)) (Equation Y-14 of § 98.253).


(33) Emission factor for CO_2_ from uncontrolled asphalt blowing from facility-specific test data for each asphalt blowing unit (metric tons CO_2_/MMbbl asphalt blown) (Equation Y-14).


(34) Emission factor for CH_4_ from uncontrolled asphalt blowing from facility-specific test data for each asphalt blowing unit (metric tons CH_4_/MMbbl asphalt blown) (Equation Y-15 of § 98.253).


(35) Quantity of asphalt blown (million barrels/year (MMbbl/year)) (Equation Y-16a of § 98.253).


(36) Carbon emission factor from asphalt blowing from facility-specific test data (metric tons C/MMbbl asphalt blown) (Equation Y-16a).


(37) Quantity of asphalt blown for each asphalt blowing unit (million barrels per year (MMbbl/year)) (Equation Y-16b of § 98.253).


(38) Emission factor for CO_2_ from uncontrolled asphalt blowing from facility-specific test data for each asphalt blowing unit (metric tons CO_2_/MMbbl asphalt blown) (Equation Y-16b).


(39) Carbon emission factor from asphalt blowing from facility-specific test data for each asphalt blowing unit (metric tons C/MMbbl asphalt blown) (Equation Y-16b).


(40) Emission factor for CH_4_ from uncontrolled asphalt blowing from facility-specific test data for each asphalt blowing unit (metric tons CH_4_/MMbbl asphalt blown) (Equation Y-17 of § 98.253).


(41) Typical dry mass of coke in the delayed coking unit vessel at the end of the coking cycle (metric tons/cycle) from company records or calculated using Equation Y-18a of this subpart (Equations Y-18a, Y-18b and Y-18e in § 98.253) for each delayed coking unit.


(42) Internal height of delayed coking unit vessel (feet) (Equation Y-18a in § 98.253) for each delayed coking unit.


(43) Typical distance from the top of the delayed coking unit vessel to the top of the coke bed (*i.e.,* coke drum outage) at the end of the coking cycle (feet) from company records or engineering estimates (Equation Y-18a in § 98.253) for each delayed coking unit.


(44) Diameter of delayed coking unit vessel (feet) (Equations Y-18a and Y-18b in § 98.253) for each delayed coking unit.




(45) Mass of water in the delayed coking unit vessel at the end of the cooling cycle prior to atmospheric venting or draining (metric ton/cycle) (equations Y-18b and Y-18e to § 98.253) for each delayed coking unit.


(46) Typical distance from the bottom of the coking unit vessel to the top of the water level at the end of the cooling cycle just prior to atmospheric venting or draining (feet) from company records or engineering estimates (equation Y-18b to § 98.253) for each delayed coking unit.




(47) Mass of steam generated and released per decoking cycle (metric tons/cycle) (Equations Y-18e and Y-18f in § 98.253) for each delayed coking unit.


(48) Average temperature of the delayed coking unit vessel when the drum is first vented to the atmosphere ( °F) (Equations Y-18c, Y-18d, and Y-18e in § 98.253) for each delayed coking unit.


(49) Temperature of the delayed coking unit vessel overhead line measured as near the coking unit vessel as practical just prior to venting the atmosphere (Equation Y-18c in § 98.253) for each delayed coking unit.


(50) Pressure of the delayed coking unit vessel just prior to opening the atmospheric vent (psig) (Equation Y-18d in § 98.253) for each delayed coking unit.


(51) Methane emission factor for delayed coking unit (kilograms CH_4_ per metric ton of steam; kg CH_4_/mt steam) (Equation Y-18f in § 98.253) for each delayed coking unit.


(52) Cumulative number of decoking cycles (or coke-cutting cycles) for all delayed coking unit vessels associated with the delayed coking unit during the year (Equation Y-18f in § 98.253) for each delayed coking unit.


(53) Fraction of the coke-filled bed that is covered by water at the end of the cooling cycle just prior to atmospheric venting or draining (equation Y-18b to § 98.253) for each delayed coking unit.










(54)-(56) [Reserved]


(57) Quantity of crude oil plus the quantity of intermediate products received from off site that are processed at the facility (MMbbl/year) (Equation Y-20 of § 98.253).


(58) Molar volume conversion factor (scf per kg-mole) (Equation Y-20).


(59) Methane emission factor for uncontrolled blown systems (scf CH_4_/MMbbl) (Equation Y-20).


(60) Quantity of crude oil plus the quantity of intermediate products received from off site that are processed at the facility (MMbbl/year) (Equation Y-22 of § 98.253).


(61) Quantity of unstabilized crude oil received at the facility (MMbbl/year) (Equation Y-23 of § 98.253).


(62) Pressure differential from the previous storage pressure to atmospheric pressure (psi) (Equation Y-23).


(63) Average mole fraction of CH_4_ in vent gas from the unstabilized crude oil storage tanks from facility measurements (kg-mole CH_4_/kg-mole gas) (Equation Y-23).


(64) Molar volume conversion factor (scf per kg-mole) (Equation Y-23).


(65) Specify whether the calculated or default loading factor L specified in § 98.253(n) is entered, for each liquid loaded to each vessel (methods specified in § 98.253(n)).


(66) Saturation factor specified in § 98.253(n), for each liquid loaded to each vessel (methods specified in § 98.253(n)).


(67) True vapor pressure of liquid loaded, for each liquid loaded to each vessel (psia) (methods specified in § 98.253(n)).


(68) Molecular weight of vapors (lb per lb-mole), for each liquid loaded to each vessel (methods specified in § 98.253(n)).


(69) Temperature of bulk liquid loaded, for each liquid loaded to each vessel (°R, degrees Rankine) (methods specified in § 98.253(n)).


(70) Total loading loss (without efficiency correction), for each liquid loaded to each vessel (pounds per 1000 gallons loaded) (methods specified in § 98.253(n)).


(71) Overall emission control system reduction efficiency, including the vapor collection system efficiency and the vapor recovery or destruction efficiency (enter zero if no emission controls), for each liquid loaded to each vessel (percent) (methods specified § 98.253(n)).


(72) Vapor phase concentration of methane in liquid loaded, for each liquid loaded to each vessel (percent by volume) (methods specified in § 98.253(n)).


(73) Quantity of material loaded, for each liquid loaded to each vessel (thousand gallon per year) (methods specified in § 98.253(n)).



---

[N] [79 FR 63796, Oct. 24, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 89263, Dec. 9, 2016; 89 FR 31931, Apr. 25, 2024]




