# § 422.528   Final settlement process and payment.

(a) *Notice of final settlement.* After the calculation of the final settlement amount, CMS sends the MA organization a notice of final settlement. The notice of final settlement contains at least all of the following information:


(1) A final settlement amount, which may be either an amount due to the MA organization, or an amount due from the MA organization, or $0 if nothing is due to or from the MA organization, for the contract that has been consolidated, nonrenewed, or terminated.


(2) Relevant banking and financial mailing instructions for MA organizations that owe CMS a final settlement amount.


(3) Relevant CMS contact information.


(4) A description of the steps for requesting an appeal of the final settlement amount calculation, in accordance with the requirements specified in § 422.529.


(b) *Request for an appeal.* An MA organization that disagrees with the final settlement amount has 15 calendar days from issuance of the notice of final settlement, as described in paragraph (a) of this section, to request an appeal of the final settlement amount under the process described in § 422.529.


(1) If an MA organization agrees with the final settlement amount, no response is required.


(2) If an MA organization disagrees with the final settlement amount but does not request an appeal within 15 calendar days from the date of the issuance of the notice of final settlement, CMS does not consider subsequent requests for appeal.


(c) *Actions if an MA organization does not request an appeal.* (1) For MA organizations that are owed money by CMS, CMS remits payment to the MA organization within 60 calendar days from the date of the issuance of the notice of final settlement.


(2) For MA organizations that owe CMS money, the MA organization is required to remit payment to CMS within 120 calendar days from issuance of the notice of final settlement. If the MA organization fails to remit payment within that 120-calendar-day period, CMS refers the debt owed to CMS to the Department of the Treasury for collection.


(d) *Actions following submission of a request for appeal.* If an MA organization responds to the notice of final settlement disagreeing with the final settlement amount and requesting appeal, CMS conducts a review under the process described at§ 422.529.


(e) *No additional payment adjustments.* After the final settlement amount is calculated and the notice of final settlement, as described under § 422.528(a), is issued to the MA organization, CMS no longer apply retroactive payment adjustments to the terminated, consolidated or nonrenewed contract and there are no adjustments applied to amounts used in the calculation of the final settlement amount.



---

[N] [89 FR 30825, Apr. 23, 2024]










