# ยง 120.840   Accredited Lenders Program (ALP).

(a) *General.* Under the ALP program, SBA designates qualified CDCs as ALP CDCs, gives them increased authority to process, close, and service 504 loans, and provides expedited processing of loan approval and servicing actions. 


(b) *Application.* A CDC must apply for ALP status by submitting an application in accordance with SBA's Standard Operating Procedure 50 10, available at *http://www.sba.gov.* A final decision will be made by the appropriate SBA official in accordance with Delegations of Authority.


(c) *Eligibility.* In order for a CDC to be eligible to receive ALP status, its application must show that it meets the criteria set forth in ยง 120.841. 


(d) *Additional application requirements.* The CDC's application must include the following: 


(1) Certified copy of the CDC's Board of Directors' resolution authorizing the application for ALP status. 


(2) Summary of the experience of each of the CDC's loan processing, closing, and servicing staff members with significant authority. 


(3) Name, address, and summary of experience of Designated Attorney. 


(4) Documentation of any SBA required insurance. 


(5) Any other documentation required by SBA. 


(e) *Term of ALP designation.* SBA generally will designate a CDC as an ALP CDC for a two-year period. SBA may renew the designation for additional two-year periods if the CDC continues to meet the ALP program eligibility requirements. 


(f) *SBA approval or decline decision.* SBA will notify the CDC in writing of an approval or decline of either an ALP application or of an ALP renewal. If the SBA approves the CDC's application, the ALP CDC may exercise its ALP authority in its entire Area of Operations. If an application or renewal is declined, SBA will notify the CDC of the reasons for the decision.



---

[N] [68 FR 57982, Oct. 7, 2003, as amended at 85 FR 7651, Feb. 10, 2020; 85 FR 80588, Dec. 14, 2020; 87 FR 38909, June 30, 2022]




