# ยง 227.31   Audits, management reviews, and evaluations.

(a) *Audits.* (1) Examinations by the State agencies in the form of audits or internal audits shall be performed in accord with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F and Appendix XI, Compliance Supplement.


(b) *Management reviews.* The State agency is responsible for meeting the following requirements:


(1) The State agency shall establish management evaluation and review procedures to monitor compliance with the State plan for local educational agencies and land grant colleges, other institutions of higher education and public or private nonprofit educational or research agencies, institutions, or organizations.


(2) The State agency shall require participating agencies to establish program review procedures to be used in reviewing the Agencies operations and those of subsidiaries or contractors.


(c) *Evaluations.* The State agency shall conduct formal evaluations of program activities at least annually. These evaluations shall be aimed at assessing the effectiveness of the various activities undertaken by the State and local agencies. State officials shall analyze why some activities have proved effective while others have not and shall initiate appropriate improvements. The results of the evaluations shall be used to make adjustments in ongoing activities and to plan activities and programs for the next year's State plan. The State agency shall submit a plan for evaluation of Program activities as part of the State plan in accordance with ยง 227.37(b)(14).



---

[N] [44 FR 28282, May 15, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 746, Jan. 7, 1982; 48 FR 29123, June 24, 1983; 81 FR 66493, Sept. 28, 2016]




