# § 382.102   Definitions.

For the purpose of this part: 


(a) *Natural gas pipeline company* means any person: 


(1) Engaged in natural gas sales for resale or natural gas transportation subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission under the Natural Gas Act whose sales for resale and transportation exceed 200,000 Mcf at 14.73 psi (60 °F) in any of the three calendar years immediately preceding the fiscal year for which the Commission is assessing annual charges; and 


(2) Not engaged solely in “first sales” of natural gas as that term is defined in section 2(21) of the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978; and 


(3) To whom the Commission has not issued a Natural Gas Act Section 7(f) declaration; and 


(4) Not holding a limited jurisdiction certificate. 


(b) *Public utility* means any person who owns or operates facilities subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission under Parts II and III of the Federal Power Act, and who has rate schedule(s) on file with the Commission and who is not a “qualifying small power producer” or a “qualifying cogenerator”, as those terms are defined in section 3 of the Federal Power Act, or the United States or a state, or any political subdivision of the United States or a state, or any agency, authority, or instrumentality of the United States, a state, political subdivision of the United States, or political subdivision of a state. 


(c) *Oil pipeline company* means any person engaged in the transportation of crude oil and petroleum products subject to the Commission's jurisdiction under the Interstate Commerce Act with annual operating revenues greater than $350,000 in any of the three calendar years immediately preceding the fiscal year for which the Commission is assessing annual charges. 


(d) *Natural gas regulatory program* is the Commission's regulation of the natural gas industry under the Natural Gas Act; Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978; Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Act; Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act; Department of Energy Organization Act; Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act; Energy Security Act; Regulatory Flexibility Act; Crude Oil Windfall Profit Tax Act; National Environmental Policy Act; National Historic Preservation Act. 


(e) *Electric regulatory program* is the Commission's regulation of the electric industry under Parts II and III of the Federal Power Act; Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act; Powerplant and Industrial Fuel Use Act; Department of Energy Organization Act; Energy Security Act; Regulatory Flexibility Act; Pacific Northwest Electric Power Planning and Conservation Act; Flood Control and River and Harbor Acts; Bonneville Project Act; Federal Columbia River Transmission Act; Reclamation Project Act; Nuclear Waste Policy Act; National Environmental Policy Act; and the Public Utility Holding Company Act. 


(f) *Oil regulatory program* is the Commission's regulation of the oil pipeline industry under the Interstate Commerce Act; Department of Energy Organization Act; Regulatory Flexibility Act; Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act; and the Crude Oil Windfall Profit Tax Act. 


(g) *Person* means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, joint stock company, public trust, or organized group of persons, whether incorporated or not. 


(h) *Operating revenues* means the monies:


(1) Received by an oil pipeline company for providing interstate common carrier services regulated by the Commission, and


(2) Included in FERC Account No. 200, 210, or 220 in FERC Annual Report Form No. 6, page 301, lines 1, 2 and 3, column d, under part 352 of the Commission's regulations. 


(i) *Fiscal year* means the twelve-month period that begins on the first day of October and ends on the last day of September. 


(j) *Preceding calendar year* means the twelve-month period that begins on the first day of January and ends the last day of December and immediately precedes the end of the fiscal year for which the Commission is assessing annual charges. 


(k) *Adjusted costs of administration* means the difference between the estimated costs of administering a regulatory program for each fiscal year adjusted to reflect any overcollection or undercollection of cost attributable to that regulatory program in the annual charge assessment for the preceding fiscal year, and the estimated amount of filing fees collected during that fiscal year under the provisions of parts 346 and 381 of the Commission's regulations for activities that relate to that regulatory program. 


(l) *Power Marketing Agencies* means the Bonneville Power Administration, the Alaska Power Administration, the Southeastern Power Administration, the Southwestern Power Administration, and the Western Area Power Administration. 



---

[N] [Order 472, 52 FR 21292, June 5, 1987, as amended by Order 472-B, 52 FR 36022, Sept. 25, 1987; Order 529, 55 FR 47321, Nov. 13, 1990; Order 575, 60 FR 4859, Jan. 25, 1995; Order 583, 60 FR 53117, Oct. 12, 1995; Order 641, 65 FR 65768, Nov. 2, 2000]




