# § 501.702   Definitions.

(a) *Chief Counsel* means the Chief Counsel (Foreign Assets Control), Office of the General Counsel, Department of the Treasury. 


(b) *Day* means calendar day. In computing any period of time prescribed in or allowed by this subpart, the day of the act, event, or default from which the designated period of time begins to run shall not be included. The last day of the period so computed shall be included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal legal holiday, in which event the period runs until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal legal holiday. Intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal legal holidays shall be excluded from the computation when the period of time prescribed or allowed is seven days or less, not including any additional time allowed for service by mail. If on the day a filing is to be made, weather or other conditions have caused the designated filing location to close, the filing deadline shall be extended to the end of the next day that the filing location is not closed and that is not a Saturday, a Sunday, or a Federal legal holiday. If service is made by mail, three days shall be added to the prescribed period for response. 


(c) *Department* means the Department of the Treasury. 


(d) *Director* means the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury. 


(e) *Ex Parte Communication* means any material oral or written communication not on the public record concerning the merits of a proceeding with respect to which reasonable prior notice to all parties is not given, on any material matter or proceeding covered by these rules, that takes place between: A party to the proceeding, a party's counsel, or any other interested individual; and the Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee handling that proceeding. A request to learn the status of a proceeding does not constitute an ex parte communication; and settlement inquiries and discussions do not constitute ex parte communications. 


(f) *General Counsel* means the General Counsel of the U.S. Department of the Treasury. 


(g) *Order of Settlement* means a written order issued by the Director terminating a civil penalty action. An Order of Settlement does not constitute an agency decision that any violation took place. 


(h) *Order Instituting Proceedings* means a written order issued by the Director to initiate a civil penalty hearing. 


(i) *Prepenalty Notice* means a written notification from the Director informing a respondent of the alleged violation(s) and the respondent's right to respond. 


(j) *Penalty Notice* means a written notification from the Director informing a respondent that the Director has made a finding of violation and, absent a request for a hearing, will impose a civil monetary penalty. 


(k) *Proceeding* means any agency process initiated by an “Order Instituting Proceedings,” or by the filing of a petition for review of an Administrative Law Judge's decision or ruling. 


(l) *Respondent* means any individual alleged by the Director to have violated a TWEA-based sanctions regulation. 


(m) *Secretary's designee* means a U.S. Treasury Department official delegated responsibility by the Secretary of the Treasury to consider petitions for review of Administrative Law Judge decisions made in civil penalty hearings conducted pursuant to this subpart. 


(n) *Secretary* means the Secretary of the Treasury. 




