# ยง 686.350   What conditions apply to the operation of a Civilian Conservation Center?

(a) The Secretary of Labor may enter into an agreement with the Secretary of Agriculture to operate Job Corps centers located on public land, which are called Civilian Conservation Centers (CCCs). Located primarily in rural areas, in addition to academics, career technical training, and workforce preparation skills training, CCCs provide programs of work experience to conserve, develop, or manage public natural resources or public recreational areas or to develop community projects in the public interest.


(b) When the Secretary of Labor enters into an agreement with the Secretary of Agriculture for the funding, establishment, and operation of CCCs, provisions are included to ensure that the Department of Agriculture complies with the regulations under this part.


(c) Enrollees in CCCs may provide assistance in addressing national, State, and local disasters, consistent with current child labor laws. The Secretary of Agriculture must ensure that enrollees are properly trained, equipped, supervised, and dispatched consistent with the standards for the conservation and rehabilitation of wildlife established under the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (16 U.S.C. 661 *et seq.*).


(d) The Secretary of Agriculture must designate a Job Corps National Liaison to support the agreement between the Departments of Labor and Agriculture to operate CCCs.


(e) The Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, may select an entity to operate a CCC in accordance with the requirements of ยง 686.310 if the Secretary of Labor determines appropriate.


(f) The Secretary of Labor has the discretion to close CCCs if the Secretary determines appropriate.




