# § 211.7   Initiating an informal DoD review of a proposed project.

(a) An informal review of a project begins with the receipt from a requester by the Clearinghouse of a request for an informal review. In seeking an informal review, the requester shall provide the following information to the Clearinghouse:


(1) The geographic location of the project including its latitude and longitude,


(2) The height of the project,


(3) The nature of the project.


(4) The requester is encouraged to provide as much additional information as is available. The more information provided by the requester, the greater will be the accuracy and reliability of the resulting DoD review. When a request for an informal review includes information that is proprietary or competition sensitive, requesters are encouraged to mark the documents they submit accordingly.


(b) The Clearinghouse shall, within five days of receiving the information provided by the requester, convey that information to those DoD Components it believes may have an interest in reviewing the request.


(1) The DoD Components that receive the request from the Clearinghouse shall provide their comments and recommendations on the request to the Clearinghouse no later than 30 days after they receive the request.


(2) Not later than 50 days after receiving the request from the requester, the Clearinghouse shall evaluate all comments and recommendations received and take one of three actions:


(i) Determine that the project will not have an adverse impact on military operations and readiness, in which case it shall notify the requester of such determination. In doing so, the Clearinghouse shall also advise the requester that the informal review by the DoD does not constitute an action under 49 U.S.C. 44718 and that neither the DoD nor the Secretary of Transportation are bound by the determination made under the informal review.


(ii) Determine that the project will have an adverse impact on military operations and readiness but that the adverse impact involved is sufficiently attenuated that it does not require mitigation. The Clearinghouse shall notify the requester of such determination. In doing so, the Clearinghouse shall also advise the requester that the informal review by the DoD does not constitute an action under 49 U.S.C. 44718 and that neither the DoD nor the Secretary of Transportation are bound by the determination made under the informal review.


(iii) Determine that the project will have an adverse impact on military operations and readiness.


(A) When the requester is the project proponent, the Clearinghouse shall immediately—


(*1*) Notify the requester of the determination and the reasons for the conclusion of the Clearinghouse and advise the requester that the DoD would like to discuss the possibility of mitigation to reduce any adverse impact; and


(*2*) Designate one or more DoD Components to engage in discussions with the requester to attempt to mitigate the adverse impact.


(B) When the requester is a State, Indian tribal, or local official or a landowner, notify the requester of the determination and the reasons for that conclusion.


(c) If the requester is the project proponent and agrees to enter into discussions with the DoD to seek to mitigate an adverse impact, the designated DoD Components shall engage in discussions with the requester in an attempt to reach agreement on measures that would mitigate the adverse impact of the project on military operations and readiness.




