# ยง 902.105   Troubled small rural PHAs.

(a) *Definition of troubled small rural PHA.* A small rural PHA will be determined to be troubled under the public housing program if the weighted average score of all property inspections is below 70 percent of the total available points, or if a small rural PHA has a weighted average score of between 70 and 80 percent of the total available points and has at least one property that receives fewer than 70 percent of the total available points.


(b) *Referral to the local field office.* Upon a PHA's designation as a troubled performer HUD must notify the PHA and shall refer the troubled performer PHA to the PHA's field office, or other designated office(s) at HUD, for remedial action, oversight, and monitoring. The actions to be taken by HUD and the PHA will include statutorily required actions, and such other actions as may be determined appropriate by HUD.


(c) *Corrective Action Agreement (CAA).* Within 30 days of notification of a PHA's designation as a troubled performer, HUD will initiate activities to negotiate and develop a CAA. A CAA is required for a troubled performer. The final CAA is a binding contractual agreement between HUD and a PHA. The scope of the CAA may vary depending upon the extent of the problems present in the PHA. The term of the CAA will not exceed one year and is subject to renewal at the discretion of HUD if HUD determines that the circumstances requiring the CAA still exist at the expiration of the term of the CAA based on the annual assessment frequency as included in ยง 902.103. It shall include, but not be limited to:


(1) Baseline data, which should be data without adjustments or weighting but may be the PHA's score identified as a deficiency;


(2) Performance targets for such periods specified by HUD (e.g., annual, semiannual, quarterly, monthly), which may be the attainment of a higher score or the description of a goal to be achieved; however, safety, health, and environmental performance targets and deadlines otherwise specified by regulation, including the lead safety regulations at 24 CFR part 35, are not superseded by the CAA performance targets;


(3) Strategies to be used by the PHA in achieving the performance targets within the time period of the CAA, including the identification of the party responsible for the completion of each task and for reporting progress;


(4) Technical assistance to the PHA provided or facilitated by HUD;


(5) The PHA's commitment to take all actions within its control to achieve the targets;


(6) The consequences of failing to meet the targets; and


(7) A description of the involvement of local public and private entities, including PHA resident leaders, in carrying out the agreement and rectifying the PHA's problems. A PHA shall have primary responsibility for obtaining active local public and private entity participation, including the involvement of public housing resident leaders, in assisting PHA improvement efforts. Local public and private entity participation should be premised upon the participant's knowledge of the PHA, ability to contribute technical expertise with regard to the PHA's specific problem areas, and authority to make preliminary commitments of support, financial or otherwise.


(d) *PHA review of the CAA.* The PHA will have 10 days to review the CAA. During this 10-day period, the PHA shall resolve any claimed discrepancies in the CAA with HUD and discuss any recommended changes and target dates for improvement to be incorporated in the final CAA. Unless the time period is extended by HUD, the CAA is to be executed 30 days following issuance of the draft CAA.


(e) *Maximum recovery period.* Upon the expiration of the one-year period that started on the date on which the PHA receives initial notice of a troubled performer designation, the PHA shall improve its performance in order to no longer be considered troubled under the assessment.


(f) *Parties to the CAA.* A CAA shall be executed by:


(1) The PHA Board Chairperson (supported by a Board resolution), or a receiver (pursuant to a court-ordered receivership agreement, if applicable) or other AME acting in lieu of the PHA Board;


(2) The PHA Executive Director, or a designated receiver (pursuant to a court-ordered receivership agreement, if applicable), or other AME-designated Chief Executive Officer; and


(3) The field office.


(g) *Involvement of resident leadership in the CAA.* HUD encourages the inclusion of the resident leadership in the execution of the CAA.


(h) *Failure to execute CAA or make substantial improvement under CAA.* If a troubled performer PHA fails or refuses to execute an CAA within the period provided in paragraph (d) of this section, or a troubled performer PHA operating under an executed CAA does not achieve a passing physical inspection score, as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, the field office shall refer the PHA to the Assistant Secretary to determine such remedial actions, consistent with the provisions of the ACC and other HUD regulations, including, but not limited to, remedies available for substantial default.


(i) *Continuation of services to residents.* To the extent feasible, while a PHA is in a troubled performer status, all services to residents will continue uninterrupted.






