# § 4043.2   Definitions.

The following terms are defined in § 4001.2 of this chapter: benefit liabilities, Code, contributing sponsor, controlled group, ERISA, fair market value, irrevocable commitment, multiemployer plan, PBGC, person, plan, plan administrator, plan year, single-employer plan, ultimate parent, and U.S. entity.


In addition, for purposes of this part:


*De minimis 10-percent segment* means, in connection with a plan's controlled group, one or more entities that in the aggregate have for a fiscal year—


(1) Revenue not exceeding 10 percent of the controlled group's revenue;


(2) Annual operating income not exceeding the greater of—


(i) 10 percent of the controlled group's annual operating income; or


(ii) $5 million; and


(3) Net tangible assets at the end of the fiscal year(s) not exceeding the greater of—


(i) 10 percent of the controlled group's net tangible assets at the end of the fiscal year(s); or


(ii) $5 million.


*De minimis 5-percent segment* has the same meaning as *de minimis* 10-percent segment, except that “5 percent” is substituted for “10 percent” each time it appears.


*Event year* means the plan year in which a reportable event occurs.


*Foreign entity* means a member of a controlled group that—


(1) Is not a contributing sponsor of a plan;


(2) Is not organized under the laws of (or, if an individual, is not a domiciliary of) any state (as defined in section 3(10) of ERISA); and


(3) For the fiscal year that includes the date the reportable event occurs, meets one of the following tests—


(i) Is not required to file any United States federal income tax form;


(ii) Has no income reportable on any United States federal income tax form other than passive income not exceeding $1,000; or


(iii) Does not own substantial assets in the United States (disregarding stock of a member of the plan's controlled group) and is not required to file any quarterly United States tax returns for employee withholding.


*Foreign parent* means a foreign entity that is a direct or indirect parent of a person that is a contributing sponsor of a plan.


*Low-default-risk* has the meaning described in § 4043.9.


*Notice due date* means the deadline (including extensions) for filing notice of a reportable event with PBGC.


*Participant* means a participant as defined in § 4006.2 of this chapter.


*Public company* means a person subject to the reporting requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or a subsidiary (as defined for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of a person subject to such reporting requirements.


*Substantial owner* means a substantial owner as defined in section 4021(d) of ERISA.


*Well-funded plan safe harbor* has the meaning described in § 4043.10.



---

[N] [80 FR 55002, Sept. 11, 2015, as amended at 83 FR 49806, Oct. 3, 2018; 85 FR 6061, Feb. 4, 2020]




