# § 21.7550   Ending dates of eligibility.

(a) *Time limit on eligibility*—(1) *Reservists who become eligible before October 1, 1992.* Except as provided in § 21.7551 and paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this section, if the reservist becomes eligible for educational assistance before October 1, 1992, the period of eligibility expires effective the earlier of the following dates:


(i) The last day of the 10-year period beginning on the date the reservist becomes eligible for educational assistance; or


(ii) The date the reservist is separated from the Selected Reserve.


(2) *Reservists who become eligible after September 30, 1992.* Except as provided in § 21.7551 and paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this section, if a reservist becomes eligible for educational assistance after September 30, 1992, the period of eligibility expires effective the earlier of the following dates:


(i) The last day of the 14-year period beginning on the date the reservist becomes eligible for educational assistance; or


(ii) The date the reservist is separated from the Selected Reserve.


(b) *Extension due to active duty orders.* If the reservist serves on active duty pursuant to an order to active duty issued under section 12301(a), 12301(d), 12301(g), 12302, or 12304 of title 10, U.S. Code, the period of this active duty plus four months shall not be considered in determining the time limit on eligibility found in paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) *Completion of term of program.* (1) If a reservist is enrolled in an educational institution regularly operated on the quarter or semester system, and the reservist's period of eligibility as defined in paragraph (a) of this section would expire during a quarter or semester, the period of eligibility shall be extended to the end of the quarter or semester.


(2) If a reservist is enrolled in an educational institution not regularly operated on the quarter or semester system, and the reservist's period of eligibility as defined in paragraph (a) of this section would expire after a major portion of the course is completed, the period of eligibility shall be extended until the earlier of the following occurs:


(i) The end of the course, or


(ii) 12 weeks from the date on which the reservist's eligibility otherwise would have expired.


(d) *Discharge for disability.* In the case of a reservist separated from the Selected Reserve because of a disability which was not the result of the individual's own willful misconduct and which was incurred on or after the date on which the reservist became entitled to education assistance, the reservist's period of eligibility expires effective the last day of the—


(1) 10-year period beginning on the date the reservist becomes eligible for educational assistance if the reservist became eligible before October 1, 1992; or


(2) 14-year period beginning on the date the reservist becomes eligible for educational assistance if the reservist becomes eligible after September 30, 1992.


(e) *Unit deactivated.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3) or (e)(4) of this section, the period of eligibility of a reservist, eligible for educational assistance under this subpart, who ceases to become a member of the Selected Reserve during the period beginning October 1, 1991, and ending December 31, 2001, under either of the conditions described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section will expire on the date—


(i) 10 years after the date the reservist becomes eligible for educational assistance if the reservist became eligible before October 1, 1992; or


(ii) 14 years after the date the reservist becomes eligible for educational assistance if the reservist becomes eligible after September 30, 1992.


(2) The conditions referred to in paragraph (e)(1) of this section for ceasing to be a member of the Selected Reserve are:


(i) The deactivation of the reservist's unit of assignment; and


(ii) The reservist's involuntarily ceasing to be designated as a member of the Selected Reserve pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 10143(a).


(3) The provisions of paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section do not apply if the reservist ceases to be a member of the Selected Reserve under adverse conditions, as characterized by the Secretary of the military department concerned. The expiration of such a reservist's period of eligibility will be on the date the reservist ceases, under adverse conditions, to be a member of the Selected Reserve.


(4) A reservist's period of eligibility will expire if he or she is a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces and (after having involuntarily ceased to be a member of the Selected Reserve) is involuntarily separated from the Armed Forces under adverse conditions, as characterized by the Secretary of the military department concerned. The expiration of such a reservist's period of eligibility will be on the date the reservist is involuntarily separated under adverse conditions from the Armed Forces.



---

[N] [53 FR 34740, Sept. 8, 1988, as amended at 57 FR 57106, Dec. 3, 1992; 58 FR 51783, Oct. 5, 1993; 61 FR 29302, June 10, 1996; 68 FR 59731, Oct. 17, 2003; 71 FR 1498, Jan. 10, 2006; 71 FR 24582, Apr. 26, 2006]




