# § 847.103   Definitions.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the definitions in sections 8331 and 8401 of title 5, United States Code, apply throughout this part.


(b) In this part—


*Actuarial present value* means the amount of monthly annuity at time of retirement multiplied by the applicable present value factor.


*Age* means the number of years an individual has been alive as of his or her last birthday.


*Agency* means an executive agency as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code; a legislative branch agency; a judicial agency; and the U.S. Postal Service and Postal Rate Commission.


*Annuitant* means a *retiree* or a *survivor.*

*CSRS or FERS* means the Civil Service Retirement System or the Federal Employees Retirement System as described in chapters 83 and 84 of title 5, United States Code.


*Deferred annuity date* means the earliest date on which a retiree would be eligible, without credit for the NAFI service, to receive a deferred annuity based on his or her actual date of separation.


*Deficiency* means the remainder of the actuarial present value of crediting NAFI service, after subtracting the amount credited to the employee from a transfer to the Fund under subpart E of this part, and earnings under § 847.507 on the transferred amount.


*Employee contributions with interest* means the dollar amount deducted from an employee's pay for retirement system participation, plus any amounts the employee deposited for civilian service credit under the retirement system, and interest, if any, payable under § 841.605 of this chapter (for FERS) or under applicable NAFI retirement system rules.


*Fund* means the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund established in section 8348 of title 5, United States Code.


*Government contributions* means the dollar amount which was contributed on behalf of an employee by his or her employer for retirement system participation.


*Monthly annuity rate* means the amount of the monthly single life annuity under CSRS or FERS (computed without regard to any survivor benefit reductions computed under sections 8339 (j) or (k), and 8418 through 8420 of title 5, United States Code), before any offset relating to benefits under the Social Security Act under section 8349 of title 5, United States Code, but after including any reduction for age (5 U.S.C. 8339(h) or 8415(f)) or for crediting nondeduction civilian service performed before October 1, 1982 (5 U.S.C.A. 8339(i), note).


*NAFI* means a nonappropriated fund instrumentality described in section 2105(c) of title 5, United States Code.


*Present value factor* has the same meaning in this part as defined in § 842.602.


*Retiree* means a former employee who, on the basis of his or her service meets all the requirements for title to a CSRS or FERS annuity and files claim therefor.


*Survivor* means a widow, widower, or former spouse entitled to a CSRS or FERS annuity based on the service of a deceased employee, separated employee, or retiree.



---

[N] [61 FR 41721, Aug. 9, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 2179, Jan. 16, 2003; 82 FR 49282, Oct. 25, 2017]




