# § 1205.35   Product certification and labeling by manufacturers.

(a) *Form of permanent label of certification.* Manufacturers (including importers) shall issue certificates of compliance for walk-behind rotary power lawn mowers manufactured after the effective date of the mower standard in the form of a label which can reasonably be expected to remain on the mower during the period the mower is capable of being used. Such labeling shall be deemed to be a “certificate” of compliance as that term is used in section 14 of the act. (15 U.S.C. 2063.)


(b) *Contents of certification label.* The certification labels required by this section shall clearly and legibly contain the following information:


(1) The statement “Meets CPSC blade safety requirements.”


(2) An identification of the production lot.


(3) The name of the person or firm issuing the certificate.


(4) The location where the product was principally assembled.


(5) The month and year the product was manufactured.


(c) *Coding.* Except for the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(3) of this section, all of the information required by § 1205.35 may be in code, provided the person or firm issuing the certificate maintains a written record of the meaning of each symbol used in the code that will be made available to the distributor, retailer, consumer, and the Commission upon request. If a mower is manufactured for sale by a private labeler, and if the name of the private labeler is also on the certification label, the name of the manufacturer or importer issuing the certificate may also be in such a code.


(d) *Placement of label.* The label required by this section must be visible and legible to the ultimate purchaser of the lawn mower. For mowers manufactured before January 1, 1984, where the label is not visible to the consumer at the time of sale because of packaging or marketing practices, an additional label or notice, which may be temporary, stating “Meets CPSC blade safety requirements” shall also appear on the container, or, if the container is not so visible, the promotional material, used in connection with the sale of the mowers.



---

[N] [44 FR 70386, Dec. 6, 1979, as amended at 49 FR 28241, July 11, 1984]




