# § 165.711   Safety Zone: Port Everglades, Fort Lauderdale, FL.

(a) *Regulated area.* A moving safety zone is established in the following area:


(1) The waters around naval aircraft carriers entering Port Everglades in an area 700 yards forward, 500 yards astern and 350 yards on either side of each vessel, beginning at the Port Everglades Sea Buoy in approximate position 26°05.5′ N, 80°04.8′ W and continuing until the vessel is safely moored in approximate position 26°04.9′ N, 80°06.9′ W. All coordinates referenced use datum: NAD 83.


(2) The waters around naval aircraft carriers departing Port Everglades in an area 700 yards forward, 500 yards astern and 350 yards on either side of each vessel beginning at the Pier in approximate position 26°04.9′ N, 80°06.9′W, and continuing until the stern passes the Port Everglades Sea Buoy, in approximate position 26°05.5′ N, 80°04.8′ W. All coordinates referenced use datum: NAD 83.


(b) *Regulations.* (1) No person or vessel may enter, transit, or remain in the safety zone unless authorized by the Captain of the Port, Miami, Florida, or a Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer designated by him.


(2) Vessels encountering emergencies which require transit through the moving safety zone should contact the Coast Guard patrol craft on VHF Channel 16. In the event of an emergency, the Coast Guard patrol craft may authorize a vessel to transit through the safety zone with a Coast Guard designated escort.


(3) All persons and vessels shall comply with the instructions of on-scene patrol personnel. On-scene patrol personnel include commissioned, warrant, or petty officers of the U.S. Coast Guard. Coast Guard Auxiliary and local or state officials may be present to inform vessel operators of this regulation and other applicable laws. 



---

[N] [COTP MIAMI 96-054, 62 FR 32201, June 13, 1997]




