# ยง 1915.81   Housekeeping.

(a) *General requirements.* (1) The employer shall establish and maintain good housekeeping practices to eliminate hazards to employees to the extent practicable.


(2) The employer shall eliminate slippery conditions, such as snow and ice, on walkways and working surfaces as necessary. If it is not practicable for the employer to remove slippery conditions, the employer either shall:


(i) Restrict employees to designated walkways and working surfaces where the employer has eliminated slippery conditions; or


(ii) Provide slip-resistant footwear in accordance with 29 CFR part 1915, subpart I.


(3) The employer shall store materials in a manner that does not create a hazard for employees.


(4) The employer shall maintain easy and open access to each fire-alarm box, fire-call station, fire-fighting equipment, and each exit, including ladders, staircases, scaffolds, and gangways.


(5) The employer shall dispose of flammable and combustible substances, such as paint thinners, solvents, rags, scrap, and waste, or store them in covered fire-resistant containers at the end of each workshift or when the job is completed, whichever occurs first.


(b) *Walkways.* (1) In addition to the requirements in paragraph (a), the employer also shall ensure that each walkway:


(i) Provides adequate passage;


(ii) Is clear of debris, including solid and liquid wastes, that may create a hazard for employees;


(iii) Is clear of tools, materials, equipment, and other objects that may create a hazard for employees; and


(iv) Is clear of hoses and electrical service cords. The employer shall:


(A) Place each hose and cord above walkways in a location that will prevent injury to employees and damage to the hoses and cords;


(B) Place each hose and cord underneath walkways;


(C) Place each hose and cord on walkways, provided the hoses and cords are covered by crossovers or other means that will prevent injury to employees and damage to the hoses and cords; or


(D) Protect each hose and cord by other suitable means.


(2) While a walkway or part of a walkway is being used as a working surface, the employer shall cordon off that portion to prevent it from being used as a walkway.


(c) *Working surfaces.* In addition to the requirements in paragraph (a), the employer also shall ensure that each working surface:


(1) Is cleared of tools, materials, and equipment that are not necessary to perform the job in progress;


(2) Is cleared of debris, including solid and liquid wastes, at the end of each workshift or job, whichever occurs first;


(3) Is maintained, so far as practicable, in a dry condition. When a wet process is used, the employer shall maintain drainage and provide false floors, platforms, mats, or other dry standing places. When the employer demonstrates that this procedure is not practicable, the employer shall provide each employee working in the wet process with protective footgear, in accordance with 29 CFR part 1915, subpart I.




