# § 41.21   Foreign Officials—General.

(a) *Definitions.* In addition to pertinent INA definitions, the following definitions are applicable:


(1) *Accredited,* as used in INA 101(a)(15)(A), 101(a)(15)(G), and 212(d)(8), means an alien holding an official position, other than an honorary official position, with a government or international organization and possessing a travel document or other evidence of intention to enter or transit the United States to transact official business for that government or international organization.


(2) *Attendants,* as used in INA 101(a)(15)(A)(iii), 101(a)(15)(G)(v), and 212(d)(8), and in the definition of the NATO-7 visa symbol, means aliens paid from the public funds of a foreign government or from the funds of an international organization, accompanying or following to join the principal alien to whom a duty or service is owed.


(3) Immediate family, as used in INA 101(a)(15)(A), 101(a)(15)(G), and 212(d)(8), and in classification under the NATO visa symbols, means:


(i) The spouse who resides regularly in the household of the principal alien and is not a member of some other household;


(ii) Unmarried sons and daughters, whether by blood or adoption, who reside regularly in the household of the principal alien and who are not members of some other household, and provided that such unmarried sons and daughters are:


(A) Under the age of 21, or


(B) Under the age of 23 and in full-time attendance as students at post-secondary educational institutions; and


(iii) Other individuals who:


(A) Reside regularly in the household of the principal alien;


(B) Are not members of some other household;


(C) Are recognized as dependents of the principal alien by the sending government or international organization, as demonstrated by eligibility for rights and benefits, such as the issuance of a diplomatic or official passport, or travel or other allowances; and


(D) Are individually authorized by the Department.


(4) *Servants* and *personal employees,* as used in INA 101(a)(15)(A)(iii), 101(a)(15)(G)(v), and 212(d)(8), and in classification under the NATO-7 visa symbol, means aliens employed in a domestic or personal capacity by a principal alien, who are paid from the private funds of the principal alien and seek to enter the United States solely for the purpose of such employment.


(b) *Exception to passport validity requirement for aliens in certain A, G, and NATO classes.* A nonimmigrant alien for whom the passport requirement of INA 212(a)(7)(B)(i)(I) has not been waived and who is within one of the classes:


(1) Described in INA 101(a)(15)(A)(i) and (ii); or 


(2) Described in INA 101(a)(15)(G)(i), (ii), (iii), and (iv); or


(3) NATO-1, NATO-2, NATO-3, NATO-4, or NATO-6 may present a passport which is valid only for a sufficient period to enable the alien to apply for admission at a port of entry prior to its expiration.


(c) *Exception to passport validity requirement for foreign government officials in transit.* An alien classified C-3 under INA 212(d)(8) needs to present only a valid unexpired visa and a travel document which is valid for entry into a foreign country for at least 30 days from the date of application for admission into the United States.


(d) *Grounds for refusal of visas applicable to certain A, C, G, and NATO classes.* (1) An A-1 or A-2 visa may not be issued to an alien the Department has determined to be persona non grata.


(2) Only the provisions of INA 212(a) cited below apply to the indicated classes of nonimmigrant visa applicants: 


(i) Class A-1: INA 212(a) (3)(A), (3)(B), and (3)(C);


(ii) Class A-2: INA 212(a) (3)(A), (3)(B), and (3)(C); 


(iii) Classes C-2 and C-3: INA 212(a) (3)(A), (3)(B), (3)(C), and (7)(B); 


(iv) Classes G-1, G-2, G-3, and G-4: INA 212(a) (3)(A), (3)(B), and (3)(C); 


(v) Classes NATO-1, NATO-2, NATO-3, NATO-4, and NATO-6: INA 212(a) (3)(A), (3)(B), and (3)(C); 


(3) An alien within class A-3 or G-5 is subject to all grounds of refusal specified in INA 212 which are applicable to nonimmigrants in general.


(4) Notwithstanding the visa restrictions imposed by applicable laws and consistent with a provision in such laws providing for a regulatory exception to the visa restrictions contained therein, a visa may be issued to a visa applicant who is otherwise ineligible for a visa under such laws:


(i) To permit the United States to comply with the United Nations Headquarters Agreement and other applicable international obligations; and


(ii) To permit the United States and Burma to operate their diplomatic missions, and to permit the United States to conduct other official United States Government business in Burma.



---

[N] [52 FR 42597, Nov. 5, 1987; 53 FR 9111, Mar. 21, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 30428, July 2, 1991; 73 FR 56729, Sept. 30, 2008; 74 FR 36113, July 22, 2009; 78 FR 66815, Nov. 6, 2013; 81 FR 88102, Dec. 7, 2016] 




