# § 45.15   Other claims procedures and administrative matters.

(a) *Payment of damages.* In the event damages are awarded, the claimant or the claimant's estate is entitled to payment of those damages.


(b) *Communication through counsel.* If the claimant is represented by counsel, all communications will be through the claimant's counsel.


(c) *Remedies for filing false claims or making false statements.* Remedies available to the United States for filing false claims with Federal agencies or making false statements to Federal agencies and officials are applicable to claims and statements made in connection with claims under this part. Applicable authorities include 31 U.S.C. 3729 and 18 U.S.C. 1001. False claims and claims supported by false statements will be denied.


(d) *Reports to the Defense Health Agency.* As provided in section 2733a(e), not later than 30 calendar days after a Final Determination of medical malpractice or the payment of all or a portion of a claim under this part, a report documenting that determination is sent to the Director, Defense Health Agency to be used for all necessary and appropriate purposes, including those actions undertaken as part of DoD's Clinical Quality Management Program.


(e) *Monitoring claims adjudications under this part.* The General Counsel of the Defense Health Agency will monitor the performance of the claims adjudications structures and procedures under this part, including accounting for the number of claims processed under this part and the resolution of each claim and identifying means to enhance the effectiveness of the claims adjudication process.


(f) *Authority for actions under this part.* To ensure consistency and compliance with statutory requirements, supplementation of the procedures in this part is not permitted without approval in writing by the General Counsel of the Department of Defense. The General Counsel of the Department of Defense, under DoD Directive 5145.01, “General Counsel of the Department of Defense,” may delegate in writing authority for making Initial and Final Determinations, and other actions by DoD officials under this part. As used in this part, and at DoD's discretion, “DoD” or “DoD Components” may include, but is not limited to, Military Departments.



---

[N] [86 FR 32208, June 17, 2021, as amended at 87 FR 52463, Aug. 26, 2022]






