# § 149.450   Complaint process for balance billing regarding providers and facilities.

(a) *Scope and definitions*—(1) *Scope.* This section establishes a process for HHS to receive and resolve complaints regarding information that a health care provider, provider of air ambulance services, or health care facility may be failing to meet the requirements under subpart E or subpart G of this part, which may warrant an investigation.


(2) *Definitions.* In this section—


(i) Complaint means a communication, written, or oral, that indicates there has been a potential violation of the requirements under this subpart or subpart G of this part, whether or not a violation actually occurred.


(ii) *Complainant* means any individual, or their authorized representative, who files a complaint as defined in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.


(b) *Complaints process.* (1) HHS will consider the date a complaint is filed to be the date upon which HHS receives an oral, written, or electronic statement that identifies information about the complaint sufficient to identify the parties involved and the action or inaction complained of.


(2) HHS will notify complainants, by oral or written means, of receipt of the complaint no later than 60 business days after the complaint is received. HHS will include a response acknowledging receipt of the complaint, notifying the complainant of their rights and obligations under the complaints process, and describing the next steps of the complaints resolution process. HHS may request additional information that may be needed to process the complaint as part of the response. Such additional information may include:


(i) Health care provider, air ambulance provider, or health care facility bills;


(ii) Health care provider, air ambulance provider, or health care facility network status;


(iii) Information regarding the participant's, beneficiary's, or enrollee's health care plan or health insurance coverage;


(iv) Information to support a determination regarding whether the service was an emergency service or non-emergency service;


(v) Documents regarding the facts in the complaint in the possession of, or otherwise attainable by, the complainant; or


(vi) Any other information HHS needs to make a determination of facts for an investigation.


(3) HHS will make reasonable efforts consistent with agency practices to notify the complainant of the outcome of the complaint after the submission is processed through appropriate methods as determined by HHS. A complaint is considered processed after HHS has reviewed the complaint and accompanying information and made an outcome determination. Based on the nature of the complaint, HHS may—


(i) Refer the complainant to another appropriate Federal or State resolution process;


(ii) Notify the complainant and make reasonable efforts to refer the complainant to the appropriate State or Federal regulatory authority if HHS receives a complaint where another entity has enforcement jurisdiction over the health care provider, air ambulance provider or health care facility;


(iii) Refer the health care provider, air ambulance provider or health care facility for an investigation for enforcement action under 45 CFR part 150; or


(iv) Provide the complainant with an explanation of resolution and any corrective action taken.



---

[N] [86 FR 36970, July 13, 2021, as amended at 86 FR 56124, Oct. 7, 2021]




