# § 223.71   How do sections 23A and 23B apply to transactions in which a member bank purchases from one affiliate an asset relating to another affiliate?

(a) *In general.* In some situations in which a member bank purchases an asset from an affiliate, the asset purchase qualifies for an exemption under this regulation, but the member bank's resulting ownership of the purchased asset also represents a covered transaction (which may or may not qualify for an exemption under this part). In these situations, the transaction engaged in by the member bank would qualify as two different types of covered transaction. Although an asset purchase exemption may suffice to exempt the member bank's asset purchase from the first affiliate, the asset purchase exemption does not exempt the member bank's resulting covered transaction with the second affiliate. The exemptions subject to this interpretation include §§ 223.31(e), 223.41(a) through (d), and 223.42(e), (f), (i), (j), (k), and (m). 


(b) *Examples*—(1) *The (d)(6) exemption.* A member bank purchases from Affiliate A securities issued by Affiliate B in a purchase that qualifies for the (d)(6) exemption in section 23A. The member bank's asset purchase from Affiliate A would be an exempt covered transaction under § 223.42(e); but the member bank also would have acquired an investment in securities issued by Affiliate B, which would be a covered transaction between the member bank and Affiliate B under § 223.3(h)(2) that does not qualify for the (d)(6) exemption. The (d)(6) exemption, by its terms, only exempts asset purchases by a member bank from an affiliate; hence, the (d)(6) exemption cannot exempt a member bank's investment in securities issued by an affiliate (even if the securities would qualify for the (d)(6) exemption). 


(2) T*he sister-bank exemption.* A member bank purchases from Sister-Bank Affiliate A a loan to Affiliate B in a purchase that qualifies for the sister-bank exemption in section 23A. The member bank's asset purchase from Sister-Bank Affiliate A would be an exempt covered transaction under § 223.41(b); but the member bank also would have acquired an extension of credit to Affiliate B, which would be a covered transaction between the member bank and Affiliate B under § 223.3(h)(1) that does not qualify for the sister-bank exemption. The sister-bank exemption, by its terms, only exempts transactions by a member bank with a sister-bank affiliate; hence, the sister-bank exemption cannot exempt a member bank's extension of credit to an affiliate that is not a sister bank (even if the extension of credit was purchased from a sister bank).




