# ยง 85.1803   Remedial Plan.

(a) When any manufacturer is notified by the Administrator that a substantial number of any class or category of vehicles or engines, although properly maintained and used, do not conform to the regulations (including emission standards) or family particulate emission limits, as defined in part 86 promulgated under section 202 of the Act and in effect during (and applicable to) the model year of such class or classes of vehicles or engines, the manufacturer shall submit a plan to the Administrator to remedy such nonconformity. The plan shall contain the following: 


(1) A description of each class or category of vehicle or engine to be recalled including the model year, the make, the model, and such other information as may be required to identify the vehicles or engines to be recalled. 


(2) A description of the specific modifications, alterations, repairs, corrections, adjustments or other changes to be made to bring the vehicles or engines into conformity including a brief summary of the data and technical studies which support the manufacturer's decision as to the particular remedial changes to be used in correcting the nonconformity. 


(3) A description of the method by which the manufacturer will determine the names and addresses of vehicle or engine owners. 


(4) A description of the proper maintenance or use, if any, upon which the manufacturer conditions eligibility for repair under the remedial plan, an explanation of the manufacturer's reasons for imposing any such condition, and a description of the proof to be required of a vehicle or engine owner to demonstrate compliance with any such condition. Eligibility may not be denied solely on the basis that the vehicle or engine owner used parts not manufactured by the original equipment vehicle manufacturer, or had repairs performed by outlets other than the vehicle manufacturer's franchised dealers. No maintenance or use condition may be imposed unless it is, in the judgement of the Administrator, demonstrably related to preventing the nonconformity. 


(5) A description of the procedure to be followed by vehicle or engine owners to obtain correction of the nonconformity. This shall include designation of the date on or after which the owner can have the nonconformity remedied, the time reasonably necessary to perform the labor required to correct the nonconformity, and the designation of facilities at which the nonconformity can be remedied: *Provided,* That repair shall be completed within a reasonable time designated by the Administrator from the date the owner first tenders his vehicle or engine after the date designated by the manufacturer as the date on or after which the owner can have the nonconformity remedied. 


(6) If some or all of the nonconforming vehicles or engines are to be remedied by persons other than dealers or authorized warranty agents of the manufacturer, a description of the class of persons other than dealers and authorized warranty agents of the manufacturer who will remedy the nonconformity, and a statement indicating that the participating members of the class will be properly equipped to perform such remedial action. 


(7) Three copies of the letters of notification to be sent to vehicle or engine owners. 


(8) A description of the system by which the manufacturer will assure that an adequate supply of parts will be available to perform the repair under the remedial plan including the date by which an adequate supply of parts will be available to initiate the repair campaign, the percentage of the total parts requirement of each person who is to perform the repair under the remedial plan to be shipped to initiate the campaign, and the method to be used to assure the supply remains both adequate and responsive to owner demand. 


(9) Three copies of all necessary instructions to be sent to those persons who are to perform the repair under the remedial plan. 


(10) A description of the impact of the proposed changes on fuel consumption, driveability, and safety of each class or category of vehicles or engines to be recalled and a brief summary of the data, technical studies, or engineering evaluations which support these conclusions. 


(11) Any other information, reports or data which the Administrator may reasonably determine is necessary to evaluate the remedial plan. 


(b)(1) Notification to vehicle or engine owners shall be made by first class mail or by such means as approved by the Administrator: *Provided,* That for good cause, the Administrator may require the use of certified mail to ensure an effective notification. 


(2) The manufacture shall use all reasonable means necessary to locate vehicle or engine owners: *Provided,* That for good cause, the Administrator may require the manufacturer to use motor vehicle registration lists as available from State or commercial sources to obtain the names and addresses of vehicle or engine owners to ensure an effective notification. 


(3) The Administrator reserves the right to require the manufacturer to send by first class mail or other reasonable means subsequent notification to vehicle or engine owners: *Provided,* That for good cause, the Administrator may require the use of certified mail to ensure an effectctive notification. 


(c)(1) The manufacturer shall require those who perform the repair under the remedial plan to affix a label to each vehicle or engine repaired or, when required, inspected under the remedial plan. 


(2) The label shall be placed in such location as approved by the Administrator consistent with State law and shall be fabricated of a material suitable for the location in which it is installed and which is not readily removable intact. 


(3) The label shall contain: 


(i) The recall campaign number; and 


(ii) A code designating the campaign facility at which the repair, or inspection for repair was performed. 


(4) The Administrator reserves the right to waive any or all of the requirements of this paragraph if he determines that they constitute an unwarranted burden to the manufacturer. 


(d) The Administrator may require the manufacturer to conduct tests on components and vehicles or engines incorporating a proposed change, repair, or modification reasonably designed and necessary to demonstrate the effectiveness of the change, repair, or modification. 


(e) A remedial plan for an alternative remedy under 40 CFR 86.1865-12(j)(3) that does not involve vehicle repairs may omit items from this section that do not apply. For example, such a remedial plan will generally omit information related to proper maintenance, vehicle repairs, and vehicle labeling.

















---

[N] [39 FR 44375, Dec. 23, 1974, as amended at 40 FR 28067, July 3, 1975; 42 FR 36456, July 15, 1977; 45 FR 36398, May 30, 1980; 48 FR 33462, July 21, 1983; 89 FR 28152, Apr. 18, 2024]




