# ยง 5.14   Petition for license; corresponding U.S. application.

(a) When there is a corresponding United States application on file, a petition for license under ยง 5.12(b) must also identify this application by application number, filing date, inventor, and title, but a copy of the material upon which the license is desired is not required. The subject matter licensed will be measured by the disclosure of the United States application.


(b) Two or more United States applications should not be referred to in the same petition for license unless they are to be combined in the foreign or international application, in which event the petition should so state and the identification of each United States application should be in separate paragraphs.


(c) Where the application to be filed or exported abroad contains matter not disclosed in the United States application or applications, including the case where the combining of two or more United States applications introduces subject matter not disclosed in any of them, a copy of the application as it is to be filed or exported abroad, must be furnished with the petition. If, however, all new matter in the application to be filed or exported is readily identifiable, the new matter may be submitted in detail and the remainder by reference to the pertinent United States application or applications.



---

[N] [43 FR 20471, May 11, 1978, as amended at 49 FR 13462, Apr. 4, 1984; 62 FR 53204, Oct. 10, 1997; 80 FR 17970, Apr. 2, 2015]




