# ยง 10.22   Complaint and notice of hearing.

(a) *Content.* The complaint and notice of hearing shall include:


(1) The legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is held;


(2) The matters of fact and law to be considered and determined.


(b) *Service.* The Proceedings Clerk shall give appropriate notice to each respondent by serving them with a copy of the complaint and notice of hearing. Service may be made in person, by confirmed telegraphic notice, or by registered mail or certified mail, addressed to the last known business or residence address of the person to be served or the address of his duly authorized agent for service. If a respondent is not found at his last known business or residence address and no forwarding address is available, additional service may be made, at the discretion of the Commission, as follows:


(1) By publishing a notice of the filing of the proceeding and a summary of the complaint, approved by the Commission or the Administrative Law Judge, once a week for three consecutive weeks in one or more newspapers having a general circulation where the respondent's last known business or residence address was located and, if ascertainable, where the respondent is believed to reside or be doing business currently; and


(2) By continuously displaying the complaint on the Commission's Internet web site during the period referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.



---

[N] [41 FR 2511, Jan. 16, 1976, as amended at 60 FR 54802, Oct. 26, 1995; 63 FR 55791, Oct. 19, 1998]




