# ยง 1301.3   Requirements for making requests.

(a) *General information.* (1) TVA has a centralized system for responding to FOIA requests. To make a request for records, a requester should write directly to the Tennessee Valley Authority, FOIA Officer, 400 W. Summit Hill Drive (WT 7D), Knoxville, TN 37902-1401. TVA's Guide to Information, which may be accessed on the TVA Web site at *https://www.tva.com/Information/Freedom-of-Information/A-Guide-to-Information-About-The-Tennessee-Valley-Authority* may be helpful in making your request.


(2) If you are making a request about yourself, see subpart B Privacy Act for additional requirements.


(3) Where a request for records pertains to another individual, a requester may receive greater access by submitting either a notarized authorization signed by that individual or a declaration made in compliance with the requirements set forth in 28 U.S.C. 1746 by that individual authorizing disclosure of the records to the requester, or by submitting proof that the individual is deceased (*e.g.,* a copy of a death certificate or an obituary). As an exercise of administrative discretion, TVA may require a requester to supply additional information if necessary in order to verify that a particular individual has consented to disclosure.


(b) *Description of records sought.* Requesters must describe the records sought in sufficient detail to enable TVA personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. To the extent possible, requesters should include specific information that may help TVA identify the requested records, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, subject matter of the record, case number, file designation, or reference number. Before submitting their requests, requesters may contact the TVA's FOIA Officer or FOIA Public Liaison to discuss the records they seek and to receive assistance in describing the records. If after receiving a request the agency determines that the request does not reasonably describe the records sought, the agency shall inform the requester of what additional information is needed or why the request is otherwise insufficient. Requesters who are attempting to reformulate or modify such a request may discuss their request with the agency's FOIA Officer or FOIA Public Liaison. If a request does not reasonably describe the records sought, the agency's response to the request may be delayed.


(c) *Format of records sought.* Requests may specify the preferred form or format (including electronic formats) for the records you seek. TVA will accommodate your request if the record is readily reproducible in that form or format.


(d) *Requester contact information.* Requesters must provide contact information, such as their phone number, email address, and/or mailing address, to assist the agency in communicating with them and providing released records.




