# § 17.157   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part:


*Adaptive equipment* means equipment which must be part of or added to a conveyance manufactured for sale to the general public to make it safe for use by the eligible person and enable that person and the conveyance to meet the applicable standards of licensure. Adaptive equipment includes any item specified by the Under Secretary for Health or designee as ordinarily necessary for any of the classes of losses or combination of such losses specified in 38 CFR 17.156, or as deemed necessary in an individual case for an eligible person for the continued safety and functionality of a modified automobile and adaptive equipment. Adaptive equipment includes, but is not limited to, a basic automatic transmission, power steering, power brakes, power window lifts, power seats, air-conditioning equipment when necessary for the health and safety of the veteran, and special equipment necessary to assist the eligible person into or out of the automobile or other conveyance, regardless of whether the automobile or other conveyance is to be operated by the eligible person or is to be operated for such person by another person; and any modification of the interior space of the automobile or other conveyance if needed because of the physical condition of such person in order for such person to enter or operate the vehicle.


*Altered vehicle* means the same as in 49 CFR 567.3.


*Alterer* means the same as in 49 CFR 567.3.


*Manufacturer* means the same as in 49 U.S.C. 30102(a)(6).


*Modifier* means a motor vehicle repair business that modifies a motor vehicle to enable a person with a disability to operate, or ride as a passenger in, the motor vehicle. VA does not approve, endorse, or assess the abilities of any modifiers to perform any requested or represented modification services.


*Registered provider* means a manufacturer, modifier, or alterer registered with the Department of Transportation's National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) Modifiers Identification Database currently available at *https://www.nhtsa.gov/apps/modifier/index.htm.* Any manufacturer, modifier, or alterer who is not registered is considered an *unregistered provider.*

*Roadside service* means emergency roadside services provided to an eligible person performed in connection with the repair, reinstallation, or replacement of adaptive equipment already installed in the automobile or other conveyance. The term is limited solely to services provided to make the adaptive equipment operational and does not include mechanical repair of the engine or other vehicle systems, towing, providing essential fuels and fluids such as gasoline necessary to operate the vehicle, or providing locksmith services.


*VA Adaptive Equipment Schedule for Automobiles and Other Conveyances (“Schedule”)* means the VA schedule that contains the maximum allowable reimbursement amounts for the listed adaptive equipment. The Schedule also includes the maximum hourly labor rates for installation, repair, reinstallation, and replacement of this equipment and allowable fees that VA will pay.



---

[N] [89 FR 51232, June 17, 2024]












