# § 2.302   Filing of documents.

(a) Documents filed in Commission adjudicatory proceedings subject to this part shall be electronically transmitted through the E-Filing system, unless the Commission or presiding officer grants an exemption permitting an alternative filing method or unless the filing falls within the scope of paragraph (h)(1) or (2) of this section.


(b) Upon an order from the Commission or presiding officer permitting alternative filing methods, or as otherwise set forth in Guidance for Electronic Submissions to the NRC, documents may be filed by:


(1) First-class mail: Office of the Secretary, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001, Attention: Rulemakings and Adjudications Staff; 


(2) Courier, express mail, and expedited delivery services: Office of the Secretary, Sixteenth Floor, One White Flint North, 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, MD 20852, Attention: Rulemakings and Adjudications Staff; or


(3) Email: *Hearing.Docket@nrc.gov.*

(c) All documents offered for filing must be accompanied by a certificate of service stating the names and addresses of the persons served as well as the manner and date of service.


(d) Filing is considered complete:


(1) By electronic transmission when the filer performs the last act that it must perform to transmit a document, in its entirety, electronically;


(2) By first-class mail as of the time of deposit in the mail;


(3) By courier, express mail, or expedited delivery service upon depositing the document with the provider of the service; or


(4) If a filing must be submitted by two or more methods, such as a filing that must be transmitted electronically as well as physically delivered or mailed on portable storage media as described in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the filing is complete when all methods of filing have been completed.




(e) For filings by electronic transmission, the filer must make a good faith effort to successfully transmit the entire filing. Notwithstanding paragraph (d) of this section, a filing will not be considered complete if the filer knows or has reason to know that the entire filing has not been successfully transmitted.






(f) *Identification and authentication.* (1) The NRC provides identification and authentication services that permit participants in the proceeding to access the E-Filing system to file documents, serve other participants, and retrieve documents electronically filed in the proceeding.


(2) Any participant or participant representative that does not have an identification and authentication credential must request one from the NRC before that participant or representative intends to make its first electronic filing to the E-Filing system. A participant or representative may apply for an identification and authentication credential on the NRC website at *https://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html.*

(g) *Filing method requirements.* (1) Unless otherwise provided by order, all filings must be made in an electronic format (*i.e.,* computer files) via the E-Filing system in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the filing, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on electronic formats that will meet these requirements may be found on the NRC website at *https://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html.*

(2) If a filing contains electronic portions that may not be transmitted via the E-Filing system for reasons of security or electronic format (as defined in paragraph (g)(1)), the portions not containing those sections must be transmitted electronically via the E-Filing system. In addition, portable storage media containing the entire electronic filing must be physically delivered or mailed.


(3) When an electronically formatted image or graphic of a physical object would not provide sufficient contextual value, the physical object may be physically delivered or mailed for inclusion in the adjudicatory record.


(4) In the circumstances described in paragraphs (g)(2) and (3) of this section, the submitter does not need to apply to the Commission or presiding officer for an exemption to deviate from the requirements in paragraph (g)(1) of this section.


(h) *Electronic filing exemptions*—(1) *Exemption from electronic transmission via the E-Filing system.* Upon a finding of good cause, the Commission or presiding officer may grant an exemption from the electronic transmission requirements found in paragraph (g)(1) of this section to a participant who is filing electronic documents. The exempt participant is permitted to file and serve electronic documents by email or by physically delivering or mailing portable storage media containing the documents. A participant granted this exemption would still be required to meet the electronic formatting requirements in paragraph (g)(1) of this section.


(2) *Exemption from electronic formatting and electronic transmission requirements.* Upon a finding of good cause, the Commission or presiding officer can exempt a participant from both the electronic formatting and electronic transmission requirements in paragraph (g) of this section. A participant granted such an exemption can file and serve paper documents either in person or by courier, express mail, some other expedited delivery service, or first-class mail, as ordered by the Commission or presiding officer.


(3) *Requesting an exemption.* A filer seeking an exemption under paragraph (h)(1) or (2) of this section must submit the exemption request with its first filing in the proceeding. In the request, a filer must show good cause as to why it cannot file electronically. The filer may not change its formats or delivery methods for filing until a ruling on the exemption request is issued. Exemption requests under paragraph (h)(1) or (2) of this section sought after the first filing in the proceeding will be granted only if the requestor shows that the interests of fairness so require.



---

[N] [72 FR 49149, Aug. 28, 2007, as amended at 89 FR 67832, Aug. 22, 2024]




