# § 407.82   Effluent limitations guidelines representing the degree of effluent reduction attainable by the application of the best practicable control technology currently available.

Except as provided in §§ 125.30 through 125.32, any existing point source subject to this subpart shall achieve the following effluent limitations representing the degree of effluent reduction attainable by the application of the best practicable control technology currently available (BPT):


(a) The following limitations establish the quantity of BOD*5* controlled by this section, which may be discharged by a “medium” or “large” existing point source subject to the provisions of this subpart after application of the best practicable control technology currently available. Any food specialty plant which continuously or intermittently discharges process waste water during the processing season shall meet the annual average, maximum thirty day average, and maximum day BOD*5* limitations. Food specialty plants employing long term waste stabilization, where all or a portion of the process waste water discharge is stored for the entire processing season and release at a controlled rate with state approval, shall meet only the annual average BOD*5* limitations. Effluent limitations for the soups subcategory are based upon pounds (lb) or kilograms (kg) of pollutant per 1000 pounds (lb) or kilograms (kkg) of raw ingredients.


(b) The following limitations establish the quantity of TSS controlled by this section, which may be discharged by a “medium” or “large” existing point source subject to the provisions of this subpart after application of the best practicable control technology currently available. Any food specialty plant which continuously or intermittently discharges process waste water during the processing season shall meet the annual average, maximum thirty day average, and maximum day TSS limitations. Food specialty plants employing long term waste stabilization, where all or a portion of the process waste water discharge is stored for the entire processing season and released at a controlled rate with state approval, shall meet only the annual average TSS limitations. Effluent limitations for the soups subcategory are based upon pounds (lb) or kilograms (kg) of pollutant per 1000 pounds (lb) or kilograms (kkg) of raw ingredients.


(c) The following limitations establish the quality of pH controlled by this section, which may be discharged by a “medium” or “large” existing point source subject to the provisions of this subpart after application of the best practicable control technology currently available.



---

[N] [41 FR 16284, Apr. 16, 1976, as amended at 60 FR 33939, June 29, 1995]




