# § 110.240   San Juan Harbor, P.R.

(a) *The anchorage grounds*—(1) *Temporary Anchorage E (general).* Beginning at a point which bears 262° T, 878 yards from Isla Grande Aero Beacon; thence along a line 75°47′, 498 yards; thence along a line 134°49′, 440 yards; thence along a line 224°49′ to the northerly channel limit of Graving Dock Channel, and thence to the point of beginning. 


(2) *Restricted Anchorage F.* Beginning at a point which bears 212°30′, 1,337.5 yards from Isla Grande Light; thence along a line 269°00′, 550 yards; thence along a line 330°00′ to the westerly channel limit of Anegado Channel; and thence along the westerly channel limit of Anegado Channel to the point of beginning. 


(b) *The regulations.* (1) Vessels awaiting customs or quarantine shall use Temporary Anchorage E. No vessel shall remain in this anchorage more than 24 hours without a permit from the U.S. Coast Guard Captain of the Port.


(2) Restricted Anchorage F shall serve both as an additional general anchorage area in cases where the temporary anchorage is full, and as an explosives anchorage for vessels loading or unloading explosives in quantities no greater than forty (40) tons, Commercial Class “A” Explosives, when so authorized by the United States Coast Guard Captain of the Port. No vessel shall enter or anchor therein without first obtaining a permit from the United States Coast Guard Captain of the Port.



---

[N] [CGFR 67-46, 32 FR 17728, Dec. 12, 1967, as amended by CGD 79-119, 45 FR 32673, May 19, 1980; CGD 7-83-29, 49 FR 48540, Dec. 13, 1984; 50 FR 5580, Feb. 11, 1985] 




