# § 1203.203   Degree of protection.

(a) *General.* Upon determination that information or material must be classified, the degree of protection commensurate with the sensitivity of the information must be determined. If there is reasonable doubt about the need to classify information, it shall be safeguarded as if it were classified pending a determination by an original classification authority, who shall make this determination within 30 days. If there is reasonable doubt about the appropriate level of classification, it shall be safeguarded at the higher level of classification pending a determination by an original classification authority, who shall make this determination within 30 days.


(b) *Authorized categories of classification.* The three categories of classification, as authorized and defined in “the Order,” are set out below. No other restrictive markings are authorized to be placed on NASA classified documents or materials except as expressly provided by statute or by NASA Directives.


(1) *Top Secret.* Top Secret is the designation applied to information or material, the unauthorized disclosure of which could reasonably be expected to cause exceptionally grave damage to the national security.


(2) *Secret.* Secret is the designation applied to information or material, the unauthorized disclosure of which could reasonably be expected to cause serious damage to the national security.


(3) *Confidential.* Confidential is the designation applied to that information or material for which the unauthorized disclosure could reasonably be expected to cause damage to the national security.



---

[N] [44 FR 34913, June 18, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 5890, Feb. 9, 1983; 78 FR 5117, Jan. 24, 2013]




