# § 1962.19   Claims against Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC).

This section is based on a Memorandum of Understanding between CCC and Rural Development (see Exhibit A of this subpart). The memorandum sets forth the procedure to follow when producers sell or pledge to CCC as loan collateral under the Price Support Program, commodities on which Rural Development holds a prior lien, and when the proceeds, or an agreed amount from them, are not remitted to Rural Development to apply against the producer's indebtedness to Rural Development. In addition to the procedures outlined in Exhibit A, the following apply:


(a) *County Office action.* (1) Claims will not be filed with CCC until it is determined that the amount involved cannot be collected from the borrower. Therefore, after preliminary notice is given of this fact to CCC by the State Director, the County Supervisor will make immediate demand on the borrower for the amount of the CCC loan or the portion of it which should have been applied to the borrower's account. If payment is made, the State Director will be notified.


(i) If payment is not made, the County Supervisor will determine whether or not the case should be liquidated in accordance with § 1962.40 of this subpart. Any liquidation action will be taken immediately. If the borrower has no property from which recovery can be made through liquidation or, if after liquidation, an unpaid balance remains on the indebtedness secured by the commodity pledged or sold to CCC, the County Supervisor will make a full report to the State Director on Form RD 455-1, “Request for Legal Action,” with a recommendation that a claim be filed againt CCC. However, if the indebtedness is paid through liquidation action, the State Director will be notified by memorandum.


(ii) If the facts do not warrant liquidation action, the State Director will be notified, and a recommendation will be made that no claim be filed against CCC.


(2) On receiving information from the State Director that CCC has called the borrower's loan, the County Supervisor will act to protect Rural Development's interest with respect to the commodity if CCC is repaid.


(b) *State Office action.* (1) The State Director, on receipt of reports and recommendations from the County Supervisor, will:


(i) If in agreement with the County Supervisor's recommendation not to file a claim against CCC or if notice is received that the indebtedness has been paid, forward notice to CCC.


(ii) If in agreement with the County Supervisor's recommendation to file a claim against CCC, refer the case to OGC with a statement of facts.


(iii) If OGC determines that Rural Development holds a prior lien on the commodity and the amount due on its loan is not collectible from the borrower, send CCC a copy of the OGC memorandum with a complete statement of facts supporting the claim through the applicable ASCS office or notify CCC if the OGC memorandum does not support Rural Development 's claim.


(2) The State Director will notify the County Supervisor promptly on receiving information from CCC that the borrower's loan is being called.


(3) If collection cannot be made from the borrower or other party (see paragraph 5 of Exhibit A of this Subpart), the State Director will give CCC the reasons, Rural Development will then be paid by CCC through the applicable ASCS office.




