# § 155.1515   Pre-testing and assessment procedures.

(a) *General requirement.* The State-based Exchanges are required to participate in the IPPTA for a period of two calendar years. The State-based Exchange and HHS will execute the pre-testing and assessment procedures in this section within the timelines in the pre-testing and assessment plan.


(b) *Orientation and planning processes.* (1) As a part of the orientation process, HHS will provide State-based Exchanges with an overview of the pre-testing and assessment procedures and identify documentation that a State-based Exchange must provide to HHS for pre-testing and assessment.


(2) As a part of the planning process, HHS, in collaboration with each State-based Exchange, will develop a pre-testing and assessment plan that takes into consideration relevant activities, if any, that were completed during a prior, voluntary State engagement. The pre-testing and assessment plan will include the pre-testing and assessment checklist.


(3) At the conclusion of the pre-testing and assessment planning process, HHS will issue the pre-testing and assessment plan specific to that State-based Exchange. The pre-testing and assessment plan will be for HHS and State-based Exchange internal use only and will not be made available to the public by HHS unless otherwise required by law.


(c) *Notifications and updates*—(1) *Notification*s. As needed throughout the pre-testing and assessment period, HHS will issue notifications to State-based Exchanges concerning information related to the pre-testing and assessment processes and procedures.


(2) *Updates regarding changes.* Throughout the pre-testing and assessment period, the State-based Exchange must provide HHS with information regarding any operational, policy, business rules, information technology, or other changes that may impact the ability of the State-based Exchange to satisfy the requirements of the pre-testing and assessment.


(d) *Submission of required data and data documentation.* As specified in § 155.1510, HHS will inform State-based Exchanges about the form and manner for State-based Exchanges to submit required data and data documentation to HHS in accordance with the pre-testing and assessment plan.


(e) *Data processing.* (1) HHS will coordinate with each State-based Exchange to track and manage the data and data documentation submitted by a State-based Exchange as specified in § 155.1510(a)(1) and (2).


(2) HHS will coordinate with each State-based Exchange to provide assistance in aligning the data specified in § 155.1510(a)(2) from the State-based Exchange's existing data structure to the standardized set of data elements.


(3) HHS will coordinate with each State-based Exchange to interpret and validate the data specified in § 155.1510(a)(2).


(4) HHS will use the data and data documentation submitted by the State-based Exchange to execute the pre-testing and assessment procedures.


(f) *Pre-testing and assessment checklist.* HHS will issue the pre-testing and assessment checklist as part of the pre-testing and assessment plan. The pre-testing and assessment checklist criteria will include but are not limited to:


(1) A State-based Exchange's submission of the data documentation as specified in § 155.1510(a)(1).


(2) A State-based Exchange's submission of the data for processing and testing as specified in § 155.1510(a)(2); and


(3) A State-based Exchange's completion of the pre-testing and assessment processes and procedures related to the IPPTA program.


(g) *Pre-testing and assessment report.* Subsequent to the completion of a State-based Exchange's pre-testing and assessment period, HHS will issue a pre-testing and assessment report specific to that State-based Exchange. The pre-testing and assessment report will be for HHS and State-based Exchange internal use only and will not be made available to the public by HHS unless otherwise required by law.










