# § 2.911   Application requirements.

(a) All requests for equipment authorization shall be submitted in writing to a Telecommunication Certification Body (TCB) in a manner prescribed by the TCB.


(b) A TCB shall submit an electronic copy of each equipment authorization application to the Commission pursuant to § 2.962(f)(8) on a form prescribed by the Commission at *https://www.fcc.gov/eas.*

(c) Each application that a TCB submits to the Commission shall be accompanied by all information required by this subpart and by those parts of the rules governing operation of the equipment, the applicant's certifications required by paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section, and by requisite test data, diagrams, photographs, etc., as specified in this subpart and in those sections of rules under which the equipment is to be operated.


(d) The applicant shall provide to the TCB all information that the TCB requests to process the equipment authorization request and to submit the application form prescribed by the Commission and all exhibits required with this form.


(1) The applicant shall provide a written and signed certification to the TCB that all statements it makes in its request for equipment authorization are true and correct to the best of its knowledge and belief.


(2) The applicant shall provide a written and signed certification to the TCB that the applicant complies with the requirements in § 1.2002 of this chapter concerning the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988.


(3) Each request for equipment authorization submitted to a TCB, including amendments thereto, and related statements of fact and authorizations required by the Commission, shall be signed by the applicant if the applicant is an individual; by one of the partners if the applicant is a partnership; by an officer, if the applicant is a corporation; or by a member who is an officer, if the applicant is an unincorporated association: Provided, however, that the application may be signed by the applicant's authorized representative who shall indicate his title, such as plant manager, project engineer, etc.


(4) Information on the Commission's equipment authorization requirements can be obtained from the Internet at *https://www.fcc.gov/eas.*

(5) The applicant shall provide a written and signed certification that, as of the date of the filing of the application with a TCB:


(i) The equipment for which the applicant seeks equipment authorization through certification is not prohibited from receiving an equipment authorization pursuant to § 2.903; and


(ii) An affirmative or negative statement as to whether the applicant is identified on the Covered List, established pursuant to § 1.50002 of this chapter, as an entity producing covered communications equipment.


(6) If the Covered List established pursuant to § 1.50002 of this chapter is modified after the date of the written and signed certification required by paragraph (d)(5) of this section but prior to grant of the authorization, then the applicant shall provide a new written and signed certification as required by paragraph (d)(5) of this section.


(7) The applicant shall designate an agent located in the United States for the purpose of accepting service of process on behalf of the applicant.


(i) The applicant shall provide a written certification:


(A) Signed by both the applicant and its designated agent for service of process, if different from the applicant;


(B) Acknowledging the applicant's consent and the designated agent's obligation to accept service of process in the United States for matters related to the applicable equipment, and at the physical U.S. address and email address of its designated agent; and


(C) Acknowledging the applicant's acceptance of its obligation to maintain an agent for service of process in the United States for no less than one year after either the grantee has permanently terminated all marketing and importation of the applicable equipment within the U.S., or the conclusion of any Commission-related administrative or judicial proceeding involving the equipment, whichever is later.


(ii) An applicant located in the United States may designate itself as the agent for service of process.




(e) Technical test data submitted to the TCB and to the Commission shall be signed by the person who performed or supervised the tests. The person signing the test data shall attest to the accuracy of such data. The Commission or TCB may require the person signing the test data to submit a statement showing that they are qualified to make or supervise the required measurements.


(f) Signed, as used in this section, means an original handwritten signature; however, the Office of Engineering and Technology may allow signature by any symbol executed or adopted by the applicant or TCB with the intent that such symbol be a signature, including symbols formed by computer-generated electronic impulses.



---

[N] [80 FR 33440, June 12, 2015, as amended at 88 FR 7623, Feb. 6, 2023]












