# § 660.721   Recreational fishing bag limits and filleting requirements.

This section applies to recreational fishing for albacore tuna in the U.S. EEZ off the coast of California, Oregon, and Washington and for bluefin tuna in the U.S. EEZ off the coast of California. In addition to individual fishermen, the operator of a U.S. sportsfishing vessel that fishes for albacore or bluefin tuna is responsible for ensuring that the bag and possession limits of this section are not exceeded. The bag limits of this section apply on the basis of each 24-hour period at sea, regardless of the number of trips per day. The provisions of this section do not authorize any person to take and retain more than one daily bag limit of fish during 1 calendar day. Federal recreational HMS regulations are not intended to supersede any more restrictive state recreational HMS regulations relating to federally-managed HMS.


(a) *Albacore Tuna Daily Bag Limit.* Except pursuant to a multi-day possession permit referenced in paragraph (c) of this section, a recreational fisherman may take and retain, or possess onboard no more than:


(1) Ten albacore tuna if any part of the fishing trip occurs in the U.S. EEZ south of a line running due west true from 34°27′ N. latitude (at Point Conception, Santa Barbara County) to the U.S.-Mexico border.


(2) Twenty-five albacore tuna if any part of the fishing trip occurs in the U.S. EEZ north of a line running due west true from 34°27′ N. latitude (at Point Conception, Santa Barbara County) to the California-Oregon border.


(b) *Bluefin Tuna Daily Bag Limit.* A recreational fisherman may take and retain, or possess on board no more than two bluefin tuna during any part of a fishing trip that occurs in the U.S. EEZ off California south of a line running due west true from the California—Oregon border [42°00′ N. latitude].


(c) *Possession Limits.* If the State of California requires a multi-day possession permit for albacore or bluefin tuna harvested by a recreational fishing vessel and landed in California, aggregating daily trip limits for multi-day trips would be deemed consistent with Federal law.


(d) *Boat Limits* Off the coast of California, boat limits apply, whereby each fisherman aboard a vessel may continue to use recreational angling gear until the combined daily limits of HMS for all licensed and juvenile anglers aboard has been attained (additional state restrictions on boat limits may apply). Unless otherwise prohibited, when two or more persons are angling for HMS species aboard a vessel in the EEZ, fishing may continue until boat limits are reached.


(e) *Restrictions on Filleting of Tuna South of Point Conception.* South of a line running due west true from Point Conception, Santa Barbara County (34°27′ N. latitude) to the U.S.-Mexico border, any tuna that has been filleted must be individually bagged as follows:


(1) The bag must be marked with the species' common name; and


(2) The fish must be cut into the following six pieces with all skin attached: the four loins, the collar removed as one piece with both pectoral fins attached and intact, and the belly cut to include the vent and with both pelvic fins attached and intact.



---

[N] [72 FR 58259, Oct. 15, 2007, as amended at 80 FR 44891, July 28, 2015]




