# ยง 214.600   Tribal housing counselor certification.

(a) This subpart applies only to housing counseling required under or provided in connection with the Indian Housing Block Grant (IHBG) program or the Indian Community Development Block Grant (ICDBG) program. Indian Tribes, tribally designated housing entities (TDHEs), and other tribal entities funding housing counseling required under or provided in connection with IHBG or ICDBG programs shall not be subject to the requirements of this part, except as otherwise provided in this subpart.


(b) Housing counseling required under or provided in connection with IHBG or ICDBG programs must be provided by a HUD-certified housing counselor or a HUD-certified Tribal housing counselor.


(c) HUD will certify an individual housing counselor to provide housing counseling required under or provided in connection with IHBG or ICDBG programs upon verification that the person:


(1) Passes a standardized written examination to demonstrate competency in each of the following areas:


(i) Financial management;


(ii) Property maintenance;


(iii) Responsibilities of homeownership and tenancy;


(iv) Fair housing laws and requirements;


(v) Housing affordability; and


(vi) Avoidance of, and response to, rental or mortgage delinquency and avoidance of eviction or mortgage default; and


(2) Works for an Indian Tribe, TDHE, or other Tribal entity.


(d) To provide housing counseling required under or provided in connection with HUD programs other than the IHBG and ICDBG programs, an individual working for an Indian Tribe, TDHE, or other Tribal entity must meet the housing counseling certification requirement under ยง 214.103(n), including the standardized written examination required under ยง 214.103(n)(2), and the Indian Tribe, TDHE, or other Tribal entity must be a participating agency).


(e) Entities and individuals providing housing counseling under this subpart must be certified by the Office of Housing Counseling by 48 months from the effective date of this rule or 30 days after HUD makes the Tribal certification examination available, whichever is later. HUD will publish a document in the _Federal Register_ to announce the start of the testing and certification requirement.






