# ยง 29.931   How can the Department or the Tribe obtain review of the recommended decision of an administrative law judge?

(a) *Time for filing.* Within 30 days after service of any recommended decision of an administrative law judge, the Department or the Tribe may file a petition for review of the recommended decision with the Secretary. A copy must be served on the opposing party.


(b) *Service.* Each document filed with or by the Secretary must be accompanied by a certificate of service specifying the manner in which and the date on which service was made with the Secretary and the opposing party.


(c) *Form and content of objections.* The petition for review must set out separately and in detail each objection to the recommended decision, and the basis and reasons supporting such objection. The petition for review must state whether such objections are related to alleged errors of law or fact. The petition for review must also identify the relief requested.


(d) *Introduction of new information on review.* If the Department or the Tribe fail to object to any errors in the recommended decision, the party waives the right to allege such error in subsequent proceedings. The petition for review may not set forth for the first time on brief to the Secretary any matters of law or fact that were not argued before the administrative law judge.


(e) *Reply briefs.* An opposing party has 30 days from the date of service of the petition for review to file its reply brief.


(f) *Failure to file timely and adequate objections.* Late filed petitions for review are not permitted, and incomplete objections will not be reviewed.




