# ยง 162.163-4   Approval procedures.

(a) Portable foam applicators designed, constructed, tested, and marked in accordance with UL 162 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 162.163-1) are eligible for approval under the provisions of this chapter.


(b) A follow-up program must be established and maintained to ensure that no unauthorized changes have been made to the design or manufacture of type approved portable foam applicators. Acceptable follow-up programs include factory inspection programs administered by the accepted independent laboratory that performed the initial inspections and tests relied on by the type approval holder, or special configuration control programs implemented through a quality control flow chart and core procedures administered by the manufacturer and certified by an international standards agency such as the International Organization for Standardization (ISO).


(c) Applicants seeking type approval of portable foam applicators must submit:


(1) A cover letter requesting type approval of the equipment;


(2) A test report from the accepted independent laboratory showing compliance of the portable foam applicator with UL 162;


(3) A copy of the contract for a follow-up program with the accepted independent laboratory; and


(4) Documentation of the portable foam applicator, including an exterior drawing, assembly drawing, components list, and bill of material.


(d) All documentation must either be mailed to Commandant (CG-ENG-4), United States Coast Guard, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Stop 7509, Washington, DC 20593-7509 or electronically submitted to *typeapproval@uscg.mil*.


(e) Upon evaluation of the submittal package and approval by the Commandant, a Coast Guard Certificate of Approval will be issued valid for 5 years so long as the follow-up program for the portable foam applicators is maintained.


(f) Upon application, a Certificate of Approval for a portable foam applicator may be renewed for successive 5-year periods without further testing so long as no changes have been made to the products, the follow-up program has been maintained, and no substitutions of or changes to the standards listed in ยง 162.027-2 have been made.






