# § 63.3531   How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations?

You may use the emission rate without add-on controls option for any coating operation, for any group of coating operations within a subcategory or coating type segment, or for all of the coating operations within a subcategory or coating type segment. You must use either the compliant material option, the emission rate with add-on controls option, or the control efficiency/outlet concentration option for any coating operation in the affected source for which you do not use this option. If you use the alternative overall emission limit for a subcategory according to paragraph (i) of this section to demonstrate compliance, however, you must include all coating operations in all coating type segments in the subcategory to determine compliance with the overall limit. To demonstrate initial compliance using the emission rate without add-on controls option, the coating operation or group of coating operations must meet the applicable emission limit in § 63.3490, but is not required to meet the operating limits or work practice standards in §§ 63.3492 and 63.3493, respectively. You must conduct a separate initial compliance demonstration for each one and two-piece draw and iron can body coating, sheetcoating, three-piece can body assembly coating, and end coating affected source. You must meet all the requirements of this section to demonstrate initial compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.3490 for the coating operation(s). When calculating the organic HAP emission rate according to this section, do not include any coatings or thinners used on coating operations for which you use the compliant material option, the emission rate with add-on controls option, or the control efficiency/outlet concentration option or coating operations in a different affected source in a different subcategory. Use the procedures in this section on each coating and thinner in the condition it is in when it is received from its manufacturer or supplier and prior to any alteration (*e.g.,* mixing or thinning). You do not need to redetermine the mass of organic HAP in coatings or thinners that have been reclaimed onsite and reused in the coating operation(s) for which you use the emission rate without add-on controls option. All required calculations and compliance demonstrations may be performed with either metric or English units.


(a) *Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each material.* Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each coating and thinner used during each month according to the requirements in § 63.3521(a). 


(b) *Determine the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating.* Determine the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating used during each month according to the requirements in § 63.3521(b). 


(c) *Determine the density of each material.* Determine the density of each coating and thinner used during each month from test results using ASTM D1475-13 or ASTM D2111-10 (2015) (both incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material, or reference sources providing density or specific gravity data for pure materials. If there is disagreement between ASTM D1475-13 or ASTM D2111-10 (2015) test results and such other information sources, the test results will take precedence.


(d) *Determine the volume of each material used.* Determine the volume (liters) of each coating and thinner used during each month by measurement or usage records. 


(e) *Calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions.* The mass of organic HAP emissions is the combined mass of organic HAP contained in all coatings and thinners used during each month minus the organic HAP in certain waste materials. Calculate it using Equation 1 of this section.


(1) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the coatings used during the month using Equation 1A of this section. 


(2) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the thinners used during the month using Equation 1B of this section. 


(3) If you choose to account for the mass of organic HAP contained in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF or other applicable waste management location in Equation 1 of this section, then you must determine it according to paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section. 


(i) You may include in the determination only waste materials that are generated by coating operations for which you use Equation 1 of this section and that will be treated or disposed of by a facility regulated as a TSDF under 40 CFR part 262, 264, 265, or 266 or otherwise managed in accordance with applicable Federal and State waste management regulations. The TSDF or other applicable waste management location may be either offsite or onsite. You may not include organic HAP contained in wastewater. 


(ii) You must determine either the amount of the waste materials sent to a TSDF, or other applicable waste management location, during the month, or the amount collected and stored during the month and designated for future transport to a TSDF or other applicable waste management location. Do not include in your determination any waste materials sent to a TSDF or other applicable waste management location during a month if you have already included them in the amount collected and stored during that month or a previous month. 


(iii) Determine the total mass of organic HAP contained in the waste materials specified in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section. 


(iv) You must document the methodology you used to determine the amount of waste materials and the total mass of organic HAP they contain as required in § 63.3512(h). To the extent that waste manifests include this information, they may be used as part of the documentation of the amount of waste materials and mass of organic HAP contained in them. 


(f) *Calculate the total volume of coating solids used.* Determine the total volume of coating solids used which is the combined volume of coating solids for all the coatings used during each month using Equation 2 of this section. 


(g) *Calculate the organic HAP emission rate.* Calculate the organic HAP emission rate for the 12-month compliance period, kg organic HAP per liter coating solids used, using Equation 3 of this section. 


(h) *Compliance demonstration.* The organic HAP emission rate for the initial 12-month compliance period, H_yr_, must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.3490. You must keep all records as required by §§ 63.3512 and 63.3513. As part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.3510, you must identify the coating operation(s) for which you used the emission rate without add-on controls option and submit a statement that the coating operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because the organic HAP emission rate was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.3490, determined according to this section. 


(i) *Alternative calculation of overall subcategory emission limit (OSEL).* Alternatively, if your affected source applies coatings in more than one coating type segment within a subcategory, you may calculate an overall HAP emission limit for the subcategory using Equation 4 of this section. If you use this approach, you must limit organic HAP emissions to the atmosphere to the OSEL specified by Equation 4 of this section during each 12-month compliance period. 


You must use the OSEL determined by Equation 4 of this section throughout the 12-month compliance period and may not switch between compliance with individual coating type limits and an OSEL. You may not include coatings in different subcategories in determining your OSEL by this approach. You must keep all records as required by §§ 63.3512 and 63.3513. As part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.3510, you must identify the subcategory for which you used a calculated OSEL and submit a statement that the coating operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because the organic HAP emission rate for the subcategory was less than or equal to the OSEL determined according to this section.



---

[N] [68 FR 64446, Nov. 13, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 1384, Jan. 6, 2006; 85 FR 10851, Feb. 25, 2020]




