# § 18.20   General rules.

(a) *Classes of goods for which a transportation and exportation entry is authorized.* Entry for transportation and exportation may be made under § 553, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1553), for any merchandise, except as provided under § 18.1(l).


(b) *Filing requirement.* Transportation and exportation entries must be filed via a CBP-approved EDI system and in accordance with § 18.1.


(c) *Entry procedures.* Except as provided for in subparts D, E, F and G of part 123 of this chapter (relating to merchandise in transit through the United States between two points in contiguous foreign territory), when merchandise is entered for transportation and exportation, a (TIR) carnet, three copies of an air waybill (see § 122.92 of this chapter), or the in-bond application must be submitted to CBP (see § 18.1). The port director may require the carrier to provide to CBP additional information and documentation related to the delivery of the merchandise to the bonded carrier.


(d) *No bonded common carrier facilities available.* Except for merchandise covered by a carnet (see § 18.2(a)(2) and (3)), in places where no bonded common carrier facilities are reasonably available and merchandise is permitted to be transported otherwise than by a bonded common carrier, the port director may permit entry in accordance with the procedures outlined in this section if he or she is satisfied that the revenue will not be endangered. A bond on CBP Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter in an amount equal to double the estimated duties that would be owed will be required when the port director deems such action necessary. The principal on any bond filed to guarantee exportation may be required by the port director to provide evidence of exportation in accordance with § 113.55 of this chapter within 30 days of exportation.


(e) *Electronic Export Information.* Filing of Electronic Export Information (EEI) is not required for merchandise entered for transportation and exportation, provided the merchandise has not been entered for consumption or warehousing, or admitted into an FTZ. If the merchandise requires an export license, the merchandise is subject to the filing requirements of the licensing Federal agency. See 15 CFR part 30, subpart A.


(f) *Time to export.* Any portion of an in-bond shipment entered for transportation and exportation must be exported within 15 calendar days from the date of arrival of the last portion of the shipment at the port of exportation, unless an extension has been granted by CBP pursuant to § 18.24. On the 16th day, the merchandise will become subject to general order requirements under § 4.37, § 122.50, or § 123.10 of this chapter, as applicable.


(g) *Notice of arrival and proof of exportation.* Arrival must be reported within two business days after the arrival at the port of exportation, in accordance with § 18.1. Within two business days after exportation, the in-bond record must be updated via a CBP approved EDI system to reflect that the merchandise has been exported. The principal on any bond filed to guarantee exportation may be required by the port director to provide evidence of exportation in accordance with § 113.55 of this chapter.




