# ยง 115.50   Application for bridge permits.

(a) *Application.* An application for authorization to construct a bridge across navigable waters of the United States must include the name, address, and telephone number of the applicant; the waterway and location of the bridge; a citation to the applicable act of Congress; when appropriate, a citation to the State legislation authorizing the bridge; a map of the location and plans of the bridge showing the features which affect navigation; and papers to establish the identity of the applicant.


(b) *Prior authority necessary.* Except as provided under paragraph (c) of this section, a bridge cannot lawfully be constructed across any navigable waterway of the United States until the location and plans have been approved by the Coast Guard.


(c) *Prior authority not necessary.* Coast Guard approval of the location and plans for construction or modification of a bridge or causeway is not required for any bridge or causeway over waters which are not subject to the ebb and flow of the tide and which are not used and are not susceptible to use in their natural condition or by reasonable improvement as a means to transport interstate or foreign commerce, whether or not such waters were used or were susceptible to use, at some previous time, to transport commerce (historic use). This provision does not apply to bridges which connect the United States with any foreign country.


(d) *Signature.* In case of signature by an agent or by an official of a corporation, a duly authenticated copy of the authority for the action must accompany the application. 


(e) *Identification.* If the applicant is a corporation, it must furnish certified copies of the following papers, all properly authenticated: The charter or articles of incorporation; the minutes of organization; an excerpt from the minutes showing the names of the present officers of the corporation. 


(1) Where State laws vest in State or county officers, such as boards of supervisors and county courts, the power to authorize the construction of bridges, they must furnish with their application certified excerpts from their proceedings showing their action authorizing the proposed structure. 


(f) *Plans.* One reproducible set of plans must be submitted with the application, on which the location of the work and the essential features covered by the application will be identified. Each drawing must have a title block located in the lower right-hand corner identifying the applicant/agent and bridge owner; the waterway; the milepoint on the waterway of the bridge location; the city, county, and state of the bridge location; the name of the bridge; the date of the plans; the sheet number; and the total number of sheets in the set.


(g) *Size of sheets.* The drawings will be on letter size sheets. As few sheets will be used as necessary to show clearly what is proposed.


(h) *Special instructions.* (1) Vertical and horizontal distances will be shown using bar scales. The north and south line will be indicated by a meridian arrow. Soundings and elevations will be shown in feet and refer to the established Government datum plane at the locality.


(2) The direction of the current or, for tidal waters, the direction of the ebb and flow, will be indicated by arrow(s), and will be shown close to the proposed location of the bridge, and at both ends of the waterway shown on the map of location.


(3) The plans will show in figures the least clear height of the lowest part of the superstructure over navigation openings, with reference to the planes of mean high water and mean low water if the bridge is to cross tidal water. If the waters are nontidal, the least clear height will be shown with reference to the planes of extreme high water and mean low water. If records of river heights are available, the 2 percent flowline (the plane above which flood waters have not remained more than 2 percent of the time) will be indicated. Reference will also be made to other datum planes if appropriate for the waterway in question. 


(4) If harbor lines have been established at the site of the bridge, their position will be shown on the plans. 


(i) *Structural details.* Only those should be shown which are needed to illustrate the effect of the proposed structure on navigation. If the bridge is to be equipped with a draw, the latter will be shown in two positions: Closed and open. In those cases, the vertical and horizontal clearances shall be indicated in both the closed and open positions.


(j) *To whom application should be presented.* The application and the papers and plans accompanying it should be submitted to the District Commander having jurisdiction over the area in which the bridge site is located.



---

[N] [CGFR 67-46, 32 FR 17771, Dec. 12, 1967, as amended by CGD 75-046, 40 FR 24898, June 11, 1975; CGD 80-099, 46 FR 38354, July 27, 1981; CGD 82-102, 48 FR 54299, Dec. 2, 1982; USCG-2011-0257, 76 FR 31836, June 2, 2011: USCG-2012-0306, 77 FR 37314, June 21, 2012; USCG-2016-0498, 82 FR 35081, July 28, 2017] 




