# ยง 502.72   Dismissals.

(a) *Voluntary dismissal.* (1) *By the complainant.* When no settlement agreement is involved, the complainant may dismiss an action without an order from the presiding officer by filing a notice of dismissal before the opposing party serves either an answer, a motion to dismiss, or a motion for summary decision. Unless the notice or stipulation states otherwise, the dismissal is without prejudice.


(2) *By stipulation of the parties.* The parties may dismiss an action at any point without an order from the presiding officer by filing a stipulation of dismissal signed by all parties who have appeared. In the stipulation the parties must certify that no settlement on the merits was reached. Unless the stipulation states otherwise, the dismissal is without prejudice.


(3) *By order of the presiding officer.* Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, an action may be dismissed at the complainant's request only by order of the presiding officer, on terms the presiding officer considers proper. If the motion is based on a settlement by the parties, the settlement agreement must be submitted with the motion for determination as to whether the settlement appears to violate any law or policy and to ensure the settlement is free of fraud, duress, undue influence, mistake, or other defects which might make it unapprovable. Unless the order states otherwise, a dismissal under this paragraph is without prejudice.


(b) *Involuntary dismissal; effect.* If the complainant fails to prosecute or to comply with these rules or an order in the proceeding, a respondent may move to dismiss the action or any claim against it, or the presiding officer, after notice to the parties, may dismiss the proceeding on its own motion. Unless the dismissal order states otherwise, a dismissal under this subpart, except one for lack of jurisdiction or failure to join a party, operates as an adjudication on the merits.


(c) *Dismissing a counterclaim, crossclaim, or third-party claim.* This rule applies to dismissals of any counterclaim, crossclaim, or third-party claim.



---

[N] [79 FR 76902, Dec. 23, 2014]




