# § 721.11050   Certain functionalized methacrylate-substituted polymers.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances listed in Table 1 of this section is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substances after they have been reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i) and (iii), (a)(3), when determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible, (a)(6) (particulate), (b) (concentration set at 1.0%), and (c).


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(f) and (k) (crosslinked resin used for chromatographic separation of biomolecules and biocatalysts). It is a significant new use to import the substance in any form other than spherical beads with 0.1 percent less than 10 microns.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (e) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [84 FR 43297, Aug. 20, 2019]




