# § 246.2   Definitions.

As used in this part:


(a) *Assessment period* means January 1 through December 31 of each calendar year.


(b) *Bank* means an insured depository institution as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).


(c) *Bank holding company* is defined as in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841), and the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR part 225).


(d) *Company* means a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, depository institution, business trust, special purpose entity, association, or similar organization.


(e) *Council* means the Financial Stability Oversight Council established by section 111 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5321).


(f) *Foreign bank holding company* means a foreign bank that is a bank holding company and any foreign company that owns such foreign bank.


(g) *Foreign savings and loan holding company* means a foreign bank or foreign company that is a savings and loan holding company.


(h) *GAAP* means generally accepted accounting principles, as used in the United States.


(i) *Grandfathered unitary savings and loan holding company* means a savings and loan holding company described in section 10(c)(9)(C) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (“HOLA”) (12 U.S.C. 1467a(c)(9)(C)).


(j) *Nonbank financial company supervised by the Board* means a company that the Council has determined pursuant to section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act shall be supervised by the Board and for which such determination is in effect.


(k) *Notice of assessment* means the notice in which the Board informs a company that it is an assessed company and states the assessed company's total assessable assets and the amount of its assessment.


(l) *Savings and loan holding company* is defined as in section 10 of HOLA (12 U.S.C. 1467a).


(m) *Savings association* is defined as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).


(n) *Category I, II, and III firms* are assessed companies subject to Category I, II, or III standards as defined and determined under 12 CFR parts 238 and 252 as of December 31 of the assessment period.


(o) *Category IV firms* are assessed companies subject to Category IV standards as defined and determined under 12 CFR parts 238 and 252 as of December 31 of the assessment period.


(p) *“Other” firms* are assessed companies not subject to the Category I, II, III, or IV standards as defined and determined under 12 CFR parts 238 and 252 as of December 31 of the assessment period.



---

[N] [78 FR 52492, Aug. 23, 2013, as amended at 85 FR 78953, Dec. 8, 2020]




