# § 63.510   Process vents, storage vessels, and wastewater that are in chloroprene service—procedures to determine compliance.

This section applies beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(o). In order to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits and work practice standards specified in § 63.485(y) (for continuous front-end process vents in chloroprene service), § 63.487(j) (for batch front-end process vents in chloroprene service), § 63.494(a)(7) (for back-end process vents in chloroprene service), § 63.484(u) (for storage vessels in chloroprene service), and § 63.501(a)(10)(iv) (for wastewater in chloroprene service), owners and operators must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.


(a) For initial compliance, owners and operators must comply with paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable.


(1) [Reserved]


(2) If an owner or operator chooses to reduce emissions of chloroprene by venting emissions through a closed vent system to a non-flare control device that reduces chloroprene by greater than or equal to 98 percent by weight as specified in § 63.484(u), § 63.485(y), § 63.487(j), or § 63.494(a)(7) then the owner or operator must comply with § 63.148 and paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (viii) of this section.


(i) Conduct an initial performance test of the control device that is used to comply with the percent reduction requirement at the inlet and outlet of the control device. For purposes of compliance with this paragraph, owners and operators may not use a design evaluation. This paragraph does not apply if the conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(A) through (D) of this section are met for a previously-conducted measurement or performance test.


(A) No changes have been made to the process since the time of the measurement or performance test;


(B) The operating conditions and test methods used during measurement or performance test conform to the chloroprene related requirements of this subpart;


(C) The control device and process parameter values established during the previously-conducted measurement or performance test are used to demonstrate continuous compliance with the chloroprene related requirements of this subpart; and


(D) The previously-conducted measurement or performance test was completed within the last 60 months.


(ii) Conduct the performance test according to the procedures in § 63.504 and in § 63.116(c). Except as specified in § 63.509(a)(6), use Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6 or Method 320 of appendix A to this part to determine the chloroprene concentration. Use Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1 to select the sampling sites at each sampling location. Determine the gas volumetric flowrate using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2. Use Method 4 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3 to convert the volumetric flowrate to a dry basis.


(iii) Calculate the mass emission rate of chloroprene entering the control device and exiting the control device using Equations 1 and 2 to this paragraph.


(iv) Calculate the percent reduction from the control device using equation 3 to this paragraph. An owner or operator has demonstrated initial compliance with § 63.113(j)(2) or § 63.119(a)(5)(ii) if the overall reduction of chloroprene is greater than or equal to 98 percent by weight.


(v) If a new control device is installed, then conduct a performance test of the new device following the procedures in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(vi) [Reserved]


(vii) If an owner or operator vents emissions through a closed vent system to a thermal oxidizer, then the owner or operator must establish operating parameter limits by monitoring the operating parameters specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(vii)(A) and (B) of this section during the performance test.


(A) Combustion chamber temperature. Determine the average combustion chamber temperature during the performance test as the average of the test run averages.


(B) Flue gas flow rate. Determine the average flue gas flow rate during the performance test as the average of the test run averages.


(viii) If an owner or operator vents emissions through a closed vent system to a control device other than a thermal oxidizer, then the owner or operator must notify the Administrator of the operating parameters that are planned to be monitored during the performance test prior to establishing operating parameter limits for the control device.


(3) If an owner or operator chooses to reduce emissions of chloroprene by venting emissions through a closed vent system to a non-flare control device that reduces chloroprene to less than 1 ppmv as specified in § 63.484(u), § 63.485(y), § 63.487(j), or § 63.494(a)(7) then the owner or operator must comply with § 63.148 and either paragraph (a)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(i) Install an FTIR CEMS meeting the requirements of Performance Specification 15 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B to continuously monitor the chloroprene concentration at the exit of the control device. Comply with the requirements specified in § 63.2450(j) for CEMS.


(ii) If the owner or operator does not install a CEMS under paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, then the owner or operator must comply with paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) Conduct an initial performance test at the outlet of the control device that is used to comply with the concentration requirement.


(B) Conduct the performance test according to the procedures in § 63.504 and in § 63.116(c). Except as specified in § 63.509(a)(6), use Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6 or Method 320 of appendix A to this part to determine the chloroprene concentration. If the non-flare control device is a combustion device, correct the chloroprene concentration to 3 percent oxygen according to § 63.116(c)(iii)(B), except “TOC or organic HAP” and “TOC (minus methane and ethane) or organic HAP” in the Variables Cc and Cm must be replaced with “chloroprene”. An owner or operator has demonstrated initial compliance with § 63.484(u), § 63.485(y), § 63.487(j), or § 63.494(a)(7) if the chloroprene concentration is less than 1 ppmv.


(C) Comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(v) through (viii) of this section, as applicable.


(4) If owners and operators choose to reduce emissions of chloroprene by venting emissions through a closed vent system to a non-flare control device that reduces chloroprene to less than 5 pounds per year for all combined process vents within the process as specified in § 63.113(j)(2), then the owner or operator must comply with § 63.148 and paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) Conduct an initial performance test of the control device that is used to comply with the mass emission limit requirement at the outlet of the control device.


(ii) Conduct the performance test according to the procedures in § 63.504 and in § 63.116(c). Except as specified in § 63.509(a)(6), use Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6 or Method 320 of appendix A to this part to determine the chloroprene concentration. Use Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1 to select the sampling site. Determine the gas volumetric flowrate using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2. Use Method 4 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3 to convert the volumetric flowrate to a dry basis.


(iii) Calculate the mass emission rate of chloroprene exiting the control device using Equation 2 to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section. An owner or operator has demonstrated initial compliance with § 63.113(j)(2) if the chloroprene from all process vents (controlled and uncontrolled) within the process is less than 5 pounds per year when combined.


(iv) Comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(v) through (viii) of this section, as applicable.


(b) For continuous compliance, owners and operators must comply with paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section, as applicable.


(1) [Reserved]


(2) If you choose to reduce emissions of chloroprene by venting emissions through a closed-vent system to a non-flare control device that reduces chloroprene to less than 1 ppmv as specified in § 63.113(j)(2) or § 63.119(a)(5)(ii) of subpart G of this part, and you choose to comply with paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, then continuously monitor the chloroprene concentration at the exit of the control device using an FTIR CEMS meeting the requirements of Performance Specification 15 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B and § 63.2450(j). If an owner or operator uses an FTIR CEMS, then the owner or operator does not need to conduct the performance testing required in paragraph (b)(3) of this section or the operating parameter monitoring required in paragraphs (b)(4) through (6) of this section.


(3) Conduct a performance test no later than 60 months after the previous performance test and reestablish operating parameter limits following the procedures in paragraph (a)(2) through (4) of this section. The Administrator may request a repeat performance test at any time. For purposes of compliance with this paragraph, owners and operators may not use a design evaluation.


(4) [Reserved]


(5) If an owner or operator vents emissions through a closed vent system to a thermal oxidizer, then the owner or operator must comply with § 63.148, and the owner or operator must meet the operating parameter limits specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section and the requirements in paragraph (b)(5)(iii) of this section.


(i) Minimum combustion chamber temperature, equal to the average combustion chamber temperature measured during the most recent performance test. Determine combustion chamber temperature with a temperature sensor with a minimum accuracy of at least ±1 percent over the normal range of temperature measured, expressed in degrees Celsius, or 2.8 degrees Celsius, whichever is greater. Compliance with the minimum combustion chamber temperature operating limit must be determined continuously on a 1-hour block basis.


(ii) Maximum flue gas flow rate, equal to the average flue gas flow rate measured during the most recent performance test. Determine flue gas flow rate with a flow sensor with a minimum accuracy of at least ±5 percent over the normal range of flow measured, or 280 liters per minute (10 cubic feet per minute), whichever is greater. Compliance with the maximum flue gas flow rate operating limit must be determined continuously on a 1-hour block basis.


(iii) The owner or operator must maintain the thermal oxidizer in accordance with good combustion practices that ensure proper combustion. Good combustion practices include, but are not limited to, proper burner maintenance, proper burner alignment, proper fuel to air distribution and mixing, routine inspection, and preventative maintenance.


(6) If an owner or operator vents emissions through a closed vent system to a control device other than a thermal oxidizer, then the owner or operator must comply with § 63.148, and the owner or operator must monitor the operating parameters identified in paragraph (a)(2)(viii) of this section and meet the established operating parameter limits to ensure continuous compliance. The frequency of monitoring and averaging time will be determined based upon the information provided to the Administrator.





---

[N] [89 FR 43262, May 16, 2024]







