# § 1.2204   Applications to participate in competitive bidding.

(a) *Public notice of the application process.* All applications to participate must be filed electronically. The dates and procedures for submitting applications to participate in the reverse auction shall be announced by public notice.


(b) *Applicant.* The applicant identified on the application to participate must be the broadcast television licensee that would relinquish spectrum usage rights if it becomes a winning bidder. In the case of a channel sharing bid, the applicant will be the proposed channel sharee.


(c) *Information and certifications provided in the application to participate.* An applicant may be required to provide the following information in its application to participate in the reverse auction:


(1) The following identifying information:


(i) If the applicant is an individual, the applicant's name and address. If the applicant is a corporation, the name and address of the corporate office and the name and title of an officer or director. If the applicant is a partnership, the name, citizenship, and address of all general partners, and, if a general partner is not a natural person, then the name and title of a responsible person for that partner, as well. If the applicant is a trust, the name and address of the trustee. If the applicant is none of the above, it must identify and describe itself and its principals or other responsible persons;


(ii) Applicant ownership and other information as set forth in § 1.2112(a); and


(iii) List, in the case of a non-profit entity, the name, address, and citizenship of each member of the governing board and of any educational institution or governmental entity with a controlling interest in the applicant, if applicable.


(2) The identity of the person(s) authorized to take binding action in the bidding on behalf of the applicant.


(3) For each broadcast television license for which the applicant intends to submit reverse auction bids:


(i) The identity of the station and its television channel;


(ii) Whether it is a full-power or Class A television station;


(iii) If the license is for a Class A television station, certification under penalty of perjury that it is and will remain in compliance with the ongoing statutory eligibility requirements to remain a Class A station;


(iv) Whether it is an NCE station and, if so, whether it operates on a reserved or non-reserved channel;


(v) The types of reverse auction bids that the applicant may submit;


(vi) Whether the license for the station is subject to a non-final revocation order, has expired and is subject to a non-final cancellation order, or if for a Class A station is subject to a non-final downgrade order and, if the license is subject to such a proceeding or order, then an acknowledgement that the Commission will place all of its auction proceeds into escrow pending the final outcome of the proceeding or order; and


(vii) Any additional information required to assess the spectrum usage rights offered.


(4) For each broadcast television license for which the applicant intends to submit a license relinquishment bid:


(i) Whether it intends to enter into a channel sharing agreement if it becomes a winning bidder;


(ii) Whether it will control another broadcast station if it becomes a winning bidder and terminates operations; and


(iii) If it will control another broadcast station, an acknowledgement that it will remain subject to any pending license renewal, as well as any enforcement action, against the station offered; or


(iv) If it will not control another broadcast station, an acknowledgement that the Commission will place a share of its auction proceeds into escrow to cover any potential forfeiture costs associated with any pending license renewal or any pending enforcement action against the station offered.


(5) For each broadcast television license for which the applicant intends to submit a channel sharing bid:


(i) The identity of the channel sharer and the television channel the applicant has agreed to share;


(ii) Any required information regarding the channel sharing agreement, including a copy of the executed channel sharing agreement;


(iii) Certification under penalty of perjury that the channel sharing agreement is consistent with all Commission rules and policies, and that the applicant accepts any risk that the implementation of the channel sharing agreement may not be feasible for any reason, including any conflict with requirements for operation on the shared channel;


(iv) Certification under penalty of perjury that its operation from the shared channel facilities will not result in a change to its Designated Market Area;


(v) Certification under penalty of perjury that it can meet the community of license coverage requirement set forth in § 73.625(a) of this chapter from the shared channel facilities or, if not, that the new community of license for its shared channel facilities either meets the same or a higher allotment priority as its current community; or, if no community meets the same or higher allotment priority, provides the next highest priority;


(vi) Certification under penalty of perjury that the proposed channel sharing arrangement will not violate the multiple ownership rules, set forth in § 73.3555 of this chapter, based on facts at the time the application is submitted; and


(vii) Certification by the channel sharer under penalty of perjury with respect to the certifications described in paragraphs (c)(3)(iii), (c)(5)(iii), and (c)(5)(vi) of this section.


(6) Certification under penalty of perjury that the applicant and all of the person(s) disclosed under paragraph (c)(1) of this section are not person(s) who have been, for reasons of national security, barred by any agency of the Federal Government from bidding on a contract, participating in an auction, or receiving a grant. For the purposes of this certification, the term “person” means an individual, partnership, association, joint-stock company, trust, or corporation, and the term “reasons of national security” means matters relating to the national defense and foreign relations of the United States.


(7) Certification that the applicant agrees that it has sole responsibility for investigating and evaluating all technical and marketplace factors that may have a bearing on the bids it submits in the reverse auction.


(8) Certification that the applicant agrees that the bids it submits in the reverse auction are irrevocable, binding offers by the applicant.


(9) Certification that the individual submitting the application to participate and providing the certifications is authorized to do so on behalf of the applicant, and if such individual is not an officer, director, board member, or controlling interest holder of the applicant, evidence that such individual has the authority to bind the applicant.


(10) Certification that the applicant is in compliance with all statutory and regulatory requirements for participation in the reverse auction, including any requirements with respect to the license(s) identified in the application to participate.


(11) Such additional information as may be required.


(d) *Application processing.* (1) Any timely submitted application to participate will be reviewed for completeness and compliance with the Commission's rules. No untimely applications to participate shall be reviewed or considered.


(2) Any application to participate that does not contain all of the certifications required pursuant to this section is unacceptable for filing, cannot be corrected subsequent to the application filing deadline, and will be dismissed with prejudice.


(3) Applicants will be provided a limited opportunity to cure specified defects and to resubmit a corrected application to participate. During the resubmission period for curing defects, an application to participate may be amended or modified to cure identified defects or to make minor amendments or modifications. After the resubmission period has ended, an application to participate may be amended or modified to make minor changes or correct minor errors in the application to participate. Minor amendments may be subject to a deadline specified by public notice. Major amendments cannot be made to an application to participate after the initial filing deadline. Major amendments include, but are not limited to, changes in ownership of the applicant that would constitute an assignment or transfer of control, changes to any of the required certifications, and the addition or removal of licenses identified on the application to participate for which the applicant intends to submit reverse auction bids. Minor amendments include any changes that are not major, such as correcting typographical errors and supplying or correcting information as requested to support the certifications made in the application.


(4) Applicants that fail to correct defects in their applications to participate in a timely manner as specified by public notice will have their applications to participate dismissed with no opportunity for resubmission.


(5) Applicants shall have a continuing obligation to make any amendments or modifications that are necessary to maintain the accuracy and completeness of information furnished in pending applications to participate. Such amendments or modifications shall be made as promptly as possible, and in no case more than five business days after applicants become aware of the need to make any amendment or modification, or five business days after the reportable event occurs, whichever is later. An applicant's obligation to make such amendments or modifications to a pending application to participate continues until they are made.


(e) *Notice to qualified and non-qualified applicants.* Each applicant will be notified as to whether it is qualified or not qualified to participate in the reverse auction.



---

[N] [79 FR 48530, Aug. 15, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 67342, Nov. 2, 2015]




