# ยง 930.83   Termination.

(a) The Secretary may, at any time, terminate any or all of the provisions of this part by giving at least 1 day's notice by means of a press notice or in any other manner in which the Secretary may determine.


(b) The Secretary shall terminate or suspend the operation of any or all of the provisions of this part whenever the Secretary finds that such provisions do not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act.


(c) The Secretary shall terminate the provisions of this part whenever the Secretary finds by referendum or otherwise that such termination is favored by a majority of the growers and processors: *Provided,* That such majority has, during the current fiscal year, produced or canned and frozen more than 50 percent of the volume of the cherries which were produced or processed within the production area. Such termination shall become effective on the last day of June subsequent to the announcement thereof by the Secretary.


(d) The Secretary shall conduct a referendum within the month of March of every sixth year after the effective date of this part to ascertain whether continuation of this part is favored by the growers and processors. The Secretary may terminate the provisions of this part at the end of any fiscal period in which the Secretary has found that continuance is not favored by a majority of growers and processors who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production or processing of tart cherries in the production area. Such termination shall be announced on or before the end of the fiscal period.


(e) The provisions of this part shall, in any event, terminate whenever the provisions of the Act authorizing them cease to be in effect.




