# § 80.1476   Requirements for biointermediate producers.

Biointermediate producers must comply with the following requirements:


(a) *Registration.* No later than 60 days prior to the transfer of any biointermediate to be used in the production of a renewable fuel for which RINs may be generated, biointermediate producers must register with EPA pursuant to the requirements of § 80.1450(b).


(b) *Reporting.* Biointermediate producers must comply with the reporting requirements in § 80.1451(j).


(c) *Recordkeeping.* Biointermediate producers must comply with the recordkeeping requirements in § 80.1454(i).


(d) *PTDs.* Biointermediate producers must comply with the PTD requirements in § 80.1453(f).


(e) *Quality Assurance Plans.* Prior to the transfer of any biointermediate to be used in the production of a renewable fuel for which RINs may be generated, biointermediate producers must have an approved quality assurance plan pursuant to § 80.1477(b) and the independent third-party auditor must have conducted a site visit of the biointermediate production facility under § 80.1472.


(f) *Attest engagements.* Biointermediate producers must comply with the annual attest engagement requirements in § 80.1464(h).


(g) *Limitations on biointermediate transfers and production.* (1) A biointermediate producer must transfer all biointermediates produced from a single biointermediate facility to a single renewable fuel production facility as designated under § 80.1450(b)(1)(ii)(B)(*1*).


(2)(i) Except as specified in paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section, a batch of biointermediate must be segregated from other batches of biointermediate (even if it is the same type of biointermediate), other feedstocks, foreign ethanol, and renewable fuels from the point that the batch of biointermediate is produced to the point where the batch of biointermediate is received at the renewable fuel production facility designated under § 80.1450(b)(1)(ii)(B)(*1*).


(ii)(A) Batches of biointermediate may be commingled between the biointermediate production facility and the designated renewable fuel production facility as long as each batch is produced at the same biointermediate production facility, is the same type of biointermediate, and no other feedstocks, biointermediates, foreign ethanol, or renewable fuels are comingled.


(B) A renewable fuel producer may commingle batches of biointermediate at an off-site storage tank if all the following conditions are met:


(*1*) Only batches of the same type of biointermediate are commingled and no other feedstocks, biointermediates, foreign ethanol, or renewable fuels are comingled in the off-site storage tank.


(*2*) The renewable fuel producer owns or is the sole position holder in the off-site storage tank.


(3) Renewable fuel producers that receive biointermediate at a renewable fuel production facility may not be a biointermediate producer.


(4) A biointermediate must not be used to make another biointermediate.


(5) A foreign biointermediate producer must not transfer biointermediate to a non-RIN-generating foreign producer.


(h) *Batch numbers and volumes.* (1) Each batch of biointermediate produced at a biointermediate production facility must be assigned a number (the “batch number”), consisting of the EPA-assigned company registration number, the EPA-assigned facility registration number, the last two digits of the year in which the batch was produced, and a unique number for the batch, beginning with the number one for the first batch produced each calendar year and each subsequent batch during the calendar year being assigned the next sequential number (*e.g.,* 4321-54321-95-000001, 4321-54321-95-000002, etc.).


(2) For biointermediates measured on a volume basis, the volume of each batch of biointermediate must be adjusted to a standard temperature of 60 °F as specified in § 80.1426(f)(8).


(i) *Designation.* Each batch of biointermediate produced at a biointermediate production facility must be designated for use in the production of a renewable fuel in accordance with the biointermediate producer's registration under § 80.1450. The designation for the batch of biointermediate must be clearly indicated on PTDs for the biointermediate as described in § 80.1453(f)(1)(vi). The same batch or a portion of a batch may not be designated as both a biointermediate and a renewable fuel.



---

[N] [87 FR 39675, July 1, 2022]






