# ยง 585.634   What activities require a revision to my COP, and when will BOEM approve the revision?

(a) You must notify BOEM in writing before conducting any activities on the OCS not described in your approved COP. Your notice must describe in detail the type of activities you propose to conduct. We will determine whether the activities you propose require a revision to your COP. We may request additional information from you, if necessary, to make this determination.


(b) BOEM will periodically review the activities conducted under an approved COP. The frequency and extent of the review will be based on the significance of any changes in available information, and on onshore or offshore conditions affecting, or affected by, the activities conducted under your COP. If the review indicates that the COP should be revised to meet the requirement of this part, BOEM will require you to submit the needed revisions.


(c) Activities for which a proposed revision to your COP likely will be necessary include:


(1) Activities on the OCS not described in your approved COP that could have significant environmental impacts, that may affect threatened or endangered species, or affect designated critical habitat of such species, or that may result in incidental take of marine mammals;


(2) Modifications to the number, size, or type of facilities (including associated components) or equipment you will use outside of the PDE that was approved for your project;


(3) Material changes in the geographical location or layout of bottom disturbances, offshore facilities, or onshore support bases beyond the range of possible locations described in your approved COP;


(4) Structural failure of any facility operated under your approved COP;


(5) Submission of an FDR or FIR that contains new activities beyond the scope of or that is materially inconsistent with the COP that has been previously submitted; or


(6) Change in any other activity specified by BOEM.


(d) We may begin the appropriate NEPA analysis and relevant consultations when we determine that a proposed revision could:


(1) Result in a significant change in the impacts previously identified and evaluated;


(2) Require any additional Federal authorizations; or


(3) Involve activities not previously identified and evaluated that could have significant environmental impacts, that may affect threatened or endangered species, or designated critical habitat of such species, or that may result in incidental take of marine mammals.


(e) When you propose a revision, we may approve the revision if we determine that the revision is:


(1) Designed not to cause undue harm or damage to natural resources; life (including human and wildlife); property; the marine, coastal, or human environment; or sites, structures, or objects of historical or archaeological significance; and


(2) Otherwise consistent with the provisions of subsection 8(p) of the OCS Lands Act.






