# § 63.843   Emission limits for existing sources.

(a) *Potlines.* The owner or operator shall not discharge or cause to be discharged into the atmosphere any emissions of TF, POM, PM, nickel, arsenic or PCB in excess of the applicable limits in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section.


(1) *TF limits.* Emissions of TF shall not exceed:


(i) 0.95 kg/Mg (1.9 lb/ton) of aluminum produced for each CWPB1 potline;


(ii) 1.5 kg/Mg (3.0 lb/ton) of aluminum produced for each CWPB2 potline;


(iii) 1.25 kg/Mg (2.5 lb/ton) of aluminum produced for each CWPB3 potline;


(iv) 0.8 kg/Mg (1.6 lb/ton) of aluminum produced for each SWPB potline; and


(v) [Reserved]


(vi) 1.35 kg/Mg (2.7 lb/ton) of aluminum produced for each VSS2 potline.


(2) *POM limits.* Emissions of POM shall not exceed:


(i)—(ii) [Reserved] 


(iii) 0.85 kg/Mg (1.9 lb/ton) of aluminum produced for each VSS2 potline;


(iv) 0.55 kg/Mg (1.1 lb/ton) of aluminum produced for each CWPB1 prebake potline;


(v) 6.0 kg/Mg (12 lb/ton) of aluminum produced for each CWPB2 prebake potline;


(vi) 1.4 kg/Mg (2.7 lb/ton) of aluminum produced for each CWPB3 prebake potline; and


(vii) 8.5 kg/Mg (17 lb/ton) of aluminum produced for each SWPB prebake potline.


(3) *PM limits.* Emissions of PM shall not exceed:


(i) 3.7 kg/Mg (7.4 lb/ton) of aluminum produced for each CWPB1 potline;


(ii) 5.5 kg/Mg (11 lb/ton) of aluminum produced for each CWPB2 potline;


(iii) 10 kg/Mg (20 lb/ton) of aluminum produced for each CWPB3 potline;


(iv) 2.45 kg/Mg (4.9 lb/ton) of aluminum produced for each SWPB potline; and


(v) 13 kg/Mg (26 lb/ton) of aluminum produced for each VSS2 potline.


(4) *Nickel limit.* Emissions of nickel shall not exceed 0.07 lb/ton of aluminum produced from each VSS2 potline at a primary aluminum reduction plant.


(5) *Arsenic limit.* Emissions of arsenic shall not exceed 0.006 lb/ton of aluminum produced from each VSS2 potline at a primary aluminum reduction plant.


(6) *PCB limit.* Emissions of PCB shall not exceed 2.0 µg toxicity equivalence (TEQ) per ton of aluminum produced from each VSS2 potline at a primary aluminum reduction plant.


(7) *Change in subcategory.* Any potline, other than a reconstructed potline, that is changed such that its applicable subcategory also changes shall meet the applicable emission limit in this subpart for the original subcategory or the new subcategory, whichever is more stringent.


(b) *Paste production plants.* The owner or operator shall install, operate and maintain equipment to capture and control POM and PM emissions from each paste production plant.


(1) The emission capture system shall be installed and operated to meet the generally accepted engineering standards for minimum exhaust rates as published by the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists in Chapters 3 and 5 of “Industrial Ventilation: A Handbook of Recommended Practice” (incorporated by reference; see § 63.14); and


(2) Captured emissions shall be routed through a closed system to a dry coke scrubber; or


(3) The owner or operator may submit a written request for use of an alternative control device to the applicable regulatory authority for review and approval. The request shall contain information and data demonstrating that the alternative control device achieves POM emissions less than 0.011 lb/ton of paste for plants with continuous mixers or POM emissions less than 0.024 lb/ton of paste for plants with batch mixers. The POM emission rate shall be determined by sampling using Method 315 in appendix A to this part.


(4) *PM limit.* Emissions of PM shall not exceed 0.041 kg/Mg (0.082 lb/ton) of paste.


(c) *Anode bake furnaces.* The owner or operator shall not discharge or cause to be discharged into the atmosphere any emissions of TF, POM, PM or mercury in excess of the limits in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) *TF limit.* Emissions of TF shall not exceed 0.10 kg/Mg (0.20 lb/ton) of green anode;


(2) *POM limit.* Emissions of POM shall not exceed 0.09 kg/Mg (0.18 lb/ton) of green anode;


(3) *PM limit.* Emissions of PM shall not exceed 0.10 kg/Mg (0.20 lb/ton) of green anode; and


(4) *Mercury limit.* Emissions of mercury shall not exceed 1.7 µg/dscm.


(d) *Pitch storage tanks.* Each pitch storage tank shall be equipped with an emission control system designed and operated to reduce inlet emissions of POM by 95 percent or greater.


(e) *COS limit.* Emissions of COS must not exceed 1.95 kg/Mg (3.9 lb/ton) of aluminum produced for each potline.


(f) At all times, the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records and inspection of the source.



---

[N] [62 FR 52407, Oct. 7, 1997, as amended at 70 FR 66284, Nov. 2, 2005; 80 FR 62415, Oct. 15, 2015]




