# § 60.5395   What standards apply to storage vessel affected facilities?

Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, you must comply with the standards in this section for each storage vessel affected facility.


(a)(1) If you are the owner or operator of a Group 1 storage vessel affected facility, you must comply with paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) If you are the owner or operator of a Group 2 storage vessel affected facility, you must comply with paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) *Requirements for Group 1 storage vessel affected facilities.* If you are the owner or operator of a Group 1 storage vessel affected facility, you must comply with paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) You must submit a notification identifying each Group 1 storage vessel affected facility, including its location, with your initial annual report as specified in § 60.5420(b)(6)(iv).


(2) You must comply with paragraphs (d) through (g) of this section.


(c) *Requirements for Group 2 storage vessel affected facilities.* If you are the owner or operator of a Group 2 storage vessel affected facility, you must comply with paragraphs (d) through (g) of this section.


(d) You must comply with the control requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section unless you meet the conditions specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(1) Reduce VOC emissions by 95.0 percent according to the schedule specified in (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) For each Group 2 storage vessel affected facility, you must achieve the required emissions reductions by April 15, 2014, or within 60 days after startup, whichever is later, except as otherwise provided below in paragraph (f) of this section. For storage vessel affected facilities receiving liquids pursuant to the standards for gas well affected facilities in § 60.5375, you must achieve the required emissions reductions within 60 days after startup of production as defined in § 60.5430.


(ii) For each Group 1 storage vessel affected facility, you must achieve the required emissions reductions by April 15, 2015.


(2) Maintain the uncontrolled actual VOC emissions from the storage vessel affected facility at less than 4 tpy without considering control. Prior to using the uncontrolled actual VOC emission rate for compliance purposes, you must demonstrate that the uncontrolled actual VOC emissions have remained less than 4 tpy as determined monthly for 12 consecutive months. After such demonstration, you must determine the uncontrolled actual VOC emission rate each month. The uncontrolled actual VOC emissions must be calculated using a generally accepted model or calculation methodology. Monthly calculations must be based on the average throughput for the month. Monthly calculations must be separated by at least 14 days. You must comply with paragraph (d)(1) of this section if your storage vessel affected facility meets the conditions specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(i) If a well feeding the storage vessel affected facility undergoes fracturing or refracturing, you must comply with paragraph (d)(1) of this section as soon as liquids from the well following fracturing or refracturing are routed to the storage vessel affected facility.


(ii) If the monthly emissions determination required in this section indicates that VOC emissions from your storage vessel affected facility increase to 4 tpy or greater and the increase is not associated with fracturing or refracturing of a well feeding the storage vessel affected facility, you must comply with paragraph (d)(1) of this section within 30 days of the monthly calculation.


(e) *Control requirements.* (1) Except as required in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, if you use a control device to reduce emissions from your storage vessel affected facility, you must equip the storage vessel with a cover that meets the requirements of § 60.5411(b) and is connected through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411(c), and you must route emissions to a control device that meets the conditions specified in § 60.5412(c) and (d). As an alternative to routing the closed vent system to a control device, you may route the closed vent system to a process.


(2) If you use a floating roof to reduce emissions, you must meet the requirements of § 60.112b(a)(1) or (2) and the relevant monitoring, inspection, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements in 40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb.


(f) *Requirements for Group 1 and Group 2 storage vessel affected facilities that are removed from service or returned to service.* If you remove a Group 1 or Group 2 storage vessel affected facility from service, you must comply with paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section. A Group 1 or Group 2 storage vessel is not an affected facility under this subpart for the period that it is removed from service.


(1) For a storage vessel affected facility to be removed from service, you must comply with the requirements of paragraph (f)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) You must completely empty and degas the storage vessel, such that the storage vessel no longer contains crude oil, condensate, produced water or intermediate hydrocarbon liquids. A storage vessel where liquid is left on walls, as bottom clingage or in pools due to floor irregularity is considered to be completely empty.


(ii) You must submit a notification as required in § 60.5420(b)(6)(vi) in your next annual report, identifying each storage vessel affected facility removed from service during the reporting period and the date of its removal from service.


(2) If a storage vessel identified in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section is returned to service, you must determine its affected facility status as provided in § 60.5365(e).


(3) For each storage vessel affected facility returned to service during the reporting period, you must submit a notification in your next annual report as required in § 60.5420(b)(6)(vii), identifying each storage vessel affected facility and the date of its return to service.


(g) *Compliance, notification, recordkeeping, and reporting.* You must comply with paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) You must demonstrate initial compliance with standards as required by § 60.5410(h) and (i).


(2) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with standards as required by § 60.5415(e)(3).


(3) You must perform the required notification, recordkeeping and reporting as required by § 60.5420.


(h) *Exemptions.* This subpart does not apply to storage vessels subject to and controlled in accordance with the requirements for storage vessels in 40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb, 40 CFR part 63, subparts G, CC, HH, or WW.



---

[N] [78 FR 58436, Sept. 23, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 79038, Dec. 31, 2014]




