# § 48.4041-17   Tax-free retail sales to certain nonprofit educational organizations.

(a) *In general.* The taxes imposed by section 4041 do not apply in the case of a sale of any liquid by any person to a nonprofit educational organization (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section) for its exclusive use, or in the case of the use of any liquid by such an organization. In the case of a school operated as an activity of an organization described in section 501(c)(3), as referred to in paragraph (b) of this section, the liquid must be sold for the exclusive use of the school, or the liquid must be used exclusively by the school.


(b) *Definition of nonprofit educational organization.* For purposes of section 4041(g)(4) and this section, the term “nonprofit educational organization” means an organization described in section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii), that is exempt from income tax under section 501(a), whose primary function is the presentation of formal instruction and which normally maintains a regular faculty and curriculum and normally has a regularly enrolled body of pupils or students in attendance at the place where its educational activities are regularly carried on. The term also includes a school operated as an activity of an organization described in section 501(c)(3) which is exempt from income tax under section 501 (a), provided such school normally maintains a regular faculty and curriculum and normally has a regularly enrolled body of pupils or students in attendance at the place where its educational activities are regularly carried on.


(c) *Evidence required to establish tax-free sales to a nonprofit educational organization; general rule.* To establish the right to exemption, the retailer must obtain from the purchaser and retain in its possesson a properly executed certificate as set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.


(d) *Forms of exemption certificates.* The following forms of exemption certificates will be acceptable for the purpose of this section and must be adhered to in substance.


(1) Form of certificate for exemption from retailers excise taxes for use by a nonprofit educational organization, other than a school operated as an activity of a church or other exempt organization that in itself is not a nonprofit educational organization.


(e) *Frequency of certificates.* Where only occasional sales are made by a retailer to a nonprofit educational organization, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, a separate exemption certificate should be furnished for each order. However, where sales by the retailer to the educational organization are regularly or frequently made, a certificate covering all orders for a specified period not to exceed 12 calendar quarters will be acceptable. Such certificate and proper records of invoices, orders, etc., relative to tax-free sales must be readily accessible for inspection by internal revenue officers and retained as provided in section 6001 of the Code and the regulations thereunder.


(f) *Prima facie evidence of exempt use.* The exemption certificate procured by the retailer from the purchasing nonprofit educational organization will be acceptable as prima facie evidence that the article is purchased for the exclusive use of such organization.


(g) *Exemption certificate not obtained prior to filing of retailer's excise tax return.* If the sale is otherwise exempt but the exemption certificate is not obtained prior to the time the retailer files a return covering taxes due for the period in which the sale was made, the retailer must include the tax on such sale in its return for that period. However, if the certificate is later obtained, a credit may be taken on a subsequent return or a claim for refund of the tax paid on such sale may be filed, within the period of limitation prescribed by section 6511(b) of the Code and § 301.6511(b)-1 of this chapter.



---

[N] [T.D. 7536, 43 FR 13516, Mar. 31, 1978. Redesignated by T.D. 8066, 51 FR 14, Jan. 2, 1986]




