# § 147.701   State-administered program—Class II wells.

The UIC program for Class II wells in the State of Illinois, except those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1425 of the SDWA. Notice of the approval was published in the _Federal Register_ on February 1, 1984 (49 FR 3990); the effective date of this program is March 3, 1984. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the state's program application:


(a) *Incorporation by reference.* The requirements set forth in the State Statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Illinois. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.


(1) Conservation of Oil and Gas, etc., Illinois Revised Statutes ch. 96
1/2, sections 5401 to 5457 (Smith-Hurd 1979 and Supp. 1983), as amended by Public Act No. 83-1074 1983 Illinois Legislative Service pages 7183 to 7185 (West);


(2) Illinois Environmental Protection Act, Illinois Revised Statutes ch. 111
1/2, sections 1001-1051 (Smith-Hurd 1977 and Supp. 1983), as amended by Public Act No. 83-431, 1983 Illinois Legislative Services pages 2910 to 2916 (West);


(3) Illinois Revised Statutes ch. 100
1/2, section 26 (Smith-Hurd Supp. 1983);


(4) Illinois Department of Mines and Minerals Regulations for the Oil and Gas Division, Rules I, II, IIA, III, V, VII, and IX (1981).


(b) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region V and the Illinois Department of Mines and Minerals, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on March 22, 1984.


(c) *Statement of legal authority.* “Certification of Legal Authority,” signed by State Attorney, Richland County, Illinois, May 5, 1982.


(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.



---

[N] [49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43087, Oct. 25, 1988]




