# ยง 180.517   Fipronil; tolerances for residues.

(a) *General.* Therefore, tolerances are established for combined residues of the insecticide fipronil (5-amino-1-[2,6-dichloro-4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-4-[(1R,S)-(trifluoromethyl)sulfinyl]-1H-pyrazole-3-carbonitrile) and its metabolites 5-amino-1-[2,6-dichloro-4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-4-[(trifluoromethyl) sulfonyl]-1H-pyrazole-3-carbonitrile and 5-amino-1-[2,6-dichloro-4-(trifluoromethyl) phenyl]-4-[(trifluoromethyl)thio]-1H-pyrazole-3-carbonitrile and its photodegradate 5-amino-1-(2,6-dichloro-4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-4-[(1R,S)-(trifluoromethyl)]-1H-pyrazole-3-carbonitrile in or on the following items at the levels specified:


(b) *Section 18 emergency exemptions..* Time-limited tolerances are established for combined residues of the insecticide, fipronil, 5-amino-1-(2,6-dichloro-4-(trifluoromethyl) phenyl)-4-((1,R,S)-trifluoromethyl)sulfinyl)-1-H-pyrazole-3-carbonitrile and its 2 metabolites MB45950 (5-amino-1-(2,6-dichloro-4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-4-[(trifluoromethyl)thio]-1H-pyrazole-3-carbonitrile) and MB46136 (5-amino-1-(2,6-dichloro-4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-4-[(trifluoromethyl)sulfonyl]-1H-pyrazole-3-carbonitrile) and its photodegradate MB46513 (5-amino-1-(2,6-dichloro-4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-4-[(1R,S)-(trifluoromethyl)]-1H-pyrazole-3-carbonitrile), in connection with use of the pesticide under Section 18 emergency exemptions granted by EPA. The tolerances expire and are revoked on the dates specified in the table for this paragraph.


(c) *Tolerances with regional registrations.* [Reserved]


(d) *Indirect or inadvertent residues.* Tolerances are established for combined indirect or inadvertent residues of the insecticide fipronil and its metabolites and photodegradate in or on food commodities when present therein as a result of the application of fipronil to growing crops listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and other nonfood crops to read as follows:



---

[N] [62 FR 62979, Nov. 26, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 38495, July 17, 1998; 72 FR 46913, Aug. 22, 2007; 74 FR 46377, Sept. 9, 2009; 75 FR 80346, Dec. 22, 2010; 78 FR 78748, Dec. 27, 2013; 80 FR 72599, Nov. 20, 2015]




