# ยง 1240.102   Definitions.

As used in this subpart: 


(a) *Administrator* means the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. 


(b) *Board* means the NASA Inventions and Contributions Board. 


(c) *Chairperson* means the Chairperson of the NASA Inventions and Contributions Board. 


(d) *Commercial quality* refers to computer software that is not in an experimental or beta phase of development, that performs in accordance with its specifications, and includes documentation describing the software's form and function. 


(e) *Contract* means any contract, agreement, understanding, or other arrangement with NASA or another Government Agency on NASA's behalf, including any assignment, substitution of parties, or subcontract executed or entered into thereunder. 


(f) *Contractor* means the party who has undertaken to perform work under a contract or subcontract. 


(g) *Innovation* means a mathematical, engineering or scientific concept, idea, design, process, or product.


(h) *Innovator* means any person listed as a contributor, inventor, or author of an innovation. 


(i) *Invention* includes any act, method, process, machine, manufacture, design, or composition of matter, or any new and useful improvement thereof, or any variety of plant, which is or may be patentable under the patent laws of the United States or any foreign country. 


(j) *Qualified User* means any person that has legally acquired computer software and has the right to use it for a legal purpose. 


(k) *Verified* means passing rigorous testing to ascertain whether the functionality claimed in the innovation's documentation is realized. 



---

[N] [67 FR 31120, May 9, 2002, as amended at 77 FR 27366, May 10, 2012]




