# ยง 797.21   Hearing procedures.

(a) *Obtaining the services of a hearing official.* When the debtor is not an NCUA employee and NCUA cannot provide a prompt and appropriate hearing before a hearing official, NCUA may request a hearing official from an agent of the paying agency, as designated in 5 CFR part 581, appendix A, or as otherwise designated by the paying agency. When the debtor is an NCUA employee, NCUA may contact any agent of another agency, as designated in 5 CFR part 581, appendix A.


(b) *Notice of hearing.* After the employee requests a hearing, the hearing official shall notify the employee of the form of the hearing to be provided. If the hearing will be oral, the notice shall set forth the date, time, and location of the hearing, which must occur no more than 30 calendar days after the request is received, unless the employee requests that the hearing be delayed. If the hearing will be conducted by an examination of documents, the employee, within 30 calendar days, shall submit any evidence or written arguments that should be considered by the hearing official.


(c) *Oral hearing.* (1) An employee who requests an oral hearing shall be provided an oral hearing if the hearing official determines that the matter cannot be resolved by an examination of the documents alone, as for example, when an issue of credibility or veracity is involved. The oral hearing need not be an adversarial adjudication and rules of evidence need not apply.


(2) Oral hearings may take the form of, but are not limited to:


(i) Informal conferences with the hearing official in which the employee and agency representative are given full opportunity to present evidence, witnesses, and argument;


(ii) Informal meetings in which the hearing examiner interviews the employee; or


(iii) Formal written submissions followed by an opportunity for oral presentation.


(d) *Hearing by examination of documents.* If the hearing official determines that an oral hearing is not necessary, the hearing official shall make the determination based upon an examination of the documents.


(e) *Record.* The hearing official shall maintain a summary record of any hearing conducted under this section.


(f) *Decision.* (1) The hearing official shall issue a written decision based upon evidence and information developed at the hearing or in the case of a documentary hearing the decision shall be based on the documents and written submissions. The decision shall be issued, as soon as practicable after the hearing, but not later than 60 calendar days after the hearing request was received by NCUA. If the hearing was delayed at the request of the employee, the 60-day decision period shall be extended by the number of days by which the hearing was postponed.


(2) The decision of the hearing official shall be final and is considered to be an official certification regarding the existence and the amount of the debt for purposes of executing salary offset under 5 U.S.C. 5514. If the hearing official determines that a debt may not be collected by salary offset, but NCUA finds that the debt is still valid, NCUA may seek collection of the debt through other means in accordance with applicable law and regulations.


(g) *Content of decision.* The written decision shall include:


(1) A summary of the facts concerning the origin, nature, and amount of the debt;


(2) The hearing official's findings, analysis, and conclusions; and


(3) The terms of any repayment schedules, if applicable.


(h) *Failure to appear.* If the employee or the NCUA representative fails to appear, the hearing official shall proceed with the hearing as scheduled, and issue the decision based upon the oral testimony presented and the documentation submitted by both parties. At the request of both parties, the hearing official may re-schedule the hearing date.




