# § 80.1479   Alternative recordkeeping requirements for separated yard waste, separated food waste, separated MSW, and biogenic waste oils/fats/greases.

(a) *Alternative recordkeeping.* In lieu of complying with the recordkeeping requirements in § 80.1454(j), a renewable fuel producer or biointermediate producer that produces renewable fuel or biointermediate from separated yard waste, separated food waste, separated MSW, or biogenic waste oils/fats/greases and uses a feedstock aggregator to supply these feedstocks may comply with the alternative recordkeeping requirements of this section.


(b) *Registration of the feedstock aggregator.* The feedstock aggregator must register under 40 CFR 1090.805.


(c) *QAP participation.* (1) The renewable fuel or biointermediate producer must have their RINs or biointermediate, as applicable, verified by an independent third-party auditor under an approved QAP that includes a description of how the independent third-party auditor will audit each feedstock aggregator.


(2) The independent third-party auditor must conduct a site visit of each feedstock aggregator's establishment as specified in § 80.1471(f). Instead of verifying RINs with a site visit of the feedstock aggregator's establishment every 200 days as specified in § 80.1471(f)(1)(ii), the independent third-party auditor may verify RINs with a site visit every 380 days.


(d) *PTDs.* PTDs must accompany transfers of separated yard waste, separated food waste, separated MSW, and biogenic waste oils/fats/greases from the point where the feedstock leaves the feedstock aggregator's establishment to the point the feedstock is delivered to the renewable fuel production facility, as specified in § 80.1453(f)(1)(i) through (v).


(e) *Recordkeeping.* The feedstock aggregator must keep all applicable records for the collection of separated yard waste, separated food waste, separated MSW, and biogenic waste oils/fats/greases as specified in § 80.1454(j).


(f) *Liability.* The feedstock aggregator and renewable fuel producer are liable for violations as specified in § 80.1461(e).



---

[N] [88 FR 44592, July 12, 2023]






