# ยง 401.210   Requirements and qualifications for Full Registration.

(a) No person may be fully registered as a United States Registered Pilot unless:


(1) The individual holds an MMC with an officer endorsement as a Master, Mate, or Pilot, issued under the provisions of subpart B of 46 CFR part 11, and has acquired at least 24 months service as a deck officer or comparable experience on vessels or integrated tug and barge, of at least 4,000 gross tonnage, operating on the Great Lakes or oceans. Those applicants qualifying with other than Great Lakes service must have obtained at least 6 months of service as a deck officer or comparable experience on the Great Lakes. Those applicants qualifying with comparable experience must have served a minimum of 12 months as a deck officer under the authority of their MMC.


(2) The individual is a citizen of the United States.


(3) The individual is of good moral character and temperate habits.


(4) The individual is physically competent to perform the duties of a U.S. Registered Pilot and meets the applicable medical requirements and standards prescribed by the Commandant in subpart C of 46 CFR part 10.


(5) The individual has not reached the age of 70.


(6) The individual agrees to be available for service under the terms and conditions as may be approved or prescribed by the Commandant.


(7) The individual has complied with the requirements set forth in ยง 401.220(b) for Apprentice Pilots.


(8) The individual meets the chemical testing requirements as defined in 46 CFR part 16.


(9) The individual agrees to comply with all applicable provisions of this part and amendments thereto.


(b) Any person registered as a United States Registered Pilot pursuant to the provisions of this part whose application contains false or misleading statements furnished by the applicant in furtherance of their application will be in violation of these regulations and may be proceeded against under ยง 401.250(a) or ยง 401.500.



---

[N] [29 FR 10464, July 28, 1964] 


