# § 35.2040   Grant application.

Applicants for Step 2 + 3 or Step 3 assistance shall submit applications to the State. In addition to the information required in 2 CFR parts 200 and 1500, applicants shall provide the following information:


(a) *Step 2 + 3: Combined design and building of a treatment works and building related services and supplies.* An application for Step 2 + 3 grant assistance shall include:


(1) A facilities plan prepared in accordance with this subpart;


(2) Certification from the State that there has been adequate public participation based on State and local statutes;


(3) Notification of any advance received under § 35.2025(b);


(4) Evidence of compliance with all application limitations on award (§§ 35.2100 through 35.2127); and


(5) The project schedule.


(b) *Step 3: Building of a treatment works and related services and supplies* An application for Step 3 grant assistance shall include:


(1) A facilities plan prepared in accordance with this subpart;


(2) Certification from the State that there has been adequate public participation based on State and local statutes;


(3) Notification of any advance received under § 35.2025(b);


(4) Evidence of compliance with all applicable limitations on award (§§ 35.2100 through 35.2127);


(5) Final design drawings and specifications;


(6) The project schedule; and


(7) In the case of an application for Step 3 assistance that is solely for the acquisition of eligible real property, a plat which shows the legal description of the property to be acquired, a preliminary layout of the distribution and drainage systems, and an explanation of the intended method of acquiring the real property (see 40 CFR part 4).


(c) *Training facility project.* An application for a grant for construction and support of a training facility, facilities or training programs under section 109(b) of the Act shall include:


(1) A written commitment from the State agency to carry out at such facility a program of training; and


(2) If a facility is to be built, an engineering report including facility design data and cost estimates for design and building.


(d) *Advances of allowance.* State applications for advances of allowance to small communities shall be on government wide Application for Federal Assistance (SF-424). The application shall include:


(1) A list of communities that received an advance of allowance and the amount received by each under the previous State grant; and


(2) The basis for the amount requested.


(e) *Field Testing of Innovative and Alternative Technology.* An application for field testing of I/A projects shall include a field testing plan containing:


(1) Identification; including size, of all principal components to be tested;


(2) Location of testing facilities in relationship to full scale design;


(3) Identification of critical design parameters and performance variables that are to be verified as the basis for I/A determinations:


(4) Schedule for construction of field testing facilities and duration of proposed testing;


(5) Capital and O&M cost estimate of field testing facilities with documentation of cost effectiveness of field testing approach; and


(6) Design drawing, process flow diagram, equipment specification and related engineering data and information sufficient to describe the overall design and proposed performance of the field testing facility.


(f) *Marine CSO Fund Project.* An application for marine CSO grant assistance under § 35.2024(b) shall include:


(1) All information required under paragraphs (b) (1), (2), (4), (6), and (7), of this section;


(2) Final design drawings and specifications or a commitment to provide them by a date set by the Regional Administrator; and


(3) The water quality benefits demonstration required under § 35.2024(b)(1).


(g) *Design/build project grant (Step 7).* An application for a design/build project grant shall include:


(1) All the information required in paragraphs (b) (1), (2) and (4) of this section; and


(2) The estimated building start and completion dates and Federal payment schedule (the start and completion dates may be revised when the design/build bids are accepted and included in the amended grant).



---

[N] [49 FR 6234, Feb. 17, 1984, as amended at 50 FR 45895, Nov. 4, 1985; 55 FR 27096, June 29, 1990; 79 FR 76056, Dec. 19, 2014]




