# § 323.3   Discharges requiring permits.

(a) *General.* Except as provided in § 323.4 of this part, DA permits will be required for the discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the United States. Certain discharges specified in 33 CFR part 330 are permitted by that regulation (“nationwide permits”). Other discharges may be authorized by district or division engineers on a regional basis (“regional permits”). If a discharge of dredged or fill material is not exempted by § 323.4 of this part or permitted by 33 CFR part 330, an individual or regional section 404 permit will be required for the discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the United States.


(b) *Activities of Federal agencies.* Discharges of dredged or fill material into waters of the United States done by or on behalf of any Federal agency, other than the Corps of Engineers (see 33 CFR 209.145), are subject to the authorization procedures of these regulations. Agreement for construction or engineering services performed for other agencies by the Corps of Engineers does not constitute authorization under the regulations. Division and district engineers will therefore advise Federal agencies and instrumentalities accordingly and cooperate to the fullest extent in expediting the processing of their applications.


(c) *Pilings.* (1) Placement of pilings in waters of the United States constitutes a discharge of fill material and requires a section 404 permit when such placement has or would have the effect of a discharge of fill material. Examples of such activities that have the effect of a discharge of fill material include, but are not limited to, the following: Projects where the pilings are so closely spaced that sedimentation rates would be increased; projects in which the pilings themselves effectively would replace the bottom of a waterbody; projects involving the placement of pilings that would reduce the reach or impair the flow or circulation of waters of the United States; and projects involving the placement of pilings which would result in the adverse alteration or elimination of aquatic functions.


(2) Placement of pilings in waters of the United States that does not have or would not have the effect of a discharge of fill material shall not require a section 404 permit. Placement of pilings for linear projects, such as bridges, elevated walkways, and powerline structures, generally does not have the effect of a discharge of fill material. Furthermore, placement of pilings in waters of the United States for piers, wharves, and an individual house on stilts generally does not have the effect of a discharge of fill material. All pilings, however, placed in the *navigable waters of the United States,* as that term is defined in part 329 of this chapter, require authorization under section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899 (see part 322 of this chapter).



---

[N] [51 FR 41232, Nov. 13, 1986, as amended at 58 FR 45036, Aug. 25, 1993]




