# § 192.707   Line markers for mains and transmission lines.

(a) *Buried pipelines.* Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a line marker must be placed and maintained as close as practical over each buried main and transmission line: 


(1) At each crossing of a public road and railroad; and 


(2) Wherever necessary to identify the location of the transmission line or main to reduce the possibility of damage or interference. 


(b) *Exceptions for buried pipelines.* Line markers are not required for the following pipelines: 


(1) Mains and transmission lines located offshore, or at crossings of or under waterways and other bodies of water. 


(2) Mains in Class 3 or Class 4 locations where a damage prevention program is in effect under § 192.614. 


(3) Transmission lines in Class 3 or 4 locations until March 20, 1996. 


(4) Transmission lines in Class 3 or 4 locations where placement of a line marker is impractical. 


(c) *Pipelines aboveground.* Line markers must be placed and maintained along each section of a main and transmission line that is located aboveground in an area accessible to the public. 


(d) *Marker warning.* The following must be written legibly on a background of sharply contrasting color on each line marker: 


(1) The word “Warning,” “Caution,” or “Danger” followed by the words “Gas (or name of gas transported) Pipeline” all of which, except for markers in heavily developed urban areas, must be in letters at least 1 inch (25 millimeters) high with 
1/4 inch (6.4 millimeters) stroke. 


(2) The name of the operator and the telephone number (including area code) where the operator can be reached at all times. 



---

[N] [Amdt. 192-20, 40 FR 13505, Mar. 27, 1975; Amdt. 192-27, 41 FR 39752, Sept. 16, 1976, as amended by Amdt. 192-20A, 41 FR 56808, Dec. 30, 1976; Amdt. 192-44, 48 FR 25208, June 6, 1983; Amdt. 192-73, 60 FR 14650, Mar. 20, 1995; Amdt. 192-85, 63 FR 37504, July 13, 1998]




