# ยง 410.1204   Home studies.

(a) As part of assessing the suitability of a potential sponsor, ORR may require a home study. A home study includes an investigation of the living conditions in which the unaccompanied child would be placed and takes place prior to the child's physical release, the standard of care the child would receive, and interviews with the potential sponsor and others in the sponsor's household.


(b) ORR shall require home studies under the following circumstances:


(1) Under the conditions identified in TVPRA at 8 U.S.C. 1232(c)(3)(B), which requires home studies for the following:


(i) A child who is a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons;


(ii) A child with a disability (as defined in 42 U.S.C. 12102) who requires particularized services or treatment;


(iii) A child who has been a victim of physical or sexual abuse under circumstances that indicate that the child's health or welfare has been significantly harmed or threatened; or


(iv) A child whose potential sponsor clearly presents a risk of abuse, maltreatment, exploitation, or trafficking to the child based on all available objective evidence.


(2) Before releasing any child to a non-relative sponsor who is seeking to sponsor multiple children, or who has previously sponsored or sought to sponsor a child and is seeking to sponsor additional children.


(3) Before releasing any child who is 12 years old or younger to a non-relative sponsor.


(c) ORR may, in its discretion, initiate home studies if it determines that a home study is likely to provide additional information which could assist in determining that the potential sponsor is able to care for the health, safety, and well-being of the unaccompanied child.


(d) The care provider must inform the potential sponsor whenever a home study is conducted, explaining the scope and purpose of the study and answering the potential sponsor's questions about the process.


(e) An unaccompanied child for whom a home study is conducted shall receive an offer of post-release services as described at ยง 410.1210.






