# § 390.201   USDOT Registration.

(a) *Purpose.* This section establishes who must register with FMCSA under the Unified Registration System, the filing schedule, and general information pertaining to persons subject to the Unified Registration System registration requirements.


(b) *Applicability.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, each motor carrier (including a private motor carrier, an exempt for-hire motor carrier, a non-exempt for-hire motor carrier, and a motor carrier of passengers that participates in a through ticketing arrangement with one or more interstate for-hire motor carriers of passengers), intermodal equipment provider, broker and freight forwarder subject to the requirements of this subchapter must file Form MCSA-1, the URS online application, with FMCSA to:


(i) Identify its operations with the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration for safety oversight, as applicable;


(ii) Obtain operating authority required under 49 U.S.C. chapter 139, as applicable; and


(iii) Obtain a hazardous materials safety permit as required under 49 U.S.C. 5109, as applicable.


(2) A cargo tank and cargo tank motor vehicle manufacturer, assembler, repairer, inspector, tester, and design certifying engineer that is subject to registration requirements under 49 CFR 107.502 and 49 U.S.C. 5108 must satisfy those requirements by electronically filing Form MCSA-1, the URS online application, with FMCSA.


(c) *General.* (1)(i) A person that fails to file Form MCSA-1, the URS online application, pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section is subject to the penalties prescribed in 49 U.S.C. 521(b)(2)(B) or 49 U.S.C. 14901(a), as appropriate.


(ii) A person that fails to complete biennial updates to the information pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section is subject to the penalties prescribed in 49 U.S.C. 521(b)(2)(B) or 49 U.S.C. 14901(a), as appropriate, and deactivation of its USDOT Number.


(iii) A person that furnishes misleading information or makes false statements upon Form MCSA-1, the URS online application, is subject to the penalties prescribed in 49 U.S.C. 521(b)(2)(B), 49 U.S.C. 14901(a) or 49 U.S.C. 14907, as appropriate.


(2) Upon receipt and processing of Form MCSA-1, the URS online application, FMCSA will issue the applicant an inactive identification number (USDOT Number). FMCSA will activate the USDOT Number after completion of applicable administrative filings pursuant to § 390.205(a), unless the applicant is subject to § 390.205(b). An applicant may not begin operations nor mark a commercial motor vehicle with the USDOT Number until after the date of the Agency's written notice that the USDOT Number has been activated.


(3) The motor carrier must display a valid USDOT Number on each self-propelled CMV, as defined in § 390.5, along with the additional information required by § 390.21.


(d) *Filing schedule.* Each person listed under § 390.201(b) must electronically file Form MCSA-1, the URS online application, at the following times:


(1) Before it begins operations; and


(2) Every 24 months as prescribed in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.


(3)(i) Persons assigned a USDOT Number must file an updated Form MCSA-1, the URS online application, every 24 months, according to the following schedule:


(ii) If the next-to-last digit of its USDOT Number is odd, the person must file its update in every odd-numbered calendar year. If the next-to-last digit of the USDOT Number is even, the person must file its update in every even-numbered calendar year.


(4) *When there is a change in legal name, form of business, or address.* A registered entity must notify the Agency of a change in legal name, form of business, or address within 30 days of the change by filing an updated Form MCSA-1, the URS online application, reflecting the revised information. Notification of a change in legal name, form of business, or address does not relieve a registered entity from the requirement to file an updated Form MCSA-1 every 24 months in accordance with paragraph (d)(3) of this section.


(5) *When there is a transfer of operating authority.* (i) Both a person who obtains operating authority through a transfer, as defined in part 365, subpart D of this subchapter (transferee), and the person transferring its operating authority (transferor), must each notify the Agency of the transfer within 30 days of consummation of the transfer by filing:


(A) An updated Form MCSA-1, the URS online application, for the transferor, and for the transferee, if the transferee had an existing USDOT Number at the time of the transfer; or


(B) A new Form MCSA-1, the URS online application, if the transferee did not have an existing USDOT Number at the time of the transfer.


(C) A copy of the operating authority that is being transferred.


(ii) Notification of a transfer of operating authority does not relieve a registered entity from the requirement to file an updated Form MCSA-1, the URS online application, every 24 months in accordance with paragraph (d)(3) of this section.


(e) *Availability of form.* Form MCSA-1, the URS online application is available, including complete instructions, from the FMCSA website at *https://www.fmcsa.dot.gov/urs.*

(f) *Where to file.* Persons subject to the registration requirements under this subpart must electronically file Form MCSA-1, the URS online application, on the FMCSA website at *https://www.fmcsa.dot.gov/urs.*

(g) *Exception.* The rules in this subpart do not govern the application by a Mexico-domiciled motor carrier to provide transportation of property or passengers in interstate commerce between Mexico and points in the United States beyond the municipalities and commercial zones along the United States-Mexico international border. The applicable procedures governing transportation by Mexico-domiciled motor carriers are provided in § 390.19.



---

[N] [80 FR 63712, Oct. 21, 2015, as amended at 88 FR 80184, Nov. 17, 2023]


