# ยง 170.250   Decontamination.

(a) *Requirement.* During any handling activity, the handler employer shall provide for handlers, in accordance with this section, decontamination supplies for washing off pesticides and pesticide residues.


(b) *General conditions.* (1) The handler employer shall provide handlers with enough water for routine washing, for emergency eyeflushing, and for washing the entire body in case of an emergency. At all times when the water is available to handlers, the handler employer shall assure that it is of a quality and temperature that will not cause illness or injury when it contacts the skin or eyes or if it is swallowed.


(2) When water stored in a tank is to be used for mixing pesticides, it shall not be used for decontamination or eye flushing, unless the tank is equipped with properly functioning valves or other mechanisms that prevent movement of pesticides into the tank.


(3) The handler employer shall provide soap and single-use towels in quantities sufficient to meet handlers' needs.


(4) The handler employer shall provide one clean change of clothing, such as coveralls, for use in an emergency.


(c) *Location.* The decontamination supplies shall be located together and be reasonably accessible to and not more than 
1/4 mile from each handler during the handling activity.


(1) *Exception for mixing sites.* For mixing activities, decontamination supplies shall be at the mixing site.


(2) *Exception for pilots.* Decontamination supplies for a pilot who is applying pesticides aerially shall be in the airplaine or at the aircraft loading site.


(3) *Exception for handling pesticides in remote areas.* When handling activities are performed more than 
1/4 mile from the nearest place of vehicular access:


(i) The soap, single-use towels, clean change of clothing, and water may be at the nearest place of vehicular access.


(ii) The handler employer may permit handlers to use clean water from springs, streams, lakes, or other sources for decontamination at the remote work site, if such water is more accessible than the water located at the nearest place of vehicular access.


(4) *Decontamination supplies in treated areas.* The decontamination supplies shall not be in an area being treated with pesticides or in an area under a restricted-entry interval, unless:


(i) The decontamination supplies are in the area where the handler is performing handling activities;


(ii) The soap, single-use towels, and clean change of clothing are in enclosed containers; and


(iii) The water is running tap water or is enclosed in a container.


(d) *Emergency eyeflushing.* To provide for emergency eyeflushing, the handler employer shall assure that at least 1 pint of water is immediately available to each handler who is performing tasks for which the pesticide labeling requires protective eyewear. The eyeflush water shall be carried by the handler, or shall be on the vehicle or aircraft the handler is using, or shall be otherwise immediately accessible.


(e) *Decontamination after handling activities.* At the end of any exposure period, the handler employer shall provide at the site where handlers remove personal protective equipment, soap, clean towels, and a sufficient amount of water so that the handlers may wash thoroughly.



---

[N] [57 FR 38151, Aug. 21, 1992, as amended at 61 FR 33213, June 26, 1996]




