# § 416.1505   Who may be your representative.

(a) You may appoint as your representative in dealings with us any attorney in good standing who—


(1) Has the right to practice law before a court of a State, Territory, District, or island possession of the United States, or before the Supreme Court or a lower Federal court of the United States;


(2) Is not disqualified or suspended from acting as a representative in dealings with us; and


(3) Is not prohibited by any law from acting as a representative.


(b) You may appoint any person who is not an attorney to be your representative in dealings with us if the person—


(1) Is capable of giving valuable help to you in connection with your claim;


(2) Is not disqualified or suspended from acting as a representative in dealings with us;


(3) Is not prohibited by any law from acting as a representative; and


(4) Is generally known to have a good character and reputation. Persons lacking good character and reputation, include, but are not limited to, persons who have a final conviction of a felony (as defined by § 404.1506(c) of this chapter), or any crime involving moral turpitude, dishonesty, false statement, misrepresentations, deceit, or theft.


(c) Your representative(s) must be registered with us in the manner we prescribe.


(d) We may refuse to recognize your chosen representative if the person does not meet the requirements in this section. We will notify you and the proposed representative if we do not recognize the person as your representative.



---

[N] [45 FR 52106, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 76 FR 80247, Dec. 23, 2011; 83 FR 30857, July 2, 2018; 89 FR 67555, Aug. 21, 2024]




