# § 63.1161   Performance testing and test methods.

(a) *Demonstration of compliance.* The owner or operator shall conduct an initial performance test for each process or emission control device to determine and demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limitation according to the requirements in § 63.7 of subpart A of this part and in this section. Performance tests shall be conducted under such conditions as the Administrator specifies to the owner or operator based on representative performance of the affected source for the period being tested. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.


(b) *Establishment of scrubber operating parameters.* During the performance test for each emission control device, the owner or operator using a wet scrubber to achieve compliance shall establish site-specific operating parameter values for the minimum scrubber makeup water flow rate and, for scrubbers that operate with recirculation, the minimum recirculation water flow rate. During the emission test, each operating parameter must be monitored continuously and recorded with sufficient frequency to establish a representative average value for that parameter, but no less frequently than once every 15 minutes. The owner or operator shall determine the operating parameter monitoring values as the averages of the values recorded during any of the runs for which results are used to establish the emission concentration or collection efficiency per paragraph (a)(2) of this section. An owner or operator may conduct multiple performance tests to establish alternative compliant operating parameter values. Also, an owner or operator may reestablish compliant operating parameter values as part of any performance test that is conducted subsequent to the initial test or tests.


(c) *Establishment of hydrochloric acid regeneration plant operating parameters.* (1) During the performance test for hydrochloric acid regeneration plants, the owner or operator shall establish site-specific operating parameter values for the minimum process offgas temperature and the maximum proportion of excess air fed to the process as described in § 63.1162(b)(1) of this subpart. During the emission test, each operating parameter must be monitored and recorded with sufficient frequency to establish a representative average value for that parameter, but no less frequently than once every 15 minutes for parameters that are monitored continuously. Amount of iron in the spent pickle liquor shall be determined for each run by sampling the liquor every 15 minutes and analyzing a composite of the samples. The owner or operator shall determine the compliant monitoring values as the averages of the values recorded during any of the runs for which results are used to establish the emission concentration per paragraph (a)(2) of this section. An owner or operator may conduct multiple performance tests to establish alternative compliant operating parameter values. Also, an owner or operator may reestablish compliant operating parameter values as part of any performance test that is conducted subsequent to the initial test or tests.


(2) [Reserved]


(d) *Test methods.* (1) The following test methods in appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 shall be used to determine compliance under §§ 63.1157(a), 63.1157(b), 63.1158(a), and 63.1158(b) of this subpart:


(i) Method 1, to determine the number and location of sampling points, with the exception that no traverse point shall be within one inch of the stack or duct wall;


(ii) Method 2, to determine gas velocity and volumetric flow rate;


(iii) Method 3, to determine the molecular weight of the stack gas;


(iv) Method 4, to determine the moisture content of the stack gas; and


(v) Method 26A, “Determination of Hydrogen Halide and Halogen Emissions from Stationary Sources—Isokinetic Method,” to determine the HCl mass flows at the inlet and outlet of a control device or the concentration of HCl discharged to the atmosphere, and also to determine the concentration of Cl_2_ discharged to the atmosphere from acid regeneration plants. If compliance with a collection efficiency standard is being demonstrated, inlet and outlet measurements shall be performed simultaneously. The minimum sampling time for each run shall be 60 minutes and the minimum sample volume 0.85 dry standard cubic meters (30 dry standard cubic feet). The concentrations of HCl and Cl_2_ shall be calculated for each run as follows:


(2) The owner or operator may use equivalent alternative measurement methods approved by the Administrator.



---

[N] [64 FR 33218, June 22, 1999, as amended at 77 FR 58251, Sept. 19, 2012]




