# ยง 761.4   Special provisions.

(a) Entry into islands in the Kwajalein Atoll under military jurisdiction is controlled by the Department of the Army. Inquiries concerning entries into islands under military control in the Kwajalein Atoll should be directed to: National Range Commander, U.S. Army Safeguard System Command, ATTN: SSC-R, P.O. Box 1500, Huntsville, AL 35807.


(b) Entry into Eniwetok Atoll is controlled by the Defense Nuclear Agency. Inquiries concerning entries into Eniwetok Atoll should be directed to: Commander, Field Command, Defense Nuclear Agency, Kirtland Air Force Base, NM 87115.


(c) Entry into Johnston Atoll is controlled by the Defense Nuclear Agency. Inquiries concerning entries into Johnston Atoll should be directed to: Commander, Johnston Atoll (FCDNA), APO San Francisco, CA 96305.


(d) *Suspension of restrictions.* Restrictions imposed under the authority of the above cited Executive Orders on entry into the following Naval Defensive Sea Areas and Naval Airspace Reservations and Administrative Areas have been suspended subject to reinstatement without notice at any time when the purposes of national defense may require.


(1) All Naval Airspace Reservations, except the Guantanamo Bay Naval Airspace Reservation


(2) Honolulu Defensive Sea Area.


(3) Kiska Island Naval Defensive Sea Area.


(4) Kodiak Island Naval Defensive Sea Area.


(5) Unalaska Island Naval Defensive Sea Area.


(6) Wake Island Naval Defensive Sea Area except for entry of foreign flag ships and foreign nationals.


(7) The portion of Kaneohe Defensive Sea Area lying beyond a 500 yard buffer zone around the perimeter of the Kaneohe Marine Corps Air Station (Mokapu Peninsula) and eastward therefrom to Kapoho Point, Oahu.


(e) Suspension of restrictions on entry into a naval airspace reservation, naval defensive sea area, or naval administrative area, does not affect the authority of a commanding officer or other appropriate commander to control entry into or passage through any base, station, or other installation or area, including port or harbor facilities under Navy control.



---

[N] [41 FR 28957, July 14, 1976]




