# ยง 1017.1   Purpose and scope.

(a) These regulations set forth guidelines for implementing the Debt Collection Act of 1982 at the Surface Transportation Board (STB). The purpose of the Act is to give agencies the ability to more aggressively pursue debts owed the Federal Government and to increase the efficiency of governmentwide efforts to collect debts owed the United States. The authority for these regulations is found in the Debt Collection Act of 1982 (Pub. L. 97-365 and 4 CFR 101.1 *et seq.*), Collection by Offset From Indebted Government Employees (5 CFR 550.1101 *et seq.*), Federal Claims Collection Standards (4 CFR 101.1 *et seq.*), and Administrative Offset (31 U.S.C. 3716).


(b) These regulations provide procedures for administrative offset of a Federal employee's salary without his/her consent to satisfy certain debts owed to the Federal Government. The regulations covered in this part apply to all current and former Federal employees who owe debts to the Board and to current Board employees who owe debts to other Federal agencies. The regulations set forth herein do not apply when the employee consents to recovery from his/her current pay account.


(c) These regulations do not apply to debts or claims arising under:


(1) The Social Security Act;


(2) The Internal Revenue Code of 1954;


(3) The tariff laws of the United States; or


(4) Any case where a collection of a debt by salary offset is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute.


(d) These regulations also do not preclude the compromise, suspension, or termination of collection action, where appropriate, under the standards implementing the Federal Claims Collection Act (31 U.S.C. 3711 *et seq.,* 4 CFR 101.1 *et seq.*). These regulations do not preclude an employee's requesting a waiver of a salary overpayment (i.e., alleged indebtedness) under 5 U.S.C. 5584, 10 U.S.C. 2774, or 32 U.S.C. 716, or in any way questioning the amount or validity of a debt by submitting a claim to the General Accounting Office (GAO), or requesting a waiver under statutory provisions pertaining to the particular debt.


(e) The Board's regulations governing debt collection for entities and individuals who are not current or former government employees are contained in 49 CFR part 1018.



---

[N] [56 FR 32333, July 16, 1991, as amended at 58 FR 7749, Feb. 9, 1993]




