# § 725.450   Procedural requirements for the Tier II exemption.

General requirements for all submissions under this part are contained in § 725.25. In addition, the following requirements apply to requests submitted under this subpart:


(a) *Prenotice consultation.* EPA strongly suggests that for a Tier II exemption, the submitter contact the Agency for a prenotice consultation regarding eligibility for the exemption.


(b) *When to submit the Tier II exemption request.* Each person who is eligible to submit a Tier II exemption request under this subpart must submit the request at least 45 calendar days before the person intends to commence manufacture or import.


(c) *Contents of the Tier II exemption request.* Each person who submits a request under this subpart must provide the information described in §§ 725.428 and 725.455, as well as information known to or reasonably ascertainable by the person that would permit EPA to determine that use of the microorganism, under the conditions specified in the request, will not present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment. 


(d) *Recordkeeping.* Each person who submits a request under this subpart must comply with the recordkeeping requirements of § 725.65. In addition, the submitter should maintain records which contain information that verifies compliance with the following:


(1) The certifications made in the request.


(2) All the eligibility criteria for the Tier II exemption request including the criteria for the recipient microorganism, the introduced genetic material, the physical containment and control technologies.




