# ยง 171.41   Petition for a stay of effective date of a member responsibility action pending a hearing by the National Futures Association.

(a) *Time to file.* Within ten days after the National Futures Association serves the notice required by ยง 171.40, any party aggrieved by the National Futures Association's determination that the member responsibility action should be effective prior to the opportunity for a hearing on the factual issues relevant to the suspension, restriction or remedial action imposed may petition the Commission to stay its effectiveness pending completion of further proceedings by the National Futures Association. The burden of persuasion shall rest with the party seeking the stay.


(b) *Content.* A petition for stay shall meet the content requirements set forth in ยง 171.22(b)(3).


(c) *Response.* A response may be filed by the National Futures Association in accordance with ยง 171.22(b)(4).


(d) *Standards for granting petition for stay.* In reviewing petitions to stay the effectiveness of the member responsibility action pending completion of further proceedings, the Commission shall consider:


(1) Whether, in the circumstances presented, the notice and opportunity for a hearing provided by the National Futures Association are consistent with principles of fundamental fairness; and


(2) The likelihood that the denial of the petition would result in irreparable harm to petitioner; and


(3) The effect a grant of the petition would have on the interests of the National Futures Association; and


(4) The effect a grant or denial of the petition would have on the public interest.


(e) If the suspension, restriction or remedial action imposed by the National Futures Assocation in a member responsibility action is effective at the time a petition for a stay is filed with the Commission, the Commission shall not delay its decision on the petition to await the receipt of the National Futures Association's response. If the action is not effective at the time the petition is filed, the Commission will not act upon the petition prior to the receipt of a response from the National Futures Association unless, in its view, expedited action on the petition is necessary to protect petitioner's right to a meaningful determination of the right to a stay. If the Commission grants the petition prior to the receipt of the response of the National Futures Association, the association may seek reconsideration of the Commission's action within seven days of service of the decision.


(f) *Proceedings following Commission disposition.* If the petition for a stay is denied, the National Futures Association shall continue its action in accordance with the applicable rules of the association. If the petition for a stay is granted, the action shall be remanded to the National Futures Association for further proceedings as provided in the Commission's decision. Unless otherwise ordered by the Commission, a stay issued pursuant to this section shall not deprive the National Futures Association of the authority, after conducting a hearing under the appropriate rules of the association, to make the suspension, restriction or remedial action ordered in the member responsibility action immediately effective at the time a final decision is issued.




