# § 60.275a   Test methods and procedures.

(a) During performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall not add gaseous diluents to the effluent gas stream after the fabric filter in any pressurized fabric filter collector, unless the amount of dilution is separately determined and considered in the determination of emissions.


(b) When emissions from any EAF(s) or AOD vessel(s) are combined with emissions from facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart but controlled by a common capture system and control device, the owner or operator shall use either or both of the following procedures during a performance test (see also § 60.276a(e)):


(1) Determine compliance using the combined emissions.


(2) Use a method that is acceptable to the Administrator or delegated authority and that compensates for the emissions from the facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart.


(3) Any combination of the criteria of paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.


(c) When emission from any EAF(s) or AOD vessel(s) are combined with emissions from facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart, compliance with § 60.272a(a)(3) will be based on emissions from only the affected facility(ies). The owner or operator may use operational knowledge to determine the facilities that are the sources, in whole or in part, of any emissions observed in demonstrations of compliance with § 60.272a(a)(3


(d) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).


(e) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter standards in § 60.272a as follows:


(1) EPA Method 5 (and referenced EPA Methods 1, 2, 3, 3A, 3B, and 4) shall be used for negative-pressure fabric filters and other types of control devices and EPA Method 5D (and referenced EPA Method 5) shall be used for positive-pressure fabric filters to determine the particulate matter concentration and volumetric flow rate of the effluent gas. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 4 hours and 4.50 dscm (160 dscf) and, when a single EAF or AOD vessel is sampled, the sampling time shall include an integral number of heats. The manual portions only and not the instrumental portion of the voluntary consensus standard ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Methods 3, 3A, and 3B.


(2) When more than one control device serves the EAF(s) being tested, the concentration of particulate matter shall be determined using the following equation:


(3) EPA Method 9 or, as an alternative, ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under *Shop opacity* in § 60.271, and the procedures of § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.


(4) To demonstrate compliance with § 60.272a(a) (1), (2), and (3), the EPA Method 9 test runs shall be conducted concurrently with the particulate matter test runs, unless inclement weather interferes.


(f) To comply with § 60.274a (c), (f), (g), and (h), the owner or operator shall obtain the information required in these paragraphs during the particulate matter runs.


(g) Any control device subject to the provisions of the subpart shall be designed and constructed to allow measurement of emissions using applicable test methods and procedures.


(h) Where emissions from any EAF(s) or AOD vessel(s) are combined with emissions from facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart, determinations of compliance with § 60.272a(a)(3) will only be based upon emissions originating from the affected facility(ies), except if the combined emissions are controlled by a common capture system and control device, in which case the owner or operator may use any of the following procedures during an opacity performance test and during shop opacity observations:


(1) Base compliance on control of the combined emissions; or


(2) Utilize a method acceptable to the Administrator that compensates for the emissions from the facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart.


(i) Unless the presence of inclement weather makes concurrent testing infeasible, the owner or operator shall conduct concurrently the performance tests required under § 60.8 to demonstrate compliance with § 60.272a(a) (1), (2), and (3) of this subpart.



---

[N] [49 FR 43845, Oct. 31, 1984, as amended at 54 FR 6673, Feb. 14, 1989; 54 FR 21344, May 17, 1989; 65 FR 61758, Oct. 17, 2000; 88 FR 58484, Aug. 25, 2023]






