# ยง 520.2042   Pyrantel pamoate tablets.

(a) *Specifications.* Each tablet contains pyrantel pamoate equivalent to 22.7, 45.4, or 113.5 milligrams of pyrantel base. 


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 017135 in ยง 510.600(c) of this chapter. 


(c) *Conditions of use.* It is used for dogs as follows: 


(1) *Amount.* For dogs weighing over 5 pounds, use at least 2.27 milligrams of pyrantel base per pound of body weight; for dogs weighing 5 pounds or less, use at least 4.54 milligrams of pyrantel base per pound of body weight.


(2) *Indications for use.* For removal and control of large roundworms (ascarids) (*Toxocara canis* and *Toxascaris leonina*), and hookworms (*Ancylostoma caninum* and *Uncinaria stenocephala*).


(3) *Limitations.* Administer orally directly or in a small amount of food. To prevent reinfection of *T. canis* in puppies, lactating bitches after whelping, and adult dogs; treat puppies 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, and 10 weeks of age; treat lactating bitches 2 to 3 weeks after whelping; routinely treat adult dogs monthly. Do not withhold food prior to or after treatment. The presence of these parasites should be confirmed by laboratory fecal examination. A followup fecal examination should be conducted 2 to 4 weeks after first treatment regimen to determine the need for re-treatment. Consult your veterinarian for assistance in the diagnosis, treatment, and control of parasitism.



---

[N] [43 FR 52700, Nov. 14, 1978, as amended at 49 FR 22073, May 25, 1984; 57 FR 48163, Oct. 22, 1992; 58 FR 44611, Aug. 24, 1993] 




