# § 108.114   Appliances for watertight and weathertight integrity.

(a) Appliances to ensure watertight integrity include watertight doors, hatches, scuttles, bolted manhole covers, or other watertight closures for openings in watertight decks and bulkheads.


(b) Appliances to ensure weathertight integrity include weathertight doors and hatches, closures for air pipes, ventilators, ventilation intakes and outlets, and closures for other openings in deckhouses and superstructures.


(c) Each internal opening fixed with appliances to ensure watertight integrity which are used intermittently during operation of the unit while afloat must meet the following:


(1) Each door, hatch, and scuttle must—


(i) Be remotely controlled from a normally manned control station, and be operable locally from both sides of the bulkhead; or


(ii) If there is no means of remote control there must be an alarm system which signals whether the appliance is open or closed both locally at each appliance and in a normally manned control station.


(2) Each closing appliance must remain watertight under the design water pressure of the watertight boundary of which it is a part.


(d) Each external opening fitted with an appliance to ensure weathertight integrity must be located so that it would not be submerged below the final equilibrium waterline if the unit is subjected simultaneously to—


(1) Damage causing flooding described in § 174.075 through § 174.085 of this chapter; and


(2) A wind heeling moment calculated in accordance with § 174.055 of this chapter using a wind velocity of 50 knots (25.8 meters per second).



---

[N] [CGD 73-251, 43 FR 56808, Dec. 4, 1978, as amended by CGD 79-023, 48 FR 51008, Nov. 4, 1983]




