# § 147.500   State-administered program—Class I, III, IV, and V wells.

The UIC program for Class I, III, IV, and V wells in the State of Florida, except for those on Indian lands is administered by the Florida Department of Environmental Regulations, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the _Federal Register_ on February 7, 1983 (48 FR 5556); the effective date of this program is March 9, 1983. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:


(a) *Incorporation by reference.* The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Florida. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.


(1) Florida Air and Water Pollution Control Act, Florida Statutes Annotated sections 403.011 through 403.90 (1973 and Supp. 1983);


(2) Chapter 17-28, Underground Injection Control, Florida Administrative Code (April 27, 1989).


(b) *Other laws.* The following statutes and regulations although not incorporated by reference, also are part of the approved State-administered program:


(1) Administrative Procedures Act, Florida Statutes Chapter 120;


(2) Florida Administrative Code, Chapter 17-1 (1982) (Administrative Procedures Act);


(3) Florida Administrative Code, Chapter 17-3 (1982) (Water Quality Standards);


(4) Florida Administrative Code, Chapter 17-4 (1982) (Permits);


(5) Florida Administrative Code, Chapter 28-5 (1982) (Decisions Determining Substantial Interests);


(6) Florida Administrative Code, Chapter 28-6 (1982) (Licensing);


(c) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region IV and the Florida Department of Environmental Regulation, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on March 31, 1983.


(d) *Statement of legal authority.* (1) “Statement of Legal Authority for Implementation of Underground Injection Control Program” and accompanying certifications, signed by General Counsel for the Florida Department of Environmental Regulation, January 14, 1982;


(2) “Addendum to Statement of Legal Authority for Implementation of Underground Injection Control Program” and accompanying certifications, signed by Acting General Counsel for the Florida Department of Environmental Regulation, September 20, 1982.


(e) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the original application or as supplements thereto.



---

[N] [49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43087, Oct. 25, 1988; 56 FR 9414, Mar. 6, 1991]




