# § 403.02   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this part: 


(a) The term *species* includes any population stock. 


(b) *Optimum Sustainable Population* or *OSP* means a population size which falls within a range from the population level of a given species or stock which is the largest supportable within the ecosystem to the population level that results in maximum net productivity. Maximum net productivity is the greatest net annual increment in population numbers or biomass resulting from additions to the population due to reproduction and/or growth less losses due to natural mortality. 


(c) *State management program* means existing and proposed state statutes, regulations, policies and other authorities which form the framework for the conservation of a species of marine mammals. 


(d) *State regulation* means the whole or part of a state agency statement of general or particular applicability and future effect designed to implement, interpret, or prescribe law or policy or describing the organization, procedure, or practice requirements of a state agency and which is duly promulgated in accordance with established procedure. 


(e) The *Act* means the Marine Mammal Protection Act (MMPA) of 1972, 16 U.S.C. 1361 *et seq.,* as amended by Pub. L. 97-58. 


(f) The *Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of Commerce, depending on the species involved. Under section 3(11) of the Act, the Secretary of Commerce has jurisdiction over members of the order Cetacea and members, other than walruses, of the order Pinnipedia; the Secretary of the Interior has jurdisdiction over all other mammals. These secretarial authorities have been delegated to the National Marine Fisheries Service and the Fish and Wildlife Service, respectively. 


(g) The *Service* or *Services* means the Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) and the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), as appropriate depending on the species involved. Any determination or finding required by this part to be made by the “Service” must be made by the Director of the FWS or by the Assistant Administrator of the NMFS, or their delegees, as appropriate.




