# ยง 900.6   Definitions.

Unless otherwise provided in this part: 


*Act* means secs. 1 through 9, and title I of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975, Public Law 93-638, as amended. 


*Annual funding agreement* means a document that represents the negotiated agreement of the Secretary to fund, on an annual basis, the programs, services, activities and functions transferred to an Indian tribe or tribal organization under the Act. 


*Appeal* means a request by an Indian tribe or tribal organization for an administrative review of an adverse Agency decision. 


*Awarding official* means any person who by appointment or delegation in accordance with applicable regulations has the authority to enter into and administer contracts on behalf of the United States of America and make determinations and findings with respect thereto. Pursuant to the Act, this person can be any Federal official, including but not limited to, contracting officers. 


*BIA* means the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior. 


*Contract* means a self-determination contract as defined in section 4(j) of the Act. 


*Contract appeals board* means the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals (CBCA).


*Contractor* means an Indian tribe or tribal organization to which a contract has been awarded. 


*Days* means calendar days; except where the last day of any time period specified in these regulations falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or a Federal holiday, the period shall carry over to the next business day unless otherwise prohibited by law. 


*Department(s)* means the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) or the Department of the Interior (DOI), or both. 


*IHS* means the Indian Health Service of the Department of Health and Human Services. 


*Indian* means a person who is a member of an Indian Tribe. 


*Indian tribe* means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group, or community, including pueblos, rancherias, colonies and any Alaska Native Village, or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians. 


*Indirect cost rate* means the rate(s) arrived at through negotiation between an Indian tribe or tribal organization and the appropriate Federal Agency. 


*Indirect costs* means costs incurred for a common or joint purpose benefiting more than one contract objective or which are not readily assignable to the contract objectives specifically benefitted without effort disproportionate to the results achieved. 


*Initial contract proposal* means a proposal for programs, functions, services, or activities that the Secretary is authorized to perform but which the Indian tribe or tribal organization is not now carrying out. 


*Real property* means any interest in land together with the improvements, structures, and fixtures and appurtenances thereto. 


*Reassumption* means rescission, in whole or in part, of a contract and assuming or resuming control or operation of the contracted program by the Secretary without consent of the Indian tribe or tribal organization pursuant to the notice and other procedures set forth in subpart P. 


*Retrocession* means the voluntary return to the Secretary of a contracted program, in whole or in part, for any reason, before the expiration of the term of the contract. 


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) or the Secretary of the Interior (DOI), or both (and their respective delegates). 


*Tribal organization* means the recognized governing body of any Indian tribe; any legally established organization of Indians which is controlled, sanctioned, or chartered by such governing body or which is democratically elected by the adult members of the Indian community to be served by such organization and which includes the maximum participation of Indians in all phases of its activities: provided, that, in any case where a contract is let or a grant made to an organization to perform services benefiting more than one Indian tribe, the approval of each such Indian tribe shall be a prerequisite to the letting or making of such contract or grant. 


*Trust resources* means an interest in land, water, minerals, funds, or other assets or property which is held by the United States in trust for an Indian tribe or an individual Indian or which is held by an Indian tribe or Indian subject to a restriction on alienation imposed by the United States. 



---

[N] [61 FR 32501, June 24, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 31701, June 4, 2010]




