# § 173.133   Assignment of packing group and hazard zones for Division 6.1 materials.

(a) The packing group of Division 6.1 materials shall be as assigned in column 5 of the § 172.101 table. When the § 172.101 table provides more than one packing group or hazard zone for a hazardous material, the packing group and hazard zone shall be determined by applying the following criteria:


(1) The packing group assignment for routes of administration other than inhalation of vapors shall be in accordance with the following table:


(2)(i) The packing group and hazard zone assignments for liquids (see § 173.115(c) of this subpart for gases) based on inhalation of vapors shall be in accordance with the following table:


(ii) These criteria are represented graphically in Figure 1:



(3) When the packing group determined by applying these criteria is different for two or more (oral, dermal or inhalation) routes of administration, the packing group assigned to the material shall be that indicated for the highest degree of toxicity for any of the routes of administration.


(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph, the packing group and hazard zone of a tear gas substance is as assigned in column 5 of the § 172.101 table.


(b) The packing group and hazard zone for Division 6.1 mixtures that are poisonous (toxic) by inhalation may be determined by one of the following methods:


(1) Where LC_50_ data is available on each of the poisonous (toxic) substances comprising the mixture—


(i) The LC_50_ of the mixture is estimated using the formula: 


(ii) The volatility of each component substance is estimated using the formula:


(iii) The ratio of the volatility to the LC_50_ is calculated using the formula: 


(iv) Using the calculated values LC_50_ (mixture) and R, the packing group for the mixture is determined as follows:


(2) In the absence of LC_50_ data on the poisonous (toxic) constituent substances, the mixture may be assigned a packing group and hazard zone based on the following simplified threshold toxicity tests. When these threshold tests are used, the most restrictive packing group and hazard zone must be determined and used for the transportation of the mixture.


(i) A mixture is assigned to Packing Group I, Hazard Zone A only if both the following criteria are met:


(A) A sample of the liquid mixture is vaporized and diluted with air to create a test atmosphere of 200 mL/m
3 vaporized mixture in air. Ten albino rats (five male and five female) are exposed to the test atmosphere as determined by an analytical method appropriate for the material being classified for one hour and observed for fourteen days. If five or more of the animals die within the fourteen-day observation period, the mixture is presumed to have an LC_50_ equal to or less than 200 mL/m
3.


(B) A sample of the vapor in equilibrium with the liquid mixture is diluted with 499 equal volumes of air to form a test atmosphere. Ten albino rats (five male and five female) are exposed to the test atmosphere for one hour and observed for fourteen days. If five or more of the animals die within the fourteen-day observation period, the mixture is presumed to have a volatility equal to or greater than 500 times the mixture LC_50_.


(ii) A mixture is assigned to Packing Group I, Hazard Zone B only if both the following criteria are met, and the mixture does not meet the criteria for Packing Group I, Hazard Zone A:


(A) A sample of the liquid mixture is vaporized and diluted with air to create a test atmosphere of 1000 mL/m
3 vaporized mixture in air. Ten albino rats (five male and five female) are exposed to the test atmosphere for one hour and observed for fourteen days. If five or more of the animals die within the fourteen-day observation period, the mixture is presumed to have an LC_50_ equal to or less than 1000 mL/m
3.


(B) A sample of the vapor in equilibrium with the liquid mixture is diluted with 9 equal volumes of air to form a test atmosphere. Ten albino rats (five male and five female) are exposed to the test atmosphere for one hour and observed for fourteen days. If five or more of the animals die within the fourteen-day observation period, the mixture is presumed to have a volatility equal to or greater than 10 times the mixture LC_50_.


(iii) A mixture is assigned to Packing Group II only if both the following criteria are met, and the mixture does not meet the criteria for Packing Group I (Hazard Zones A or B):


(A) A sample of the liquid mixture is vaporized and diluted with air to create a test atmosphere of 3000 mL/m
3 vaporized mixture in air. Ten albino rats (five male and five female) are exposed to the test atmosphere for one hour and observed for fourteen days. If five or more of the animals die within the fourteen-day observation period, the mixture is presumed to have an LC_50_ equal to or less than 3000 mL/m
3.


(B) A sample of the vapor in equilibrium with the liquid mixture is used to form a test atmosphere. Ten albino rats (five male and five female) are exposed to the test atmosphere for one hour and observed for fourteen days. If five or more of the animals die within the fourteen-day observation period, the mixture is presumed to have a volatility equal to or greater than the mixture LC_50_.


(iv) A mixture is assigned to Packing Group III only if both the following criteria are met, and the mixture does not meet the criteria for Packing Groups I (Hazard Zones A or B) or Packing Group II (Hazard Zone C):


(A) A sample of the liquid mixture is vaporized and diluted with air to create a test atmosphere of 5000 mL/m
3 vaporized mixture in air. Ten albino rats (five male and five female) are exposed to the test atmosphere for one hour and observed for fourteen days. If five or more of the animals die within the fourteen-day observation period, the mixture is presumed to have an LC_50_ equal to or less than 5000 mL/m
3.


(B) The vapor pressure of the liquid mixture is measured and if the vapor concentration is equal to or greater than 1000 mL/m
3, the mixture is presumed to have a volatility equal to or greater than 
1/5 the mixture LC_50_.


(c) *Transitional provisions.* The criteria for packing group assignments in effect on December 31, 2006, may continue to be used until January 1, 2012.



---

[N] [Amdt. 173-224, 55 FR 52634, Dec. 21, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 66268, Dec. 20, 1991; 57 FR 45461, Oct. 1, 1992; Amdt. 173-234, 58 FR 51532, Oct. 1, 1993; Amdt. 173-138, 59 FR 49133, Sept. 26, 1994; Amdt. 173-255, 61 FR 50626, Sept. 26, 1996; 66 FR 45183, 45380, Aug. 28, 2001; 66 FR 49556, Sept. 28, 2001; 69 FR 54046, Sept. 7, 2004; 71 FR 54395, Sept. 14, 2006; 71 FR 78631, Dec. 29, 2006; 74 FR 53188, Oct. 16, 2009; 76 FR 43529, July 20, 2011]




