# ยง 622.3   Relationship to the Pub. L. 78-534 Program.

(a) *General.* The purposes and objectives of the programs under Pub. L. 83-566 and Pub. L. 78-534 are the same in most cases. Planning criteria, economic justification, local sponsorship, agency participation, financial assistance, eligible measures, operation and maintenance arrangements for the Pub. L. 78-534 program are consistent with those of the Pub. L. 83-566 program. The differences with the Pub. L. 78-534 program are outlined below.


(b) *Initiation.* Flood prevention projects are individually authorized by Federal legislation. The state conservationist and the sponsors agree on a plan of action and notify interested parties to solicit their participation. The sponsors keep the public informed and solicit their views and comments.


(c) *Subwatershed plans.* These plans are administratively approved by the state conservationist. If the plan involves purposes other than flood prevention, clearance must be obtained from the Office of Management and Budget before approval. Financial assistance available differs only in that program funds may be used for the purchase of land rights for single-purpose flood prevention structures and installing land treatment on Federal lands.


(d) *Installation.* NRCS shall award and administer contracts for the installation of project measures unless the sponsors agree to perform the work. Project agreements between the sponsors and NRCS are not required if the work consists of flood prevention structures built and funded by NRCS.




