# ยง 117.13   Investigation and resolution of matters.

(a) SBA will make a prompt investigation whenever a compliance review indicates a possible failure to comply with this part by the recipient and additional information is needed by SBA to assure compliance with this part, or when an unresolved complaint has been returned by the FMCS, or when it appears that the complainant or the recipient is failing to comply with a mediation agreement. The investigation shall include a review of the pertinent practices and policies of the recipient, the circumstances under which the possible noncompliance with this part occurred, and other factors relevant to a determination as to whether the recipient is complying, is not complying, or has failed to comply with this part.


(b) *Resolution of matters.* If an investigation indicates a failure to comply with this part, SBA will so inform the complainant, if applicable, and the recipient that the matter will be resolved by informal means that are mutually agreeable to the parties, whenever possible.


(1) If, during the course of an investigation, the matter is resolved by informal means, SBA will put any agreement in writing and have it signed by the parties and an authorized official of SBA.


(2) If investigation indicates a violation of the Act or these regulations, SBA will attempt to achieve voluntary compliance. If SBA cannot achieve voluntary compliance, it will begin enforcement as described in ยง 117.15.


(3) If an investigation does not warrant action, SBA will so inform the complainant, if applicable, and the recipient in writing.




