# § 240.17Ad-9   Definitions.

As used in this section and §§ 240.17Ad-10, 240.17Ad-11, 240.17Ad-12 and 240.17Ad-13:


(a) *Certificate detail,* with respect to certificated securities, includes, at a minimum, all of the following, and with respect to uncertificated securities, includes items (2) through (8):


(1) The certificate number.


(2) The number of shares for equity securities or the principal dollar amount for debt securities;


(3) The securityholder's registration;


(4) The address of the registered securityholder;


(5) The issue date of the security;


(6) The cancellation date of the security;


(7) In the case of redeemable securities of investment companies, an appropriate description of each debit and credit (i.e., designation indicating purchase, redemption, or transfer); and


(8) Any other identifying information about securities and securityholders the transfer agent reasonably deems essential to its recordkeeping system for the efficient and effective research of record differences.


(b) *Master securityholder file* is the official list of individual securityholder accounts. With respect to uncertificated securities of companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, the master securityholder file may consist of multiple, but linked, automated files.


(c) A *subsidiary file* is any list or record of accounts, securityholders, or certificates that evidences debits or credits that have not been posted to the master securityholder file.


(d) A *control book* is the record or other document that shows the total number of shares (in the case of equity securities) or the principal dollar amount (in the case of debt securities) authorized and issued by the issuer.


(e) A *credit* is an addition of appropriate certificate detail to the master securityholder file.


(f) A *debit* is a cancellation of appropriate certificate detail from the master securityholder file.


(g) A *record difference* occurs when either:


(1) The total number of shares or total principal dollar amount of securities in the master securityholder file does not equal the number of shares or principal dollar amount in the control book; or


(2) The security transferred or redeemed contains certificate detail different from the certificate detail currently on the master securityholder file, which difference cannot be immediately resolved.


(h) A *recordkeeping transfer agent* is the registered transfer agent that maintains and updates the master securityholder file.


(i) A *co-transfer agent* is the registered transfer agent that transfers securities but does not maintain and update the master securityholder file.


(j) A *named transfer agent* is the registered transfer agent that is engaged by an issuer to perform transfer agent functions for an issue of securities but has engaged a service company to perform some or all of those functions.


(k) A *service company* is the registered transfer agent engaged by a named transfer agent to perform transfer agent functions for that named transfer agent.


(l) A *file* includes automated and manual records.



---

[N] [48 FR 28246, June 21, 1983] 




