# ยง 2556.420   What are termination for cause proceedings?

(a) Termination for cause proceedings remove a VISTA from a project assignment due to an alleged deficiency, or alleged deficiencies, in conduct or performance, and are initiated by AmeriCorps.


(b) AmeriCorps, to the extent practicable, communicates the matter, and the administrative procedures as set forth in paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section, with the VISTA who is removed from a VISTA project.


(c) The VISTA Case Manager will notify the VISTA in writing of AmeriCorps' proposal to terminate for cause. The written proposal to terminate the VISTA for cause must give them the reason(s) for the proposed termination, and notify them that they have 10 calendar days within which to submit a written answer to the proposal to terminate them cause and to furnish any accompanying statements or written material. The VISTA must submit their answer to the VISTA Case Manager by the deadline identified in the written proposal to terminate for cause.


(d) Within 10 calendar days of the expiration of the VISTA's deadline to answer the proposal to terminate for cause, AmeriCorps will issue a written decision regarding the proposal to terminate for cause.


(1) If AmeriCorps decides to terminate the VISTA for cause, its written decision will set forth the reasons for the determination and the effective date of termination (which may be on or after the date of the decision).


(2) If AmeriCorps decides not to terminate the VISTA for cause, the written decision will indicate that the proposal to terminate for cause is rescinded.


(e) A VISTA who does not submit a timely answer to the appropriate VISTA Case Manager, as set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, is not entitled to appeal the decision regarding the proposal to terminate for cause. In such cases, AmeriCorps may terminate the VISTA for cause, on the date identified in the decision, and the termination action is final.






