# § 1120.6   Information in A&TBCB publications.

(a) *General.* Copies of information material shall be available upon oral or written request so long as an adequate supply exists. These informational materials include press releases, pamphlets, and other materials ordinarily made available to the public without cost as part of a public information program, and reprints of individual parts of the Code of Federal Regulations or _Federal Register_ relating to programs affecting substantial segments of the general public. Copies of informational publications of the A&TBCB which may be purchased from the Superintendent of Documents may be inspected in those offices of the A&TBCB in which reference copies are available. Compliance with the formal procedures provided in this part for obtaining access to A&TBCB records is not necessary for access to the materials described in this paragraph. 


(b) *Published indexes.* The informational publications available from the A&TBCB may include indexes to materials published or contained in its records. They will include the current indexes required by the Freedom of Information Act to be maintained and made available for inspecting and copying, except as otherwise provided by published order, as noted below. These indexes provide identifying information for the public as to— 


(1) Final opinions and orders made in the adjudication of cases; 


(2) Statements of policy and interpretations adopted but not published in the _Federal Register;_ and 


(3) Administrative staff manuals and instructions to staff that affect a member of the public.


