# § 536.8   Responsibilities and operations of command claims services.

(a) *Chiefs of command claims services.* Chiefs of command claims services shall:


(1) Exercise claims settlement authority as specified in this part, including appellate authority where so delegated.


(2) Supervise the investigation, processing, and settlement of claims against, and in favor of the United States under the statutes and regulations listed in § 536.2, and pursuant to other appropriate statutes, regulations, and authorizations.


(3) Designate and grant claims settlement authority to ACOs. A grant of such authority will not be effective until coordinated with the Commander USARCS, and assigned an office code. However, the chief of a command claims service may redesignate a CPO that already has an assigned office code as an ACO without coordination with the Commander USARCS. The Commander USARCS will be informed of such a designation.


(4) Designate and grant claims approval authority to CPOs. Only CPOs staffed with a claims judge advocate (CJA) or claims attorney may be granted approval authority. A grant of such authority will not be effective until coordinated with the Commander USARCS, and assigned an office code.


(5) Train claims personnel and monitor their operations and ongoing claims administration. Conduct a training course annually.


(6) Implement pertinent claims policies.


(7) Prepare and publish command claims directives.


(8) Administer the command claims expenditure allowance, providing necessary data, estimates, and reports to USARCS on a regular basis.


(9) Perform the responsibilities of an ACO (see § 536.9), as applicable, ensure that SOFA claims are investigated properly and timely filed with the receiving State and adequately funded.


(10) Serve as the United States “sending State office,” if so designated, when operating in an area covered by a SOFA.


(11) Supervise and provide technical assistance to subordinate ACOs within the command claims service's geographic area of responsibility.


(12) Appoint FCCs.


(b) *Operations of command claims services.* The SJA of the command shall supervise the command claims service. The command SJA may designate a field grade JA as the chief of the service. An adequate number of qualified claims personnel shall be assigned to ensure that claims are promptly investigated and acted upon. With the concurrence of the Commander USARCS, a command claims service may designate ACOs within its area of operations to carry out claims responsibilities within specified geographic areas subject to agreement by the commander concerned.




