# ยง 610.43   Chassis dynamometer procedures.

(a)(1) *1975 Federal Test Procedure.* Vehicle exhaust emissions and fuel economy under urban driving conditions will be measured according to the Federal emission test procedure described in 40 CFR part 86, subpart B, which is known as the 1975 Federal Test Procedure ('75 FTP). However, the following modifications will be employed: 


(i) No evaporative emission loss, as specified by 40 CFR part 86 need be measured (with the exception of devices modifying or disconnecting existing evaporative control devices in such a manner as would be expected to adversely affect their evaporative emission control performance). 


(ii) Vehicle preconditioning shall consist of operation of the vehicle through one (1) EPA Urban Dynamometer Driving Schedule. This preconditioning must be done at least 12 hours, but no earlier than 36 hours before the emission test. 


(iii) While the test fuel must meet the specifications outlined in 40 CFR part 86, fuel conditioning as specified for evaporative emission test procedures is not required. 


(b) *Highway Fuel Economy Test.* The test vehicle is fully warmed up at the start of the highway Fuel Economy Test which is ordinarily run immediately following the Federal Emission Test Procedure. The test procedure to be followed for generation of highway fuel economy data is that specified in ยง 600.111. 


(c) *Steady state tests.* Constant speed, road load tests may be conducted to help give insight into operational differences and exhaust emission and fuel economy changes due to a retrofit device. Speeds between 0 (engine idling) and 60 mpg will be investigated, with a time period at each speed long enough to ensure that engine operation has stabilized. 




