# ยง 158.2100   Microbial pesticides definition and applicability.

(a) This subpart applies to all living or dead microbial pesticides as described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.


(b) *Definition.**Microbial pesticide* is a microbial agent intended for preventing, destroying, repelling, or mitigating any pest, or intended for use as a plant regulator, defoliant, or desiccant, that:


(1) Is a eucaryotic microorganism including, but not limited to, protozoa, algae, and fungi;


(2) Is a procaryotic microorganism, including, but not limited to, Eubacteria and Archaebacteria; or


(3) Is a parasitically replicating microscopic element, including, but not limited to, viruses.


(c) *Applicability.* (1) This subpart applies to microbial pesticides as specified in paragraphs (c)(2), (c)(3), and (c)(4) of this section.


(2) Each new isolate of a microbial pesticide is a new active ingredient and must be registered independently of any similarly designated and already registered microbial pesticide active ingredient. Each new isolate for which registration is sought must have a unique identifier following the taxonomic name of the microorganism, and the registration application must be supported by data required in this subpart. This does not preclude the possibility of using data from another isolate, provided sufficient similarity is established, to support registration.


(3) Genetically modified microbial pesticides may be subject to additional data or information requirements on a case-by-case basis depending on the particular microbial agent and/or its parental strains, the proposed pesticide use pattern, and the manner and extent to which the organism has been genetically modified.


(4) Pest control organisms such as insect predators, nematodes, and macroscopic parasites are exempt from the requirements of FIFRA as authorized by section 25(b) of FIFRA and specified in ยง 152.20 (a) of this chapter.



---

[N] [72 FR 61002, Oct. 26, 2007, as amended at 77 FR 52612, Aug. 30, 2012]




