# § 81.13   Central Cities, Rural Areas, and Other Underserved Areas Housing Goal.

(a) *Purpose of the goal.* This annual goal for the purchase by each GSE of mortgages on housing located in central cities, rural areas, and other underserved areas is intended to achieve increased purchases by the GSEs of mortgages financing housing in areas that are underserved in terms of mortgage credit. 


(b) *Factors.* In establishing the Central Cities, Rural Areas, and Other Underserved Areas Goals, the Secretary considered the factors in 12 U.S.C. 4564(b). A statement documenting HUD's considerations and findings with respect to these factors, entitled “Departmental Considerations to Establish the Central Cities, Rural Areas, and Other Underserved Areas Housing Goal,” was published in the _Federal Register_ on November 2, 2004. 


(c) *Goals.* The annual goals for each GSE's purchases of mortgages on housing located in central cities, rural areas, and other underserved areas are:


(1) For the year 2005, 37 percent of the total number of dwelling units financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA. In addition, as a Central Cities, Rural Areas, and Other Underserved Areas Home Purchase Subgoal, 32 percent of the total number of home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases shall be home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas which count toward the Central Cities, Rural Areas, and Other Underserved Areas Housing Goal in the year 2005 unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA;


(2) For the year 2006, 38 percent of the total number of dwelling units financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA. In addition, as a Central Cities, Rural Areas, and Other Underserved Areas Home Purchase Subgoal, 33 percent of the total number of home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases shall be home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas which count toward the Central Cities, Rural Areas, and Other Underserved Areas Housing Goal in the year 2006 unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA;


(3) For the year 2007, 38 percent of the total number of dwelling units financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA. In addition, as a Central Cities, Rural Areas, and Other Underserved Areas Home Purchase Subgoal, 33 percent of the total number of home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases shall be home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas which count toward the Central Cities, Rural Areas, and Other Underserved Areas Housing Goal in the year 2007 unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA;


(4) For the year 2008, 39 percent of the total number of dwelling units financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA. In addition, as a Central Cities, Rural Areas, and Other Underserved Areas Home Purchase Subgoal, 34 percent of the total number of home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases shall be home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas which count toward the Central Cities, Rural Areas, and Other Underserved Areas Housing Goal in the year 2008 unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA; and


(5) For the year 2009 and thereafter HUD shall establish annual goals. Pending establishment of goals for the year 2009 and thereafter, the annual goal for each of those years shall be 39 percent of the total number of dwelling units financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases in each of those years. In addition, as a Central Cities, Rural Areas, and Other Underserved Areas Home Purchase Subgoal, 34 percent of the total number of home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases shall be home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas which count toward the Central Cities, Rural Areas, and Other Underserved Areas Housing Goal in each of those years unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA. 


(d) *Measuring performance.* The GSEs shall determine on a mortgage-by-mortgage basis, through geocoding or any similarly accurate and reliable method, whether a mortgage finances one or more dwelling units located in a central city, rural area, or other underserved area. 



---

[N] [60 FR 61888, Dec. 1, 1995, as amended at 65 FR 65086, Oct. 31, 2000; 69 FR 63639, Nov. 2, 2004]




