# ยง 113.37   Corporate sureties.

(a) *Lists of corporations and limits of their bonds.* Treasury Department Circular 570 contains a list of corporations authorized to act as sureties on bonds, with the amount in which each may be accepted. Unless otherwise directed by the Commissioner of CBP, no corporation will be accepted as surety on a bond if not named in the current Circular as amended by _Federal Register_ notice and no bond may exceed the respective limit stated in the Circular, unless the excess is protected as prescribed in ยง 223.11, Bureau of the Fiscal Service Regulations (31 CFR 223.11).


(b) *Name of corporation on the bond.* The name of a corporation executing a CBP bond, as a surety, may be printed or placed thereon by means of a rubber stamp or otherwise, followed by the written signature of the authorized officer or attorney.


(c) *Name of agent or attorney on the bond.* The agent or attorney acting for a corporate surety must have stamped, printed, or typed on each bond executed by him, below his signature, his full name as it appears on the bond.


(d) *Social security or other surety-generated identification number of agent or attorney on the bond.* In the appropriate place on each bond executed by the agent or attorney acting for a corporate surety, the agent or attorney must place his/her social security number or other surety-generated 9-digit alphanumeric identification number, as it appears on the corporate surety power of attorney.


(e) *Signature and seal of the corporation on the bond.* A bond executed by a corporate surety must be signed by an authorized officer or attorney of the corporation and the corporate seal must be affixed immediately adjoining the signature of the person executing the bond, as provided for in ยง 113.25.


(f) *Two or more corporate sureties as sureties on the same obligation.* Two or more corporate sureties may be accepted as sureties on any obligation the amount of which does not exceed the limitations of their aggregate qualifying power as fixed and determined by the Secretary of the Treasury. The amount for which each corporate surety may act as surety in all cases must be within the limitation prescribed by the Secretary, unless the excess is protected as prescribed in ยง 223.11, Bureau of the Fiscal Service Regulations (31 CFR 223.11). Each corporate surety must limit its liability to a definite specified amount, in terms, upon the face of the bond by attaching the following:


(g) *Power of attorney for the agent or attorney of the surety.* Corporations may execute powers of attorney to act in their behalf in the following manner:


(1) *Execution and contents.* Corporate surety powers of attorney may be submitted to CBP on the CBP Form 5297 and may be scanned and submitted as an email attachment, or submitted by facsimile (fax) or mail.


(i) Corporate surety name and number,


(ii) Name and address of agent or attorney, and social security number or other surety-generated 9-digit alphanumeric identification number for the agent or attorney.


(iii) Port(s) where the agent or attorney is authorized to act,


(iv) Date of execution of power of attorney,


(v) Seal of the corporate surety,


(vi) Signature of any two principal officers of corporation, and


(vii) Dollar amount of authorization.


(2) *Filing.* The corporate surety power of attorney executed on CBP Form 5297 must be filed with CBP. The original(s) of the corporate surety power of attorney must be retained at the port where it(they) was(were) filed.


(3) *Use at port where power of attorney not filed before receipt of computer printout.* If the grantee desires to use the power of attorney at a port covered by the power of attorney, other than the one where the power of attorney was filed, before the first computer printout reflecting this power of attorney is received, the CBP Form 5297, must be filed in triplicate (original and two copies), rather than duplicate. The second copy must be validated by CBP and returned to the grantee. The grantee, at the time of filing a bond at a port other than the port where the power of attorney was filed, must provide this validated copy of the power of attorney as proof of the grant of authority. The validity of this copy of the power of attorney will expire when the first computer printout reflecting this power of attorney is received.


(4) *Term and revocation.* Corporate surety powers of attorney will continue in force and effect until revoked. Any surety desiring that a designated agent or attorney be divested of a power of attorney must execute a revocation on CBP Form 5297. The revocation will take effect on the close of business on the date requested provided the corporate surety power of attorney is received 5 days before the date requested; otherwise the revocation will be effective at the close of business 5 days after the request is received at the port office.


(5) *Change on the power of attorney.* (i) No change may be made on the CBP Form 5297 after it has been approved by CBP except the following:


(A) Grantee name change;


(B) Grantee address change; and


(C) The addition of port(s) to the corporate surety power of attorney on file.


(ii) To make any other change to the power of attorney two separate CBP Forms 5297 must be submitted, one revoking the previous power of attorney, and one containing a new grant of authority.



---

[N] [T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984; 49 FR 44867, Nov. 9, 1984; T.D. 95-77, 60 FR 50020, Sept. 27, 1995; CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70165, Nov. 13, 2015]




