# ยง 4901.32   Fee schedule.

(a) *Charges for searching and review of records.* Charges applicable under this subpart to the search for and review of records will be made according to the following fee schedule:


(1) *Search time and review time.* For ordinary search services and review services, PBGC charges $54.00 per hour. PBGC charges fees in quarter hour increments.


(2) *Retrieving records stored by NARA.* For disclosure requests that require the retrieval of records stored at a Federal records center operated by the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA), PBGC charges additional costs in accordance with the Transactional Billing Rate Schedule established by NARA.


(b) *Charges for duplication of records.* Charges applicable under this subpart for obtaining requested copies of records made available for inspection will be made according to the following fee schedule and subject to the following conditions.


(1) *Standard copying fee.* $0.15 for each page of record copies furnished.


(2) *Voluminous material.* If the volume of page copy desired by the requester is such that the reproduction charge at the standard page rate would be in excess of $50, the person desiring reproduction may request a special rate quotation from PBGC.


(3) *Indexes.* Pursuant to section 552(a)(2) of FOIA copies of indexes or supplements thereto which are maintained as therein provided but which have not been published will be provided on request at a cost not to exceed the direct cost of duplication.


(c) *Other charges.* The scheduled fees, set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, for furnishing records made available for inspection and duplication represent the direct costs of furnishing the copies at the place of duplication. Upon request, single copies of the records will be mailed, postage prepaid, free of charge. Actual costs of transmitting records by special methods such as registered, certified, or special delivery mail or messenger, and of special handling or packaging, if required, will be charged in addition to the scheduled fees.



---

[N] [61 FR 34123, July 1, 1996, as amended at 87 FR 43999, July 25, 2022]




