# § 121.358   Low-altitude windshear system equipment requirements.

(a) *Airplanes manufactured after January 2, 1991.* No person may operate a turbine-powered airplane manufactured after January 2, 1991, unless it is equipped with either an approved airborne windshear warning and flight guidance system, an approved airborne detection and avoidance system, or an approved combination of these systems. 


(b) *Airplanes manufactured before January 3, 1991.* Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, after January 2, 1991, no person may operate a turbine-powered airplane manufactured before January 3, 1991 unless it meets one of the following requirements as applicable. 


(1) The makes/models/series listed below must be equipped with either an approved airborne windshear warning and flight guidance system, an approved airborne detection and avoidance system, or an approved combination of these systems: 


(i) A-300-600; 


(ii) A-310—all series; 


(iii) A-320—all series; 


(iv) B-737-300, 400, and 500 series; 


(v) B-747-400; 


(vi) B-757—all series; 


(vii) B-767—all series; 


(viii) F-100—all series; 


(ix) MD-11—all series; and 


(x) MD-80 series equipped with an EFIS and Honeywell-970 digital flight guidance computer. 


(2) All other turbine-powered airplanes not listed above must be equipped with as a minimum requirement, an approved airborne windshear warning system. These airplanes may be equipped with an approved airborne windshear detection and avoidance system, or an approved combination of these systems. 


(c) *Extension of the compliance date.* A certificate holder may obtain an extension of the compliance date in paragraph (b) of this section if it obtains FAA approval of a retrofit schedule. To obtain approval of a retrofit schedule and show continued compliance with that schedule, a certificate holder must do the following: 


(1) Submit a request for approval of a retrofit schedule by June 1, 1990, to the appropriate Flight Standards division manager in the responsible Flight Standards office. 


(2) Show that all of the certificate holder's airplanes required to be equipped in accordance with this section will be equipped by the final compliance date established for TCAS II retrofit. 


(3) Comply with its retrofit schedule and submit status reports containing information acceptable to the Administrator. The initial report must be submitted by January 2, 1991, and subsequent reports must be submitted every six months thereafter until completion of the schedule. The reports must be submitted to the certificate holder's assigned Principal Avionics Inspector. 


(d) *Definitions.* For the purposes of this section the following definitions apply— 


(1) *Turbine-powered airplane* includes, e.g., turbofan-, turbojet-, propfan-, and ultra-high bypass fan-powered airplanes. The definition specifically excludes turbopropeller-powered airplanes. 


(2) An airplane is considered manufactured on the date the inspection acceptance records reflect that the airplane is complete and meets the FAA Approved Type Design data.



---

[N] [Doc. No. 25954, 55 FR 13242, Apr. 9, 1990, as amended by Docket FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 121-380, 83 FR 9173, Mar. 5, 2018]




