# § 207.61   Responses to notice of institution.

(a) *When information must be filed.* Responses to the notice of institution shall be submitted to the Commission no later than 30 days after its publication in the _Federal Register._

(b) *Information to be filed with the Secretary.* The notice of institution shall direct each interested party to make a filing pursuant to §§ 201.6, 201.8 and 207.3 of this chapter containing the following:


(1) A statement expressing its willingness to participate in the review by providing information requested by the Commission;


(2) A statement regarding the likely effects of revocation of the order(s) or termination of the suspended investigation(s) under review;


(3) Such information or industry data as the Commission may specify in the notice of institution.


(c) *When requested information cannot be supplied.* Any interested party that cannot furnish the information requested by the notice of institution in the requested form and manner shall, promptly after issuance of the notice, notify the Commission, provide a full explanation of why it cannot furnish the requested information, and indicate alternative forms in which it can provide equivalent information. The Commission may modify its requests to the extent necessary to avoid posing an unreasonable burden on that party.


(d) *Submissions by persons other than interested parties.* Any person who is not an interested party may submit to the Commission, in a filing satisfying the requirements of § 201.8 of this chapter, information relevant to the Commission's review no later than 50 days after publication of the notice of institution in the _Federal Register._


---

[N] [44 FR 76468, Dec. 26, 1979, as amended at 74 FR 2849, Jan. 16, 2009; 76 FR 61944, Oct. 6, 2011; 79 FR 35925, June 25, 2014; 90 FR 236, Jan. 3, 2025]




