# ยง 373.103   For-hire, non-exempt expense bills.

(a) *Property.* (1) Every for-hire, non-exempt motor carrier of property shall issue a freight or expense bill for each shipment transported containing the following information:


(i) Names of consignor and consignee (except on a reconsigned shipment, not the name of the original consignor).


(ii) Date of shipment.


(iii) Origin and destination points (except on a reconsigned shipment, not the original shipping point unless the final consignee pays the charges from that point).


(iv) Number of packages.


(v) Description of freight.


(vi) Weight, volume, or measurement of freight (if applicable to the rating of the freight).


(vii) Exact rate(s) assessed.


(viii) Total charges due, including the nature and amount of any charges for special service and the points at which such service was rendered.


(ix) Route of movement and name of each carrier participating in the transportation.


(x) Transfer point(s) through which shipment moved.


(xi) Address where remittance must be made or address of bill issuer's principal place of business.


(2) The shipper or receiver owing the charges shall be given the freight or expense bill and the carrier shall keep a copy as prescribed at 49 CFR part 379. If the bill is electronically transmitted (when agreed to by the carrier and payor), a receipted copy shall be given to the payor upon payment.


(b) *Charter transportation of passenger service.* (1) Every for-hire, non-exempt motor carrier providing charter transportation of passenger service shall issue an expense bill containing the following information:


(i) Serial number, consisting of one of a series of consecutive numbers assigned in advance and imprinted on the bill.


(ii) Name of carrier.


(iii) Names of payor and organization, if any, for which transportation is performed.


(iv) Date(s) transportation was performed.


(v) Origin, destination, and general routing of trip.


(vi) Identification and seating capacity of each vehicle used.


(vii) Number of persons transported.


(viii) Mileage upon which charges are based, including any deadhead mileage, separately noted.


(ix) Applicable rates per mile, hour, day, or other unit.


(x) Itemized charges for transportation, including special services and fees.


(xi) Total charges assessed and collected.


(2) The carrier shall keep a copy of all expense bills issued for the period prescribed at 49 CFR part 379. If any expense bill is spoiled, voided, or unused for any reason, a copy or written record of its disposition shall be retained for a like period.



---

[N] [83 FR 22873, May 17, 2018; 83 FR 26374, June 7, 2018]




