# § 62.4845   Identification of plan.

(a) *Identification of plan.* Maine Plan for the Control of Designated Pollutants from Existing Plants (Section 111(d) Plan).


(b) The plan was officially submitted as follows:


(1) Control of sulfuric acid mist emissions from existing sulfuric acid production units, submitted on November 10, 1988.


(2) Control of total reduced sulfur (TRS) emissions from existing kraft pulp mills, submitted on February 15, 1990.


(3) A revision to the plan to control TRS from existing kraft pulp mills, which extends the final compliance date for brown stock washers to January 1, 1997, was submitted on April 27, 1994.




(4) Control of metals, acid gases, organic compounds and nitrogen oxide emissions from existing large municipal waste combustors with the capacity to combust greater than 250 tons per day of municipal solid waste, submitted on April 15, 1998.


(5) A revision to the plan controlling TRS from existing kraft pulp mills to incorporate the pulp and paper maximum achievable control technology (MACT) requirements that impact TRS emission sources such as brownstock washer systems, low volume high concentration (LVHC) systems, steam strippers, and waste water treatment plants. Changes have also been made to clarify venting allowances and recordkeeping and reporting requirements.


(6) A revision to the plan controlling TRS from existing kraft pulp mills which extends the final compliance date for brownstock washers to April 17, 2007, was submitted on June 23, 2004.


(7) A revision to the plan controlling metals, acid gases, organic compounds and nitrogen oxide emissions from large municipal waste combustors with the capacity to combust greater than 250 tons per day of municipal solid waste, submitted on December 24, 2019 (incorporated by reference, see paragraph (d)(1) of this section).




(8) Control of metals, acid gases, organic compounds and nitrogen oxide emissions from existing small municipal waste combustors with the capacity to combust less than or equal to 250 tons per day of municipal solid waste, submitted on December 24, 2019 (incorporated by reference, see paragraph (d)(1) of this section).




(c) *Designated facilities.* The plan applies to existing facilities in the following categories of sources:


(1) Sulfuric acid plants.


(2) Kraft pulp mills.


(3) Existing municipal waste combustors.




(d) *Incorporation by reference.* The material listed in this paragraph (d) is incorporated by reference in this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved material is available for inspection at the EPA and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact EPA at: EPA Region 1 Regional Office, Air and Radiation Division, 5 Post Office Square-Suite 100, Boston, MA, 617-918-1111. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit: *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html* or email *fr.inspection@nara.gov.* The material may be obtained from: State of Maine, Maine Department of Environmental Protection. 17 State House Station, 28 Tyson Drive, Augusta, Maine 04333, 207-287-7688, *www.maine.gov/dep/:*

(1) 06-096 Code of Maine Regulations: Department of Environmental Protection, Chapter 121, “Emission Limitations and Emission Testing of Resource Recovery Facilities,” excluding Section 6 “Large Municipal Waste Combustor Units Subject to 40 CFR part 60, subpart Eb,” amended September 14, 2019.


(2) [Reserved]





---

[N] [54 FR 22896, May 30, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 38548, Sept. 19, 1990; 59 FR 50507, Oct. 4, 1994; 63 FR 68397, Dec. 11, 1998; 68 FR 23211, May 1, 2003; 70 FR 22268, Apr. 29, 2005; 88 FR 15613, Mar. 14, 2023]




