# § 923.123   Definitions.

(a) *Program change* means “routine program change” as defined in 15 CFR 923.84 and “amendment” as defined in 15 CFR 923.80, and includes the following: 


(1) A change to coastal zone boundaries that will improve a State's ability to achieve one or more of the coastal zone enhancement objectives. 


(2) New or revised authorities, including statutes, regulations, enforceable policies, administrative decisions, executive orders, and memoranda of agreement/understanding, that will improve a State's ability to achieve one or more of the coastal zone enhancement objectives. 


(3) New or revised local coastal programs and implementing ordinances that will improve a State's ability to achieve one or more of the coastal zone enhancement objectives. 


(4) New or revised coastal land acquisition, management and restoration programs that improve a State's ability to attain one or more of the coastal zone enhancement objectives. 


(5) New or revised Special Area Management Plans or plans for Areas of Particular Concern (APC), including enforceable policies and other necessary implementing mechanisms or criteria and procedures for designating and managing APCs that will improve a State's ability to achieve one or more of the coastal zone enhancement objectives. 


(6) New or revised guidelines, procedures and policy documents which are formally adopted by a State and provide specific interpretations of enforceable CZM policies to applicants, local governments and other agencies that will result in meaningful improvements in coastal resource management and that will improve a State's ability to attain one or more of the coastal zone enhancement objectives. 


(b) *Assessment* means a public document, prepared by a State and approved by NOAA in accordance with guidance on Assessments and Strategies issued by NOAA (hereafter referred to as the guidance 
1), that identifies the State's priority needs for improvement with regard to the coastal zone enhancement objectives. The Assessment determines the extent to which problems and opportunities exist with regard to each of the coastal zone enhancement objectives and the effectiveness of efforts to address those problems. The Assessment includes the factual basis for NOAA and the States to determine the priority needs for improvement of management programs in accordance with this part. 


(c) *Strategy* means a comprehensive, multi-year statement of goals and the methods for their attainment, prepared by a State in accordance with NOAA guidance and these regulations and approved by NOAA, that sets forth the specific program changes the State will seek to achieve in one or more of the coastal zone enhancement objectives. The Strategy will address only the priority needs for improvement identified by the Assistant Administrator, after careful consultation with the State. The strategy will include specific task descriptions, cost estimates and milestones, as appropriate. 


(d) *Weighted Formula Project* means a project or task for which NOAA awards funding based on the criteria at § 923.125(a). Such tasks are essential to meeting the milestones and objectives of each state's strategy. As funding for weighted formula tasks is more predictable than for projects of special merit, basic functions necessary to achieve the objectives of the strategy, such as hiring of full time staff should be included in weighted formula tasks. 


(e) *Projects of Special Merit (PSM)* means a project or task that NOAA will rank and evaluate based on criteria at § 923.125(b). As PSM funds will be awarded competitively on an annual basis, these projects should further the objectives of the strategy but may not be essential to meeting specific benchmarks in the strategy. PSM projects should not be dependent on long term levels of funding to succeed. 


(f) *Fiscal needs* means the extent to which a State must rely solely on Federal funds to complete a project under section 309 because State funds are not otherwise available. 


(g) *Technical needs* means the extent to which a State lacks trained personnel or equipment or access to trained personnel or equipment to complete a project under section 309. 


(h) *Assistant Administrator* means the Assistant Administrator for Ocean Services and Coastal Zone Management, or the NOAA Official responsible for directing the Federal Coastal Zone Management Program. 



---

[N] [57 FR 31116, July 14, 1992. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 33818, 33819, June 28, 1996]




