# § 721.4494   Polycyclic isocyanate.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as a polycyclic isocyanate (PMN P-94-437) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iii), (a)(6)(iv), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (b) (concentration set at 1.0%), and (c).


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5). In addition the following human health and environmental hazard and precautionary statements shall appear on each label as specified in paragraph (b) of this section and the SDS as specified in paragraph (c) of this section: This substance may cause skin sensitization. This substance may cause pulmonary sensitization.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q).


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(3), (b)(3), and (c)(3).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [61 FR 63737, Dec. 2, 1996]




