# § 165.933   Safety Zone, Chicago Harbor, Navy Pier East, Chicago, IL.

(a) *Location.* The following area is a safety zone: The waters of Lake Michigan within Chicago Harbor between the east end of Navy Pier and the Chicago Harbor breakwater beginning at 41°53′37″ N, 087°35′26″ W; then south to 41°53′24″ N, 087°35′26″ W; then east to 41°53′24″ N, 087°35′55″ W; then north to 41°53′37″ N, 087°35′55″ W; then back to the point of origin.


(b) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply to this section:


(1) *Designated representative* means any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer designated by the Captain of the Port Lake Michigan to monitor this safety zone, permit entry into this zone, give legally enforceable orders to persons or vessels within this zones and take other actions authorized by the Captain of the Port.


(2) *Public vessel* means vessels owned, chartered, or operated by the United States, or by a State or political subdivision thereof.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) The general regulations in 33 CFR 165.23 apply.


(2) All persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the Coast Guard Captain of the Port Lake Michigan or a designated representative. Upon being hailed by the U.S. Coast Guard by siren, radio, flashing light or other means, the operator of a vessel shall proceed as directed.


(3) All vessels must obtain permission from the Captain of the Port Lake Michigan or a designated representative to enter, move within or exit the safety zone established in this section when this safety zone is enforced. Vessels and persons granted permission to enter the safety zone shall obey all lawful orders or directions of the Captain of the Port Lake Michigan or a designated representative. While within a safety zone, all vessels shall operate at the minimum speed necessary to maintain a safe course.


(d) *Notice of Enforcement or Suspension of Enforcement.* The safety zone established by this section will be enforced only upon notice of the Captain of the Port. The Captain of the Port Lake Michigan will cause notice of enforcement of the safety zone established by this section to be made by all appropriate means to the affected segments of the public including publication in the _Federal Register_ as practicable, in accordance with 33 CFR 165.7(a). Such means of notification may also include, but are not limited to Broadcast Notice to Mariners or Local Notice to Mariners. The Captain of the Port Lake Michigan will issue a Broadcast Notice to Mariners notifying the public when enforcement of the safety zone established by this section is suspended.


(e) *Exemption.* Public vessels as defined in paragraph (b) of this section are exempt from the requirements in this section.


(f) *Wavier.* For any vessel, the Captain of the Port Lake Michigan or a designated representative may waive any of the requirements of this section, upon finding that operational conditions or other circumstances are such that application of this section is unnecessary or impractical for the purposes of safety or environmental safety.



---

[N] [CGD09-07-007, 72 FR 32525, June 13, 2007]






