# ยง 48.9   Revocation of registration.

(a) Failure to Satisfy Registration Requirements or Conditions:


(1) If the Commission determines that a registered foreign board of trade or the clearing organization has failed to satisfy any registration requirements or conditions for registration, the Commission shall notify the foreign board of trade of such determination, including the particular requirements or conditions that are not being satisfied, and shall afford the foreign board of trade or clearing organization an opportunity to make appropriate changes to bring it into compliance.


(2) If, not later than 30 days after receiving a notification under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the foreign board of trade or clearing organization fails to make changes that, in the opinion of the Commission, are necessary to comply with the registration requirements or conditions of registration, the Commission may revoke the foreign board of trade's registration, after appropriate notice and an opportunity to respond, by issuing an Order Revoking Registration which sets forth the reasons therefor.


(3) A foreign board of trade whose registration has been revoked for failure to satisfy a registration requirement or condition of registration may apply for re-registration 360 days after the issuance of the Order Revoking Registration if the deficiency causing the revocation has been cured or relevant facts and circumstances have changed.


(b) *Other events that could result in revocation.* Notwithstanding ยง 48.9(a), revocation under these circumstances will be handled by the Commission as relevant facts or circumstances warrant.


(1) The Commission may revoke a foreign board of trade's registration, after appropriate notice and an opportunity to respond, if the Commission determines that a representation made in the foreign board of trade's application for registration is found to be untrue or materially misleading or if the foreign board of trade failed to include information in the application that would have been material to the Commission's determination as to whether to issue an Order of Registration.


(2) The Commission may revoke a foreign board of trade's registration, after appropriate notice and an opportunity to respond, if there is a material change in the regulatory regime applicable to the foreign board of trade or clearing organization such that the regulatory regime no longer satisfies any registration requirement or condition for registration applicable to the regulatory regime.


(3) The Commission may revoke a foreign board of trade's registration in the event of an emergency or in a circumstance where the Commission determines that revocation would be necessary or appropriate in the public interest. Following revocation, the Commission will provide notice and an opportunity to respond.


(4) The Commission may revoke a foreign board of trade's registration in the event the foreign board of trade or the clearing organization is no longer authorized, licensed or registered, as applicable, as a regulated market and/or exchange or clearing organization or ceases to operate as a foreign board of trade or clearing organization, subject to notice and an opportunity to respond.


(5) The Commission may revoke a foreign board of trade's registration in response to a voluntary request by the foreign board of trade to vacate its registration. A foreign board of trade may file a request to vacate its registration with the Secretary of the Commission at *FBOTapplications@cftc.gov.*

(c) Upon request by the Commission, a registered foreign board of trade must file with the Commission a written demonstration, containing such supporting data, information, and documents, in such form and manner and within such timeframe as the Commission may specify, that the foreign board of trade or clearing organization is in compliance with the registration requirements and/or conditions for registration.



---

[N] [76 FR 80698, Dec. 23, 2011, as amended at 89 FR 66209, Aug. 15, 2024]






