# § 721.11175   Heteropolycycliccarboxylic acid, 1,3-dihydro-disubstituted-, polymer with 1,1′-methylenebis[4-isocyanatobenzene], reaction products with silica (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as heteropolycycliccarboxylic acid, 1,3-dihydro-disubstituted-, polymer with 1,1′-methylenebis[4-isocyanatobenzene], reaction products with silica (PMN P-16-307) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substance after they have been reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (2)(i) through (iii), (3) and (6) (particulate), (b) (concentration set at 1.0%), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible.


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e)(concentration set at 1.0%), (f), (g)(1)(i) and (ii), (2)(i) through (iii) and (v), and (5). Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* It is a significant new use to manufacture, process, or use the substance for consumer use or for commercial uses that could introduce the substance into a consumer setting. It is a significant new use to manufacture, process, or use the substance other than in a liquid formulation. It is a significant new use to manufacture the PMN substance to contain more than 0.1% residual isocyanate by weight. It is a significant new use to manufacture, process, or use the substance in any manner that results in generation of a vapor, dust, mist or aerosol.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [84 FR 66596. Dec. 5, 2019]




