# § 679.118   Management measures.

This section applies to vessels engaged in commercial fishing and recreational fishing for salmon in the Cook Inlet EEZ Area.


(a) *Harvest limits*—(1) *TAC.* NMFS, after consultation with the Council, will specify the annual TAC amounts for commercial fishing for each salmon stock or species after accounting for projected recreational fishing removals.


(2) *Annual TAC determination.* The annual determinations of TAC for each salmon species or stock may be based on a review of the following:


(i) Resource assessment documents prepared regularly for the Council that provide information on historical catch trends; updated estimates of the MSY of the salmon stocks or stock complexes; assessments of the stock condition of each salmon stock or stock complex; SSC recommendations on reference points established for salmon stocks; management uncertainty; assessments of the multispecies and ecosystem impacts of harvesting the salmon stocks at current levels, given the assessed condition of stocks, including consideration of rebuilding depressed stocks; and alternative harvesting strategies and related effects on the salmon species;


(ii) Social and economic considerations that are consistent with Salmon FMP goals for the Cook Inlet EEZ Area, including the need to promote efficiency in the utilization of fishery resources, including minimizing costs; the desire to conserve, protect, and rebuild depleted salmon stocks; the importance of a salmon fishery to harvesters, processors, local communities, and other salmon users in Cook Inlet; and the need to promote utilization of certain species.


(b) *Annual specifications*—(1) *Proposed specifications.* (i) As soon as practicable after consultation with the Council, NMFS will publish proposed specifications for the salmon fishery in the Cook Inlet EEZ Area; and


(ii) NMFS will accept public comment on the proposed specifications established by this section for a period specified in the notice of proposed specifications published in the _Federal Register_.


(2) *Final specifications.* NMFS will consider comments received on the proposed specifications and will publish a notice of final specifications in the _Federal Register_ unless NMFS determines that the final specifications would not be a logical outgrowth of the notice of proposed specifications. If the final specifications would not be a logical outgrowth of the notice of proposed specifications, NMFS will either:


(i) Publish a revised notice of proposed specifications in the _Federal Register_ for public comment, and after considering comments received on the revised proposed specifications, publish a notice of final specifications in the _Federal Register_; or


(ii) Publish a notice of final specifications in the _Federal Register_ without an additional opportunity for public comment based on a finding that good cause pursuant to the Administrative Procedure Act justifies waiver of the requirement for a revised notice of proposed specifications and opportunity for public comment thereon.


(c) *Management authority*—(1) *Fishery closures.* (i) For commercial fishing, if NMFS determines that any salmon TAC for commercial fishing as specified under paragraph (b) of this section has been or may be reached for any salmon species or stock, NMFS will publish notification in the _Federal Register_ prohibiting commercial fishing for salmon in the Cook Inlet EEZ Area.


(ii) For recreational fishing, if NMFS determines that any salmon ABC as specified under paragraph (b) of this section has been or may be reached, NMFS will publish notification in the _Federal Register_ prohibiting retention of that salmon species when recreational fishing in the Cook Inlet EEZ Area and may also prohibit recreational fishing for one or more salmon species in the Cook Inlet EEZ Area. The Regional Administrator maintains the authority to open or close the Cook Inlet EEZ Area to recreational fishing for one or more salmon species if they deem it appropriate for conservation or other management purposes. Factors such as the ABC, anticipated harvest rates, expected mortality, and the number of participants will be considered in making any such determination.


(d) *Commercial Fishery maximum retainable amounts (MRA)*—(1) *Proportion of basis species.* The MRA of an incidental catch species is calculated as a proportion of the basis species retained on board the vessel using the retainable percentages in table 10 to this part for the GOA species categories.


(2) *Calculation.* (i) To calculate the MRA for a specific incidental catch species, an individual retainable amount must be calculated with respect to each basis species that is retained on board that vessel.


(ii) To obtain these individual retainable amounts, multiply the appropriate retainable percentage for the incidental catch species/basis species combination, set forth in table 10 to this part for the GOA species categories, by the amount of the relevant basis species on board, in round-weight equivalents.


(iii) The MRA for that specific incidental catch species is the sum of the individual retainable amounts for each basis species.


(e) *Seasons*—(1) *Fishing season.* Directed fishing for salmon using drift gillnet gear in the Cook Inlet EEZ Area may be conducted from 0700 hours, A.l.t., from the third Monday in June or June 19, whichever is later, through 1900 hours, A.l.t., August 15.


(2) *Fishing periods.* Notwithstanding other provisions of this part, fishing for salmon with drift gillnet gear in the Cook Inlet EEZ Area is authorized during the fishing season only from 0700 hours, A.l.t., until 1900 hours, A.l.t., Mondays and from 0700 hours, A.l.t., until 1900 hours, A.l.t., Thursdays from the third Monday in June or June 19, whichever is later, until July 15, and from August 1 until August 15. From July 16 until July 31, fishing for salmon with drift gillnet gear in the Cook Inlet EEZ Area is authorized during the fishing season only from 0700 hours, A.l.t., until 1900 hours, A.l.t., Thursdays. Fishing for salmon using drift gillnet gear at times other than during the specified fishing periods is not authorized.


(f) *Legal gear*—(1) *Size.* Drift gillnet gear must be no longer than 200 fathoms (365.76 m) in length, 45 meshes deep, and have a mesh size of no greater than 6 inches (15.24 cm).


(2) *Marking.* Drift gillnet gear must be marked at both ends with buoys that legibly display the vessel's SFFP number.


(3) *Floating.* The float line and floats of gillnets must be floating on the surface of the water while the net is fishing, unless natural conditions cause the net to temporarily sink. Staking or otherwise fixing a drift gillnet to the seafloor is not authorized.


(4) *Measurement.* For purposes of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, nets must be measured, either wet or dry, by determining the maximum or minimum distance between the first and last hanging of the net when the net is fully extended with traction applied at one end only.



---

[N] [89 FR 34759, Apr. 30, 2024; 89 FR 46334, May 29, 2024]






