# ยง 52.2125   Control strategy: Ozone.

(a) *Determination of attaining data.* EPA has determined, as of November 15, 2011, the bi-state Charlotte-Gastonia-Rockhill, North Carolina-South Carolina nonattainment area has attaining data for the 1997 8-hour ozone NAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 51.918, suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standards for as long as this area continues to meet the 1997 8-hour ozone NAAQS.


(b) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2008-2010, EPA determined that the Charlotte-Gastonia-Rock Hill, North Carolina-South Carolina, 1997 8-hour ozone nonattainment Area attained the 1997 8-hour ozone NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of June 15, 2011. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 181(b)(2) to determine, based on the Area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the Area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Charlotte-Gastonia-Rock Hill, North Carolina-South Carolina, 1997 8-hour ozone nonattainment Area is not subject to the consequences of failing to attain pursuant to section 181(b)(2).


(c) *Determination of attainment.* The EPA has determined, as of June 3, 2016, that based on 2012 to 2014 ambient air quality data, the Charlotte-Rock Hill, NC-SC 2008 ozone Marginal nonattainment area has attained the 2008 ozone NAAQS. Therefore, the EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 181(b)(2)(A) to determine, based on the area's air quality data as of the attainment date, whether the area attained the standard. The EPA also determined that the Charlotte-Rock Hill, NC-SC nonattainment area will not be reclassified for failure to attain by its applicable attainment date under section 181(b)(2)(A).



---

[N] [76 FR 70660, Nov. 15, 2011, as amended at 77 FR 13494, Mar. 7, 2012; 81 FR 26710, May 4, 2016]




