# § 222.165   What procedures does the Secretary follow after making a determination under section 8009?

(a) *Request for hearing.* (1) A State or LEA that is adversely affected by a determination under section 8009 and this subpart and that desires a hearing regarding that determination must submit a written request for a hearing within 60 days of receipt of the determination. The time within which a request must be filed may not be extended unless the Secretary, or the Secretary's delegatee, extends the time in writing at the time notice of the determination is given. 


(2) A request for a hearing in accordance with this section must specify the issues of fact and law to be considered. 


(3) If an LEA requests a hearing, it must furnish a copy of the request to the State. If a State requests a hearing, it must furnish a copy of the request to all LEAs in the State. 


(b) *Right to intervene.* Any LEA or State that is adversely affected by a determination shall have the right of intervention in the hearing. 


(c) *Time and place of hearing.* The hearing is held at a time and place fixed by the Secretary or the Secretary's delegatee (with due regard to the mutual convenience of the parties). 


(d) *Counsel.* In all proceedings under this section, all parties may be represented by counsel. 


(e) *Proceedings.* (1) The Secretary refers the matter in controversy to an administrative law judge (ALJ) appointed under 5 U.S.C. 3105. 


(2) The ALJ is bound by all applicable statutes and regulations and may neither waive them nor rule them invalid. 


(f) *Filing requirements.* (1) Any written submission under this section must be filed by hand-delivery, mail, or facsimile transmission. The Secretary discourages the use of facsimile transmission for documents longer than five pages. 


(2) If agreed upon by the parties, service of a document may be made upon the other party by facsimile transmission. 


(3) The filing date for a written submission under this section is the date the document is— 


(i) Hand-delivered; 


(ii) Mailed; or 


(iii) Sent by facsimile transmission. 


(4) A party filing by facsimile transmission is responsible for confirming that a complete and legible copy of the document was received by the Department. 


(5) Any party filing a document by facsimile transmission must file a follow-up hard copy by hand-delivery or mail within a reasonable period of time. 


(g) *Procedural rules.* (1) If, in the opinion of the ALJ, no dispute exists as to a material fact the resolution of which would be materially assisted by oral testimony, the ALJ shall afford each party to the proceeding an opportunity to present its case—


(i) In whole or in part in writing; or 


(ii) In an informal conference after affording each party sufficient notice of the issues to be considered. 


(2) With respect to hearings involving a dispute as to a material fact the resolution of which would be materially assisted by oral testimony, the ALJ shall afford the following procedures to each party: 


(i) Sufficient notice of the issues to be considered at the hearing. 


(ii) An opportunity to make a record of the proceedings. 


(iii) An opportunity to present witnesses on the party's behalf. 


(iv) An opportunity to cross-examine other witnesses either orally or through written interrogatories. 


(h) *Decisions.* (1) The ALJ— 


(i) Makes written findings and an initial decision based upon the hearing record; and 


(ii) Forwards to the Secretary, and mails to each party, a copy of the written findings and initial decision. 


(2) Appeals to the Secretary and the finality of initial decisions under section 8009 are governed by §§ 222.157(b), 222.158, and 222.159 of subpart J of this part. 


(i) *Corrective action.* (1) Within 30 days after a determination by the Secretary that a State has been in violation of section 8009 unless the determination is timely appealed by the State, the State shall provide satisfactory written assurances that it will undertake appropriate corrective action if necessary. 


(2) A State found by the Secretary to have been in violation of section 8009 following a hearing shall provide, within 30 days after disposal of the hearing request (such as by a final decision issued under this subpart or withdrawal of the hearing request), satisfactory assurances that it is taking corrective action, if necessary. 


(3) At any time during a hearing under this subpart, a State may provide the Secretary appropriate assurances that it will undertake corrective action if necessary. The Secretary or the ALJ, as applicable, may stay the proceedings pending completion of corrective action. 



---

[N] [60 FR 50778, Sept. 29, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 35420, July 1, 1997; 80 FR 33170, June 11, 2015]




