# § 363.1   Scope and definitions.

(a) *Applicability.* This part applies to any insured depository institution with respect to any fiscal year in which its consolidated total assets as of the beginning of such fiscal year are $500 million or more. The requirements specified in this part are in addition to any other statutory and regulatory requirements otherwise applicable to an insured depository institution.


(b) *Compliance by subsidiaries of holding companies.* (1) For an insured depository institution that is a subsidiary of a holding company, the audited financial statements requirement of § 363.2(a) may be satisfied:


(i) For fiscal years ending on or before June 14, 2010, by audited consolidated financial statements of the top-tier or any mid-tier holding company.


(ii) For fiscal years ending on or after June 15, 2010, by audited consolidated financial statements of the top-tier or any mid-tier holding company provided that the consolidated total assets of the insured depository institution (or the consolidated total assets of all of the holding company's insured depository institution subsidiaries, regardless of size, if the holding company owns or controls more than one insured depository institution) comprise 75 percent or more of the consolidated total assets of this top-tier or mid-tier holding company as of the beginning of its fiscal year.


(2) The other requirements of this part for an insured depository institution that is a subsidiary of a holding company may be satisfied by the top-tier or any mid-tier holding company if the insured depository institution meets the criterion specified in § 363.1(b)(1) and if:


(i) The services and functions comparable to those required of the insured depository institution by this part are provided at this top-tier or mid-tier holding company level; and


(ii) The insured depository institution has as of the beginning of its fiscal year:


(A) Total assets of less than $5 billion; or


(B) Total assets of $5 billion or more and a composite CAMELS rating of 1 or 2.


(3) The appropriate Federal banking agency may revoke the exception in paragraph (b)(2) of this section for any institution with total assets in excess of $9 billion for any period of time during which the appropriate Federal banking agency determines that the institution's exemption would create a significant risk to the Deposit Insurance Fund.


(c) *Financial reporting.* For purposes of the management report requirement of § 363.2(b) and the internal control reporting requirement of § 363.3(b), “financial reporting,” at a minimum, includes both financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for the insured depository institution or its holding company and financial statements prepared for regulatory reporting purposes. For recognition and measurement purposes, financial statements prepared for regulatory reporting purposes shall conform to generally accepted accounting principles and section 37 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.


(d) *Definitions.* For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:


(1) *AICPA* means the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.


(2) *GAAP* means generally accepted accounting principles.


(3) *PCAOB* means the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.


(4) *Public company* means an insured depository institution or other company that has a class of securities registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or the appropriate Federal banking agency under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and *nonpublic company* means an insured depository institution or other company that does not meet the definition of a *public company.*

(5) *SEC* means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.


(6) *SOX* means the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.



---

[N] [74 FR 35745, July 20, 2009, as amended at 85 FR 67433, Oct. 23, 2020; 86 FR 66155, Nov. 22, 2021]






