# ยง 210.24   Notices of blanket license.

(a) *General.* This section prescribes rules under which a digital music provider completes and submits a notice of license to the mechanical licensing collective pursuant to 17 U.S.C. 115(d)(2)(A) for purposes of obtaining a statutory blanket license.


(b) *Form and content.* A notice of license shall be prepared in accordance with any reasonable formatting instructions established by the mechanical licensing collective, and shall include all of the following information:


(1) The full legal name of the digital music provider and, if different, the trade or consumer-facing brand name(s) of the service(s), including any specific offering(s), through which the digital music provider is engaging, or seeks to engage, in any covered activity.


(2) The full address, including a specific number and street name or rural route, of the place of business of the digital music provider. A post office box or similar designation will not be sufficient except where it is the only address that can be used in that geographic location.


(3) A telephone number and email address for the digital music provider where an individual responsible for managing the blanket license can be reached.


(4) Any website(s), software application(s), or other online locations(s) where the digital music provider's applicable service(s) is/are, or expected to be, made available.


(5) A description sufficient to reasonably establish the digital music provider's eligibility for a blanket license and to provide reasonable notice to the mechanical licensing collective, copyright owners, and songwriters of the manner in which the digital music provider is engaging, or seeks to engage, in any covered activity pursuant to the blanket license. Such description shall be sufficient if it includes at least the following information:


(i) A statement that the digital music provider has a good-faith belief, informed by review of relevant law and regulations, that it:


(A) Satisfies all requirements to be eligible for a blanket license, including that it satisfies the eligibility criteria to be considered a digital music provider pursuant to 17 U.S.C. 115(e)(8); and


(B) Is, or will be before the date of initial use of musical works pursuant to the blanket license, able to comply with all payments, terms, and responsibilities associated with the blanket license.


(ii) A statement that where the digital music provider seeks or expects to engage in any activity identified in its notice of license, it has a good-faith intention to do so within a reasonable period of time.


(iii) A general description of the digital music provider's service(s), or expected service(s), and the manner in which it uses, or seeks to use, phonorecords of nondramatic musical works.


(iv) Identification of each of the following digital phonorecord delivery configurations the digital music provider is, or seeks to be, making as part of its covered activities:


(A) Permanent downloads.


(B) Limited downloads.


(C) Interactive streams.


(D) Noninteractive streams.


(E) Other configurations, accompanied by a brief description.


(v) Identification of each of the following service types the digital music provider offers, or seeks to offer, as part of its covered activities (the digital music provider may, but is not required to, associate specific service types with specific digital phonorecord delivery configurations or with particular types of activities or offerings that may be defined in part 385 of this title):


(A) Subscriptions.


(B) Bundles.


(C) Lockers.


(D) Services available through discounted pricing plans, such as for families or students.


(E) Free-to-the-user services.


(F) Other applicable services, accompanied by a brief description.


(vi) Any other information the digital music provider wishes to provide.


(6) The date, or expected date, of initial use of musical works pursuant to the blanket license.


(7) Identification of any amendment made pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section, including the submission date of the notice being amended.


(8) A description of any applicable voluntary license the digital music provider is, or expects to be, operating under concurrently with the blanket license that is sufficient for the mechanical licensing collective to fulfill its obligations under 17 U.S.C. 115(d)(3)(G)(i)(I)(bb). This description should be provided as an addendum to the rest of the notice of license to help preserve any confidentiality to which it may be entitled. This paragraph (b)(8) does not apply to any authority obtained by a digital music provider from licensors of sound recordings to make and distribute permanent downloads of musical works embodied in such sound recordings pursuant to an individual download license or voluntary license. With respect to any applicable voluntary license executed and in effect before March 31, 2021, the description required by this paragraph (b)(8) must be delivered to the mechanical licensing collective either no later than 10 business days after such license is executed, or at least 90 calendar days before delivering a report of usage covering the first reporting period during which such license is in effect, whichever is later. For any reporting period ending on or before March 31, 2021, the mechanical licensing collective shall not be required to undertake any obligations otherwise imposed on it by this subpart with respect to any voluntary license for which the collective has not received the description required by this paragraph (b)(8) at least 90 calendar days prior to the delivery of a report of usage for such period, but such obligations attach and are ongoing with respect to such license for subsequent periods. The rest of the notice of license may be delivered separately from such description. The description required by this paragraph (b)(8) shall be sufficient if it includes at least the following information:


(i) An identification of each of the digital music provider's services, including by reference to any applicable types of activities or offerings that may be defined in part 385 of this title, through which musical works are, or are expected to be, used pursuant to any such voluntary license. If such a license pertains to all of the digital music provider's applicable services, it may state so without identifying each service.


(ii) The start and end dates.


(iii) The musical work copyright owner, identified by name and any known and appropriate unique identifiers, and appropriate contact information for the musical work copyright owner or for an administrator or other representative who has entered into an applicable license on behalf of the relevant copyright owner.


(iv) A satisfactory identification of any applicable catalog exclusions.


(v) At the digital music provider's option, and in lieu of providing the information listed in paragraph (b)(8)(iv) of this section, a list of all covered musical works, identified by appropriate unique identifiers.


(vi) A unique identifier for each such license.


(9) A description of the extent to which the digital music provider is operating under authority obtained from licensors of sound recordings to make and distribute permanent downloads of musical works embodied in such sound recordings pursuant to an individual download license or voluntary license. Such description may indicate that such authority exists for all permanent downloads. Otherwise, such description shall include a list of all sound recordings for which the digital music provider has obtained such authority from the respective sound recording licensors, or a list of any applicable catalog exclusions where the digital music provider indicates that such authority otherwise exists for all permanent downloads. Such description shall also include an identification of the digital music provider's covered activities operated under such authority.


(c) *Certification and signature.* The notice of license shall be signed by an appropriate duly authorized officer or representative of the digital music provider. The signature shall be accompanied by the name and title of the person signing the notice and the date of the signature. The notice may be signed electronically. The person signing the notice shall certify that he or she has appropriate authority to submit the notice of license to the mechanical licensing collective on behalf of the digital music provider and that all information submitted as part of the notice is true, accurate, and complete to the best of the signer's knowledge, information, and belief, and is provided in good faith.


(d) *Submission, fees, and acceptance.* Except as provided by 17 U.S.C. 115(d)(9)(A), to obtain a blanket license, a digital music provider must submit a notice of license to the mechanical licensing collective. Notices of license shall be submitted to the mechanical licensing collective in a manner reasonably determined by the collective. No fee may be charged for submitting notices of license. Upon submitting a notice of license to the mechanical licensing collective, a digital music provider shall be provided with a prompt response from the collective confirming receipt of the notice and the date of receipt. The mechanical licensing collective shall send any rejection of a notice of license to both the street address and email address provided in the notice.


(e) *Harmless errors.* Errors in the submission or content of a notice of license, including the failure to timely submit an amended notice of license, that do not materially affect the adequacy of the information required to serve the purposes of 17 U.S.C. 115(d) shall be deemed harmless, and shall not render the notice invalid or provide a basis for the mechanical licensing collective to reject a notice or terminate a blanket license. This paragraph (e) shall apply only to errors made in good faith and without any intention to deceive, mislead, or conceal relevant information.


(f) *Amendments.* A digital music provider may submit an amended notice of license to cure any deficiency in a rejected notice pursuant to 17 U.S.C. 115(d)(2)(A). A digital music provider operating under a blanket license must submit a new notice of license within 45 calendar days after any of the information required by paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section contained in the notice on file with the mechanical licensing collective has changed. An amended notice shall indicate that it is an amendment and shall contain the submission date of the notice being amended. The mechanical licensing collective shall retain copies of all prior notices of license submitted by a digital music provider. Where the information required by paragraph (b)(8) of this section has changed, instead of submitting an amended notice of license, the digital music provider must promptly deliver updated information to the mechanical licensing collective in an alternative manner reasonably determined by the collective. To the extent commercially reasonable, the digital music provider must deliver such updated information either no later than 10 business days after such license is executed, or at least 30 calendar days before delivering a report of usage covering the first reporting period during which such license is in effect, whichever is later. Except as otherwise provided for by paragraph (b)(8) of this section, the mechanical licensing collective shall not be required to undertake any obligations otherwise imposed on it by this subpart with respect to any voluntary license for which the collective has not received the description required by paragraph (b)(8) of this section at least 30 calendar days prior to the delivery of a report of usage for such period, but such obligations attach and are ongoing with respect to such license for subsequent periods.


(g) *Transition to blanket licenses.* Where a digital music provider obtains a blanket license automatically pursuant to 17 U.S.C. 115(d)(9)(A) and seeks to continue operating under the blanket license, a notice of license must be submitted to the mechanical licensing collective within 45 calendar days after the license availability date and the mechanical licensing collective shall begin accepting such notices at least 30 calendar days before the license availability date, provided, however, that any description required by paragraph (b)(8) of this section must be delivered within the time period described in paragraph (b)(8). In such cases, the blanket license shall be effective as of the license availability date, rather than the date on which the notice is submitted to the collective. Failure to comply with this paragraph (g), including by failing to timely submit the required notice or cure a rejected notice, shall not affect an applicable digital music provider's blanket license, except that such blanket license may become subject to default and termination under 17 U.S.C. 115(d)(4)(E). The mechanical licensing collective shall not take any action pursuant to 17 U.S.C. 115(d)(4)(E) before the conclusion of any proceedings under 17 U.S.C. 115(d)(2)(A)(iv) or (v), provided that the digital music provider meets the blanket license's other required terms and conditions.


(h) *Additional information.* Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the mechanical licensing collective from seeking additional information from a digital music provider that is not required by this section, which the digital music provider may voluntarily elect to provide, provided that the collective may not represent that such information is required to comply with the terms of this section.


(i) *Public access.* The mechanical licensing collective shall maintain a current, free, and publicly accessible and searchable online list of all blanket licenses that, subject to any confidentiality to which they may be entitled, includes:


(1) All information contained in each notice of license, including amended and rejected notices;


(2) Contact information for all blanket licensees;


(3) The effective dates of all blanket licenses;


(4) For any amended or rejected notice, a clear indication of its amended or rejected status and its relationship to other relevant notices;


(5) For any rejected notice, the collective's reason(s) for rejecting it; and


(6) For any terminated blanket license, a clear indication of its terminated status, the date of termination, and the collective's reason(s) for terminating it.



---

[N] [85 FR 58143, Sept. 17, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 12826, Mar. 5, 2021]




