# § 311.25   Parasites not transmissible to man; tapeworm cysts in sheep; hydatid cysts; flukes; gid bladder-worms.

(a) In the disposal of carcasses, edible organs, and other parts of carcasses showing evidence of infestation with parasites not transmissible to man, the following general rules shall govern except as otherwise provided in this section: If the lesions are localized in such manner and are of such character that the parasites and the lesions caused by them can be completely removed, the nonaffected portion of the carcass, organ, or other part of the carcass may be passed for human food after the removal and condemnation of the affected portions. If an organ or other part of a carcass shows numerous lesions caused by parasites, or if the character of the infestation is such that complete extirpation of the parasitic infestation or invasion renders the part in any way unfit for human food, the affected part shall be condemned. If parasites are found to be distributed in a carcass in such a manner or to be of such character that their removal and the removal of the lesions caused by them is impracticable, no part of the carcass shall be passed for human food. If the infestation is excessive, the carcass shall be condemned. If the infestation is moderate, the carcass may be passed for cooking, but in case such carcass is not cooked as required by part 315 of this subchapter, it shall be condemned. 


(b) In the case of sheep carcasses affected with tapeworm cysts (Cysticercus ovis, so-called sheep measles, not transmissible to man), such carcasses may be passed for human food after the removal and condemnation of the affected portions: *Provided, however,* That if, upon the final inspection of sheep carcasses retained on account of measles, the total number of cysts found embedded in muscular tissue, or in immediate relation with muscular tissue, excluding the heart, exceeds five, the entire carcass shall be condemned, or such carcass shall be heated throughout to a temperature of at least 140 °F. After removal and condemnation of all affected portions. 


(c) Carcasses found infested with gid bladder-worms (Coenurus cerebralis, Multiceps multiceps) may be passed for human food after condemnation of the affected organ (brain or spinal cord). 


(d) Organs or other parts of carcasses infested with hydatid cysts (echinococus) shall be condemned. 


(e) Livers infested with flukes or fringed tapeworms shall be condemned. 




