# ยง 6.24   Application for a license.

(a) Application for license shall be made on electronic forms designated for the purpose by the Licensing Authority. All parts of the application shall be completed. The application shall be transmitted no earlier than September 1 and no later than midnight October 15 of the year preceding that for which license application is made. The Licensing Authority will not accept incomplete applications.


(b)(1) Where the applicant seeks to establish eligibility on the basis of imports, applications shall include identification of entries sufficient to establish the applicant as the importer of record of entries required under ยง 6.23, during the 12-month period ending August 31 prior to the quota year for which license is being sought. For qualifying licensed entries, verification will be only processed through DAIRIES and cross checked with entries in the CBP system. For qualifying unlicensed entries, the applicant will submit an electronic copy (*e.g.* scanned PDF) of CBP Form 7501 to the Licensing Authority.


(2) Where the applicant seeks to establish eligibility on the basis of exports, applications shall include:


(i) Census Form 7525 or a copy of the electronic submission of such form, and


(ii) The commercial invoice or bill of sale for the quantities and number of export shipments required under ยง 6.23, during the 12-month period ending August 31 prior to the quota year for which license is being sought.


(c) An applicant requesting more than one nonhistorical license must rank order these requests by the applicable Additional U.S. Note number. Cheese and cheese products must be ranked separately from dairy articles other than cheese or cheese products.



---

[N] [80 FR 44254, July 27, 2015]




