# ยง  674.7   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Accountable Executive* means a single, identifiable person who has ultimate responsibility for carrying out the Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan of a transit agency; responsibility for carrying out the transit agency's Transit Asset Management Plan; and control or direction over the human and capital resources needed to develop and maintain both the transit agency's Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan, in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 5329(d), and the transit agency's Transit Asset Management Plan in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 5326.


*Administrator* means the Federal Transit Administrator or the Administrator's designee.


*Collision* means any impact between a rail transit vehicle and any other vehicle, object, or any person.


*Contractor* means an entity that performs tasks on behalf of FTA, a State Safety Oversight Agency, or a Rail Transit Agency, through contract or other agreement.


*Corrective action plan* means a plan developed by a rail transit agency that describes the actions the rail transit agency will take to address an identified deficiency or safety concern, and the schedule for taking those actions. Either a State Safety Oversight Agency or FTA may require a rail transit agency to develop and carry out a corrective action plan.


*Derailment* for the purposes of this part means a safety event in which one or more wheels of a rail transit vehicle unintentionally leaves the rails.


*Designated personnel* means:


(1) Employees and contractors identified by a recipient whose job functions are directly responsible for safety oversight of the public transportation system of the public transportation agency; or


(2) Employees and contractors of a State Safety Oversight Agency whose job functions require them to conduct reviews, inspections, examinations, and other safety oversight activities of the rail fixed guideway public transportation systems subject to the jurisdiction of the agency.


*Disabling damage* means damage to a rail transit vehicle resulting from a collision and preventing the vehicle from operating under its own power.


*Evacuation for life safety reasons* means a condition that occurs when persons depart from transit vehicles or facilities for life safety reasons, including self-evacuation. A life safety reason may include a situation such as a fire, the presence of smoke or noxious fumes, a fuel leak from any source, an electrical hazard, or other hazard to any person. An evacuation of passengers into the rail right of way (not at a platform or station) for any reason is presumed to be an evacuation for life safety reasons.


*Fatality* means a death confirmed within 30 days of a safety event. Fatalities include suicides, but do not include deaths in or on transit property that are a result of drug overdose, exposure to the elements, illness, or natural causes.


*FRA* means the Federal Railroad Administration, an operating administration within the United States Department of Transportation.


*FTA* means the Federal Transit Administration, an operating administration within the United States Department of Transportation.


*Hazard* means any real or potential condition that can cause injury, illness, or death; damage to or loss of the facilities, equipment, rolling stock, or infrastructure of a public transportation system; or damage to the environment.


*Injury* means any harm to persons as a result of a safety event that requires immediate medical attention away from the scene. Does not include harm resulting from a drug overdose, exposure to the elements, illness, natural causes, or occupational safety events occurring in administrative buildings.


*Inspection* means a physical observation of equipment, facilities, rolling stock, operations, personnel, or records for the purpose of gathering or analyzing facts or information.


*Investigation* means the process of determining the causal and contributing factors of a safety event or hazard, for the purpose of preventing recurrence and mitigating safety risk.


*National Public Transportation Safety Plan* means the plan to improve the safety of all public transportation systems that receive Federal financial assistance under 49 U.S.C. Chapter 53.


*NTSB* means the National Transportation Safety Board, an independent Federal agency.


*Person* means a passenger, employee, contractor, volunteer, official worker, pedestrian, trespasser, or any other individual on the property of a rail fixed guideway public transportation system or associated infrastructure.


*Potential consequence* means the effect of a hazard.


*Public transportation* has the meaning found in 49 U.S.C. 5302.


*Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan (PTASP)* means the documented comprehensive agency safety plan for a transit agency that is required by 49 U.S.C. 5329 and part 673 of this chapter.


*Public Transportation Safety Certification Training Program (PTSCTP)* means the certification training program that is required by 49 U.S.C. 5329(c) and part 672 of this chapter.


*Rail fixed guideway public transportation system* means any fixed guideway system, or any such system in engineering or construction, that uses rail, is operated for public transportation, is within the jurisdiction of a State, and is not subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Railroad Administration. These include but are not limited to rapid rail, heavy rail, light rail, monorail, trolley, inclined plane, funicular, and automated guideway.


*Rail transit agency (RTA)* means any entity that provides services on a rail fixed guideway public transportation system.


*Rail transit vehicle* means any rolling stock used on a rail fixed guideway public transportation system, including but not limited to passenger and maintenance vehicles.


*Revenue vehicle* means a rail transit vehicle used to provide revenue service for passengers. This includes providing fare free service.


*Risk-based inspection program* means an inspection program that uses qualitative and quantitative data analysis to inform ongoing inspection activities. Risk-based inspection programs are designed to prioritize inspections to address safety concerns and hazards associated with the highest levels of safety risk.


*Safety event* means an unexpected outcome resulting in injury or death; damage to or loss of the facilities, equipment, rolling stock, or infrastructure of a public transportation system; or damage to the environment.


*Safety risk* means the composite of predicted severity and likelihood of a potential consequence of a hazard.


*Safety risk mitigation* means a method or methods to eliminate or reduce the severity and/or likelihood of a potential consequence of a hazard.


*State* means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Virgin Islands.


*State Safety Oversight Agency (SSOA)* means an agency established by a State that meets the requirements and performs the functions specified by 49 U.S.C. 5329(e) and (k) and the regulations set forth in this part.


*Unintended train movement* means any instance where a revenue vehicle is moving and is not under the control of a driver (whether or not the operator is physically on the vehicle at the time). This applies regardless of whether the event occurred in revenue service.






