# ยง 63.6120   What performance tests and other procedures must I use?

(a) You must conduct each performance test in Table 3 of this subpart that applies to you. 


(b) Each performance test must be conducted according to the requirements in Table 3 of this subpart. Before September 8, 2020, each performance test must be conducted according to the requirements of the General Provisions at ยง 63.7(e)(1).


(c) Performance tests must be conducted at high load, defined as 100 percent plus or minus 10 percent. Before September 8, 2020, do not conduct performance tests or compliance evaluations during periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction. After September 8, 2020, performance tests shall be conducted under such conditions based on representative performance of the affected source for the period being tested. Representative conditions exclude periods of startup and shutdown. The owner or operator may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. The owner or operator must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.


(d) You must conduct three separate test runs for each performance test, and each test run must last at least 1 hour. 


(e) If your stationary combustion turbine is not equipped with an oxidation catalyst, you must petition the Administrator for operating limitations that you will monitor to demonstrate compliance with the formaldehyde emission limitation in Table 1. You must measure these operating parameters during the initial performance test and continuously monitor thereafter. Alternatively, you may petition the Administrator for approval of no additional operating limitations. If you submit a petition under this section, you must not conduct the initial performance test until after the petition has been approved or disapproved by the Administrator. 


(f) If your stationary combustion turbine is not equipped with an oxidation catalyst and you petition the Administrator for approval of additional operating limitations to demonstrate compliance with the formaldehyde emission limitation in Table 1, your petition must include the following information described in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section. 


(1) Identification of the specific parameters you propose to use as additional operating limitations; 


(2) A discussion of the relationship between these parameters and HAP emissions, identifying how HAP emissions change with changes in these parameters and how limitations on these parameters will serve to limit HAP emissions; 


(3) A discussion of how you will establish the upper and/or lower values for these parameters which will establish the limits on these parameters in the operating limitations; 


(4) A discussion identifying the methods you will use to measure and the instruments you will use to monitor these parameters, as well as the relative accuracy and precision of these methods and instruments; and 


(5) A discussion identifying the frequency and methods for recalibrating the instruments you will use for monitoring these parameters. 


(g) If you petition the Administrator for approval of no additional operating limitations, your petition must include the information described in paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) of this section. 


(1) Identification of the parameters associated with operation of the stationary combustion turbine and any emission control device which could change intentionally (*e.g.,* operator adjustment, automatic controller adjustment, etc.) or unintentionally (*e.g.,* wear and tear, error, etc.) on a routine basis or over time; 


(2) A discussion of the relationship, if any, between changes in the parameters and changes in HAP emissions; 


(3) For the parameters which could change in such a way as to increase HAP emissions, a discussion of why establishing limitations on the parameters is not possible; 


(4) For the parameters which could change in such a way as to increase HAP emissions, a discussion of why you could not establish upper and/or lower values for the parameters which would establish limits on the parameters as operating limitations; 


(5) For the parameters which could change in such a way as to increase HAP emissions, a discussion identifying the methods you could use to measure them and the instruments you could use to monitor them, as well as the relative accuracy and precision of the methods and instruments; 


(6) For the parameters, a discussion identifying the frequency and methods for recalibrating the instruments you could use to monitor them; and 


(7) A discussion of why, from your point of view, it is infeasible, unreasonable or unnecessary to adopt the parameters as operating limitations. 



---

[N] [69 FR 10537, Mar. 5, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 13539, Mar. 9, 2020]




