# ยง 63.7300   What are my operation and maintenance requirements?

(a) As required by ยง 63.7310(a) you must always operate and maintain your affected source, including air pollution control and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions at least to the levels required by this subpart.




(b) You must prepare and operate at all times according to a written operation and maintenance plan for the general operation and maintenance of new or existing by-product coke oven batteries. Each plan must address, at a minimum, the elements listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section. 


(1) Frequency and method of recording underfiring gas parameters. 


(2) Frequency and method of recording battery operating temperature, including measurement of individual flue and cross-wall temperatures. 


(3) Procedures to prevent pushing an oven before it is fully coked. 


(4) Procedures to prevent overcharging and undercharging of ovens, including measurement of coal moisture, coal bulk density, and procedures for determining volume of coal charged. 


(5) Frequency and procedures for inspecting flues, burners, and nozzles. 


(6) Schedule and procedures for the daily washing of baffles. 


(c) You must prepare and operate at all times according to a written operation and maintenance plan for each capture system and control device applied to pushing emissions from a new or existing coke oven battery. Each plan must address at a minimum the elements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) Monthly inspections of the equipment that are important to the performance of the total capture system (*e.g.,* pressure sensors, dampers, and damper switches). This inspection must include observations of the physical appearance of the equipment (*e.g.,* presence of holes in ductwork or hoods, flow constrictions caused by dents or accumulated dust in ductwork, and fan erosion). In the event a defect or deficiency is found in the capture system (during a monthly inspection or between inspections), you must complete repairs within 30 days after the date that the defect or deficiency is discovered. If you determine that the repairs cannot be completed within 30 days, you must submit a written request for an extension of time to complete the repairs that must be received by the permitting authority not more than 20 days after the date that the defect or deficiency is discovered. The request must contain a description of the defect or deficiency, the steps needed and taken to correct the problem, the interim steps being taken to mitigate the emissions impact of the defect or deficiency, and a proposed schedule for completing the repairs. The request shall be deemed approved unless and until such time as the permitting authority notifies you that it objects to the request. The permitting authority may consider all relevant factors in deciding whether to approve or deny the request (including feasibility and safety). Each approved schedule must provide for completion of repairs as expeditiously as practicable, and the permitting authority may request modifications to the proposed schedule as part of the approval process.


(2) Preventative maintenance for each control device, including a preventative maintenance schedule that is consistent with the manufacturer's instructions for routine and long-term maintenance.


(3) Corrective action for all baghouses applied to pushing emissions. In the event a bag leak detection system alarm is triggered, you must initiate corrective action to determine the cause of the alarm within 1 hour of the alarm, initiate corrective action to correct the cause of the problem within 24 hours of the alarm, and complete the corrective action as soon as practicable. Actions may include, but are not limited to:


(i) Inspecting the baghouse for air leaks, torn or broken bags or filter media, or any other condition that may cause an increase in emissions.


(ii) Sealing off defective bags or filter media.


(iii) Replacing defective bags or filter media or otherwise repairing the control device.


(iv) Sealing off a defective baghouse compartment.


(v) Cleaning the bag leak detection system probe, or otherwise repairing the bag leak detection system.


(vi) Shutting down the process producing the particulate emissions.


(4) Beginning January 5, 2026, you must identify and implement a set of site-specific good combustion practices for each battery. These good combustion practices should correspond to your standard operating procedures for maintaining the proper and efficient combustion within battery waste heat flues. Good combustion practices include, but are not limited to, the elements listed in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) Proper operating conditions for each battery (*e.g.,* minimum combustion temperature, burner alignment, or proper fuel-air distribution/mixing).


(ii) Routine inspection and preventative maintenance and corresponding schedules of each battery.


(iii) Performance analyses of each battery.


(iv) Maintaining applicable operator logs.


(v) Maintaining applicable records to document compliance with each element.









---

[N] [68 FR 18025, Apr. 14, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 44289, Aug. 2, 2005; 89 FR 55744, July 5, 2024]




