# § 2.84   Jurisdiction over published applications.

(a) The trademark examining attorney may exercise jurisdiction over an application up to the date the mark is published in the *Official Gazette.* After publication of an application under section 1(a), 44 or 66(a) of the Act, the trademark examining attorney may, with the permission of the Director, exercise jurisdiction over the application. After publication of an application under section 1(b) of the Act, the trademark examining attorney may exercise jurisdiction over the application after the issuance of the notice of allowance under section 13(b)(2) of the Act. After publication, and prior to issuance of a notice of allowance in an application under section 1(b), the trademark examining attorney may, with the permission of the Director, exercise jurisdiction over the application.


(b) After publication, but before the certificate of registration is issued in an application under section 1(a), 44, or 66(a) of the Act, or before the notice of allowance is issued in an application under section 1(b) of the Act, an application that is not the subject of an *inter partes* proceeding before the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board may be amended if the amendment meets the requirements of §§ 2.71, 2.72, and 2.74. Otherwise, an amendment to such an application may be submitted only upon petition to the Director to restore jurisdiction over the application to the examining attorney for consideration of the amendment and further examination. The amendment of an application that is the subject of an *inter partes* proceeding before the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board is governed by § 2.133.



---

[N] [68 FR 55765, Sept. 26, 2003, as amended at 73 FR 67770, Nov. 17, 2008; 80 FR 2311, Jan. 16, 2015]




