# ยง 578.105   Grant and project changes.

(a) *For Unified Funding Agencies and Continuums having only one recipient.* (1) The recipient may not make any significant changes without prior HUD approval, evidenced by a grant amendment signed by HUD and the recipient. Significant grant changes include a change of recipient, a shift in a single year of more than 10 percent of the total amount awarded under the grant for one approved eligible activity category to another activity and a permanent change in the subpopulation served by any one project funded under the grant, as well as a permanent proposed reduction in the total number of units funded under the grant.


(2) Approval of substitution of the recipient is contingent on the new recipient meeting the capacity criteria in the NOFA under which the grant was awarded, or the most recent NOFA. Approval of shifting funds between activities and changing subpopulations is contingent on the change being necessary to better serve eligible persons within the geographic area and ensuring that the priorities established under the NOFA in which the grant was originally awarded, or the most recent NOFA, are met.


(b) *For Continuums having more than one recipient.* (1) The recipients or subrecipients may not make any significant changes to a project without prior HUD approval, evidenced by a grant amendment signed by HUD and the recipient. Significant changes include a change of recipient, a change of project site, additions or deletions in the types of eligible activities approved for a project, a shift of more than 10 percent from one approved eligible activity to another, a reduction in the number of units, and a change in the subpopulation served.


(2) Approval of substitution of the recipient is contingent on the new recipient meeting the capacity criteria in the NOFA under which the grant was awarded, or the most recent NOFA. Approval of shifting funds between activities and changing subpopulations is contingent on the change being necessary to better serve eligible persons within the geographic area and ensuring that the priorities established under the NOFA in which the grant was originally awarded, or the most recent NOFA, are met.


(c) *Documentation of changes not requiring a grant amendment.* Any other changes to an approved grant or project must be fully documented in the recipient's or subrecipient's records.




