# ยง 165.80   General provisions.

(a) *What is the purpose of the regulations in this subpart?* The purpose of the containment regulations in this subpart is to protect human health and the environment from exposure to agricultural pesticides which may spill or leak from stationary pesticide containers. This protection is achieved by the construction of secondary containment units or pads at certain facilities handling agricultural pesticides. These regulations will also reduce waste generation associated with:


(1) Storage and handling of large quantities of pesticide products.


(2) Pesticide dispensing and container-refilling operations.


(b) *Do I have to comply with the regulations in this subpart?* You must comply with the regulations in this subpart if you are an owner or operator of one of the following businesses and if you also have a stationary pesticide container or a pesticide dispensing (including container refilling) area:


(1) Refilling establishments who repackage agricultural pesticides and whose principal business is retail sale (*i.e.*, more than 50% of total annual revenue comes from retail operations).


(2) Custom blenders of agricultural pesticides.


(3) Businesses which apply an agricultural pesticide for compensation (other than trading of personal services between agricultural producers).


(c) *When do I have to comply?* You must comply with all applicable containment regulations for new and existing structures as of August 17, 2009.



---

[N] [71 FR 47422, Aug. 16, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 64227, Oct. 29, 2008]




