# § 62.26   Specialists.

(a) *Introduction.* These regulations govern experts in a field of specialized knowledge or skill coming to the United States for observing, consulting, or demonstrating special skills, except:


(1) Research scholars and professors, who are governed by regulations set forth at § 62.20;


(2) Short-term scholars, who are governed by regulations set forth at § 62.21; and


(3) Alien physicians in graduate medical education or training, who are governed by regulations set forth in § 62.27.


(b) *Purpose.* The Exchange Visitor Program promotes the interchange of knowledge and skills among foreign and American specialists, who are defined as experts in a field of specialized knowledge or skills, and who visit the United States for the purpose of observing, consulting, or demonstrating their special skills. It does so by providing foreign specialists the opportunity to observe American institutions and methods of practice in their professional fields, and to share their specialized knowledge with their American colleagues. The exchange of specialists promotes mutual enrichment, and furthers linkages among scientific institutions, government agencies, museums, corporations, libraries, and similar types of institutions. Such exchanges also enable visitors to better understand American culture and society and enhance American knowledge of foreign cultures and skills. This category is intended for exchanges with experts in such areas, for example, as mass media communication, environmental science, youth leadership, international educational exchange, museum exhibitions, labor law, public administration, and library science. This category is not intended for experts covered by the exchange visitor categories listed in paragraphs (a) (1) through (3) of this section.


(c) *Designation.* The Department of State may, in its discretion, designate *bona fide* programs satisfying the objectives in section (b) above as an exchange visitor program in the specialist category.


(d) *Visitor eligibility.* A foreign national shall be eligible to participate in an exchange visitor program as a specialist if the individual:


(1) Is an expert in a field of specialized knowledge or skill;


(2) Seeks to travel to the United States for the purpose of observing, consulting, or demonstrating his or her special knowledge or skills; and


(3) Does not fill a permanent or long-term position of employment while in the United States.


(e) *Visitor selection.* Sponsors shall adequately screen and select specialists prior to accepting them for the program, providing a formal selection process, including at a minimum:


(1) Evaluation of the qualifications of foreign nationals to determine whether they meet the definition of specialist as set forth in § 62.4(g); and


(2) Screening foreign nationals to ensure that the requirements of § 62.10(a) are satisfied.


(f) *Program disclosure.* Before the program begins, the sponsor shall provide the specialist, in addition to what is required in § 62.10(b), with:


(1) Information on the length and location(s) of his or her exchange visitor program;


(2) A summary of the significant components of the program; and


(3) A written statement which clearly states the stipend, if any, to be paid to the specialist.


(g) *Issuance of Form IAP-66.* The Form DS-2019 shall be issued only after the specialist has been accepted by the organization(s) with which he or she will participate in an exchange visitor program.


(h) *Location of the exchange.* The specialist shall participate in an exchange visitor program at the location(s) listed on his or her Form DS-2019.


(i) *Duration of participation.* The specialist shall be authorized to participate in the Exchange Visitor Program for the length of time necessary to complete the program, which shall not exceed one year.




