# § 147.2251   State-administered program—Class II wells.

The UIC program for Class II wells in the State of Utah, except those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Utah Department of Natural Resources, Division of Oil, Gas, and Mining, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1425 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the _Federal Register_ on October 8, 1982 (47 FR 44561); the effective date of this program is November 7, 1982. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:


(a) *Incorporation by reference.* The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Utah. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.


(1) Utah Code Annotated, 1953, section 40-6-1 through 40-6-18, as amended 1988 and Cumm. Supp. 1990; 


(2) The Oil and Gas Conservation General Rules, adopted under the authority of the Oil and Gas Conservation Act, 40-6-1 *et seq.,* Utah Code Annotated, as amended 1988 (revised March 1989), rules R615-1 through R615-4, and R615-8 through R615-10. 


(b) *Other laws.* [Reserved]


(c)(1) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA, Region VIII and the Utah Department of Natural Resources, Division of Oil, Gas, and Mining and the Board of Oil, Gas and Mining, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on July 19, 1983;


(2) Letter from Director, Division of Oil, Gas and Mining, Utah Department of Natural Resources and Energy, to Regional Administrator, EPA Region VIII, “Re: Aquifer Exemption Process,” June 16, 1982;


(3) “Memorandum of Understanding” between Utah Department of Health and Utah Department of Natural Resources, dated March 5, 1981;


(4) “Second Addition to Agreement between the Department of Health and the Department of Natural Resources and Energy,” dated December 15, 1981.


(d) *Statement of legal authority.* (1) Part III of “Primacy Application—Class II Underground Injection Wells,” consisting of “Synopsis of Pertinent Statutes and Regulations,” “Statement of Legal Authority,” and “Certification by the Attorney General,” by Assistant Attorney General, Department of Natural Resources and Energy, dated December 18, 1981;


(2) Letter from Assistant Attorney General, State of Utah, to EPA Region VIII, undated, received in the EPA Office of Regional Counsel June 10, 1982.


(3) Memorandum to Director, Division of Oil, Gas and Mining from Assistant Attorney General regarding Underground Injection Control Program, January 8, 1985. 


(e) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or amendments thereto. 



---

[N] [49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43091, Oct. 25, 1988; 56 FR 9420, Mar. 6, 1991]




