# ยง 721.11186   Formic acid, compds. with hydrolyzed bisphenol A-epichlorohydrin-polyethylene glycol ether with bisphenol A (2:1) polymer-N1-(1,3- dimethylbutylidene)- N2-[2-[(1, 3-dimethylbutylidene) amino]ethyl]-1,2-ethanediamine- dialdehyde-2-(methylamino)ethanol reaction products sulfamates (salts), (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance generically identified as formic acid, compds. with hydrolyzed bisphenol A-epichlorohydrin-polyethylene glycol ether with bisphenol A (2:1) polymer-N1-(1,3-dimethylbutylidene)-N2-[2-[(1, 3-dimethylbutylidene)amino]ethyl]-1,2-ethanediamine-dialdehyde-2-(methylamino)ethanol reaction products sulfamates (salts), (P-16-382) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, Commercial, and consumer activities.* It is a significant new use to manufacture, process, or use the substance in any manner that results in inhalation exposure.


(ii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in ยง 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) where N=16.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in ยง 721.125(a) through (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of ยง 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [84 FR 13540, Apr. 5, 2019]




