# ยง 142.245   Requirements for training crews to respond to fires.

(a) *Drills and instruction.* The master of a towing vessel must ensure that each crewmember participates in fire-fighting drills and receives instruction at least once each month. The instruction may coincide with the drills, but is not required to do so. All crewmembers must be familiar with their fire-fighting duties, and, specifically how to:


(1) Fight a fire in the engine room and elsewhere onboard the towing vessel, including how to:


(i) Operate all of the fire-extinguishing equipment onboard the towing vessel;


(ii) Stop any mechanical ventilation system for the engine room and effectively seal all natural openings to the space to prevent leakage of the extinguishing agent; and


(iii) Operate the fuel shut-off(s) for the engine room.


(2) Activate the general alarm;


(3) Report inoperative alarm systems and fire-detection systems; and


(4) Don a firefighter's outfit and a self-contained breathing apparatus, if the vessel is so equipped.


(b) *Alternative form of instruction.* Video training, followed by a discussion led by someone familiar with the contingencies listed in paragraph (a) of this section, is an acceptable, alternative form of instruction. This instruction may occur either onboard or off the towing vessel.


(c) *Participation in drills.* Drills must take place onboard the towing vessel as if there were an actual emergency. They must include:


(1) Participation by all crewmembers;


(2) Breaking out and using, or simulating the use of, emergency equipment;


(3) Testing of all alarm and detection systems by operation of the test switch or by activation of one or more devices;


(4) Putting on protective clothing by at least one person, if the towing vessel is so equipped; and


(5) Functionally testing the self-priming capability of the portable fire pump, if the towing vessel is so equipped.


(d) *Safety orientation.* The master must ensure that each crewmember who has not participated in the drills required by paragraph (a) of this section and received the instruction required by that paragraph (a) receives a safety orientation within 24 hours of reporting for duty. The safety orientation must cover the particular contingencies listed in paragraph (a) of this section.


Note to ยง 142.245. See ยง 140.915 for requirements for keeping records of training.




