# § 45.14   Correcting errors in swap data and verification of swap data accuracy.

(a) *Correction of errors*—(1) *Swap execution facilities, designated contract markets, and reporting counterparties.* Any swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty that by any means becomes aware of any error relating to swap data that it was required to report under this part shall correct the error. To correct an error, the swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty shall submit complete and accurate swap data to the swap data repository that maintains the swap data for the relevant swap, or completely and accurately report swap data for a swap that was not previously reported to a swap data repository as required under this part, as applicable. Except as otherwise provided in this section, the requirement to correct any error applies regardless of the state of the swap that is the subject of the swap data, including a swap that has terminated, matured, or otherwise is no longer considered to be an open swap.


(i) *Timing requirement for correcting errors.* The swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty shall correct any error as soon as technologically practicable after discovery of the error. In all cases, errors shall be corrected within seven business days after discovery. Any error that a reporting counterparty discovers or could have discovered during the verification process required under paragraph (b) of this section is considered discovered for the purposes of this section as of the moment the reporting counterparty began the verification process during which the error was first discovered or discoverable.


(ii) *Notification of failure to timely correct.* If the swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty will, for any reason, fail to timely correct an error, the swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty shall notify the Director of the Division of Market Oversight, or such other employee or employees of the Commission as the Director may designate from time to time. The notification shall be in the form and manner, and according to the instructions, specified by the Director of the Division of Market Oversight, or such other employee or employees of the Commission as the Director may designate from time to time. Unless otherwise instructed by the Director of the Division of Market Oversight, or such other employee or employees of the Commission as the Director may designate from time to time, the notification shall include an initial assessment of the scope of the error or errors that were discovered, and shall include any initial remediation plan for correcting the error or errors, if an initial remediation plan exists. This notification shall be made within 12 hours of the swap execution facility's, designated contract market's, or reporting counterparty's determination that it will fail to timely correct the error.


(iii) *Form and manner for error correction.* In order to satisfy the requirements of this section, a swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty shall conform to a swap data repository's policies and procedures created pursuant to § 49.10 of this chapter for correction of errors.


(2) *Non-reporting counterparties.* Any non-reporting counterparty that by any means becomes aware of any error in the swap data for a swap to which it is the non-reporting counterparty, shall notify the reporting counterparty for the swap of the error as soon as technologically practicable after discovery, but not later than three business days following discovery of the error. If the non-reporting counterparty does not know the identity of the reporting counterparty, the non-reporting counterparty shall notify the swap execution facility or designated contract market where the swap was executed of the error as soon as technologically practicable after discovery, but no later than three business days following the discovery. Such notice from the non-reporting counterparty to the swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty constitutes discovery under this section.


(3) *Exception.* The requirements to correct errors set forth in paragraph (a) of this section only apply to errors in swap data relating to swaps for which the record retention period under § 45.2 has not expired as of the time the error is discovered. Errors in swap data relating to swaps for which the record retention periods under § 45.2 have expired at the time that the errors are discovered are not subject to the requirements to correct errors set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.


(b) *Verification that swap data is complete and accurate.* Each reporting counterparty shall verify that there are no errors in the swap data for all open swaps that the reporting counterparty reported, or was required to report, to a swap data repository under the requirements of this part, in accordance with this paragraph (b).


(1) *Method of verification.* Each reporting counterparty shall utilize the mechanism for verification that each swap data repository to which the reporting counterparty reports swap data adopts under § 49.11 of this chapter. Each reporting counterparty shall utilize the relevant mechanism(s) to compare all swap data for each open swap for which it serves as the reporting counterparty maintained by the relevant swap data repository or repositories with all swap data contained in the reporting counterparty's internal books and records for each swap, to verify that there are no errors in the relevant swap data maintained by the swap data repository. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a reporting counterparty is not required to verify the accuracy and completeness of any swap data to which the reporting counterparty is not permitted access under the Act or Commission regulations, including, but not limited to, § 49.17 of this chapter.


(2) *Verification policies and procedures.* In performing verification as required by this paragraph, each reporting counterparty shall conform to each relevant swap data repository's verification policies and procedures created pursuant to § 49.11 of this chapter. If a reporting counterparty utilizes a third-party service provider to perform verification, the reporting counterparty shall conform to each relevant swap data repository's third-party service provider verification policies and procedures created pursuant to § 49.11 of this chapter and shall require the third-party service provider to conform to the same policies and procedures while performing verification on behalf of the reporting counterparty.


(3) *Correcting errors.* Any and all errors discovered during the verification process shall be corrected in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(4) *Frequency.* Each reporting counterparty shall perform verification at a minimum:


(i) If the reporting counterparty is a swap dealer, major swap participant, or derivatives clearing organization, once every thirty calendar days; or


(ii) If the reporting counterparty is not a swap dealer, major swap participant, or a derivatives clearing organization, once every calendar quarter, provided that there are at least two calendar months between verifications.


(5) *Verification log.* Each reporting counterparty shall keep a log of each verification that it performs. For each verification, the log shall include all errors discovered during the verification, and the corrections performed under paragraph (a) of this section. This requirement is in addition to any other applicable reporting counterparty recordkeeping requirement.


(c) *Error defined*—(1) *Errors.* For the purposes of this part, there is an error when swap data is not completely and accurately reported. This includes, but is not limited to, the following circumstances:


(i) Any of the swap data for a swap reported to a swap data repository is incorrect or any of the swap data that is maintained by a swap data repository differs from any of the relevant swap data contained in the books and records of a party to the swap.


(ii) Any of the swap data for a swap that is required to be reported to a swap data repository or to be maintained by a swap data repository is not reported to a swap data repository or is not maintained by the swap data repository as required by this part.


(iii) None of the swap data for a swap that is required to be reported to a swap data repository or to be maintained by a swap data repository is reported to a swap data repository or is maintained by a swap data repository.


(iv) Any of the swap data for a swap that is no longer an open swap is maintained by the swap data repository as if the swap is still an open swap.


(2) *Presumption.* For the purposes of this section, there is a presumption that an error exists if the swap data that is maintained and disseminated by an SDR for a swap is not complete and accurate. This includes, but is not limited to, the swap data that the SDR makes available to the reporting counterparty for verification under § 49.11 of this chapter.



---

[N] [85 FR 75654, Nov. 25, 2020]


