# ยง 26.26   Review of determination of hearing officers.

(a) Except in matters arising under 2 CFR part 2424, any party may file with the Secretary an appeal within 30 days after the date that the hearing officer issues a determination or order. The Secretary or designee may extend the 30-day period, in the Secretary's sole discretion, for good cause.


(b) *Brief in support of appeal.* The appeal shall be accompanied by a written brief, not to exceed 15 pages, setting forth the party's specific objections to the determination or order of the hearing officer and the party's supporting reasons for any objections. The appealing party may request leave to file a brief in excess of 15 pages for good cause shown. Alternative proposed findings and conclusions, if any, may be appended as an exhibit.


(c) *Briefs in opposition.* Any opposing party may submit a brief in opposition to the appeal, not to exceed 15 pages, within 20 days of receiving a copy of the appeal and accompanying brief. The opposing party may request leave to file a brief in excess of 15 pages for good cause shown. The brief in opposition shall specifically state the opposing party's reasons for supporting the hearing officer's determination, or for objecting to any part of the hearing officer's determination.


(d) *Service.* The appeal and all briefs shall be served on all parties and on the Docket Clerk.


(e) *Forwarding of the record.* Upon request by the Office of the Secretary, the hearing officer shall forward the record of the proceeding to the Secretary or the Secretary's designee.


(f) *Time extensions.* The Secretary, or designee, in his or her sole discretion, may extend the deadlines or page limitations set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. The Secretary or designee may also permit the filing of additional briefs, in his or her sole discretion.


(g) *Personal appearance.* There is no right to appear personally before the Secretary or designee.


(h) *Interlocutory rulings.* There is no right to appeal any interlocutory ruling by the hearing officer, except as provided for in ยง 26.27.


(i) *Objection not raised before hearing officer.* In reviewing the determination or order, the Secretary, or designee, shall not consider any objection that was not raised before the hearing officer unless a demonstration is made of extraordinary circumstances causing the failure to raise the objection.


(j) *Evidence in the record.* The Secretary or designee shall consider only evidence contained in the record forwarded by the hearing officer. However, if any party demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Secretary or designee that additional evidence not presented at the hearing is material, and that there were reasonable grounds for the failure to present such evidence at the hearing, the Secretary or designee shall remand the matter to the hearing officer for reconsideration in light of the additional evidence.


(k) *Ex parte communications.* The prohibitions of ex parte communications in ยง 26.3 shall apply to contacts with the Secretary or the Secretary's designee.


(l) *Determination.* The Secretary or designee may affirm, modify, reverse, remand, reduce, compromise, or settle any determination made or action ordered in the initial determination or order. The Secretary or designee shall consider, and include in any final determination, such factors as may be set forth in applicable statutes or regulations.


(m) *Written determination.* Where a request for Secretarial review has been timely made, the Secretary, or designee, shall issue a written determination within 30 days after receipt of the request for review, and shall serve it upon the parties to the hearing and the hearing officer. The Secretary, or designee, may extend the time in which a written determination must be issued by an additional 60 days for good cause shown in a written justification issued to the parties. The written determination of the Secretary shall be final. If the Secretary, or designee, does not act upon the request for review of a determination within 90 days of service of the request, then the initial determination shall be the final agency action.




