# § 26.73   NAICS codes.

(a) A certifier must grant certification to a firm only for specific types of work that the SEDO controls. To become certified in an additional type of work, the firm must demonstrate to the certifier only that its SEDO controls the firm with respect to that type of work. The certifier must not require that the firm be recertified or submit a new application for certification but must verify the SEDO's control of the firm in the additional type of work.


(1) A correct NAICS code is the one that describes, as specifically as possible, the principal goods or services which the firm would provide to DOT recipients. Multiple NAICS codes may be assigned where appropriate. Program participants must rely on, and not depart from, the plain meaning of NAICS code descriptions in determining the scope of a firm's certification.


(2) If there is not a NAICS code that fully, clearly, or sufficiently narrowly describes the type(s) of work for which the firm seeks certification, the certifier must supplement or limit the assigned NAICS code(s) with a clear, specific, and concise narrative description of the type of work in which the firm is certified. A vague, general, or confusing description is insufficient.


(3) Firms and certifiers must check carefully to make sure that the NAICS codes cited in a certification are kept up-to-date and accurately reflect work which the UCP has determined the firm's owners can control. The firm bears the burden of providing detailed company information the certifying agency needs to make an appropriate NAICS code designation.


(4) A certifier may change a certification classification or description if there is a factual basis in the record, in which case it must notify the firm 30 days before making the change. Certifiers may not apply such changes retroactively.


(5) In addition to applying the appropriate NAICS code, the certifier may apply a descriptor from a classification scheme of equivalent detail and specificity. Such a descriptor (*e.g.,* a “work code”) does not supersede or limit the types of work for which a DBE is eligible under an appropriate NAICS code.


(b) [Reserved]



---

[N] [89 FR 24974, Apr. 9, 2024]






