# ยง 1068.410   How must I select and prepare my engines/equipment?

(a) *Selecting engines/equipment.* Select engines/equipment as described in the test order. If you are unable to select test engines/equipment this way, you may ask us to approve an alternate plan as long as you make the request before you start selecting engines/equipment.


(b) *Assembling engines/equipment.* Produce and assemble test engines/equipment using your normal production and assembly process for that family.


(1) Notify us directly if you make any change in your production, assembly, or quality control processes that might affect emissions between the time you receive the test order and the time you finish selecting test engines/equipment.


(2) If you do not fully assemble engines/equipment at the specified location, we will describe in the test order how to select components to finish assembling the engines/equipment. Assemble these components onto the test engines/equipment using your documented assembly and quality control procedures.


(c) *Modifying engines/equipment.* Once an engine or piece of equipment is selected for testing, you may adjust, repair, prepare, or modify it or check its emissions only if one of the following is true:


(1) You document the need for doing so in your procedures for assembling and inspecting all your production engines/equipment and make the action routine for all the engines/equipment in the family.


(2) This subpart otherwise allows your action.


(3) We approve your action in advance.


(d) *Engine/equipment malfunction.* If an engine/equipment malfunction prevents further emission testing, ask us to approve your decision to either repair the engine or delete it from the test sequence.


(e) *Setting adjustable parameters.* Before any test, we may adjust or require you to adjust any adjustable parameter to any setting within its physically adjustable range.


(1) [Reserved]


(2) We may make or specify adjustments within the physically adjustable range by considering their effect on emission levels. We may also consider how likely it is that someone will make such an adjustment with in-use engines/equipment.


(f) *Stabilizing emission levels.* (1) Before you test production-line engines/equipment for exhaust emission, you may operate the engine/equipment to stabilize the exhaust emission levels. Using good engineering judgment, operate your engines/equipment in a way that represents the way production engines/equipment will be used. You may operate each engine or piece of equipment for no more than the greater of two periods:


(i) 50 hours.


(ii) The number of hours you operated your emission-data engine/equipment for certifying the family (see 40 CFR part 1065, subpart E).


(2) Use good engineering judgment and follow the standard-setting part to stabilize equipment for evaporative emissions, where appropriate.


(g) *Damage during shipment.* If shipping the engine/equipment to a remote facility for testing under a selective enforcement audit makes necessary an adjustment or repair, you must wait until after the initial emission test to do this work. We may waive this requirement if the test would be impossible or unsafe or if it would permanently damage the engine/equipment. Report to us, in your written report under ยง 1068.450, all adjustments or repairs you make on test engines/equipment before each test.


(h) *Shipping engines/equipment.* If you need to ship engines/equipment to another facility for testing, make sure the test engines/equipment arrive at the test facility within 24 hours after being selected. You may ask that we allow more time if you are unable to do this.


(i) *Retesting after invalid tests.* You may retest an engine or piece of equipment if you determine an emission test is invalid under the standard-setting part. Explain in your written report reasons for invalidating any test and the emission results from all tests. If you retest an engine or piece of equipment and, within ten days after testing, ask to substitute results of the new tests for the original ones, we will answer within ten days after we receive your information.


(j) *Retesting after reaching a fail decision.* You may retest your engines/equipment once a fail decision for the audit has been reached based on the first test on each engine or piece of equipment under ยง 1068.420(c). You may test each engine or piece of equipment up to a total of three times, but you must perform the same number of tests on each engine or piece of equipment. You may further operate the engine/equipment to stabilize emission levels before testing, subject to the provisions of paragraph (f) of this section. We may approve retesting at other times if you send us a request with satisfactory justification.



---

[N] [73 FR 59344, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 23064, Apr. 30, 2010]




