# § 63.54   Preconstruction review procedures for new affected sources.

The requirements of this section apply to an owner or operator who constructs a new affected source subject to § 63.52(c)(1). The purpose of this section is to describe alternative review processes that the permitting authority may use to make a MACT determination for the new affected source. 


(a) *Review process for new affected sources.* (1) If the permitting authority requires an owner or operator to obtain or revise a title V permit before construction of the new affected source, or when the owner or operator chooses to obtain or revise a title V permit before construction, the owner or operator must follow the procedures established under the applicable title V permit program before construction of the new affected source. 


(2) If an owner or operator is not required to obtain or revise a title V permit before construction of the new affected source (and has not elected to do so), but the new affected source is covered by any preconstruction or preoperation review requirements established pursuant to section 112(g) of the Act, then the owner or operator must comply with those requirements in order to ensure that the requirements of section 112(j) and (g) are satisfied. If the new affected source is not covered by section 112(g), the permitting authority, in its discretion, may issue a Notice of MACT Approval, or the equivalent, in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section, or an equivalent permit review process, before construction or operation of the new affected source. 


(3) Regardless of the review process, the MACT determination shall be consistent with the principles established in § 63.55. The application for a Notice of MACT Approval or a title V permit, permit modification, or administrative amendment, whichever is applicable, shall include the documentation required by § 63.53. 


(b) *Optional administrative procedures for preconstruction or preoperation review for new affected sources.* The permitting authority may provide for an enhanced review of section 112(j) MACT determinations for review procedures and compliance requirements equivalent to those set forth in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section.


(1) The permitting authority will notify the owner or operator in writing as to whether the application for a MACT determination is complete or whether additional information is required. 


(2) The permitting authority will approve an applicant's proposed control technology, or the permitting authority will notify the owner or operator in writing of its intention to disapprove a control technology. 


(3) The owner or operator may present in writing, within a time frame specified by the permitting authority, additional information, considerations, or amendments to the application before the permitting authority's issuance of a final disapproval. 


(4) The permitting authority will issue a preliminary approval or issue a disapproval of the application, taking into account additional information received from the owner or operator. 


(5) A determination to disapprove any application will be in writing and will specify the grounds on which the disapproval is based. 


(6) Approval of an applicant's proposed control technology must be set forth in a Notice of MACT Approval (or the equivalent) as described in § 63.52(f). 


(c) *Opportunity for public comment on Notice of MACT Approval.* The permitting authority will provide opportunity for public comment on the preliminary Notice of MACT Approval prior to issuance, including, at a minimum, 


(1) Availability for public inspection in at least one location in the area affected of the information submitted by the owner or operator and of the permitting authority's tentative determination; 


(2) A period for submittal of public comment of at least 30 days; and 


(3) A notice by prominent advertisement in the area affected of the location of the source information and analysis specified in § 63.52(f). The form and content of the notice must be substantially equivalent to that found in § 70.7 of this chapter.


(4) An opportunity for a public hearing, if one is requested. The permitting authority will give at least 30 days notice in advance of any hearing. 


(d) *Review by the EPA and affected States.* The permitting authority must send copies of the preliminary notice (in time for comment) and final notice required by paragraph (c) of this section to the Administrator through the appropriate Regional Office, and to all other State and local air pollution control agencies having jurisdiction in affected States. The permitting authority must provide EPA with a review period for the final notice of at least 45 days and shall not issue a final Notice of MACT Approval until EPA objections are satisfied. 


(e) *Compliance with MACT determinations.* An owner or operator of a major source that is subject to a MACT determination must comply with notification, operation and maintenance, performance testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements established under § 63.52(h), under title V, and at the discretion of the permitting authority, under subpart A of this part. The permitting authority must provide the EPA with the opportunity to review compliance requirements for consistency with requirements established pursuant to title V during the review period under paragraph (d) of this section. 


(f) *Equivalency under section 112(l).* If a permitting authority requires preconstruction review for new source MACT determinations under this subpart, such requirement shall not necessitate a determination under subpart E of this part. 



---

[N] [59 FR 26449, May 20, 1994, as amended at 67 FR 16610, Apr. 5, 2002]




