# ยง 9033.1   Candidate and committee agreements.

(a) *General.* (1) A candidate seeking to become eligible to receive Presidential primary matching fund payments shall agree in a writing signed by the candidate to the Commission that the candidate and the candidate's authorized committee(s) will comply with the conditions set forth in 11 CFR 9033.1(b). The candidate may submit the written agreement required by this section at any time after January 1 of the year immediately preceding the Presidential election year.


(2) The Commission will not consider a candidate's threshold submission until the candidate has submitted a candidate agreement that meets the requirements of this section.


(b) *Conditions.*

 The candidate shall agree that:


(1) The candidate has the burden of proving that disbursements by the candidate or any authorized committee(s) or agents thereof are qualified campaign expenses as defined at 11 CFR 9032.9.


(2) The candidate and the candidate's authorized committee(s) will comply with the records requirements set forth in 11 CFR 9033.11.


(3) The candidate and the candidate's authorized committee(s) will provide an explanation, in addition to complying with the records requirements, of the connection between any disbursements made by the candidate or authorized committee(s) of the candidate and the campaign if requested by the Commission.


(4) The candidate and the candidate's authorized committee(s) will keep and furnish to the Commission all records for matching fund submissions, any books, records (including bank records for all accounts), and supporting records and other information that the Commission may request.


(5) The candidate and the candidate's authorized committee(s) will keep and furnish to the Commission all records relating to disbursements and receipts including any books, records (including bank records for all accounts), all records required by this section (including those required to be maintained under 11 CFR 9033.11), and other information that the Commission may request. If the candidate or the candidate's authorized committee maintains or uses computerized information containing any of the categories of data listed in 11 CFR 9033.12(a), the committee will provide digital storage devices, containing the computerized information at the times specified in 11 CFR 9038.1(b)(1) that meet the requirements of 11 CFR 9033.12(b). Upon request, records explaining the computer system's software capabilities shall be provided, and such personnel as are necessary to explain the operation of the computer system's software and the computerized information prepared or maintained by the committee shall be made available.


(6) The candidate and the candidate's authorized committee(s) will obtain and furnish to the Commission upon request all records relating to funds received and disbursements made on the candidate's behalf by other political committees and organizations associated with the candidate.


(7) The candidate and the candidate's authorized committee(s) will permit an audit and examination pursuant to 11 CFR part 9038 of all receipts and disbursements including those made by the candidate, all authorized committee(s) and any agent or person authorized to make expenditures on behalf of the candidate or committee(s). The candidate and the candidate's authorized committee(s) shall also provide any material required in connection with an audit, investigation, or examination conducted pursuant to 11 CFR part 9039. The candidate and authorized committee(s) shall facilitate the audit by making available in one central location, office space, records and such personnel as are necessary to conduct the audit and examination, and shall pay any amounts required to be repaid under 11 CFR parts 9038 and 9039.


(8) The candidate and the candidate's authorized committee(s) will submit the name, email address, and mailing address of the person who is entitled to receive matching fund payments on behalf of the candidate and the name and address of the campaign depository designated by the candidate as required by 11 CFR part 103 and 11 CFR 9037.3. Changes in the information required by this paragraph shall not be effective until submitted to the Commission in a writing signed by the candidate or the Committee treasurer.




(9) The candidate and the candidate's authorized committee(s) will prepare matching fund submissions in accordance with the Federal Election Commission's Guideline for Presentation in Good Order.


(10) The candidate and the candidate's authorized committee(s) will comply with the applicable requirements of 52 U.S.C. 30101 *et seq.;* 26 U.S.C. 9031 *et seq.* and the Commission's regulations at 11 CFR parts 100-300, and 9031-9039.


(11) The candidate and the candidate's authorized committee(s) will pay any civil penalties included in a conciliation agreement or otherwise imposed under 52 U.S.C. 30109 against the candidate, any authorized committees of the candidate or any agent thereof.


(12) Any television commercial prepared or distributed by the candidate or the candidate's authorized committee(s) will be prepared in a manner which ensures that the commercial contains or is accompanied by closed captioning of the oral content of the commercial to be broadcast in line 21 of the vertical blanking interval, or is capable of being viewed by deaf and hearing impaired individuals via any comparable successor technology to line 21 of the vertical blanking interval.



---

[N] [56 FR 35930, July 29, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 31880, June 16, 1995; 63 FR 45680, Aug. 27, 1998, 65 FR 38424, June 21, 2000; 68 FR 47418, Aug. 8, 2003; 73 FR 79602, Dec. 30, 2008; 79 FR 77851, Dec. 29, 2014; 89 FR 220, Jan. 2, 2024]




