# § 229.11   Adjustment of dollar amounts.

(a) *Dollar amounts indexed.* The dollar amounts specified in §§ 229.10(c)(1)(vii), 229.12(d), 229.13(a), 229.13(b), 229.13(d), and 229.21(a) shall be adjusted effective on July 1, 2020, on July 1, 2025, and on July 1 of every fifth year after 2025, in accordance with the procedure set forth in paragraph (b) of this section using the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W), as published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.


(b) *Indexing procedure*—(1) *Inflation measurement periods.* For dollar amount adjustments that are effective on July 1, 2020, the inflation measurement period begins in July 2011 and ends in July 2018. For dollar amount adjustments that are effective on July 1, 2025, the inflation measurement period begins in July 2018 and ends in July 2023. For dollar amount adjustments that are effective on July 1 of every fifth year after 2025, the inflation measurement period begins in July of every fifth year after 2018 and ends in July of every fifth year after 2023. Following each inflation measurement period, the dollar amount adjustments will be published in the _Federal Register_.


(2) *Percentage change.* Any dollar amount adjustment under this section shall be calculated across an inflation measurement period by the aggregate percentage change in the CPI-W, including both positive and negative percentage changes. The aggregate percentage change over the inflation measurement period will be rounded to one decimal place, using the CPI-W value for July (which is generally released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics in August).


(3) *Adjustment amount.* The adjustment amount for each dollar amount listed in paragraph (a) of this section shall be equal to the aggregate percentage change multiplied by the existing dollar amount listed in paragraph (c) of this section and rounded to the nearest multiple of $25. The adjusted dollar amount will be equal to the sum of the existing dollar amount and the adjustment amount. No dollar adjustment will be made when the aggregate percentage change is zero or a negative percentage change, or when the aggregate percentage change multiplied by the existing dollar amount listed in paragraph (c) and rounded to the nearest multiple of $25 results in no change.


(4) *Carry-forward.* When there is an aggregate negative percentage change over an inflation measurement period, or when an aggregate positive percentage change over an inflation measurement period multiplied by the existing dollar amount listed in paragraph (c) of this section and rounded to the nearest multiple of $25 results in no change, the aggregate percentage change over the inflation measurement period will be included in the calculation to determine the percentage change at the end of the subsequent inflation measurement period. That is, the cumulative change in the CPI-W over the two (or more) inflation measurement periods will be used in the calculation until the cumulative change results in publication of an adjusted dollar amount in the regulation.


(c) *Amounts.* (1) For purposes of § 229.10(c)(1)(vii), the dollar amount in effect during a particular period is the amount stated in this paragraph (c)(1) for that period.


(i) Prior to July 21, 2011, the amount is $100.


(ii) From July 21, 2011, through June 30, 2020, by operation of section 603(a)(2)(D) of the EFA Act (12 U.S.C. 4002(a)(2)(D)) the amount is $200.


(iii) Effective July 1, 2020, the amount is $225.


(2) For purposes of § 229.12(d), the dollar amount in effect during a particular period is the amount stated in this paragraph (c)(2) for that period.


(i) Prior to July 1, 2020, the amount is $400.


(ii) Effective July 1, 2020, the amount is $450.


(3) For purposes of § 229.13(a), (b), and (d), the dollar amount in effect during a particular period is the amount stated in this paragraph (c)(3) for that period.


(i) Prior to July 1, 2020, the amount is $5,000.


(ii) Effective July 1, 2020, the amount is $5,525.


(4) For purposes of § 229.21(a), the dollar amounts in effect during a particular period are the amounts stated in this paragraph (c)(4) for the period.


(i) Prior to July 1, 2020, the amounts are $100, $1,000, and $500,000 respectively.


(ii) Effective July 1, 2020, the amounts are $100, $1,100, and $552,500 respectively.



---

[N] [84 FR 31696, July 3, 2019]


