# § 512.462   Compliance and monitoring.

(a) *Compliance with laws.* The IOTA participant must comply with all applicable laws and regulations.


(b) *CMS monitoring activities.* (1) CMS, or its approved designee, may conduct monitoring activities to ensure compliance by the IOTA participant and IOTA collaborators with the terms of the IOTA Model under this subpart to—


(i) Understand IOTA participants' use of model-specific payments; and


(ii) Promote the safety of attributed patients and the integrity of the IOTA Model.


(2) Monitoring activities may include, without limitation, all of the following:


(i) Documentation requests sent to the IOTA participant and its IOTA collaborators, including surveys and questionnaires.


(ii) Audits of claims data, quality measures, medical records, and other data from the IOTA participant and its IOTA collaborators.


(iii) Interviews with the IOTA participant, including leadership personnel, medical staff, other associates, and its IOTA collaborators.


(iv) Interviews with attributed patients and their caregivers.


(v) Site visits to the IOTA participant and its IOTA collaborators, performed in a manner consistent with paragraph (c) of this section.


(vi) Monitoring quality outcomes and attributed patient data.


(vii) Tracking beneficiary complaints and appeals.


(viii) Monitoring the definition of and justification for the subpopulation of the IOTA participant's eligible attributed patients that may receive Part B and Part D immunosuppressive drug cost sharing support in accordance with § 512.456.


(ix) Monitoring the provision of attributed patient engagement incentives provided in accordance with § 512.458.


(x) Monitoring out of sequence allocation of kidneys by—


(A) Assessing the frequency at which IOTA waitlist patients, top-ranked on an IOTA participant's kidney transplant waitlist, receive the organ that was initially offered to them; and


(B) Determining the reasons behind cases where IOTA waitlist patients identified in paragraph (b)(x)(A) of this section, did not receive the kidney offered to them.


(3) In conducting monitoring and oversight activities, CMS or its designees may use any relevant data or information including without limitation all Medicare claims submitted for items or services furnished to IOTA transplant patients or IOTA waitlist patients or both.


(c) *Site visits.* (1) The IOTA participant must cooperate in periodic site visits performed by CMS or its designees in order to facilitate the evaluation of the IOTA Model in accordance with section 1115A(b)(4) of the ACT and the monitoring of the IOTA participant's compliance with the terms of the IOTA Model, including this subpart.


(2) When scheduling the site visit, CMS or its designee provides, to the extent practicable, the IOTA participant with no less than 15 days advance notice of any site visit. CMS—


(i) Attempts, to the extent practicable, to accommodate a request for particular dates in scheduling site visits; and


(ii) Does not accept a date request from the IOTA participant that is more than 60 days after the date of the initial site visit notice from CMS.


(3) The IOTA participant must ensure that personnel with the appropriate responsibilities and knowledge associated with the purpose of the site visit are available during all site visits.


(4) CMS may perform unannounced site visits at the office of the IOTA participant at any time to investigate concerns about the health or safety of attributed patients or other program integrity issues.


(5) Nothing in this part may be construed to limit or otherwise prevent CMS from performing site visits permitted or required by applicable law.


(d) *Reopening of payment determinations.* (1) CMS may reopen an IOTA Model-specific payment determination on its own motion or at the request of the IOTA participant, within 4 years from the date of the determination, for good cause (as defined at § 405.986 of this chapter) except if there exists reliable evidence that the determination was procured by fraud or similar fault as defined at § 405.902 of this chapter. In the case of fraud or similar fault, CMS may reopen an IOTA Model specific payment determination at any time.


(2) CMS' decision regarding whether to reopen a model-specific payment determination is binding and not subject to appeal.






