# ยง 905.610   Technical processing.

(a) *Review.* HUD shall review all development proposals and site acquisition proposals for compliance with the statutory, Executive order, and regulatory requirements applicable to the development of public housing and the project. HUD's review will evaluate whether the proposed sources and uses of funds are eligible and reasonable, and whether the financing and other documentation establish to HUD's satisfaction that the development is financially viable and structured so as to adequately protect the federal investment of funds in the development. For this purpose, HUD will consider the PHA's proposed methodology for allocating operating subsidies on behalf of the public housing units, the projected revenue to be generated by any nonpublic housing units in a mixed-finance development, and the 10-year operating pro forma and other information contained in the development proposal.


(b) *Subsidy layering analysis.* After the PHA submits the documentation required under paragraph (a) of this section, HUD or its designee (e.g., the State Housing Finance Agency) shall carry out a subsidy layering analysis, pursuant to section 102(d) of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3545) (see 24 CFR part 4), to determine that the amount of assistance being provided for the development is not more than necessary to make the assisted activity feasible after taking into account the other governmental assistance.


(c) *Safe harbor standards.* For mixed-finance projects, in order to expedite the mixed-finance review process and control costs, HUD may make available safe harbor and maximum fee ranges for a number of costs. If a project is at or below a safe harbor standard, no further review will be required by HUD. If a project is above a safe harbor standard, additional review by HUD will be necessary. In order to approve terms above the safe harbor, the PHA must demonstrate to HUD in writing that the negotiated terms are appropriate for the level of risk involved in the project, the scope of work, any specific circumstances of the development, and the local or national market for the services provided.


(d) *Approval.* If HUD determines that a site acquisition proposal or a development proposal is approvable, HUD shall notify the PHA in writing of its approval. The HUD approval of a development proposal will include the appropriate form of ACC for signature. The PHA must execute the ACC and return it to HUD for execution. Until HUD approves a development proposal, a PHA may only expend public housing funds for predevelopment costs, as provided in ยง 905.612 of this part.


(e) *Amendments to approved development proposals.* HUD must approve any material change to an approved development proposal. HUD defines material change as:


(1) A change in the number of public housing units;


(2) A change in the number of bedrooms by an increase/decrease of more than 10 percent;


(3) A change in cost or financing by an increase/decrease of more than 10 percent; or


(4) A change in the site.




