# ยง 220.3   Definitions.

The following definitions supplement, by adding to, the terms defined at 40 CFR parts 1500-1508.


*Adaptive management.* A system of management practices based on clearly identified intended outcomes and monitoring to determine if management actions are meeting those outcomes; and, if not, to facilitate management changes that will best ensure that those outcomes are met or re-evaluated. Adaptive management stems from the recognition that knowledge about natural resource systems is sometimes uncertain.


*Decision document.* A record of decision, decision notice or decision memo.


*Decision memo.* A concise written record of the responsible official's decision to implement an action categorically excluded from further analysis and documentation in an environmental impact statement (EIS) or environmental assessment (EA).


*Decision notice.* A concise written record of the responsible official's decision when an EA and finding of no significant impact (FONSI) have been prepared.


*Environmentally preferable alternative.* The environmentally preferable alternative is the alternative that will best promote the national environmental policy as expressed in NEPA's section 101 (42 U.S.C. 4321). Ordinarily, the environmentally preferable alternative is that which causes the least harm to the biological and physical environment; it also is the alternative which best protects and preserves historic, cultural, and natural resources. In some situations, there may be more than one environmentally preferable alternative.


*Reasonably foreseeable future actions.* Those Federal or non-Federal activities not yet undertaken, for which there are existing decisions, funding, or identified proposals. Identified proposals for Forest Service actions are described in ยง 220.4(a)(1).


*Responsible official.* The Agency employee who has the authority to make and implement a decision on a proposed action.


*Schedule of proposed actions (SOPA).* A Forest Service document that informs the public about those proposed and ongoing Forest Service actions for which a record of decision, decision notice or decision memo would be or has been prepared. The SOPA also identifies a contact for additional information on any proposed actions.




