# § 424.34   Additional requirements: Beneficiary's claim for direct payment.

(a) *Basic rule.* A beneficiary's claim for direct payment for services furnished by a supplier, or by a nonparticipating hospital that has not elected to claim payment for emergency services, must include an itemized bill or a “report of services”, as specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. 


(b) *Itemized bill from the hospital or supplier.* The itemized bill for the services, which may be receipted or unpaid, must include all of the following information: 


(1) The name and address of— 


(i) The beneficiary; 


(ii) The supplier or nonparticipating hospital that furnished the services; and 


(iii) The physician who prescribed the services if they were furnished by a supplier other than the physician. 


(2) The place where each service was furnished, e.g., home, office, independent laboratory, hospital. 


(3) The date each service was furnished. 


(4) A listing of the services in sufficient detail to permit determination of payment under the fee schedule for physicians' services; for itemized bills from physicians, appropriate diagnostic coding using ICD-9-CM must be used.


(5) The charges for each service. 


(c) *Report of services furnished by a supplier.* For Medicare Part B services furnished by a supplier, the beneficiary claims may include the “Report of Services” portion of the appropriate claims form, completed by the supplier in accordance with CMS instructions, in lieu of an itemized bill. 



---

[N] [53 FR 6634, Mar. 2, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 10299, Mar. 4, 1994; 59 FR 26740, May 24, 1994]




