# § 1830.2   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Access* means availability of a record to a subject individual.


*Disclosure* means the availability or release of a record.


*Maintain* means to maintain, collect, use, or disseminate when used in connection with the term “record;” and to have control over or responsibility for a system of records when used in connection with the term “system of records.”


*Notification* means communication to an individual whether or not they are a subject individual.


*Record* means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by OSC, including, but not limited to, the individual's education, financial transactions, medical history, criminal, or employment history, that contains a name or an identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual. When used in this part, record means only a record that is in a system of records.


*Release* means making available all or part of the information or records contained in an OSC system of records.


*Responsible OSC official* means the officer listed in a notice of a system of records as the system manager or another individual listed in the notice of a system of records to whom requests may be made, or the designee of either such officer or individual.


*Subject individual* means that individual to whom a record pertains.


*System of records* means any group of records under the control of OSC from which a record is retrieved by personal identifier such as the name of the individual, number, symbol or other unique retriever assigned to the individual. Single records or groups of records which are not retrieved by a personal identifier are not part of a system of records. See 5 U.S.C. 552a(a)(5).






