# ยง 516.55   Witnesses for a State or private litigant.

(a) *Status of witness.* If authorized to appear as a witness for a state or private litigant, and the testimony to be given relates to information obtained in the performance of official duties, a military member will attend in a permissive TDY status. If authorized to appear as a witness, but the testimony does not relate to information obtained in the performance of official duties, a military member may be granted a pass or permissive TDY under AR 630-5, or be required to take ordinary leave. The status of a civilian employee will be determined under 5 CFR Chapter I.


(b) *Travel arrangements.* The requesting party or state agency will make all travel arrangements for attendance of DA personnel authorized to appear as witnesses for a state or private litigant. The local commander may issue appropriate orders when necessary.


(c) *Travel expenses.* The United States may not pay travel, meals, and lodging expenses of the witness, other than normal allowances for subsistence pursuant to the DOD Military Pay and Allowances Entitlements Manual. These expenses are solely a matter between the witness and the party seeking his appearance. Witnesses ordinarily should be advised to require advance payment of such expenses. Military personnel authorized to appear in a pass or permissive TDY status are not entitled to receive witness attendance fees, but may accept travel, meals, and lodging expense money from the requesting litigant. All witness fees tendered the military member, to the extent they exceed such actual expenses of the member, will be remitted to the Treasurer of the United States. A civilian employee authorized to appear in his or her official capacity will accept the authorized witness fees, in addition to the allowance for travel and subsistence, and make disposition of the witness fees as instructed by his or her personnel office.


(d) *Funding by the United States.* Requests for DA personnel to appear at government expense as witnesses in state or local proceedings for a party other than the United States, including cases involving domestic violence or child abuse, will be referred to Litigation Division. Litigation Division may authorize travel and per diem expenses under ยง 516.54 when the case is one in which the United States has a significant interest.




