# § 40.355   Return of manufacturer.

(a) *Requirement for filing.* A manufacturer of cigarette papers and tubes shall file, for each factory, a semimonthly tax return on TTB Form 5000.24. A return shall be filed for each semimonthly return period regardless of whether cigarette papers and tubes were removed subject to tax or whether tax is due for that particular return period.


(b) *Waiver from filing.* The manufacturer need not file a return for each semimonthly return period if cigarette papers and tubes were not removed subject to tax during the period and the appropriate TTB officer has granted a waiver from filing in response to a written request from the manufacturer.


(c) *Semimonthly return periods.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (g) of this section, semimonthly return periods run from the 1st day of the month through the 15th day of that month, and from the 16th day of the month through the last day of that month.


(d) *Preparation and filing.* The return shall be executed and filed with TTB in accordance with the instructions on the form.


(e) *Remittance of tax.* Except as provided in § 40.357, remittance of the tax, if any, shall accompany the return.


(f) *Time for filing.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (g) of this section, for each semimonthly return period, the return shall be filed not later than the 14th day after the last day of the return period. If the due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the return and remittance are due on the immediately preceding day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday.


(g) *Special rule for taxes due for the month of September.* (1) *Division of second semimonthly period.* (i) *General.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section, the second semimonthly period for the month of September is divided into two payment periods, from the 16th day through the 26th day, and from the 27th day through the 30th day. The manufacturer shall file a return on TTB F 5000.24, and make remittance, for the period September 16-26, no later than September 29. The manufacturer shall file a return on TTB F 5000.24, and make remittance, for the period September 27-30, no later than October 14.


(ii) *Taxpayment not by electronic fund transfer.* In the case of taxes for which remittance by electronic fund transfer (EFT) is not required by § 40.357, the second semimonthly period of September is divided into two payment periods, from the 16th day through the 25th day, and from the 26th day through the 30th day. The manufacturer shall file a return on TTB F 5000.24, and make remittance, for the period September 16-25, no later than September 28. The manufacturer shall file a return on TTB F 5000.24, and make remittance, for the period September 26-30, no later than October 14.


(2) *Amount of payment—Safe harbor rule.* (i) *General.* Taxpayers are considered to have met the requirements of paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section if the amount paid no later than September 29 is not less than 11/15ths (73.3 percent) of the tax liability incurred for the semimonthly period beginning on September 1 and ending on September 15th, and if any underpayment of tax is paid by October 14th.


(ii) *Taxpayment not by EFT.* Taxpayers are considered to have met the requirements of paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section if the amount paid no later than September 28 is not less than 2/3rds (66.7 percent) of the tax liability incurred for the semimonthly period beginning on September 1 and ending on September 15, and if any underpayment of tax is paid by October 14.


(3) *Weekends and holidays.* If the required taxpayment due date for the period September 16-25 or September 16-26, as applicable, falls on a Saturday, or legal holiday, the return and remittance are due on the immediately preceding day. If the required due date falls on a Sunday, the return and remittance are due on the immediately following day.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-384, 61 FR 54085, Oct. 17, 1996, as amended by T.D. TTB-89, 76 FR 3514, Jan. 20, 2011]




