# ยง 3560.69   Supplemental requirements for congregate housing and group homes.

(a) *General.* Congregate housing and group homes must be planned and developed in accordance with 7 CFR part 1924, subparts A and C.


(b) *Design criteria.* Congregate housing and group homes must be designed to accommodate all special services that will be provided.


(c) *Services.* Congregate housing and group home loan applicants, as part of their loan request, must submit a plan to make affordable services available to residents to assist the residents in living independently. The plan must address the availability of this assistance from service providers throughout the term of the loan.


(1) For congregate housing, the resident services plan must address how the following services will be provided or made available:


(i) One cooked meal per day, seven days per week;


(ii) Transportation to and from the property;


(iii) Assistance in housekeeping;


(iv) Personal services;


(v) Recreational and social activities; and


(vi) Access to medical services.


(2) For group homes, the resident services plan must address how access to the following services will be provided or made available:


(i) A common kitchen in which to prepare meals;


(ii) Transportation;


(iii) Nearby recreational and social activities which may be coordinated by the resident assistant, if applicable; and


(iv) Medical services as necessary.


(d) *Necessary items.* Borrowers must ensure items such as tables, chairs, and cookware necessary to furnish common areas are made available to congregate housing or group homes. The 2 percent initial operating capital may be used to purchase these items.


(e) *Association with other organizations.* Congregate housing and group homes may coordinate services or training with another organization, such as a workshop for the developmentally disabled. However, the housing facility must be a separate entity and not dependent on the other organization.


(f) *Market feasibility documentation.* Market feasibility documentation for congregate housing and group homes is subject to the following requirements:


(1) Must address the need for housing with services and include information concerning alternative service providers;


(2) Must contain demographic information pertaining to the population that is to be served by the congregate housing or group home project; and


(3) May consider an expanded market area that includes nondesignated places, but the facility must be located in a designated place.


(g) *Rental assistance for group homes.* A unit in a group home consists of a space occupied by a specific tenant household, which may be an apartment unit, a bedroom, or a part of a bedroom. Agency rental assistance will be made available to tenants sharing a unit so long as the total rent for the unit does not exceed conventional rents for comparable units in the area or a similar area. 




