# § 721.5546   Halogen substituted oxetanes (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified generically as halogen substituted oxetanes. (PMNs P-98-1033 through P-98-1035) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q).


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* A significant new use of these chemical substances is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing associated with any use of these chemical substances without providing risk notification as follows:


(A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for these chemical substances, the employer becomes aware that these chemical substances may present a risk of injury to human health or the environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a Safety Data Sheet (SDS) as described in § 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If this chemical substance is not being manufactured, imported, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information to an SDS before the chemical substances are reintroduced into the workplace.


(B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive or who have received the chemical substances from the employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, are provided an SDS as described in § 721.72(c) containing the information required under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of these chemical substances. 


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [68 FR 70178, Dec. 17, 2003]




