# § 151.45   Storage tanks bonded as warehouses.

(a) *Application.* Tanks for the storage of imported petroleum or petroleum products in bulk may be bonded as warehouses of class 2 if to be used exclusively for the storage of petroleum or petroleum products belonging or consigned to the owner or lessee of the tank. In addition to the documents and bonds required to be filed with the application to bond (see § 19.2 of this chapter), the certified plans and gauge tables required by § 151.44 shall be filed.


(b) *Removal of nonbonded petroleum.* If a bonded tank is not empty at the time the first importation of bonded petroleum or petroleum products is to be stored therein, the amount of nonbonded petroleum or petroleum products in the tank shall be withdrawn by the proprietor as soon as possible. The request to withdraw shall be in the form of a letter and no formal withdrawal need be filed. Domestic or duty-paid petroleum or petroleum products shall not thereafter be stored in the tank as long as the tank remains bonded.


(c) *Information on warehouse withdrawal.* Warehouse withdrawals of petroleum or petroleum products from bonded tanks shall show the information specified in § 151.41, as well as the designation of the tank from which the merchandise is to be withdrawn. Such withdrawals may be made for “____ U.S. gallons, more or less”, but in no case may the estimate vary by more than three percent from the gross quantity unladen.



---

[N] [T.D. 80-142, 45 FR 36384, May 30, 1980, as amended by T.D. 87-39, 52 FR 9790, Mar. 26, 1987]




