# ยง 403.724   Valid election requirements.

(a) *General requirements.* An election statement must be made by the Medicare beneficiary or his or her legal representative.


(1) The election must be a written statement that must include the following statements:


(i) The beneficiary is conscientiously opposed to acceptance of nonexcepted medical treatment.


(ii) The beneficiary acknowledges that the acceptance of nonexcepted medical treatment is inconsistent with his or her sincere religious beliefs.


(iii) The beneficiary acknowledges that the receipt of nonexcepted medical treatment constitutes a revocation of the election and may limit further receipt of services in an RNHCI.


(iv) The beneficiary acknowledges that the election may be revoked by submitting a written statement to CMS.


(v) The beneficiary acknowledges that revocation of the election will not prevent or delay access to medical services available under Medicare Part A in facilities other than RNHCIs.


(2) The election must be signed and dated by the beneficiary or his or her legal representative.


(3) The election must be notarized.


(4) The RNHCI must keep a copy of the election statement on file and submit the original to CMS with any information obtained regarding prior elections or revocations.


(5) The election becomes effective on the date it is signed.


(6) The election remains in effect until revoked.


(b) *Revocation of election.* (1) A beneficiary's election is revoked by one of the following:


(i) The beneficiary receives nonexcepted medical treatment for which Medicare payment is requested.


(ii) The beneficiary voluntarily revokes the election and notifies CMS in writing.


(2) The receipt of excepted medical treatment as defined in ยง 403.702 does not revoke the election made by a beneficiary.


(c) *Limitation on subsequent elections.* (1) If a beneficiary's election has been made and revoked twice, the following limitations on subsequent elections apply:


(i) The third election is not effective until 1 year after the date of the most recent revocation.


(ii) Any succeeding elections are not effective until 5 years after the date of the most recent revocation.


(2) CMS will not accept as the basis for payment of any claim any elections executed on or after January 1 of the calendar year in which the sunset provision described in ยง 403.756 becomes effective.




