# ยง 1000.7   Advisory opinions and interpretations of regulations.

(a) *Advisory opinions.* Upon written request, the General Counsel provides written advisory opinions interpreting the acts and administrative regulations (*e.g.*, Freedom of Information Act regulations) the Commission administers, provided the request contains sufficient specific factual information upon which to base an opinion. Advisory opinions represent the legal opinions of the General Counsel and may be changed or superseded by the Commission. Requests for advisory opinions should be sent to the General Counsel, Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, Maryland 20814. Previously issued advisory opinions are available on the CPSC Web site at *http://www.cpsc.gov/library/foia/advisory/advisory.html.* A copy of a particular previously issued advisory opinion or a copy of an index of such opinions may also be obtained by written request to the Office of the Secretary, Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, Maryland 20814.


(b) *Interpretations of regulations.* Upon written request, the Assistant Executive Director for Compliance will issue written interpretations of Commission regulations pertaining to the safety standards and the enforcement of those standards, provided the request contains sufficient specific factual information upon which to base an interpretation. Interpretations of regulations represent the interpretations of the staff and may be changed or superseded by the Commission. Requests for such interpretations should be sent to the Assistant Executive Director for Compliance, Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, Maryland 20814.




