# § 112.22   Application for license.

(a) *General requirements.* An applicant for a customhouse cartage or lighterage license shall file with the director of the port where he proposes to conduct business the following:


(1) A bond on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.63 of this chapter, in an amount specified by the port director.


(2) Payment of a fee of $100. A check or money order shall be made payable to the United States Customs Service.


(3) If required by the port director, a list showing the names and addresses of the managing officers and members of the organization or of the persons who will receive or transport imported merchandise which has not been released from Customs custody, or a list of all such persons and their addresses.


(b) *Special requirements*—(1) *Cartman licensed by city or State.* Any cartman licensed by city or State authorities shall present to the port director his city or State license, after which such documents shall be returned.


(2) *Lighterman.* A lighterman shall present his vessel's marine documents, if any have been issued, to the port director for examination, after which such documents shall be returned.


(c) *Reapplication by certain terminated licensees.* Where the applicant for a customhouse cartage or lighterage license has previously been issued such a license and the license has been terminated pursuant to § 113.56 of this chapter, the port director may waive the filing of the items described in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section, as well as the investigation described in § 112.23, provided the application is made within 30 days of the effective date of the termination of the previous license. Any requirements waived by the port director under this paragraph will be deemed to have been complied with for purposes of § 112.24(b).



---

[N] [T.D. 73-140, 38 FR 13551, May 23, 1973, as amended by T.D. 74-200, 39 FR 27128, July 25, 1974; T.D. 76-324, 41 FR 50822, Nov. 18, 1976; T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984]




