# ยง 760.1705   Normal marketings of milk.

(a) The FSA county committee will determine the affected farmer's normal marketings of milk which, for the purposes of this subpart, will be the sum of the quantities of  milk for which the farmer would have sold in the commercial market in each of the pay periods in the application period be it not for the removal of the affected farmer's  milk from the commercial market as a result of a qualifying disaster event.


(b) Normal marketings for each pay period are based on the average daily production during the base period.


(c) Normal marketings determined in paragraph (b) of this section are adjusted for any change in the daily average number of cows milked during each pay period the milk is off the market compared with the average number of cows milked daily during the base period.


(d) If only a portion of a pay period falls within the application period, normal marketings for such pay period will be reduced so that they represent only that part of such pay period which is within the application period.


(e) The days eligible for indemnification begin on the date milk was removed or dumped and continue for the concurrent days milk was removed or dumped. Once the dairy operation returns to the normal marketing of milk, the dairy operation is no longer eligible for assistance for milk removed or dumped due to that qualifying disaster event unless after restarting commercial marketing of milk, additional milk is removed or dumped due to the same qualifying disaster event.



---

[N] [84 FR 48534, Sept. 13, 2019. Redesignated and amended at 88 FR 62290, Sept. 11, 2023]






