# § 1.665   What if I want to voluntarily relinquish accreditation or do not want to renew accreditation?

(a) *Notice to FDA of intent to relinquish or not to renew accreditation.* A third-party certification body must notify FDA electronically, in English, at least 60 days before voluntarily relinquishing accreditation or before allowing accreditation to expire without seeking renewal. The certification body must provide the name and contact information of the custodian who will maintain the records required under § 1.658(a) after the date of relinquishment or the date accreditation expires, as applicable, and make them available to FDA as required by § 1.658(b) and (c). The contact information for the custodian must include, at a minimum, an email address and the physical address where the records required by § 1.658(a) will be located.


(b) *Notice to recognized accreditation body and eligible entities of intent to relinquish or not to renew accreditation.* No later than 15 business days after notifying FDA under paragraph (a) of this section, the certification body must notify its recognized accreditation body and any eligible entity with current certifications that it intends to relinquish accreditation or to allow its accreditation to expire, specifying the date on which relinquishment or expiration will occur. The recognized accreditation body must establish and maintain records of such notification under § 1.625(a).


(c) *Effect of voluntary relinquishment or expiration of accreditation on food or facility certifications issued to eligible entities.* A food or facility certification issued by a third-party certification body prior to relinquishment or expiration of its accreditation will remain in effect until the certification expires. If FDA has reason to believe that a certification issued for purposes of section 801(q) or 806 of the FD&C Act is not valid or reliable, FDA may refuse to consider the certification in determining the admissibility of the article of food for which the certification was offered or in determining the importer's eligibility for participation in VQIP.


(d) *Public notice of voluntary relinquishment or expiration of accreditation.* FDA will provide notice on the Web site described in § 1.690 of the voluntary relinquishment or expiration of accreditation of a certification body under this subpart.




