# ยง 402.220   Registration of Pilots.

(a) Each Apprentice Pilot must complete the minimum number of round trips specified in this section prior to registration as a United States Registered Pilot. The round trips must be made in company with a United States Registered Pilot or Temporary Registered Pilot, on oceangoing vessels that have a gross tonnage of at least 4,000. The pilot association training committee, pilot association president, or Director may require additional round trips to demonstrate proficiency for a given waterway or specific port in order to ensure maritime safety. The minimum number of round trips listed here is not intended to guarantee completion of a training plan or advancement towards Full Registration.


(1) If the Apprentice Pilot holds a Master endorsement, a minimum of five round trips are required over the waters for which registration is desired.


(2) If the Apprentice Pilot holds a Chief Mate endorsement or a Second Mate endorsement, or holds a First-Class Pilot endorsement with service in the capacity of First Mate or Second Mate, a minimum of eight round trips are required over the waters for which registration is desired.


(3) If the Apprentice Pilot holds a First-Class Pilot endorsement or a Third Mate endorsement, a minimum of twelve round trips are required over the waters for which registration is desired.


(b) No course of instruction prescribed by a pilot association will be approved unless it includes the following minimum criteria:


(1) Instruction in the maneuvering characteristics of various types of vessels and propulsion machinery, including the characteristics of direct-drive motor, geared-drive motor, turbo-electric, steam turbine and steam reciprocating drives. Study of maneuvering characteristics to include turning radius, times and distances to stop, time to back, etc.


(2) Instruction in the effects of oceangoing vessels in restricted waters.


(3) Instruction in the use of tugs, docking procedures in locks and piers, and transiting bridges.


(4) Instruction in search and rescue and civil defense procedures as issued by the U.S. Coast Guard, Federal, State, and local port authorities.


(5) Instruction in communication, security, and signal procedures applicable to U.S. registered and foreign vessels on the Great Lakes as prescribed by the U.S. Coast Guard, St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, U.S. Corps of Army Engineers, and port authorities.


(6) Instruction in Customs, Immigration, Quarantine, Department of Agriculture, and Coast Guard regulations applicable to U.S. registered and foreign vessels on the Great Lakes.


(7) Instruction in the Great Lakes Pilotage Act of 1960; Great Lakes Pilotage Regulations; Presidential Proclamation of December 22, 1960; and Memorandum of Understanding, Great Lakes Pilotage, Between The United States Coast Guard and The Great Lakes Pilotage Authority, effective September 19, 2013.


(8) Instruction in miscellaneous subjects including man-overboard recovery (*i.e.,* Williamson turn); collision, fire, and explosion procedures; and maneuvering in ice.



---

[N] [USCG-2022-0025, 89 FR 76354, Sept. 17, 2024]








