# § 307.17   Requirements for Revolving Loan Fund Cash Available for Lending.

(a) *General.* RLF Cash Available for Lending shall be deposited and held in an interest-bearing account by the Recipient and used for the purpose of making RLF loans that are consistent with an RLF Plan or such other purposes approved by EDA. To ensure that RLF funds are used as intended, each loan agreement must clearly state the purpose of each loan.


(b) *Allowable Cash Percentage.* EDA shall notify each RLF recipient by January 1 of each year of the Allowable Cash Percentage that is applicable to lending during the Recipient's ensuing fiscal year. During the Revolving Phase, RLF Recipients must manage their repayment and lending schedules so that at all times they do not exceed the Allowable Cash Percentage.


(c) *Restrictions on use of RLF Cash Available for Lending.* RLF Cash Available for Lending shall not be used to:


(1) Acquire an equity position in a private business;


(2) Subsidize interest payments on an existing RLF loan;


(3) Provide a loan to a borrower for the purpose of meeting the requirements of equity contributions under another Federal Agency's loan programs;


(4) Enable borrowers to acquire an interest in a business either through the purchase of stock or through the acquisition of assets, unless sufficient justification is provided in the loan documentation. Sufficient justification may include acquiring a business to save it from imminent closure or to acquire a business to facilitate a significant expansion or increase in investment with a significant increase in jobs. The potential economic benefits must be clearly consistent with the strategic objectives of the RLF;


(5) Provide RLF loans to a borrower for the purpose of investing in interest-bearing accounts, certificates of deposit, or any investment unrelated to the RLF; or


(6) Refinance existing debt, unless:


(i) The RLF Recipient sufficiently demonstrates in the loan documentation a “sound economic justification” for the refinancing (*e.g.,* the refinancing will support additional capital investment intended to increase business activities). For this purpose, reducing the risk of loss to an existing lender(s) or lowering the cost of financing to a borrower shall not, without other indicia, constitute a sound economic justification; or


(ii) RLF Cash Available for Lending will finance the purchase of the rights of a prior lien holder during a foreclosure action which is necessary to preclude a significant loss on an RLF loan. RLF funds may be used for this purpose only if there is a high probability of receiving compensation from the sale of assets sufficient to cover an RLF's costs plus a reasonable portion of the outstanding RLF loan within a reasonable time frame approved by EDA following the date of refinancing.


(7) Serve as collateral to obtain credit or any other type of financing without EDA's prior written approval;


(8) Support operations or administration of the RLF Recipient; or


(9) Undertake any activity that would violate the requirements found in part 314 of this chapter, including § 314.3 (“Authorized Use of Property”) and § 314.4 (“Unauthorized Use of Property”).



---

[N] [82 FR 57057, Dec. 1, 2017]




