# § 146.65   Classification, valuation, and liquidation.

(a) *Classification*—(1) *Privileged foreign merchandise.* Privileged foreign merchandise provided for in this section will be subject to tariff classification according to its character, condition and quantity, at the rate of duty and tax in force on the date of filing, in complete and proper form, the application for privileged status. Classification of merchandise subject to a tariff-rate import quota will be made only at the higher non-quota duty rate in effect on the date privileged foreign status was granted. Notwithstanding the grant of privileged status, Customs may correct any misclassification of any such entered merchandise when it posts the bulletin notice of liquidation under § 159.9 of this chapter.


(2) *Nonprivileged foreign merchandise.* Nonprivileged foreign merchandise provided for in this section will be subject to tariff classification in accordance with its character, condition and quantity as constructively transferred to Customs territory at the time the entry or entry summary is filed with Customs.


(b) *Valuation*—(1) *Total zone value.* The total zone value of merchandise provided for in this section will be determined in accordance with the principles of valuation contained in sections 402 and 500 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended by the Trade Agreements Act of 1979 (19 U.S.C. 1401a, 1500). The total zone value shall be that price actually paid or payable to the zone seller in the transaction that caused the merchandise to be transferred from the zone. Where there is no price paid or payable, the total zone value shall be the cost of all materials and zone processing costs related to the merchandise transferred from the zone.


(2) *Dutiable value.* The dutiable value of merchandise provided for in this section shall be the price actually paid or payable for the merchandise in the transaction that caused the merchandise to be admitted into the zone, plus the statutory additions contained in section 402(b)(1) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended by the Trade Agreements Act of 1979 (19 U.S.C. 1401a(b)(1)), less, if included, international shipment and insurance costs and U.S. inland freight costs. If there is no such price actually paid or payable, or no reasonable representation of that cost or of the statutory additions, the dutiable value may be determined by excluding from the zone value any included zone costs of processing or fabrication, general expenses and profit and the international shipment and insurance costs and U.S. inland freight costs related to the merchandise transferred from the zone. The dutiable value of recoverable waste or scrap provided for in § 146.42(b) will be the price actually paid or payable to the zone seller in the transaction that caused the recoverable waste or scrap to be transferred from the zone.


(3) *Allowance.* An allowance in the dutiable value of zone merchandise may be made by the Center director in accordance with the provisions of subparts B and C of part 158 of this chapter, for damage, deterioration, or casualty while the merchandise is in the zone.


(c) *Liquidation; extension to update cost data.* When the declared value or values of the merchandise are based on an estimate or estimates, the person making entry may request an extension of liquidation pending the presentation of updated or actual cost data. A request for an extension may be granted at the discretion of the Center director.



---

[N] [T.D. 86-16, 51 FR 5049, Feb. 11, 1986, as amended by T.D. 91-79, 56 FR 46372, Sept. 12, 1991; T.D. 95-35, 60 FR 20632, Apr. 27, 1995; CBP Dec. No. 16-26, 81 FR 93020, Dec. 20, 2016]




