# ยง 147.50   Fuel for cooking, heating, and lighting.

(a) Flammable and combustible liquids and gases not listed in this section are prohibited for cooking, heating, or lighting on any vessel, with the exception of combustible liquids on cargo vessels. 


(b) Fluid alcohol is prohibited for cooking, heating, or lighting on ferry vessels. Fluid alcohol burners, where wet primed, must have a catch pan not less than 
3/4 of an inch deep secured inside of the frame of the stove or have the metal protection under the stove flanged up 
3/4 of an inch to form a pan. 


(c) Containers of solidified alcohol must be secured on a fixed base. 


(d) Liquefied or non-liquefied gas is prohibited for cooking, heating, and lighting on ferry vessels, but may be used on other inspected vessels if the system in which it is used meets the applicable requirements of subpart 58.16 or subpart B of part 184 of this chapter, as appropriate, or is approved by the Commandant (CG-ENG). 


(e) Kerosene and commercial standard fuel oil No. 1, No. 2, and No. 3 are prohibited for cooking, heating, or lighting on ferry or passenger vessels, unless the following conditions are met: 


(1) Pressure or gravity feed must be used. 


(2) Where wet priming is used in a cooking device, the device must have a catch pan not less than three fourths of an inch deep secured inside the frame of the device or a metal protector under the device with a least a three fourths inch flange to form a pan. 


(3) Where wet priming is used, a non-flammable priming liquid must be used. 


(4) Fuel tanks for fixed stoves must be separated from the stove and mounted in a location open to the atmosphere or mounted inside a compartment with an outside fill and vent. 


(5) Fuel lines must have an easily accessible shut-off valve at the tank. 


(6) If the fuel tank is outside of a stove compartment, a shut-off valve must be fitted at the stove. 



---

[N] [CGD 84-044, 53 FR 7749, Mar. 10, 1988, as amended by CGD 83-013, 54 FR 6402, Feb. 10, 1989; CGD 95-072, 60 FR 50465, Sept. 29, 1995; CGD 96-041, 61 FR 50731, Sept. 27, 1996; USCG-2023-0759, 89 FR 22949, Apr. 3, 2024]




