# ยง 178.210   Stability information.

(a) Stability information (stability details indicated on the Certificate of Inspection, a stability letter, or a stability booklet), is required on certain vessels by paragraphs (b), (c), or (d) of this section. Enough stability information, including stability calculations and assumptions made to use them, must be provided to allow the master to be able to determine operating guidelines, loading restrictions, and ensure compliance with the applicable intact and damage stability regulations of this chapter.


(b) A vessel which, under ยง 178.310 of this part, complies with requirements in subchapter S of this chapter, must have stability details on the vessel's Certificate of Inspection, a stability letter issued by the cognizant Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection (OCMI) or the Commanding Officer, Marine Safety Center, or an approved stability booklet. The form in which the stability information must be contained (*i.e.*, stability details on the Certificate of Inspection, a stability letter, or a stability booklet) will be determined by the Commanding Officer, Marine Safety Center.


(c) When necessary for safe operation, the cognizant OCMI may place specific stability restrictions in a stability letter or on the Certificate of Inspection of a vessel not more than 65 feet (19.8 meters) in length, which, under ยง 178.310 of this part, complies with the requirements of ยง 178.320 of this part.


(d) Each pontoon vessel must have a stability letter and each stability letter issued after March 14, 2011 must be issued by the Commanding Officer, Marine Safety Center.



---

[N] [CGD 85-080, 61 FR 966, Jan. 10, 1996, as amended by USCG-2007-0030, 75 FR 78087, Dec. 14, 2010]




