# § 60.5410b   How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the standards for each of my affected facilities?

You must determine initial compliance with the standards for each affected facility using the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (k) of this section. Except as otherwise provided in this section, the initial compliance period begins on the date specified in § 60.5370b and ends no later than 1 year after that date. The initial compliance period may be less than 1 full year.


(a) *Well completion standards for well affected facilities.* To achieve initial compliance with the GHG and VOC standards for each well completion operation conducted at your well affected facility as required by § 60.5375b, you must comply with paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) You must submit the notification required in § 60.5420b(a)(2).


(2) You must submit the initial annual report for your well affected facility as required in § 60.5420b(b)(1) and (2).


(3) You must maintain a log of records as specified in § 60.5420b(c)(1)(i) through (iv) and (vii), as applicable, for each well completion operation conducted. If you meet the exemption at § 60.5375b(g) for wells with a GOR less than 300 scf per stock barrel of oil produced, you do not have to maintain the records in § 60.5420b(c)(1)(i) through (iv) and must maintain the record in § 60.5420b(c)(1)(vi). If you meet the exemption at § 60.5375b(h) for a well modified in accordance with § 60.5365b(a)(1)(ii) (*i.e.,* an existing well is hydraulically refractured), you do not need to maintain the records in § 60.5420b(c)(1)(i) through (iv) and must maintain the record in § 60.5420b(c)(1)(viii).


(4) For each well completion affected facility subject to both § 60.5375b(a)(1) and (2), as an alternative to retaining the records specified in § 60.5420b(c)(1)(i) through (iv), you may maintain records in accordance with § 60.5420b(c)(1)(v).


(b) *Gas* w*ell liquids unloading standards for well affected facility.* To demonstrate initial compliance with the GHG and VOC standards for each gas well liquids unloading operation conducted at your gas well affected facility as required by § 60.5376b, you must comply with paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable.


(1) You must submit the initial annual report for your well affected facility as required in § 60.5420b(b)(1) and (3).


(2) If you comply by using a liquids unloading technology or technique that does not vent to the atmosphere according to § 60.5376b(a)(1), you must maintain the records specified in § 60.5420b(c)(2)(i).


(3) If you comply by using a liquids unloading technology or technique that vents to the atmosphere according to § 60.5376b(a)(2), (b) and (c), you must comply with paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Employ best management practices to minimize venting of methane and VOC emissions as specified in § 60.5376b(c) for each gas well liquids unloading operation.


(ii) Maintain the records specified in § 60.5420b(c)(2)(ii).


(4) If you comply by using § 60.5376b(g), you must comply with paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (vi) of this section.


(i) Reduce methane and VOC emissions by 95.0 percent or greater and as demonstrated by the requirements of § 60.5413b.


(ii) Install a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(a) and (c) to capture all emissions and route all emissions to a control device that meets the conditions specified in § 60.5412b.


(iii) Conduct an initial performance test as required in § 60.5413b within 180 days after the initial gas well liquids unloading operation, or install a control device tested under § 60.5413b(d) which meets the criteria in § 60.5413b(d)(11) and (e), and comply with the continuous compliance requirements of § 60.5415b(f).


(iv) You must conduct the initial inspections required in § 60.5416b(a) and (b).


(v) You must install and operate the continuous parameter monitoring systems in accordance with § 60.5417b(a) through (i), as applicable.


(vi) You must maintain the records specified in § 60.5420b(c)(2)(iii),(c)(8) and (c)(10) through (13), as applicable and submit the reports as required by § 60.5420b(b)(11) through (13), as applicable.


(c) *Associated gas well standards for well affected facility.* To demonstrate initial compliance with the GHG and VOC standards for each associated gas well as required by § 60.5377b, you must comply with paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) If you comply with the requirements of § 60.5377b(a), you must maintain the records specified in § 60.5420b(c)(3)(i), (ii), and (iv).


(2) For associated gas wells that comply with § 60.5377b(f) based on a demonstration and certification that it is not feasible to comply with paragraphs (a)(1), (2), (3), and (4) of this section due to technical reasons in accordance with paragraph § 60.5377b(g), you must comply with paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Document the technical reasons why it is infeasible to route recovered associated gas into a gas gathering flow line or collection system to a sales line, use it as an onsite fuel source, use it for another useful purpose that a purchased fuel or raw material would serve, or re-inject it into the well or inject it into another well, maintain the documentation in accordance with § 60.5377(g), and submit this documentation in the initial annual report as required by paragraph (c)(4) of this section.


(ii) Maintain a copy of the certification and submit the certification as required by § 60.5377b(g).


(3) If you comply with § 60.5377b(d) or (f), you must comply with paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (vi) of this section.


(i) Reduce methane and VOC emissions by 95.0 percent or greater and as demonstrated by the requirements of § 60.5413b.


(ii) Install a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(a) and (c) to capture the associated gas and route the captured associated gas to a control device that meets the conditions specified in § 60.5412b.


(iii) Conduct an initial performance test as required in § 60.5413b within 180 days after initial startup or by May 7, 2024, whichever date is later, or install a control device tested under § 60.5413b(d) which meets the criteria in § 60.5413b(d)(11) and (e) and you must comply with the continuous compliance requirements of § 60.5415b(f).


(iv) Conduct the initial inspections required in § 60.5416b(a) and (b).


(v) Install and operate the continuous parameter monitoring systems in accordance with § 60.5417b(a) through (i), as applicable.


(vi) Maintain the records specified in § 60.5420b(c)(3)(iv) and (c)(8) and (c)(10) through (13), as applicable.


(4) You must submit the initial annual report for your associated gas well as required in § 60.5420b(b)(1) and (4) and (b)(11) through (13), as applicable.


(d) *Centrifugal compressor affected facility.* To demonstrate initial compliance with the GHG and VOC standards for your centrifugal compressor affected facility that uses a wet seal as required by § 60.5380b, you must comply with paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) and paragraphs (d)(7) and (8) of this section. To demonstrate initial compliance with the GHG and VOC alternative standards for your centrifugal compressor affected facility that is a self-contained wet seal centrifugal compressor or a centrifugal compressor at the Alaska North Slope equipped with sour seal oil separator and capture system as allowed by § 60.5380b, you must comply with paragraphs (d)(6) through (8) of this section. To demonstrate initial compliance with the GHG and VOC alternative standards for your dry seal centrifugal compressor as required by § 60.5380b, you must comply with paragraphs (d)(6) through (8) of this section.


(1) You must reduce methane and VOC emissions by 95.0 percent or greater according to § 60.5380b(a)(1) and (2) and as demonstrated by the requirements of § 60.5413b, or you must route emissions to a process according to § 60.5380b(a)(3).


(2) If you use a control device to reduce emissions to comply with § 60.5380b(a)(1) and (2), you must equip the wet seal fluid degassing system with a cover that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(b) that is connected through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(a) and (c) and is routed to a control device that meets the conditions specified in § 60.5412b. If you comply with § 60.5380b(a)(3) by routing the closed vent system to a process as an alternative to routing the closed vent system to a control device, you must equip the wet seal fluid degassing system with a cover that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(b), and route captured vapors through a closed vent system to a process that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(a) and (c).


(3) If you use a control device to comply with § 60.5380b(a)(1) and (2), you must conduct an initial performance test as required in § 60.5413b within 180 days after initial startup or by May 7, 2024, whichever date is later, or install a control device tested under § 60.5413b(d) which meets the criteria in § 60.5413b(d)(11) and (e) and you must comply with the continuous compliance requirements of § 60.5415b(f).


(4) If you use a control device to comply with § 60.5380b(a)(1) and (2) or comply with § 60.5380b(a)(3) by routing to a process, you must conduct the initial inspections required in § 60.5416b(a) and (b).


(5) If you use a control device to comply with § 60.5380b(a)(1) and (2), you must install and operate the continuous parameter monitoring systems in accordance with § 60.5417b(a) through (i), as applicable.


(6) You must maintain the volumetric flow rates for your centrifugal compressors as specified in paragraphs (d)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) For your self-contained wet seal centrifugal compressors, you must maintain the volumetric flow rate at or below 3 scfm per seal. You must conduct your initial annual volumetric measurement as required by § 60.5380b(a)(4).


(ii) For your centrifugal compressor on the Alaska North Slope equipped with sour seal oil separator and capture system, you must maintain the volumetric flow rate at or below 9 scfm per seal. You must conduct your initial annual volumetric measurement as required by § 60.5380b(a)(5).


(iii) For your dry seal centrifugal compressor, you must maintain the volumetric flow rate at or below 10 scfm per seal. You must conduct your initial annual volumetric measurement as required by § 60.5380b(a)(6).


(7) You must submit the initial annual report for your centrifugal compressor affected facility as required in § 60.5420b(b)(1) and (5) and (b)(11) through (13), as applicable.


(8) You must maintain the records as specified in § 60.5420b(c)(4) and (c)(8) through (13), as applicable.


(e) *Reciprocating compressor affected facility.* To demonstrate initial compliance with the GHG and VOC standards for each reciprocating compressor affected facility as required by § 60.5385b, you must comply with paragraphs (e)(1) through (7) of this section.


(1) If you comply with § 60.5385b by maintaining volumetric flow rate at or below 2 scfm per cylinder (or a combined cylinder volumetric flow rate greater than the number of compression cylinders multiplied by 2 scfm) as required by § 60.5385b(a), you must maintain volumetric flow rate at or below 2 scfm and you must conduct your initial annual volumetric flow rate measurement as required by § 60.5385b(a)(1).


(2) If you comply with § 60.5385bby collecting the methane and VOC emissions from your reciprocating compressor rod packing using a rod packing emissions collection system as required by § 60.5385b(d)(1), you must equip the reciprocating compressor with a cover that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(b), route emissions to a process through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(a) and (c), and you must conduct the initial inspections required in § 60.5416b(a) and (b).


(3) If you comply with § 60.5385b(d) by collecting the emissions from your rod packing emissions collection system by using a control device to reduce VOC and methane emissions by 95.0 percent as required by § 60.5385b(d)(2), you must equip the reciprocating compressor with a cover that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(b), route emissions to a control device that meets the conditions specified in § 60.5412b through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(a) and (c) and you must conduct the initial inspections required in § 60.5416b(a) and (b).


(4) If you comply with § 60.5385b(d)(2), you must conduct an initial performance test as required in § 60.5413b within 180 days after initial startup or by May 7, 2024, whichever date is later, or install a control device tested under § 60.5413b(d) which meets the criteria in § 60.5413b(d)(11) and (e) and you must comply with the continuous compliance requirements of § 60.5415b(f).


(5) If you comply with § 60.5385b(d)(2), you must install and operate the continuous parameter monitoring systems in accordance with § 60.5417b(a) through (i), as applicable.


(6) You must submit the initial annual report for your reciprocating compressor as required in § 60.5420b(b)(1), (6), and (11) through (13), as applicable.


(7) You must maintain the records as specified in § 60.5420b(c)(5) and (8) through (13) as applicable.


(f) *Process controller affected facility.* To demonstrate initial compliance with GHG and VOC emission standards for your process controller affected facility as required by § 60.5390b, you must comply with paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section, as applicable. If you change compliance methods, you must also perform the applicable compliance demonstrations of paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section again for the new compliance method, note the change in compliance method in the annual report required by § 60.5420b(b)(7)(iv), and maintain the records required by paragraph (f)(5) of this section for the new compliance method.


(1) For process controller affected facilities complying with the requirements of § 60.5390b(a), you must demonstrate that your process controller affected facility does not emit any VOC or methane to the atmosphere by meeting the requirements of paragraphs (f)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(i) If you comply by routing the emissions to a process, you must meet the requirements for closed vent systems specified in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.


(ii) If you comply by using a self-contained natural gas-driven process controller, you must conduct an initial no identifiable emissions inspection as required by § 60.5416b(b).


(2) For each process controller affected facility located at a site in Alaska that does not have access to electrical power, you must demonstrate initial compliance with § 60.5390b(b)(1) and (2) or with § 60.5390b(b)(3), instead of complying with paragraph § 60.5390b(a), by meeting the requirements specified in (f)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section for each process controller, as applicable.


(i) For each process controller in the process controller affected facility operating with a bleed rate of less than or equal to 6 scfh, you must maintain records in accordance with § 60.5420b(c)(6)(iii)(A) that demonstrate the process controller is designed and operated to achieve a bleed rate less than or equal to 6 scfh.


(ii) For each process controller in the process controller affected facility operating with a bleed rate greater than 6 scfh, you must maintain records that demonstrate that a controller with a higher bleed rate than 6 scfh is required based on a specific functional need for that controller as specified in § 60.5420b(c)(6)(iii)(B).


(iii) For each intermittent vent process controller in the process controller affected facility you must demonstrate that each intermittent vent controller does not emit to the atmosphere during idle periods by conducting initial monitoring in accordance with § 60.5390b(b)(2)(ii).


(iv) For each process controller affected facility that complies by reducing methane and VOC emissions from all controllers in the process controller affected facility by 95.0 percent in accordance with § 60.5390b(b)(3), you must comply with paragraphs (b)(2)(iv)(A) through (D) of this section.


(A) Reduce methane and VOC emissions by 95.0 percent or greater and as demonstrated by the requirements of § 60.5413b.


(B) Route all process controller affected facility emissions to a control device that meets the conditions specified in § 60.5412b through a closed vent system that meets the requirements specified in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.


(C) Conduct an initial performance test as required in § 60.5413b within 180 days after initial startup or by May 7, 2024, whichever date is later, or install a control device tested under § 60.5413b(d) which meets the criteria in § 60.5413b(d)(11) and (e) and you must comply with the continuous compliance requirements of § 60.5415b(f).


(D) Install and operate the continuous parameter monitoring systems in accordance with § 60.5417b(a) through (i), as applicable.


(3) For each closed vent system used to comply with § 60.5390b, you must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Install a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(a) and (c).


(ii) Conduct the initial inspections of the closed vent system and bypasses, if applicable, as required in § 60.5416b(a) and (b).


(4) You must submit the initial annual report for your process controller affected facility as required in § 60.5420b(b)(1) and (7).


(5) You must maintain the records as specified in § 60.5420b(c)(6).


(g) *Pump affected facility.* To demonstrate initial compliance with the GHG and VOC standards for your pump affected facility as required by § 60.5393b, you must comply with paragraphs (g)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable. If you change compliance methods, you must also perform the applicable compliance demonstrations of paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section again for the new compliance method, note the change in compliance method in the annual report required by § 60.5420b(b)(10)(v)(C), and maintain the records required by paragraph (g)(4) of this section for the new compliance method.


(1) For pump affected facilities complying with the requirements of § 60.5393b(a) or (b)(2) by routing emissions to a process, you must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (g)(1)(ii) and (iv) of this section. For pump affected facilities complying with the requirements of § 60.5393b(b)(3), you must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) Reduce methane and VOC emissions by 95.0 percent or greater and as demonstrated by the requirements of § 60.5413b.


(ii) Install a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(a) and (c) to capture all emissions from all pumps in the pump affected facility and route all emissions to a process or control device that meets the conditions specified in § 60.5412b.


(iii) Conduct an initial performance test as required in § 60.5413b within 180 days after initial startup or by May 7, 2024, whichever date is later, or install a control device tested under § 60.5413b(d) which meets the criteria in § 60.5413b(d)(11) and (e) and you must comply with the continuous compliance requirements of § 60.5415b(f).


(iv) Conduct the initial inspections of the closed vent system and bypasses, if applicable, as required in § 60.5416b(a) and (b).


(v) Install and operate the continuous parameter monitoring systems in accordance with § 60.5417b(a) through (i), as applicable.


(2) Submit the certifications specified in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) The certification required by § 60.5393b(b)(5) that there is no vapor recovery unit on site and that there is a control device on site, but it does not achieve a 95.0 percent emissions reduction.


(ii) The certification required by § 60.5393b(b)(6) that there is no control device or process available on site.


(iii) The certification required by § 60.5393b(b)(7) that it is technically infeasible to capture and route the pump affected facility emissions to a process or an existing control device.


(3) You must submit the initial annual report for your pump affected facility as specified in § 60.5420b(b)(1), (10), and (b)(11) through (13), as applicable.


(4) You must maintain the records for your pump affected facility as specified in § 60.5420b(c)(8) and (c)(10) through (13), as applicable, and (c)(15).


(h) *Process unit equipment affected facility.* To achieve initial compliance with the GHG and VOC standards for process unit equipment affected facilities as required by § 60.5400b, you must comply with paragraphs (h)(1) through (4) and (h)(11) through (15) of this section, unless you meet and comply with the exception in § 60.5402b(b), (e), or (f) or meet the exemption in § 60.5402b(c). If you comply with the GHG and VOC standards for process unit equipment affected facilities using the alternative standards in § 60.5401b, you must comply with paragraphs (h)(5) through (15) of this section, unless you meet the exemption in § 60.5402b(b) or (c) or the exception in § 60.5402b(e) or (f).


(1) You must conduct monitoring for each pump in light liquid service, pressure relief device in gas/vapor service, valve in gas/vapor or light liquid service and connector in gas/vapor or light liquid service as required by § 60.5400b(b).


(2) You must conduct monitoring as required by § 60.5400b(c) for each pump in light liquid service.


(3) You must conduct monitoring as required by § 60.5400b(d) for each pressure relief device in gas/vapor service.


(4) You must comply with the equipment requirements for each open-ended valve or line as required by § 60.5400b(e).


(5) You must conduct monitoring for each pump in light liquid service as required by § 60.5401b(b).


(6) You must conduct monitoring for each pressure relief device in gas/vapor service as required by § 60.5401b(c).


(7) You must comply with the equipment requirements for each open-ended valve or line as required by § 60.5401b(d).


(8) You must conduct monitoring for each valve in gas/vapor or light liquid service as required by § 60.5401b(f).


(9) You must conduct monitoring for each pump, valve, and connector in heavy liquid service and each pressure relief device in light liquid or heavy liquid service as required by § 60.5401b(g).


(10) You must conduct monitoring for each connector in gas/vapor or light liquid service as required by § 60.5401b(h).


(11) For each pump equipped with a dual mechanical seal system that degasses the barrier fluid reservoir to a process or a control device, each pump which captures and transports leakage from the seal or seals to a process or a control device, or each pressure relief device which captures and transports leakage through the pressure relief device to a process or a control device, you must meet the requirements of paragraph (h)(11)(i) through (vi) of this section.


(i) Reduce methane and VOC emissions by 95.0 percent or greater and as demonstrated by the requirements of § 60.5413b or route to a process.


(ii) Install a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(a) and (c) to capture all emissions from each pump equipped with a dual mechanical seal system that degasses the barrier fluid reservoir, each pump which captures and transports leakage from the seal or seals, or each pressure relief device which captures and transports leakage through the pressure relief device and route all emissions to a process or to a control device that meets the conditions specified in § 60.5412b.


(iii) If routing to a control device, conduct an initial performance test as required in § 60.5413b within 180 days after initial startup or by May 7, 2024, whichever date is later, or install a control device tested under § 60.5413b(d) which meets the criteria in § 60.5413b(d)(11) and (e), and you must comply with the continuous compliance requirements of § 60.5415b(f).


(iv) Conduct the initial inspections of the closed vent system and bypasses, if applicable, as required in § 60.5416b(a) and (b).


(v) Install and operate the continuous parameter monitoring systems in accordance with § 60.5417b(a) through (i), as applicable.


(vi) Maintain the records as required by § 60.5420b(c)(8) and (c)(10) through (c)(13), as applicable and submit the reports as required by § 60.5420b(b)(11) through (13), as applicable.


(12) You must tag and repair each identified leak as required in § 60.5400b(h) or § 60.5401b(i), as applicable.


(13) You must submit the notice required by § 60.5420b(a)(1).


(14) You must submit the initial semiannual report and subsequent semiannual report as required by § 60.5422b.


(15) You must maintain the records specified by § 60.5421b.


(i) *Sweetening unit affected facility.* To achieve initial compliance with the SO_2_ standard for your sweetening unit affected facility as required by § 60.5405b, you must comply with paragraphs (i)(1) through (14) of this section.


(1) You must conduct an initial performance test as required by § 60.8 and according to the requirements of § 60.5406b.


(2) You must determine the minimum required initial reduction efficiency of SO_2_ emissions (Z_i_) as required by § 60.5406b(b).


(3) You must determine the emission reduction efficiency (R) achieved by your sulfur reduction technology using the procedures in § 60.5406b(c)(1) through (4).


(4) You must demonstrate compliance with the standard as required by § 60.5405b(a) by comparing the minimum required SO_2_ emission reduction efficiency (Z_i_) to the emission reduction efficiency achieved by the sulfur recovery technology (R), where R must be greater than or equal to Z_i_.


(5) You must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate monitoring devices or perform measurements to determine the accumulation of sulfur product, the H_2_S concentration, the average acid gas flow rate, and the sulfur feed rate in accordance with § 60.5407b(a).


(6) You must determine the required SO_2_ emissions reduction efficiency each 24-hour period in accordance with § 60.5407b(a), (d), and (e), as applicable.


(7) You must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate monitoring devices and continuous emission monitors in accordance with § 60.5407b(b), (f), and (g), if you use an oxidation control system or a reduction control system followed by an incineration device.


(8) You must continuously operate the incineration device if you use an oxidation control system, or a reduction control system followed by an incineration device.


(9) You must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous monitoring system to measure the emission rate of reduced sulfur compounds in accordance with § 60.5407b(c), (f), and (g), if you use a reduction control system not followed by an incineration device.


(10) You must submit the notification required by § 60.5420b(a)(1).


(11) You must submit the initial annual report required by § 60.5423b(b).


(12) You must submit the performance test report in accordance with the requirements of § 60.5420b(b)(12).


(13) You must submit the annual excess emissions reports required by § 60.5423b(d), if applicable.


(14) You must maintain the records required by § 60.5423b(a), (e) and (f), as applicable.


(j) *Storage vessel affected facility.* To achieve initial compliance with the GHG and VOC standards for each storage vessel affected facility as required by § 60.5395b, you must comply with paragraphs (j)(1) through (9) of this section. To achieve initial compliance with the GHG and VOC standards for each storage vessel affected facility that complies by using a floating roof in accordance with § 60.5395b(b)(2), you must comply with paragraphs (j)(1) and (10) of this section.


(1) You must determine the potential for methane and VOC emissions as specified in § 60.5365b(e)(2).


(2) You must reduce methane and VOC emissions by 95.0 percent or greater according to § 60.5395b(a) and as demonstrated by the requirements of § 60.5413b or route to a process.


(3) If you use a control device to reduce emissions, you must equip each storage vessel in the storage vessel affected facility with a cover that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(b), install a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(a) and (c) to capture all emissions from the storage vessel affected facility, and route all emissions to a control device that meets the conditions specified in § 60.5412b. If you route emissions to a process, you must equip each storage vessel in the storage vessel affected facility with a cover that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(b), install a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(a) and (c) to capture all emissions from the storage vessel affected facility, and route all emissions to a process.


(4) If you use a control device to reduce emissions, you must conduct an initial performance test as required in § 60.5413b within 180 days after initial startup or within 180 days of May 7, 2024, whichever date is later, or install a control device tested under § 60.5413b(d) which meets the criteria in § 60.5413b(d)(11) and (e), and you must comply with the continuous compliance requirements of § 60.5415b(f).


(5) You must conduct the initial inspections of the closed vent system and bypasses, if applicable, as required in § 60.5416b(a) and (b).


(6) You must install and operate the continuous parameter monitoring systems in accordance with § 60.5417b(a) through (i), as applicable.


(7) You must maintain the records as required by § 60.5420b(c)(8) through (13), as applicable and submit the reports as required by § 60.5420b(b)(11) through (13), as applicable.


(8) You must submit the initial annual report for your storage vessel affected facility required by § 60.5420b(b)(1) and (8).


(9) You must maintain the records required for your storage vessel affected facility, as specified in § 60.5420b(c)(7) for each storage vessel affected facility.


(10) For each storage vessel affected facility that complies by using a floating roof, you must meet the requirements of § 60.112b(a)(1) or (2) and the relevant monitoring, inspection, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements in subpart Kb of this part. You must submit a statement that you are complying with § 60.112b(d)(a)(1) or (2) in accordance with § 60.5395b(b)(2) with the initial annual report specified in § 60.5420b(b)(1) and (8).


(k) *Fugitive emission components affected facility.* To achieve initial compliance with the GHG and VOC standards for fugitive emissions components affected facilities as required by § 60.5397b, you must comply with paragraphs (k)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) You must develop a fugitive emissions monitoring plan as required in § 60.5397b(b), (c), and (d).


(2) You must conduct an initial monitoring survey as required in § 60.5397b(e) and (f).


(3) You must repair each identified source of fugitive emissions for each affected facility as required in § 60.5397b(h).


(4) You must submit the initial annual report for each fugitive emissions components affected facility as required in § 60.5420b(b)(1) and (9).


(5) You must maintain the records specified in § 60.5420b(c)(14).



---

[N] [89 FR 17043, Mar. 8, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 62896, Aug. 1, 2024]






