# 19.507   Solicitation provisions and contract clauses.

(a)-(b) [Reserved]


(c) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside, in solicitations and contracts involving total small business set-asides. This includes multiple-award contracts when orders may be set aside for any of the small business concerns identified in 19.000(a)(3), as described in 8.405-5 and 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F). Use the clause at 52.219-6 with its Alternate I when including FPI in the competition in accordance with 19.502-7.


(d) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside, in solicitations and contracts involving partial small business set-asides. This includes part or parts of multiple-award contracts, including those described in 38.101. Use the clause at 52.219-7 with its Alternate I when including FPI in the competition in accordance with 19.502-7.


(e) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting, in solicitations and contracts—


(1) For supplies, services, and construction, if any portion of the requirement is to be set aside for small business and the contract amount is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold, and in any solicitations and contracts that are set aside or awarded on a sole-source basis in accordance with subparts 19.8, 19.13, 19.14, or 19.15, regardless of dollar value. This includes multiple-award contracts when orders may be set aside for small business concerns, as described in 8.405-5 and 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F), and when orders may be issued directly to a small business concern as described in 19.504(c)(1)(ii). For contracts that are set aside, the contracting officer shall indicate in paragraph (f) of the clause whether compliance with the limitations on subcontracting is required at the contract or order level;


(2) *Using the HUBZone price evaluation preference.* However, if the prospective contractor waived the use of the price evaluation preference, or is an other than small business, do not insert the clause in the resultant contract.


(f)(1) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.219-13, Notice of Set-Aside of Orders, in all solicitations for multiple-award contracts under which orders may be set aside for any of the small business concerns identified in 19.000(a)(3), and all contracts awarded from such solicitations.


(2) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.219-13 with its Alternate I in all full and open solicitations and contracts for multiple-award contracts under which orders will be set aside for any of the small business concerns identified in 19.000(a)(3) if the conditions in 19.502-2 are met at the time of order set-aside, and the specific program eligibility requirements, as applicable, are also then met.


(g)(1) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.219-31, Notice of Small Business Reserve, in solicitations for multiple-award contracts that have reserves.


(2) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.219-32 Orders Issued Directly Under Small Business Reserves, in solicitations and the resulting multiple-award contracts that have reserves.


(h)(1) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.219-33, Nonmanufacturer Rule, in solicitations and contracts, including multiple-award contracts, when orders may be set aside for small business concerns as described in 8.405-5 and 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F), and when orders may be issued directly to a small business concern as described in 19.504(c)(1)(ii)), when—


(i) the item being acquired has been assigned a manufacturing or supply NAICS code, and—


(ii)(A) Any portion of the requirement is to be—


(*1*) Set aside for small business and is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold; or


(*2*) Set aside or awarded on a sole-source basis in accordance with subparts 19.8, 19.13, 19.14, or 19.15, regardless of dollar value; or


(B) *Using the HUBZone price evaluation preference.* However, if the prospective contractor waived the use of the price evaluation preference, or is an other than small business, do not insert the clause in the resultant contract.


(2) The contracting officer shall not insert the clause at 52.219-33 when the Small Business Administration has waived the nonmanufacturer rule (see 19.505(c)(4)).



---

[N] [48 FR 42240, June 9, 1987. Redesignated and amended at 85 FR 11764, Feb. 27, 2020; 85 FR 27090, May 6, 2020; 86 FR 44243, Aug. 11, 2021; 89 FR 30254, Apr. 22, 2024]




