# § 203.284   Calculation of up-front and annual MIP on or after July 1, 1991.

Except for insured mortgages with a term of 15 or fewer years executed on or after December 26, 1992, (see § 203.285 of this part), up-front and annual MIP will be calculated in accordance with this section.


(a) *Permanent provisions.* Any mortgage executed on or after October 1, 1994, that is an obligation of the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund, as well as any mortgage executed after December 27, 2005, which is insured under sections 203(k) or 234(c) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1709(k) and 12 U.S.C. 1715y(c)) shall be subject to the following requirements:


(1) *Up-Front.* The Commissioner shall establish and collect a single premium payment in an amount not exceeding 2.25 percent of the amount of the original insured principal obligation of the mortgage.


(2) *Annual.* In addition to the premium under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Commissioner shall establish and collect annual premium payments in an amount not exceeding .50 percent of the remaining insured principal balance (excluding the portion of the remaining balance attributable to the premium collected under paragraph (a)(1) of this section) for the following periods:


(i) For any mortgage involving an original principal obligation (excluding any premium collected under paragraph (a)(1) of this section) that is less than 90 percent of the appraised value of the property (as of the date of the mortgage is accepted for insurance), for the first 11 years of the mortgage term.


(ii) For any mortgage involving an original principal obligation (excluding any premium collected under paragraph (a)(1) of this section) that is greater than or equal to 90 percent of the appraised value of the property (as of the date the mortgage is accepted for insurance), for the lesser of the mortgage term or the first 30 years of the mortgage term; except that, for any mortgage involving an original principal obligation (excluding any premium collected under paragraph (a)(1) of this section) that is greater than 95 percent of the appraised value, the annual premium collected during the period determined under this clause shall be in an amount not exceeding 0.55 percent of the remaining insured principal balance (excluding the portion of the remaining balance attributable to the premium collected under paragraph (a)(1) of this section).


(b) *Transition provisions; savings provision.* Mortgages that are obligations of the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund and that were insured during Fiscal Years 1991-1994, are governed by 24 CFR 203.284(b) as in effect on April 1, 2003, (see 24 CFR parts 200-499 revised as of April 1, 2003).


(c) *Refunds.* With respect to any mortgage subject to premiums under this section, the Commissioner shall refund all of the unearned premium charges paid on a mortgage upon termination of insurance by voluntary agreement or upon payment in full of the principal obligation of the mortgage before the maturity date.


(d)-(e) [Reserved] 


(f) *Applicability of other sections.* The provisions of §§ 203.261, 203.262, 203.264, 203.265, 203.266, 203.267, 203.268, 203.269, 203.280, and 203.282 are applicable to mortgages subject to premiums under this section. 


(g) *Definition.* As used in this section the term *remaining insured principal balance* means the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the first year of amortization, or for a 12-month period preceding a subsequent anniversary date of the beginning of amortization.


(h) *Exception for streamline refinance.* This section shall not apply to any mortgage insured pursuant to § 203.43(c) if the mortgage to be refinanced was executed before July 1, 1991 and the new mortgage is executed on or after April 24, 1992. This exception does not have the effect of exempting streamline refinancing mortgages from the requirement that a one-time MIP be paid in accordance with § 203.259a(a).



---

[N] [57 FR 15211, Apr. 24, 1992, as amended at 57 FR 46983, Oct. 14, 1992; 58 FR 41003, July 30, 1993; 60 FR 34138, June 30, 1995; 61 FR 36265, July 9, 1996; 61 FR 37801, July 19, 1996; 70 FR 37156, June 28, 2005]




