# ยง 382.2   Data submission.

(a) *General.* The operators shall submit information, described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, to the Director, Office of Costs and Rates, Maritime Administration, Washington, DC 20590. To the extent a vessel is time chartered, the operator shall also submit operating expenses for that vessel. All submissions shall be certified by the operators. A further review based on the independent CPA performing an engagement consistent with professional standards, i.e., an attestation engagement, is recommended. Submissions are subject to verification, at MARAD's discretion, by the Office of the Inspector General, Department of Transportation. MARAD's calculations of the fair and reasonable rates for U.S.-flag vessels shall be performed on the basis of cost data provided by the U.S.-flag vessel operator, as specified herein. If a vessel operator fails to submit the required cost data, MARAD will not construct the guideline rate for the affected vessel, which may result in such vessel not being approved by the sponsoring Federal agency.


(b) *Required vessel information.* The following information shall be submitted not later than April 30, 1998, for calendar year 1997 and shall be updated not later than April 30 for each subsequent calendar year. In instances where a vessel has not previously participated in the carriage of cargoes described in ยง 382.1, the information shall be submitted not later than the same date as the offer for carriage of such cargoes is submitted to the sponsoring Federal agency, and/or its program participant, and/or its agent and/or program's agent, or freight forwarder.


(1) Vessel name and official number.


(2) Vessel DWT (summer) in metric tons.


(3) Date built, rebuilt and/or purchased.


(4) Normal operating speed.


(5) Daily fuel consumption at normal operating speed, in metric tons (U.S. gallons for tugs) and by type of fuel.


(6) Daily fuel consumption in port while pumping and standing, in metric tons (U.S. gallons for tugs) and by type of fuel.


(7) Total capitalized vessel costs (list and date capitalized improvements separately), and applicable interest rates for indebtedness (where capital leases are involved, the operator shall report the imputed capitalized cost and imputed interest rate).


(8) Operating cost information, to be submitted in the format stipulated in 46 CFR 232.1, on Form MA-172, Schedule 310. Operators are encouraged to provide operating cost information for similar vessels that the operator considers substitutable within a category, as defined in ยง 382.3(a)(1), in the aggregate on a single schedule. Information shall be applicable to the most recently completed calendar year.


(9) Number of vessel operating days pertaining to data reported in paragraph (b)(8) of this section for the year ending December 31. For purposes of this part, an operating day means any day on which a vessel or tug/barge unit is in a seaworthy condition, fully manned, and either in operation or standing ready to begin pending operations.


(c) *Required port and cargo handling information.* The port and cargo handling costs listed in this paragraph shall be provided semiannually for each cargo preference voyage terminated during the period. The report shall identify the vessel, cargo and tonnage, and round-trip voyage itinerary including dates of arrival and departure at port or ports of loading and discharge. The semiannual periods and the information to be submitted are as follows:


(1) *Port expenses.* Total expenses or fees, by port, for pilots, tugs, line handlers, wharfage, port charges, fresh water, lighthouse dues, quarantine service, customs charges, shifting expenses, and any other appropriate port expense.


(2) *Cargo expense.* Separately list expenses or fees for stevedores, elevators, equipment, and any other appropriate expenses.


(3) *Extra cargo expenses.* Separately list expenses or fees for vacuvators and/or cranes, lightering (indicate tons moved and cost per ton), grain-to-grain cleaning of holds or tanks, and any other appropriate expenses.


(4) *Canal expenses.* Total expenses or fees for agents, tolls (light or loaded), tugs, pilots, lock tenders and boats, and any other appropriate expenses. Indicate waiting time and time of passage.


(d) *Other requirements.* Unless otherwise provided, operators shall use generally accepted accounting principles and MARAD's regulations at 46 CFR part 232, Uniform Financial Reporting Requirements, for guidance in submitting cost data. Notwithstanding the general provisions in 46 CFR 232.2(c) for MARAD program participants, each operator shall submit cost data in the format that conforms with the accounting practices reflected in the operator's trial balance and, if audited statements are prepared, the audited financial statements. Data requirements stipulated in paragraph (b) of this section that are not included under those reporting instructions shall be submitted in a similar format. If the operator has already submitted to MARAD, for other purposes, any data required under paragraph (b) of this section, its submission need not be duplicated to satisfy the requirements of this part.


(e) *Presumption of confidentiality.* MARAD will initially presume that the material submitted in accordance with the requirements of this part is privileged or confidential within the meaning of the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4). In the event of a subsequent request for any portion of that data under the FOIA, MARAD will inform the submitter of such request and allow the submitter the opportunity to comment. The submitter shall claim or reiterate its claim of confidentiality at that time by memorandum or letter, stating the basis for such assertions of exemption from disclosure. The Freedom of Information Act Officer, or the Chief Counsel of MARAD, will inform the submitter of the intention to disclose any information claimed to be confidential, after the initial FOIA request, or after any appeal of MARAD's initial decision, respectively.


