# § 1.468A-4   Treatment of nuclear decommissioning fund.

(a) *In general.* A nuclear decommissioning fund is subject to tax on all of its modified gross income (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section). The rate of tax is 20 percent for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1995. This tax is in lieu of any other tax that may be imposed under subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) on the income earned by the assets of the nuclear decommissioning fund.


(b) *Modified gross income.* For purposes of this section, the term *modified gross income* means gross income as defined under section 61 computed with the following modifications:


(1) The amount of any payment or special transfer to the nuclear decommissioning fund with respect to which a deduction is allowed under section 468A(a) or section 468A(f) is excluded from gross income.


(2) A deduction is allowed for the amount of administrative costs and other incidental expenses of the nuclear decommissioning fund (including taxes, legal expenses, accounting expenses, actuarial expenses and trustee expenses, but not including decommissioning costs) that are otherwise deductible and that are paid by the nuclear decommissioning fund to any person other than the electing taxpayer. An expense is otherwise deductible for purposes of this paragraph (b)(2) if it would be deductible under chapter 1 of the Code in determining the taxable income of a corporation. For example, because Federal income taxes are not deductible under chapter 1 of the Code in determining the taxable income of a corporation, the tax imposed by section 468A(e)(2) and paragraph (a) of this section is not deductible in determining the modified gross income of a nuclear decommissioning fund. Similarly, because certain expenses allocable to tax-exempt interest income are not deductible under section 265 in determining the taxable income of a corporation, such expenses are not deductible in determining the modified gross income of a nuclear decommissioning fund.


(3) A deduction is allowed for the amount of an otherwise deductible loss that is sustained by the nuclear decommissioning fund in connection with the sale, exchange or worthlessness of any investment. A loss is otherwise deductible for purposes of this paragraph (b)(3) if such loss would be deductible by a corporation under section 165(f) or (g) and sections 1211(a) and 1212(a).


(4) A deduction is allowed for the amount of an otherwise deductible net operating loss of the nuclear decommissioning fund. For purposes of this paragraph (b), the net operating loss of a nuclear decommissioning fund for a taxable year is the amount by which the deductions allowable under paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section exceed the gross income of the nuclear decommissioning fund computed with the modification described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. A net operating loss is otherwise deductible for purposes of this paragraph (b)(4) if such a net operating loss would be deductible by a corporation under section 172(a).


(c) *Special rules*—(1) *Period for computation of modified gross income.* The modified gross income of a nuclear decommissioning fund must be computed on the basis of the taxable year of the electing taxpayer. If an electing taxpayer changes its taxable year, each nuclear decommissioning fund of the electing taxpayer must change to the new taxable year. *See* section 442 and § 1.442-1 for rules relating to the change to a new taxable year.


(2) *Gain or loss upon distribution of property by a fund.* A distribution of property by a nuclear decommissioning fund (whether an actual distribution or a deemed distribution) shall be considered a disposition of property by the nuclear decommissioning fund for purposes of section 1001. In determining the amount of gain or loss from such disposition, the amount realized by the nuclear decommissioning fund shall be the fair market value of the property on the date of disposition.


(3) *Denial of credits against tax.* The tax imposed on the modified gross income of a nuclear decommissioning fund under paragraph (a) of this section is not to be reduced or offset by any credits against tax provided by part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 of the Code other than the credit provided by section 31(c) for amounts withheld under section 3406 (back-up withholding).


(4) *Other corporate taxes inapplicable.* Although the modified gross income of a nuclear decommissioning fund is subject to tax at the rate specified by section 468A(e)(2) and paragraph (a) of this section, a nuclear decommissioning fund is not subject to the other taxes imposed on corporations under subtitle A of the Code. For example, a nuclear decommissioning fund is not subject to the alternative minimum tax imposed by section 55, the accumulated earnings tax imposed by section 531, the personal holding company tax imposed by section 541, and the alternative tax imposed on a corporation under section 1201(a).


(d) *Treatment as corporation for purposes of subtitle F.* For purposes of subtitle F of the Code and §§ 1.468A-1 through 1.468A-9, a nuclear decommissioning fund is to be treated as if it were a corporation and the tax imposed by section 468A(e)(2) and paragraph (a) of this section is to be treated as a tax imposed by section 11. Thus, for example, the following rules apply:


(1) A nuclear decommissioning fund must file a return with respect to the tax imposed by section 468A(e)(2) and paragraph (a) of this section for each taxable year (or portion thereof) that the fund is in existence even though no amount is included in the gross income of the fund for such taxable year. The return is to be made on Form 1120-ND in accordance with the instructions relating to such form. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(1), a nuclear decommissioning fund is in existence for the period that—


(i) Begins on the date that the first deductible payment is actually made to such nuclear decommissioning fund; and


(ii) Ends on the date of termination (*see* § 1.468A-5(d)), the date that the entire fund is disqualified (*see* § 1.468A-5(c)), or the date that the electing taxpayer disposes of its entire qualifying interest in the nuclear power plant to which the nuclear decommissioning fund relates (other than in connection with the transfer of the entire fund to the person acquiring such interest), whichever is applicable.


(2) For each taxable year of the nuclear decommissioning fund, the return described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section must be filed on or before the 15th day of the third month following the close of such taxable year unless the nuclear decommissioning fund is granted an extension of time for filing under section 6081. If such an extension is granted for any taxable year, the return for such taxable year must be filed on or before the extended due date for such taxable year.


(3) A nuclear decommissioning fund must provide its employer identification number on returns, statements and other documents as required by the forms and instructions relating thereto. The employer identification number is obtained by filing a Form SS-4, Application for Employer Identification Number, in accordance with the instructions relating thereto.


(4) A nuclear decommissioning fund must deposit all payments of tax imposed by section 468A(e)(2) and paragraph (a) of this section (including any payments of estimated tax) with an authorized government depositary in accordance with § 1.6302-1.


(5) A nuclear decommissioning fund is subject to the addition to tax imposed by section 6655 in case of a failure to pay estimated income tax. For purposes of section 6655 and this section—


(i) The tax with respect to which the amount of the underpayment is computed in the case of a nuclear decommissioning fund is the tax imposed by section 468A(e)(2) and paragraph (a) of this section; and


(ii) The taxable income with respect to which the nuclear decommissioning fund's status as a large corporation is measured is modified gross income (as defined by paragraph (b) of this section).



---

[N] [T.D. 9512, 75 FR 80701, Dec. 23, 2010]




