# § 246.213   Multiple certifications.

(a) A person who holds a signal employee certificate may:


(1) Hold a signal employee certificate for multiple types of signal service; and


(2) Be certified in other crafts, such as a locomotive engineer or conductor.


(b) A railroad that issues multiple certificates to a person, shall, to the extent possible, coordinate the expiration date of those certificates.


(c) Paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section apply to persons who are currently certified as a signal employee for multiple railroads or are seeking to become certified signal employees for multiple railroads.


(1) A person who holds a current signal employee certificate from more than one railroad shall immediately notify the other certifying railroad(s) if they are denied signal employee certification or recertification under § 246.301 by a railroad or have their signal employee certification suspended or revoked under § 246.307 by a railroad.


(2) If a person has their signal employee certification suspended or revoked by a railroad under § 246.307, they shall not work as a certified signal employee for any railroad during the period that their certification is suspended or revoked, except as provided for in § 246.124(d).


(3) If a person has their signal employee certification suspended or revoked by a railroad under § 246.307, they shall notify any railroad from whom they are seeking signal employee certification that their signal employee certification is currently suspended or revoked by another railroad.


(d) Paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section apply to persons who are currently certified as a signal employee and also currently certified in another railroad craft, such as a locomotive engineer or conductor:


(1) If a person's signal employee certification is revoked under § 246.307 for a violation of § 246.303(e)(11), they shall not work in another certified railroad craft, such as a locomotive engineer or conductor, during the period of revocation.


(2) If a person's signal employee certification is revoked under § 246.307 for a violation of § 246.303(e)(1) through (10), they may work in another certified railroad craft, such as a locomotive engineer or conductor, during the period of revocation.


(3) If any of a person's non-signal employee certifications are revoked for failure to comply with § 219.101 of this chapter, they shall not work as a certified signal employee for any railroad during the period of revocation.


(4) If any of a person's non-signal employee certifications are revoked for any reason other than a failure to comply with § 219.101 of this chapter, they may work as a certified signal employee during the period of revocation.


(e) A person who has had their signal employee certification revoked for failure to comply with § 219.101 of this chapter shall not obtain any other certification pursuant to this chapter from any railroad during the period of revocation.


(f) A person who has had any of their non-signal employee certifications revoked for failure to comply with § 219.101 of this chapter shall not obtain signal employee certification pursuant to this part from any railroad during the period of revocation.


(g) A railroad that denies a person signal employee certification or recertification under § 246.301 shall not, solely on the basis of that denial, deny or revoke that person's non-signal employee certifications or recertifications.


(h) A railroad that denies a person any non-signal employee certification or recertification pursuant to this chapter shall not, solely on the basis of that denial, deny or revoke that person's signal employee certification or recertification.


(i) In lieu of issuing multiple certificates, a railroad may issue one certificate to a person who is certified in multiple crafts as long as the single certificate complies with all of the certificate requirements for those crafts.


(j) A person who is certified in multiple crafts and who is involved in a revocable event, as described in this chapter, may only have one certificate revoked for that event. The determination by the railroad as to which certificate to revoke must be based on the work the person was performing at the time the revocable event occurred.






