# § 205.210   Effect of EFS outside State in which filed.

(a) A question arises whether, if an EFS is filed in one State, a notice of it can be filed in another State and shown on the master list for the second State. There is nothing in the Section to prevent this, but it would serve no purpose. 


(b) The Section provides only for filing an EFS, covering a given product, in the system for the State in which it is produced or located. Upon such filing in such system, subsections (e)(2) and (g)(2)(C) make buyers, commission merchants and selling agents *not registered* with that system subject to the security interest in that product whether or not they know about it, *even if they are outside that State.* Subsections (e)(3) and (g)(2)(D) make persons *registered* with that system subject if they receive written notice of it *even if they are outside that State.* All of these provisions apply only where an EFS is filed in the system for the State in which the product is produced or located. They do not apply to a filing in another system. 


(c) What constitutes “receipt” of notice is determined by the law of the State in which the intended recipient of notice resides. This is based on subsection (f) which follows provisions for notice to buyers, and (g)(3) which follows provisions for notice to commission merchants and selling agents. Each of those provisions uses the word “buyer” but it means “intended recipient of notice.” 



---

[N] [51 FR 29451, Aug. 18, 1986, as amended at 71 FR 56343, Sept. 27, 2006]




