# ยง 174.22   Accelerated disposition of protest.

(a) *Request for accelerated disposition.* Accelerated disposition of a protest filed in accordance with section 514, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1514) may be obtained at any time after 90 days from the filing of such protest for entries made before December 18, 2004, or at any time concurrent with or following the filing of the protest for entries made on or after December 18, 2004, by filing by registered or certified mail a written request for accelerated disposition with the port director, Center director, or other CBP officer with whom the protest was filed.


(b) *Contents of request.* A request for accelerated disposition of protest shall contain the following information: 


(1) The name, address, and importer number of the protestant, *i.e.*, the importer of record or consignee, and the name and address of his agent or attorney if filed by one of these; and 


(2) The date of filing and number of the protest for which accelerated disposition is requested. 


(c) *Review following request.* The Center director shall review the protest which is the subject of the request within 30 days from the date of mailing of a request for accelerated disposition filed in accordance with the provisions of this section, and may allow or deny the protest in whole or in part. 


(d) *Failure to allow or deny protest within 30-day period.* If the Center director fails to allow or deny a protest which is the subject of a request for accelerated disposition within 30 days from the date of mailing of such request, the protest shall be deemed to have been denied at the close of the 30th day following such date of mailing. 


(e) *Multiple protests.* If several protests by different persons are timely filed and treated as part of a single protest pursuant to ยง 174.15, a request for accelerated disposition filed by any one of the protesting parties shall be treated as a request for accelerated disposition by all the parties. 



---

[N] [T.D. 70-181, 35 FR 13429, Aug. 22, 1970, as amended by CBP Dec. 11-02, 76 FR 2578, Jan. 14, 2011]




