# § 1926.1425   Keeping clear of the load.

(a) Where available, hoisting routes that minimize the exposure of employees to hoisted loads must be used, to the extent consistent with public safety.


(b) While the operator is not moving a suspended load, no employee must be within the fall zone, except for employees:


(1) Engaged in hooking, unhooking or guiding a load;


(2) Engaged in the initial attachment of the load to a component or structure; or


(3) Operating a concrete hopper or concrete bucket.


(c) When employees are engaged in hooking, unhooking, or guiding the load, or in the initial connection of a load to a component or structure and are within the fall zone, all of the following criteria must be met:


(1) The materials being hoisted must be rigged to prevent unintentional displacement.


(2) Hooks with self-closing latches or their equivalent must be used. *Exception:* “J” hooks are permitted to be used for setting wooden trusses.


(3) The materials must be rigged by a qualified rigger.


(d) *Receiving a load.* Only employees needed to receive a load are permitted to be within the fall zone when a load is being landed.


(e) During a tilt-up or tilt-down operation:


(1) No employee must be directly under the load.


(2) Only employees essential to the operation are permitted in the fall zone (but not directly under the load). An employee is essential to the operation if the employee is conducting one of the following operations and the employer can demonstrate it is infeasible for the employee to perform that operation from outside the fall zone: (1) Physically guide the load; (2) closely monitor and give instructions regarding the load's movement; or (3) either detach it from or initially attach it to another component or structure (such as, but not limited to, making an initial connection or installing bracing).


