# ยง 630.3   Definitions.

(a) Except as otherwise provided, terms defined in 49 U.S.C. 5302 *et seq.* apply to this part.


(b) Except as otherwise provided, terms defined in the current editions of the National Transit Database Reporting Manuals and the NTD Uniform System of Accounts are used in this part as so defined.


(c) For purposes of this part:


*Administrator* means the Federal Transit Administrator or the Administrator's designee.


*Applicant* means an entity seeking Federal financial assistance under 49 U.S.C. chapter 53.


*Assistance* means Federal financial assistance for the planning, acquisition, construction, or operation of public transportation services.


*Beneficiary* means any entity that receives benefits from assistance under 49 U.S.C. 5307 or 5311.


*Current edition* of the National Transit Database Reporting Manuals and Uniform System of Accounts means the most recently issued editions of the reference documents.


*Days* mean calendar days.


*Reference Document(s)* means the current editions of the National Transit Database Reporting Manuals and Uniform System of Accounts. These documents are subject to periodic revision. Beneficiaries and applicants are responsible for using the current editions of the reference documents.


*Reporting entity* means an entity required to provide reports as set forth in the reference documents.


*State Department of Transportation* means the Department of Transportation of a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, American Samoa, or the U.S. Virgin Islands.


*Transit agency* means an entity providing public transportation as defined in 49 U.S.C. 5302.



---

[N] [72 FR 68761, Dec. 6, 2007, as amended at 81 FR 48969, July 26, 2016]




