# ยง 414.4   Reporting requirements and accounting under Storage and Interstate Release Agreements.

(a) *Annual report to the Secretary.* Each storing entity will submit an annual report to the Secretary containing the material required by this section. The report will be due on a date to be agreed upon by the parties to the Storage and Interstate Release Agreement. The report must include:


(1) The quantity of water diverted and stored during the prior year under all Storage and Interstate Release Agreements; and


(2) The total quantity of stored water available to support the development of ICUA under each Storage and Interstate Release Agreement to which the storing entity is a party as of December 31 of the prior calendar year.


(b) *How the Secretary accounts for diverted and stored water.* The Secretary will account for water diverted and stored under Storage and Interstate Release Agreements in the records maintained under Article V of the Decree.


(1) The Secretary will account for the water that is diverted and stored by a storing entity as a consumptive use in the Storing State for the year in which it is stored.


(2) The Secretary will account for the diversion and consumptive use of ICUA by a consuming entity as a consumptive use in the Consuming State of unused apportionment under Article II(B)(6) of the Decree in the year the water is released in the same manner as any other unused apportionment taken by that State.


(3) The Secretary will maintain individual balances of the quantities of water stored under a Storage and Interstate Release Agreement and available to support the development of ICUA. The appropriate balances will be reduced when ICUA is developed by the storing entity and released by the Secretary for use by a consuming entity.




