# ยง 713.1   What does this part prohibit?

This part prohibits the release of nonpublic records for legal proceedings or the appearance of an DFC employee to testify in legal proceedings except as provided in this part. Any person possessing nonpublic records may release them or permit their disclosure or release only as provided in this part.


(a) *Duty of DFC employees.* (1) If you are an DFC employee and you are served with a subpoena requiring you to appear as a witness or to produce records, you must promptly notify the Vice-president/General Counsel in the Department of Legal Affairs. The Vice-President/General Counsel has the authority to instruct DFC employees to refuse to appear as a witness or to withhold nonpublic records. The Vice-President/General Counsel may let an DFC employee provide testimony, including expert or opinion testimony, if the Vice-President/General Counsel determines that the need for the testimony clearly outweighs contrary considerations.


(2) If a court or other appropriate authority orders or demands from you expert or opinion testimony or testimony beyond authorized subjects contrary to the Vice-President/General Counsel's instructions, you must immediately notify the Vice-President/General Counsel of the order and then respectfully decline to comply with the order. You must decline to answer questions on the grounds that this part forbids such disclosure. You should produce a copy of this part, request an opportunity to consult with the Vice-President/General Counsel, and explain that providing such testimony without approval may expose you to disciplinary or other adverse action.


(b) *Duty of persons who are not DFC employees.* (1) If you are not an DFC employee but have custody of nonpublic records, as defined at ยง 713.10, and you are served with a subpoena requiring you to produce records or to testify as a witness, you must promptly notify DFC of the subpoena. Also, you must notify the issuing court or authority and the person or entity for whom the subpoena was issued of the contents of this part. Provide notice to DFC by sending a copy of the subpoena to the Vice-President/General Counsel, DFC, 1100 New York Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20527. After reviewing notice, DFC may advise the issuing court or authority and the person or entity for whom the subpoena was issued that this part applies and, in addition, may intervene, attempt to have the subpoena quashed or withdrawn, or register appropriate objections.


(2) After you notify the Vice-President/General Counsel of the subpoena, respond to the subpoena by appearing at the time and place stated in the subpoena, unless otherwise directed by the Vice President/General Counsel. Unless otherwise authorized by the Vice-President/General Counsel, decline to produce any records or give any testimony, basing your refusal on this part. If the issuing court or authority orders the disclosure of records or orders you to testify, decline to produce records or testify and advise the Vice-President/General Counsel.


(c) *Penalties.* Anyone who discloses nonpublic records or gives testimony related to those records, except as expressly authorized by DFC or as ordered by a federal court after DFC has had the opportunity to be heard, may face the penalties provided in 18 U.S.C. 641 and other applicable laws. Also, former DFC employees, in addition to the prohibition contained in this part, are subject to the restrictions and penalties of 18 U.S.C. 207.




