# § 721.11177   1,3-Propanediol, 2-ethyl-2-(hydroxymethyl)-, polymer with 2-(chloromethyl)oxirane, reaction products with polyethylene-polypropylene glycol 2-aminopropyl Me ether.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new used subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,3-propanediol, 2-ethyl-2-(hydroxymethyl)-, polymer with 2-(chloromethyl)oxirane, reaction products with polyethylene-polypropylene glycol 2-aminopropyl Me ether (PMN P-17-183, CAS No 1627528-04-4) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substance after they have been reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e) (concentration set at 1.0%), (f), (g)(1)(ii), (2)(ii), and (5). Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(f), (k), and (o). It is a significant new use to process or use the substance in any manner way that results in generation of a vapor, dust, mist or aerosol.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (c) and (f) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [84 FR 66596. Dec. 5, 2019]




