# ยง 122.49   Considerations under Federal law.

The following is a list of Federal laws that may apply to the issuance of permits under these rules. When any of these laws is applicable, its procedures must be followed. When the applicable law requires consideration or adoption of particular permit conditions or requires the denial of a permit, those requirements also must be followed.


(a) The *Wild and Scenic Rivers Act,* 16 U.S.C. 1273 *et seq.* section 7 of the Act prohibits the Regional Administrator from assisting by license or otherwise the construction of any water resources project that would have a direct, adverse effect on the values for which a national wild and scenic river was established.


(b) The *National Historic Preservation Act of 1966,* 16 U.S.C. 470 *et seq.* section 106 of the Act and implementing regulations (36 CFR part 800) require the Regional Administrator, before issuing a license, to adopt measures when feasible to mitigate potential adverse effects of the licensed activity and properties listed or eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places. The Act's requirements are to be implemented in cooperation with State Historic Preservation Officers and upon notice to, and when appropriate, in consultation with the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.


(c) The *Endangered Species Act,* 16 U.S.C. 1531 *et seq.* section 7 of the Act and implementing regulations (50 CFR part 402) require the Regional Administrator to ensure, in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior or Commerce, that any action authorized by EPA is not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of any endangered or threatened species or adversely affect its critical habitat.


(d) The *Coastal Zone Management Act,* 16 U.S.C. 1451 *et seq.* section 307(c) of the Act and implementing regulations (15 CFR part 930) prohibit EPA from issuing a permit for an activity affecting land or water use in the coastal zone until the applicant certifies that the proposed activity complies with the State Coastal Zone Management program, and the State or its designated agency concurs with the certification (or the Secretary of Commerce overrides the State's nonconcurrence).


(e) The *Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act,* 16 U.S.C. 661 *et seq.,* requires that the Regional Administrator, before issuing a permit proposing or authorizing the impoundment (with certain exemptions), diversion, or other control or modification of any body of water, consult with the appropriate State agency exercising jurisdiction over wildlife resources to conserve those resources.


(f) *Executive orders.* [Reserved]


(g) The National Environmental Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. 4321 *et seq.*, may require preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement and consideration of EIS-related permit conditions (other than effluent limitations) as provided in ยง 122.29(c). 



---

[N] [48 FR 14153, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 48 FR 39620, Sept. 1, 1983; 49 FR 38050, Sept. 26, 1984] 




