# § 835.1202   Accountable sealed radioactive sources.

(a) Each accountable sealed radioactive source shall be inventoried at intervals not to exceed six months. This inventory shall:


(1) Establish the physical location of each accountable sealed radioactive source;


(2) Verify the presence and adequacy of associated postings and labels; and


(3) Establish the adequacy of storage locations, containers, and devices.


(b) Except for sealed radioactive sources consisting solely of gaseous radioactive material or tritium, each accountable sealed radioactive source shall be subject to a source leak test upon receipt, when damage is suspected, and at intervals not to exceed six months. Source leak tests shall be capable of detecting radioactive material leakage equal to or exceeding 0.005 µCi.


(c) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, an accountable sealed radioactive source is not subject to periodic source leak testing if that source has been removed from service. Such sources shall be stored in a controlled location, subject to periodic inventory as required by paragraph (a) of this section, and subject to source leak testing prior to being returned to service.


(d) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, an accountable sealed radioactive source is not subject to periodic inventory and source leak testing if that source is located in an area that is unsafe for human entry or otherwise inaccessible.


(e) An accountable sealed radioactive source found to be leaking radioactive material shall be controlled in a manner that minimizes the spread of radioactive contamination.



---

[N] [63 FR 59686, Nov. 4, 1998, as amended at 72 FR 31927, June 8, 2007]




