# ยง 2700.28   Filing of petition for assessment of penalty with the Commission.

(a) *Time to file.* Within 45 days of receipt of a timely contest of a proposed penalty assessment, the Secretary shall file with the Commission a petition for assessment of penalty.


(b) *Contents.* The petition for assessment of penalty shall:


(1) List the alleged violations and the proposed penalties. Each violation shall be identified by the number and date of the citation or order and the section of the Act or regulations alleged to be violated.


(2) Include a short and plain statement of supporting reasons based on the criteria for penalty assessment set forth in section 110(i) of the Act, 30 U.S.C. 820(i), unless a single penalty assessment has been proposed under 30 CFR 100.4.


(3) State whether the citation or order has been contested pursuant to ยง 2700.20 and the docket number of any contest proceeding.


(4) Advise the party against whom the petition is filed that an answer to the petition must be filed within 30 days pursuant to ยง 2700.29 and that the answer must be filed regardless of whether the party has already filed a notice of contest of the citation, order, or proposed penalty assessment involved.


(c) *Attachments.* A legible copy of each citation or order for which a penalty is sought shall be attached to the petition for assessment of penalty. If a legible copy is not available, the petition for assessment of penalty shall set forth the text of the citation or order.



---

[N] [58 FR 12164, Mar. 3, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 44207, Aug. 4, 2006]




