# § 600.117   Interim provisions.

(a) The following provisions apply instead of other provisions specified in this part through model year 2026:


(1) Except as specified in paragraphs (a)(5) and (6) of this section, manufacturers must demonstrate compliance with greenhouse gas emission standards and determine fuel economy values using E0 gasoline test fuel as specified in 40 CFR 86.113-04(a)(1), regardless of any testing with E10 test fuel specified in 40 CFR 1065.710(b) under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) Manufacturers may demonstrate that vehicles comply with emission standards for criteria pollutants as specified in 40 CFR part 86, subpart S, during fuel economy measurements using the E0 gasoline test fuel specified in 40 CFR 86.113-04(a)(1), as long as this test fuel is used in fuel economy testing for all applicable duty cycles specified in 40 CFR part 86, subpart S. If a vehicle fails to meet an emission standard for a criteria pollutant using the E0 gasoline test fuel specified in 40 CFR 86.113-04(a)(1), the manufacturer must retest the vehicle using the E10 test fuel specified in 40 CFR 1065.710(b) (or the equivalent LEV III test fuel for California) to demonstrate compliance with all applicable emission standards over that test cycle.


(3) If a manufacturer demonstrates compliance with emission standards for criteria pollutants over all five test cycles using the E10 test fuel specified in 40 CFR 1065.710(b) (or the equivalent LEV III test fuel for California), the manufacturer may use test data with the same test fuel to determine whether a test group meets the criteria described in § 600.115 for derived 5-cycle testing for fuel economy labeling. Such vehicles may be tested over the FTP and HFET cycles with the E0 gasoline test fuel specified in 40 CFR 86.113-04(a)(1) under this paragraph (a)(3); the vehicles must meet the emission standards for criteria pollutants over those test cycles as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(4) Manufacturers may perform testing with the appropriate gasoline test fuels specified in 40 CFR 86.113-04(a)(1), 40 CFR 86.213(a)(2), and in 40 CFR 1065.710(b) to evaluate whether their vehicles meet the criteria for derived 5-cycle testing under § 600.115. All five tests must use test fuel with the same nominal ethanol concentration.


(5) For IUVP testing under 40 CFR 86.1845, manufacturers may demonstrate compliance with greenhouse gas emission standards using a test fuel meeting specifications for demonstrating compliance with emission standards for criteria pollutants.


(6) Manufacturers may alternatively demonstrate compliance with greenhouse gas emission standards and determine fuel economy values using E10 gasoline test fuel as specified in 40 CFR 1065.710(b). However, manufacturers must then multiply measured CO_2_ results by 1.0166 and round to the nearest 0.01 g/mile and calculate fuel economy using the equations appropriate equation for testing with E10 test fuel.


(7) If a vehicle uses an E10 test fuel for evaporative emission testing and E0 is the applicable test fuel for exhaust emission testing, exhaust measurement and reporting requirements apply over the course of the evaporative emission test, but the vehicle need not meet the exhaust emission standards during the evaporative emission test run.


(b) Manufacturers may certify model year 2027 through 2029 vehicles to greenhouse gas emission standards using data with E0 test fuel from testing for earlier model years, subject to the carryover provisions of 40 CFR 86.1839. In the case of the fleet average CO_2_ standard, manufacturers must divide the measured CO_2_ results by 1.0166 and round to the nearest 0.01 g/mile.


(c) Manufacturers may perform testing under § 600.115-11 using E0 gasoline test fuel as specified in 40 CFR 86.113-04(a)(1) or E10 test fuel as specified in 40 CFR 1065.710(b) until EPA publishes guidance under § 600.210-12(a)(2)(iv) describing when and how to apply 5-cycle adjustment factors based on testing with the E10 test fuel.



---

[N] [89 FR 28207, Apr. 18, 2024]




