# § 21.18   Authorization—exhibition use of specimens.

(a) *Scope.* For conservation education purposes, qualified public entities are authorized to possess lawfully acquired migratory bird specimens, including whole bird specimens, parts, feathers, inactive nests, and nonviable eggs, as described in the regulations in this section. This authorization does not apply to live birds, viable eggs, or in-use nests. For specimens of bald eagles or golden eagles, see 50 CFR 22.15. Qualified public entities must be:


(1) Open to the general public;


(2) Established, maintained, and operated as a governmental service or privately endowed and organized but not operated for profit; and


(3) Conducting programs for the purpose of educating the public about migratory bird biology, ecology, and conservation.


(b) *Acquisition.* Migratory bird specimens must be acquired from persons authorized by valid permit or regulatory authorization to possess and donate them. You are responsible for ensuring specimens were legally acquired.


(c) *Disposition.* You may dispose of migratory bird specimens by donating them to any person or entity authorized to receive them under a valid permit or regulatory authorization. Otherwise, you must dispose of migratory bird specimens by destruction in accordance with Federal, Tribal, State, Territorial, or local laws and ordinances.


(d) *Possession.* Each migratory bird specimen must remain tagged with the species, date, location, name of the donor, and donor's authorization for acquisition (*e.g.,* permit number or CFR citation of the applicable regulatory authorization, *e.g.,* 50 CFR 21.16). Specimen tags may be temporarily removed during educational programs. Migratory bird specimens may be taxidermied by a federally permitted taxidermist (§ 21.63), or by employees or volunteers of your organization, as part of their official duties.


(e) *Educational programs.* Migratory bird specimens must be used for public conservation education programs or held for public archival purposes. Specimens held for archival purposes must be properly archived and readily accessible to the public for research purposes. Specimens may be used for observational research without additional authorization; however, removal of samples requires additional authorization, such as a scientific collecting permit (§ 21.73).


(f) *Prohibitions.* Specimens may not be purchased, sold, or bartered. You must not display any migratory bird specimens in a manner that implies personal use or include specimens used in millinery, ornamental, or similar objects, except as authorized for pre-Act specimens lawfully acquired in accordance with § 21.4(a).


(g) *Records.* You must maintain accurate records of operations on a calendar-year basis and retain these records for 5 years. Records must reflect how you meet the eligibility criteria for this authorization, the programs conducted, each specimen in possession, and, if applicable, specimen disposition. At any reasonable time upon request by the Service, you must allow the Service to inspect any migratory bird specimens held under this regulatory authorization and review any records kept.


(h) *Other laws.* You must comply with any Federal, Tribal, State, or Territorial requirements that apply to possession of migratory bird specimens for exhibition use.





---

[N] [89 FR 107040, Dec. 31, 2024]








