# § 200.319   Competition.

(a) All procurement transactions under the Federal award must be conducted in a manner that provides full and open competition and is consistent with the standards of this section and § 200.320.


(b) To ensure objective contractor performance and eliminate unfair competitive advantage, contractors that develop or draft specifications, requirements, statements of work, or invitations for bids must be excluded from competing on those procurements.


(c) Examples of situations that may restrict competition include, but are not limited to:


(1) Placing unreasonable requirements on firms for them to qualify to do business;


(2) Requiring unnecessary experience and excessive bonding;


(3) Noncompetitive pricing practices between firms or between affiliated companies;


(4) Noncompetitive contracts to consultants that are on retainer contracts;


(5) Organizational conflicts of interest;


(6) Specifying only a “brand name” product instead of allowing “an equal” product to be offered and describing the performance or other relevant requirements of the procurement; and


(7) Any arbitrary action in the procurement process.


(d) The recipient or subrecipient must have written procedures for procurement transactions. These procedures must ensure that all solicitations:


(1) Are made in accordance with § 200.319(b);


(2) Incorporate a clear and accurate description of the technical requirements for the property, equipment, or service being procured. The description may include a statement of the qualitative nature of the property, equipment, or service to be procured. When necessary, the description must provide minimum essential characteristics and standards to which the property, equipment, or service must conform. Detailed product specifications should be avoided if at all possible. When it is impractical or uneconomical to clearly and accurately describe the technical requirements, a “brand name or equivalent” description of features may be used to provide procurement requirements. The specific features of the named brand must be clearly stated; and


(3) Identify any additional requirements which the offerors must fulfill and all other factors that will be used in evaluating bids or proposals.


(e) The recipient or subrecipient must ensure that all prequalified lists of persons, firms, or products used in procurement transactions are current and include enough qualified sources to ensure maximum open competition. When establishing or amending prequalified lists, the recipient or subrecipient must consider objective factors that evaluate price and cost to maximize competition. The recipient or subrecipient must not preclude potential bidders from qualifying during the solicitation period.


(f) To the extent consistent with established practices and legal requirements applicable to the recipient or subrecipient, this subpart does not prohibit recipients or subrecipients from developing written procedures for procurement transactions that incorporate a scoring mechanism that rewards bidders that commit to specific numbers and types of U.S. jobs, minimum compensation, benefits, on-the-job-training for employees making work products or providing services on a contract, and other worker protections. This subpart also does not prohibit recipients and subrecipients from making inquiries of bidders about these subjects and assessing the responses. Any scoring mechanism must be consistent with the U.S. Constitution, applicable Federal statutes and regulations, and the terms and conditions of the Federal award.


(g) Noncompetitive procurements can only be awarded in accordance with § 200.320(c).








