# § 63.4920   What reports must I submit?

(a) *Semiannual compliance reports.* You must submit semiannual compliance reports for each affected source according to the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section. The semiannual compliance reporting requirements may be satisfied by reports required under other parts of the Clean Air Act (CAA), such as those detailed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(1) *Dates.* Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.10(a), you must prepare and submit each semiannual compliance report according to the dates specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) The first semiannual compliance report must cover the first semiannual reporting period which begins the day after the end of the initial compliance period described in § 63.4940, § 63.4950, or § 63.4960 that applies to your affected source and ends on June 30 or December 31, whichever occurs first following the end of the initial compliance period.


(ii) Each subsequent semiannual compliance report must cover the subsequent semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.


(iii) Each semiannual compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period.


(iv) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, and if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting 6-month monitoring reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent semiannual compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established for the 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 6-month monitoring reports instead of according to the dates specified in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section. However, under no circumstances shall the semiannual compliance report be submitted more than 30 days after the end of the semiannual reporting period established in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(2) *Inclusion with title V report.* Each affected source that has obtained a title V operating permit pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 must report all deviations as defined in this subpart in the 6-month monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A). If an affected source submits a semiannual compliance report pursuant to this section along with, or as part of, the 6-month monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), and the semiannual compliance report includes all information required by the part 70 or part 71 6-month monitoring report concerning deviations from the requirements of this subpart as defined in § 63.4981, the submission of the semiannual compliance report shall be deemed to satisfy any obligation to report the same deviation information in the part 70 or part 71 6-month monitoring report. However, in such situations, the 6-month monitoring report must cross-reference the semiannual compliance report, and submission of a semiannual compliance report shall not otherwise affect any obligation the affected source may have to report deviations from permit requirements to the permitting authority.


(3) *General requirements.* The semiannual compliance report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (v) of this section, and the information specified in paragraphs (a)(4) through (7) of this section that is applicable to your affected source.


(i) Company name and address.


(ii) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the report. Such certifications must also comply with the requirements of 40 CFR 70.5(d) or 40 CFR 71.5(d).


(iii) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. The reporting period is the 6-month period ending on June 30 or December 31.


(iv) Identification of the compliance option or options specified in § 63.4891 that you used on each coating operation during the reporting period. If you switched between compliance options during the reporting period, you must report the beginning and ending dates you used each option.


(v) If you used the emission rate without add-on controls or the emission rate with add-on controls compliance option (§ 63.4891(b) or (c)), the calculation results for each organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period ending in the 6-month reporting period.


(4) *No deviations.* If there were no deviations from the emission limits, operating limits, and work practice standards in §§ 63.4890, 63.4892, and 63.4893, respectively, that apply to you, the semiannual compliance report must include an affirmative statement that there were no deviations from the emission limits, operating limits, or work practice standards in §§ 63.4890, 63.4892, and 63.4893 during the reporting period. If there were no deviations from these emission limitations, the semiannual compliance report must include the affirmative statement that is described in either § 63.4942(c), § 63.4952(c), or § 63.4962(f), as applicable. If you used the emission rate with add-on controls option and there were no periods during which the continuous parameter monitoring systems (CPMS) were out-of-control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), the semiannual compliance report must include a statement that there were no periods during which the CPMS were out-of-control during the reporting period as specified in § 63.8(c)(7).


(5) *Deviations: Compliant material option.* If you used the compliant material option, and there was a deviation from the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraph (a)(5)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) Before September 12, 2019, the information in paragraphs (a)(5)(i)(A) through (D) of this section.


(A) Identification of each coating used that deviated from the emission limit, and of each thinner and cleaning material used that contained organic HAP, and the dates and time periods each was used.


(B) The calculation of the organic HAP content for each coating identified in paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section, using Equation 2 of § 63.4941. You do not need to submit background data supporting this calculation, for example, information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports.


(C) The determination of mass fraction of organic HAP for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material identified in paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section. You do not need to submit background data supporting this calculation, for example, information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports.


(D) A statement of the cause of each deviation.


(ii) On and after September 12, 2019, if there was a deviation from the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(5)(ii)(A) through (E) of this section.


(A) Identification of each coating used that deviated from the emission limit, and of each thinner and cleaning material used that contained organic HAP, and the date, time, and duration each was used.


(B) The calculation of the organic HAP content for each coating identified in paragraph (a)(5)(ii)(A) of this section, using Equation 2 of § 63.4941. You do not need to submit background data supporting this calculation, for example, information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports.


(C) The determination of mass fraction of organic HAP for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material identified in paragraph (a)(5)(ii)(A) of this section. You do not need to submit background data supporting this calculation, for example, information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports.


(D) A statement of the cause of each deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).


(E) The number of deviations and, for each deviation, a list of the affected source or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit in § 63.4890, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(6) *Deviations: Emission rate without add-on controls option.* If you used the emission rate without add-on controls option, and there was a deviation from any applicable emission limit in § 63.4890, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraph (a)(6)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable. You do not need to submit background data supporting these calculations, for example, information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports.


(i) Before September 12, 2019, the information in paragraphs (a)(6)(i)(A) through (E) of this section.


(A) The beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the organic HAP emission rate exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890.


(B) The calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for each month, using Equations 1 of § 63.4951.


(C) The calculation of the total volume of coating solids used each month, using Equation 2 of § 63.4951.


(D) The calculation of the organic HAP emission rate for each month, using Equation 3 of § 63.4951.


(E) A statement of the cause of each deviation.


(ii) On and after September 12, 2019, if there was a deviation from the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(6)(ii)(A) through (F) of this section.


(A) The beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the organic HAP emission rate exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890.


(B) The calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for each month, using Equation 1 of § 63.4951.


(C) The calculation of the total volume of coating solids used each month, using Equation 2 of § 63.4951.


(D) The calculation of the organic HAP emission rate for each month, using Equation 3 of § 63.4951.


(E) A statement of the cause of each deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).


(F) The number of deviations, a list of the affected source or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit in § 63.4890, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(7) *Deviations: Emission rate with add-on controls option.* If you used the emission rate with add-on controls option, and there was a deviation from any applicable emission limitation (including any periods when emissions bypassed the add-on control device and were diverted to the atmosphere), the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraph (a)(7)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) Before September 12, 2019, the information in paragraphs (a)(7)(i)(A) through (Q) of this section. This includes periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction during which deviations occurred. You do not need to submit background data supporting these calculations, for example, information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports.


(A) The beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the organic HAP emission rate exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890.


(B) The calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during each month, using Equation 1 of § 63.4951 and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine the total mass of organic HAP in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste treatment, storage, and disposal facility (TSDF) for treatment or disposal during each compliance period, according to § 63.4951(e)(4).


(C) The calculation of the total volume of coating solids used, using Equation 2 of § 63.4951.


(D) The calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction each month by emission capture systems and add-on control devices, using Equation 1 of § 63.4961, and Equation 3 of § 63.4961 for the calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction for the coating operation controlled by solvent recovery systems each compliance period, as applicable.


(E) The calculation of the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period, using Equation 4 of § 63.4961.


(F) The date and time that each malfunction started and stopped.


(G) A brief description of the CPMS.


(H) The date of the latest CPMS certification or audit.


(I) The date and time that each CPMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.


(J) The date, time, and duration that each CPMS was out-of-control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).


(K) The date and time period of each deviation from an operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart; date and time period of any bypass of the add-on control device; and whether each deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction or during another period.


(L) A summary of the total duration of each deviation from an operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart and each bypass of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total affected source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.


(M) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations from the operating limits in Table 1 to this subpart and bypasses of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period into those that were due to startup, shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.


(N) A summary of the total duration of CPMS downtime during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration of CPMS downtime as a percent of the total affected source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.


(O) A description of any changes in the CPMS, coating operation, emission capture system, or add-on control device since the last semiannual reporting period.


(P) For each deviation from the work practice standards, a description of the deviation; the date and time period of the deviation; and the actions you took to correct the deviation.


(Q) A statement of the cause of each deviation.


(ii) On and after September 12, 2019, the information in paragraphs (a)(7)(ii)(A) through (O), (Q), and (R) of this section if there was a deviation from the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890 or the applicable operating limit(s) in Table 1 to this subpart (including any periods when emissions bypassed the add-on control device and were diverted to the atmosphere) and the information in paragraph (a)(7)(ii)(P) of this section if there was a deviation from the work practice standards in § 63.4893(b).


(A) The beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the organic HAP emission rate exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890.


(B) The calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during each month, using Equation 1 of § 63.4951 and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine the total mass of organic HAP in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste treatment, storage, and disposal facility (TSDF) for treatment or disposal during each compliance period, according to § 63.4951(e)(4).


(C) The calculation of the total volume of coating solids used, using Equation 2 of § 63.4951.


(D) The calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction each month by emission capture systems and add-on control devices, using Equation 1 of § 63.4961, and Equation 3 of § 63.4961 for the calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction for the coating operation controlled by solvent recovery systems each compliance period, as applicable.


(E) The calculation of the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period, using Equation 4 of § 63.4961.


(F) The date and time that each malfunction of the capture system or add-on control devices started and stopped.


(G) A brief description of the CPMS.


(H) The date of the latest CPMS certification or audit.


(I) For each instance that the CPMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks, the date, time, and duration that the CPMS was inoperative; the cause (including unknown cause) for the CPMS being inoperative, and descriptions of corrective actions taken.


(J) For each instance that the CPMS was out-of-control, as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), the date, time, and duration that the CPMS was out-of-control; the cause (including unknown cause) for the CPMS being out-of-control; and descriptions of corrective actions taken.


(K) The date, time, and duration of each deviation from an operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart; and the date, time, and duration of any bypass of the add-on control device.


(L) A summary of the total duration of each deviation from an operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart and each bypass of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total affected source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.


(M) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations from the operating limits in Table 1 to this subpart and bypasses of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period into those that were due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.


(N) A summary of the total duration of CPMS downtime during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration of CPMS downtime as a percent of the total affected source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.


(O) A description of any changes in the CPMS, coating operation, emission capture system, or add-on control device since the last semiannual reporting period.


(P) For deviations from the work practice standards in § 63.4893(b), the number of deviations, and, for each deviation: A description of the deviation; the date, time, and duration of the deviation; and the actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.4900(b). The description of the deviation must include a list of the affected sources or equipment for which a deviation occurred and the cause of the deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).


(Q) For deviations from an emission limit in § 63.4890 or operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart, a statement of the cause of each deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).


(R) For each deviation from an emission limit in § 63.4890 or operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart, a list of the affected sources or equipment for which a deviation occurred, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit in § 63.4890, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(b) *Performance test reports.* If you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, you must submit reports of performance test results for emission capture systems and add-on control devices no later than 60 days after completing the tests as specified in § 63.10(d)(2).


(c) Before September 12, 2019, if you used the emission rate with add-on controls option and you had a startup, shutdown, or malfunction during the semiannual reporting period, you must submit the reports specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section. The reports specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section are not required on and after September 12, 2019.


(1) If your actions were consistent with your SSMP, you must include the information specified in § 63.10(d)(5) in the semiannual compliance report required by paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) If your actions were not consistent with your SSMP, you must submit an immediate startup, shutdown, and malfunction report as described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) You must describe the actions taken during the event in a report delivered by facsimile, telephone, or other means to the Administrator within 2 working days after starting actions that are inconsistent with the plan.


(ii) You must submit a letter to the Administrator within 7 working days after the end of the event, unless you have made alternative arrangements with the Administrator as specified in § 63.10(d)(5)(ii). The letter must contain the information specified in § 63.10(d)(5)(ii).



---

[N] [68 FR 28619, May 23, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 9636, Mar. 15, 2019]




