# ยง 214.313   Housing counseling fees.

(a) Participating agencies may charge reasonable and customary fees for housing education and counseling services, as long as the cost does not create a financial hardship for the client. An agency's fee schedule must be posted in a prominent place that is easily viewed by clients, and be available to HUD for review.


(b) Agencies must inform clients of the fee structure in advance of providing services. Clients cannot be charged for client intake.


(c) If any agency chooses to charge fees, the agency must conform to the following guidelines:


(1) Provide counseling without charge to persons who cannot afford the fees;


(2) Fees must be commensurate with the level of services provided;


(3) Agencies may not impose fees upon clients for the same portion of or for an entire service that is already funded with HUD grant funds.


(d) The agency may also be reimbursed from clients for the direct cost of obtaining copies of clients' credit reports from credit reporting bureaus if this does not cause a hardship for the client. In cases where the participating agency receives a discount for the cost of credit reports, this discount must be passed on to the client.


(e) Lenders may pay agencies for counseling services, through a lump sum or on a case-by-case basis, provided the level of payment does not exceed a level that is commensurate with the services provided, and is reasonable and customary for the area, and does not violate requirements under the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (12 U.S.C. 2601 *et seq.*). These transactions and relationships must be disclosed to the client as required in ยง 214.303(g).




