# ยง 1.1111   Payment of charges.

(a) The schedule of fees for applications and other filings (Bureau/Office Fee Filing Guides) lists those applications and other filings that must be accompanied by an FCC Form 159, Remittance Advice' or the electronic version of the form, FCC Form 159-E, one of the forms that is automatically generated when an applicant accesses the Commission's on-line filing and payment process.












(b) Applicants may access the Commission's on-line filing systems at *https://www.fcc.gov/licensing-databases/online-filing,* and the Commission's fee payment module through the FRN access page of the Commission's Registration System at *https://apps.fcc.gov/cores/paymentFrnLogin.do.* Applicants who use the on-line processes will be directed to the appropriate electronic application and payment forms for completion and submission of the required application(s) and payment information.




(c) Applications and other filings that are not submitted in accordance with these instructions will be returned as unprocessable. 


(d) Applications returned to applicants for additional information or corrections will not require an additional fee when resubmitted, unless the additional information results in an increase of the original fee amount. Those applications not requiring an additional fee should be resubmitted electronically or directly to the Bureau/Office requesting the additional information, as requested. The original fee will be forfeited if the additional information or corrections are not resubmitted by the prescribed deadline. A forfeited application fee will not be refunded. If an additional fee is required, the original fee will be returned and the application must be resubmitted with a new remittance in the amount of the required fee. Applicants should attach a copy of the Commission's request for additional or corrected information to their resubmission.


(e) Should the staff change the status of an application, resulting in an increase in the fee due, the applicant will be billed for the remainder under the conditions established by ยง 1.1118(b) of the rules.



---

[N] [74 FR 3445, Jan. 21, 2009, as amended at 83 FR 2556, Jan. 18, 2018; 88 FR 44736, July 13, 2023]




