# § 133.130   Stowage of survival craft.

(a) *General.* Each survival craft must be stowed as follows:


(1) Each survival craft must be as close to the accommodation and service spaces as possible.


(2) Each survival craft must be stowed in a way that neither the survival craft nor its stowage arrangements will interfere with the embarkation and operation of any other survival craft or rescue boat at any other launching station.


(3) Each survival craft must be as near the water surface as is safe and practicable.


(4) Other than liferafts intended for throw-overboard launching, each survival craft must be not less than 2 meters above the waterline with the OSV—


(i) In the fully loaded condition;


(ii) Under unfavorable conditions of trim; and


(iii) Listed up to 20 degrees either way, or to the angle where the OSV's weatherdeck edge becomes submerged, whichever is less.


(5) Each survival craft must be sufficiently ready for use so that two crew members can complete preparations for embarkation and launching in less than 5 minutes.


(6) Each survival craft must be fully equipped as required under this part.


(7) Each survival craft must be in a secure and sheltered position and protected from damage by fire and explosion, as far as practicable.


(8) Each survival craft must not require lifting from its stowed position in order to launch, except that—


(i) A davit-launched liferaft may be lifted by a manually powered winch from its stowed position to its embarkation position; or


(ii) A survival craft that weights 185 kilograms (407.8 pounds) or less, may require lifting of not more than 300 millimeters (1 foot).


(b) *Additional liferaft stowage requirements.* In addition to meeting the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, each liferaft must be stowed as follows: 


(1) Each liferaft must be stowed to permit manual release from its securing arrangements.


(2) Each liferaft must be stowed at a height above the waterline in the lightest seagoing condition not greater than the maximum stowage height indicated on the liferaft container. Each liferaft without an indicated maximum stowage height must be stowed not more than 18 meters (59 feet) above the waterline in the OSV's lightest seagoing condition.


(3) Each liferaft must be arranged to permit it to drop into the water from the deck on which it is stowed. A liferaft stowage arrangement meets this requirement if it—


(i) Is outboard of the rail or bulwark;


(ii) Is on stanchions or on a platform adjacent to the rail or bulwark; or


(iii) Has a gate or other suitable opening to allow the liferaft to be pushed directly overboard and—


(A) Each gate or opening must be large enough to allow the liferaft to be pushed overboard; and


(B) If the liferaft is intended to be available for use on either side of the OSV, a gate or opening must be provided on each side.


(4) Each davit-launched liferaft must be stowed within reach of its lifting hook, unless some means of transfer is provided that is not rendered inoperable—


(i) Within the limits of trim and list and list specified in paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section;


(ii) By OSV motion; or


(iii) By power failure.


(5) Each rigid container for an inflatable liferaft to be launched by a launching appliance must be secured in a way that the container or parts of it are prevented from falling into the water during and after inflation and launching of the contained liferaft.


(6) Each liferaft must have a painter system providing a connection between the OSV and the liferaft.


(7) Each liferaft or group of liferafts must be arranged for float-free launching. The arrangement must ensure that the liferaft or liferafts when released and inflated, are not dragged under by the sinking OSV. A hydrostatic release unit used in a float-free arrangement must be approved under approval series 160.162.


(c) *Additional lifefloat stowage requirements.* Each lifefloat must be capable of float-free launching and be arranged as follows:


(1) Lifefloats must be secured to the OSV by—


(i) A hydrostatic release unit approved under approval series 160.062 or 160.162 and that is appropriate for the size and number of the lifefloats attached to them; or 


(ii) Lashings that can be easily slipped.


(2) A painter must be secured to the lifefloat by—


(i) The attachment fitting provided by the manufacturer; or 


(ii) A wire or line that encircles the body of the lifefloat and will not slip off, and meets the requirements of § 133.105(a)(4)(iii).


(3) If lifefloats are arranged in groups with each group secured by a single painter,—


(i) The combined weight of each group must not exceed 185 kilograms (407.8 pounds);


(ii) Each lifefloat must be individually attached to the group's single painter by its own painter which must be long enough to allow floating without contact with any other lifefloat in the group;


(iii) The strength of the float-free link and the strength of the group's single painter must be appropriate for the combined capacity of the group of lifefloats;


(iv) The group of lifefloats must not be stowed in more than four tiers. When stowed in tiers, the separate units must be kept apart by spacers; and 


(v) The group of lifefloats must be stowed to prevent shifting with easily detached lashings.



---

[N] [CGD 84-069, 61 FR 25304, May 20, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 52816, Oct. 1, 1998]




