# ยง 217.6   Requirements for monitoring and reporting.

(a) Monitoring and reporting shall be conducted in accordance with the approved Pinniped Monitoring Plan.


(b) Reporting:


(1) Annual reporting:


(i) SCWA shall submit an annual summary report to NMFS not later than ninety days following the end of a given calendar year. SCWA shall provide a final report within thirty days following resolution of comments on the draft report.


(ii) These reports shall contain, at minimum, the following:


(A) The number of seals taken, by species and age class (if possible);


(B) Behavior prior to and during water level management events;


(C) Start and end time of activity;


(D) Estimated distances between source and seals when disturbance occurs;


(E) Weather conditions (*e.g.,* temperature, wind, etc.);


(F) Haul-out reoccupation time of any seals based on post-activity monitoring;


(G) Tide levels and estuary water surface elevation; and


(H) Seal census from haul-out monitoring.


(2) [Reserved]


(c) Reporting of injured or dead marine mammals:


(1) In the unanticipated event that the activity defined in ยง 217.1(a) clearly causes the take of a marine mammal in a prohibited manner, SCWA shall immediately cease such activity and report the incident to the Office of Protected Resources (OPR), NMFS and the West Coast Regional Stranding Coordinator, NMFS. Activities shall not resume until NMFS is able to review the circumstances of the prohibited take. NMFS will work with SCWA to determine what measures are necessary to minimize the likelihood of further prohibited take and ensure MMPA compliance. SCWA may not resume their activities until notified by NMFS. The report must include the following information:


(i) Time and date of the incident;


(ii) Description of the incident;


(iii) Environmental conditions;


(iv) Description of all marine mammal observations in the 24 hours preceding the incident;


(v) Species identification or description of the animal(s) involved;


(vi) Fate of the animal(s); and


(vii) Photographs or video footage of the animal(s).


(2) In the event that SCWA discovers an injured or dead marine mammal and determines that the cause of the injury or death is unknown and the death is relatively recent (*e.g.,* in less than a moderate state of decomposition), SCWA shall immediately report the incident to OPR and the West Coast Regional Stranding Coordinator, NMFS. The report must include the information identified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. Activities may continue while NMFS reviews the circumstances of the incident. NMFS will work with SCWA to determine whether additional mitigation measures or modifications to the activities are appropriate.


(3) In the event that SCWA discovers an injured or dead marine mammal and determines that the injury or death is not associated with or related to the activities defined in ยง 217.1(a) (*e.g.,* previously wounded animal, carcass with moderate to advanced decomposition, scavenger damage), SCWA shall report the incident to OPR and the West Coast Regional Stranding Coordinator, NMFS, within 24 hours of the discovery. SCWA shall provide photographs or video footage or other documentation of the stranded animal sighting to NMFS.


(4) Pursuant to paragraphs (c)(2-3) of this section, SCWA may use discretion in determining what injuries (*i.e.,* nature and severity) are appropriate for reporting. At minimum, SCWA must report those injuries considered to be serious (*i.e.,* will likely result in death) or that are likely caused by human interaction (*e.g.,* entanglement, gunshot). Also pursuant to sections paragraphs (c)(2-3) of this section, SCWA may use discretion in determining the appropriate vantage point for obtaining photographs of injured/dead marine mammals.




