# § 204.57-9   Prohibition of distribution in commerce; manufacturer's remedy.

(a) The Administrator will permit the cessation of continued testing under § 204.57-8 once the manufacturer has taken the following actions: 


(1) Submit a written report to the Administrator which identifies the reason for the noncompliance of the compressors, describes the problem, and describes the proposed quality control and/or quality assurance remedies to be taken by the manufacturer to correct the problem or follows the requirements for an engineering change. Such requirements include the following:


(i) Any change to a configuration with respect to any of the parameters stated in § 204.55-3 shall constitute the addition of a new and separate configuration or category to the manufacturer's product line.


(ii) When a manufacturer introduces a new category or configuration to his product line, he shall proceed in accordance with § 204.55-2.


(iii) If the configuration to be added can be grouped within a verified category and the new configuration is estimated to have a lower sound level than a previously verified configuration with the same category, the configuration shall be considered verified.


(2) Demonstrates that the specified compressor category, configuration or subgroup thereof has passed a retest conducted in accordance with § 204.57 and the conditions specified in the initial test request. 


(3) The manufacturer may begin testing under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, upon submitting such report, and may cease continued testing upon making the demonstration required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section: *Provided,* That the Administrator may require resumption of contined testing if he determines that the manufacturer has not satisfied the requirements of paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section. 


(4) In lieu of paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section, the Administrator will permit the cessation of continued testing under § 204.57-8 with respect to any subgroup of a nonconforming category or configuration if the manufacturer demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Administrator that such subgroup does not exhibit the cause of the nonconformity of such category or configuration. 


(b) Any compressor failing the prescribed noise emission tests conducted pursuant to this Subpart B may not be distributed in commerce until necessary adjustments or repairs have been made and the compressor passes a retest. 


(c) No compressors of a rejected batch which are still in the hands of the manufacturer may be distributed in commerce unless the manufacturer has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Administrator that such compressors do, in fact, conform to the regulations; except, that any compressor that has been tested and does, in fact, conform with these regulations may be distributed in commerce. 



---

[N] [41 FR 2172, Jan. 14, 1976, as amended at 42 FR 61455, Dec. 5, 1977; 47 FR 57712, Dec. 28, 1982] 




