# § 52.2585   Control strategy: Ozone.

(a) Disapproval—On November 6, 1986, the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources submitted as a proposed revision to the State's ozone State Implementation Plan a site-specific reasonably available control technology determination for a miscellaneous metal parts and products dip coating line. This line is located at the Gehl facility in Washington County, Wisconsin. In a May 31, 1988 (53 FR 19806), notice of proposed rulemaking, United States Environmental Protection Agency proposed to disapprove this site-specific revision to the Wisconsin State Implementation Plan for ozone.


(b) Disapproval—On August 22, 1986, the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources submitted a proposed revision to its ozone State Implementation Plan consisting of a site-specific reasonably available control technology determination for two miscellaneous metal parts and products spray coatings lines. These operations are located at the General Electric Company, Medical Systems facility in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, an area which has been designated as nonattainment for ozone, pursuant to section 107 of the Clean Air Act and 40 Code of Federal Regulations, part 81, § 81.350.


(c) [Reserved]


(d) Approval—On November 15, 1992, the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources submitted a revision to the ozone State Implementation Plan. The submittal pertained to the development of a process for assessing conformity of any federally-funded transportation and other federally funded projects in the nonattainment area. 


(e) Approval—On January 15, 1993, the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources submitted a revision to the ozone State Implementation Plan for the 1990 base year inventory. The inventory was submitted by the State of Wisconsin to satisfy Federal requirements under section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act as amended in 1990 (the Act), as a revision to the ozone State Implementation Plan (SIP) for all areas in Wisconsin designated nonattainment, classified marginal to extreme. These areas include counties of Walworth, Door, Kewaunee, Manitowoc, Sheboygan, and the six county Milwaukee area (counties of Washington, Ozaukee, Waukesha, Milwaukee, Racine, and Kenosha).


(f) Approval—The Administrator approves the incorporation of the photochemical assessment ambient monitoring system submitted by Wisconsin on November 15, 1993, into the Wisconsin State Implementation Plan. This submittal satisfies 40 CFR 58.20(f) which requires the State to provide for the establishment and maintenance of photochemical assessment monitoring stations (PAMS).


(g) Approval—On November 15, 1993, the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources submitted a revision to the ozone State Implementation Plan. The submittal pertained to a plan for forecasting VMT in the severe ozone nonattainment area of southeastern Wisconsin and demonstrated that Transportation Control Measures would not be necessary to offset growth in emissions. 


(h) Approval—On November 15, 1993, the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources submitted a revision to the ozone State Implementation Plan. The submittal pertained to a plan for forecasting VMT in the severe ozone nonattainment area of southeastern Wisconsin and demonstrated that Transportation Control Measures would not be necessary to meet the 15 percent Rate-of-Progress milestone. 


(i) Approval—EPA is approving the section 182(f) oxides of nitrogen (NO_X_) reasonably available control technology (RACT), new source review (NSR), vehicle inspection/maintenance (I/M), and general conformity exemptions for the moderate and above ozone nonattainment areas within Wisconsin as requested by the States of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, and Wisconsin in a July 13, 1994 submittal. This approval also covers the exemption of transportation and general conformity requirements of section 176(c) for the Door and Walworth marginal ozone nonattainment areas. Approval of these exemptions is contingent on the results of the final ozone attainment demonstration expected to be submitted in mid-1997. The approval will be modified if the final attainment demonstration demonstrates that NO_X_ emission controls are needed in any of the nonattainment areas to attain the ozone standard in the Lake Michigan Ozone Study modeling domain. 


(j) Approval—On June 14, 1995, the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources submitted a revision to the ozone State Implementation Plan. The submittal pertained to a plan for the implementation and enforcement of the Federal transportation conformity requirements at the State or local level in accordance with 40 CFR part 51, subpart T—Conformity to State or Federal Implementation Plans of Transportation Plans, Programs, and Projects Developed, Funded or Approved Under Title 23 U.S.C. or the Federal Transit Act.


(k) Approval—On December 15, 1995, and May 15, 1996, the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources submitted requests to redesignate Walworth County and Sheboygan and Kewaunee Counties, respectively, from nonattainment to attainment for ozone. The State also submitted maintenance plans as required by section 175A of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7505a. Elements of the section 175A maintenance plans include attainment emission inventories for NO_X_ and VOC, demonstrations of maintenance of the ozone NAAQS with projected emission inventories to the year 2007 for NO_X_ and VOC, plans to verify continued attainment, and contingency plans. If a violation of the ozone NAAQS, determined to be caused by local sources is monitored, Wisconsin will implement one or more appropriate contingency measure(s) contained in the contingency plan. Once a violation of the ozone NAAQS is recorded, the State will notify EPA and review the data for quality assurance. A plan to analyze the violation, including an analysis of meteorological conditions, will be submitted within 60 days to EPA-Region 5 for approval. Within 14 months of the violation, Wisconsin will complete and public notice the analysis and submit it to EPA-Region 5 for review. If the analysis shows that local sources caused the violation, Wisconsin will implement the contingency measures within 24 months after the violation. The contingency measures to be implemented in Walworth County are Stage II vapor recovery and non-Control Technology Guideline (non-CTG) Reasonably available control technology (RACT) limits. Contingency measures to be implemented in either Kewaunee or Sheboygan County are lower major source applicability thresholds for industrial sources and new gasoline standards which will lower VOC emissions. The redesignation request and maintenance plan meet the redesignation requirements in section 107(d)(3)(E) and 175A of the Act, respectively.


(l) Wisconsin's November 15, 1994 request for a temporary delay of the ozone attainment date for Manitowoc County from 1996 to 2007 and suspension of the automatic reclassification of Manitowoc County to serious nonattainment for ozone is approved, based on Wisconsin's demonstration through photochemical grid modeling that transport from upwind areas makes it “practicably impossible” for the County to attain the ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard by its original attainment date. 


(m) Approval—On July 10, 1996, the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources submitted a revision to the ozone State Implementation Plan. The submittal pertained to a request to waive the Oxide of Nitrogen requirements for transportation conformity in the Milwaukee and Manitowoc ozone nonattainment areas.


(n) Approval—On September 8, 2000, Wisconsin submitted a revision to the ozone maintenance plan for the Walworth County area. The revision consists of allocating a portion of the Walworth County area's Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) safety margin to the transportation conformity Motor Vehicle Emission Budget (MVEB). The MVEB for transportation conformity purposes for the Walworth County area are now: 5.39 tons per day of VOC emissions and 7.20 tons per day of oxides of nitrogen emissions for the year 2007. This approval only changes the VOC transportation conformity MVEB for Walworth County. 


(o) Approval—On December 11, 1997, Wisconsin submitted a post-1996 Rate Of Progress plan for the Milwaukee-Racine ozone nonattainment area as a requested revision to the Wisconsin State Implementation Plan. Supplements to the December 11, 1997 plan were submitted on August 5, 1999, January 31, 2000, March 3, 2000, and February 21, 2001 establishing the post-1996 ROP plan for the Milwaukee-Racine ozone nonattainment area. This plan reduces ozone precursor emissions by 9 percent from 1990 baseline emissions by November 15, 1999.


(p) Approval—On December 27, 2000, Wisconsin submitted a one-hour ozone attainment demonstration plan as a revision to the Wisconsin State Implementation Plan (SIP). Supplements to the December 27, 2001 plan were submitted on May 28, 2001, June 6, 2001, and August 29, 2001. This plan includes a modeled demonstration of attainment, rules for the reduction of ozone precursor emissions, a plan to reduce ozone precursor emissions by three percent per year from 2000 to 2007, an analysis of reasonably achievable control measures, an analysis of transportation conformity budgets, a revision of the waiver for emission of oxides of nitrogen, and commitments to conduct a mid-course review of the area's attainment status and to use the new MOBILE6 emissions model.


(q) Approval—On January 28, 2003, the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources submitted a request to redesignate Manitowoc and Door Counties to attainment. Additional information was submitted on February 5, 2003 and February 27, 2003. As part of the redesignation request, the State submitted a maintenance plan as required by section 175A of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990. Elements of the section 175 maintenance plan include a contingency plan and an obligation to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision in 8 years as required by the Clean Air Act. The 2013 motor vehicle emission budgets for Door County are 0.74 tons of volatile organic compounds (VOC) per day and 1.17 tons of oxides of nitrogen (NO_X_) per day. The 2013 motor vehicle emission budgets for Manitowoc County are 1.89 tons of VOC per day and 3.59 tons of NO_X_ per day.


(r) Approval—On January 28, 2003, the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources submitted a 1999 periodic emissions inventory for the Milwaukee-Racine area. Additional information was submitted on February 5, 2003 and February 27, 2003. The inventory meets the requirement of section 182(2)(3)(A) of the Clean Air Act as amended in 1990.


(s) Approval—On January 31, 2003, Wisconsin submitted a revision to the ozone attainment plan for the Milwaukee severe ozone area and maintenance plan for Sheboygan County. These plans revised 2007 motor vehicle emission inventories and 2007 Motor Vehicle Emissions Budgets (MVEB) recalculated using the emissions factor model MOBILE6. The plan also included a new 2012 projected MVEB for the Sheboygan County. The following table outlines the MVEB for transportation conformity purposes for the Milwaukee severe ozone area and the Sheboygan ozone maintenance area:


(t) Approval—On January 28, 2003, Wisconsin submitted a request to update the ozone maintenance plan for Kewaunee County. Additional information was submitted on February 5, 2003 and February 27, 2003. As part of the request, the state submitted a maintenance plan as required by section 175A of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990. Elements of the section 175 maintenance plan include a contingency plan and Motor Vehicle Emissions Budgets (MVEB) for 2007 and 2012. The following table outlines the MVEB for transportation conformity purposes for the Kewaunee ozone maintenance area.


(u) Approval—On June 12, 2007, Wisconsin submitted a request to redesignate Kewaunee County to attainment of the 8-hour ozone standard. As part of the redesignation request, the State submitted an ozone maintenance plan as required by section 175A of the Clean Air Act. Part of the section 175A maintenance plan includes a contingency plan. The ozone maintenance plan establishes 2012 motor vehicle emissions budgets for Kewaunee County of 0.43 tons per day of volatile organic compounds (VOC) and 0.80 tons per day of nitrogen oxIdes (NO_X_) and 2018 motor vehicle emissions budgets for Kewaunee County of 0.32 tons per day of VOCs and 0.47 tons per day of NO_X_.


(v) On July 28, 2008, the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources requested that EPA find that the Milwaukee-Racine, WI nonattainment area, attained the revoked 1-hour ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS). After review of this submission, EPA approves this request.


(w) Approval—On June 12, 2007, Wisconsin submitted 2005 VOC and NO_X_ base year emissions inventories for the Manitowoc County and Door County areas. Wisconsin's 2005 inventories satisfy the base year emissions inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3) of the Clean Air Act for the Manitowoc County and Door County areas under the 1997 8-hour ozone standard.


(x) Approval—On September 11, 2009, Wisconsin submitted requests to redesignate the Manitowoc County and Door County areas to attainment of the 1997 8-hour ozone standard. As part of the redesignation requests, the State submitted maintenance plans as required by section 175A of the Clean Air Act. Elements of the section 175 maintenance plans include contingency plans and an obligation to submit subsequent maintenance plan revisions in 8 years as required by the Clean Air Act. The ozone maintenance plans also establish 2012 and 2020 Motor Vehicle Emission Budgets (MVEBs) for the areas. The 2012 MVEBs for the Manitowoc County and Door County areas are 1.76 tons per day (tpd) for VOC and 3.76 tpd for NO_X_, and 0.78 tpd for VOC and 1.55 tpd for NO_X_, respectively. The 2020 MVEBs for the Manitowoc County and Door County areas are 1.25 tpd for VOC and 1.86 tpd for NO_X_, and 0.53 tpd for VOC and 0.74 tpd for NO_X_, respectively.


(y) *Determination of attainment.* EPA has determined, as of March 1, 2011 that the Milwaukee-Racine, WI and Sheboygan, WI areas have attained the 1997 8-hour ozone standard. These determinations suspend the requirements for these areas to submit attainment demonstrations and associated reasonably available control measures (RACM), reasonable further progress plans (RFP), contingency measures, and other State Implementation Plan (SIP) revisions related to attainment of the standard for as long as the areas continue to attain the 1997 8-hour ozone standard. These determinations also stay the requirement for EPA to promulgate attainment demonstration and RFP Federal Implementation Plans (FIPs) for these areas. On July 15, 2019, EPA revised the designation for the Sheboygan, WI area for the 1997 8-hour ozone standard, by splitting the original area into two distinct nonattainment areas, called the Inland Sheboygan County, WI area and Shoreline Sheboygan County, WI area, that together cover the identical geographic area of the original nonattainment area. EPA's March 1, 2011 determination of attainment for the Sheboygan County, WI area applies to the Inland Sheboygan County, WI area and Shoreline Sheboygan County, WI area.


(z) Approval—Wisconsin submitted 2005 VOC and NO_X_ emissions inventories for the Milwaukee-Racine and Sheboygan areas on September 11, 2009, and supplemented the submittal on November 16, 2011. Wisconsin's 2005 inventories satisfy the emissions inventory requirements of section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act for the Milwaukee-Racine and Sheboygan areas under the 1997 8-hour ozone standard.


(aa) Approval—On September 11, 2009, Wisconsin submitted a request to redesignate the Milwaukee-Racine area to attainment of the 1997 8-hour ozone standard. The state supplemented this submittal on November 16, 2011. As part of the redesignation request, the State submitted a maintenance plan as required by section 175A of the Clean Air Act. Elements of the section 175 maintenance plan include a contingency plan and an obligation to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision in 8 years as required by the Clean Air Act. The ozone maintenance plan also establishes 2015 and 2022 Motor Vehicle Emission Budgets (MVEBs) for the area. The 2015 MVEBs for the Milwaukee-Racine area is 21.08 tpd for VOC and 51.22 tpd for NO_X_. The 2022 MVEBs for the Milwaukee-Racine area is 15.98 tpd for VOC and 31.91 tpd for NO_X_.


(bb) Approval—On August 1, 2013, the State of Wisconsin submitted a revision to their Ozone State Implementation Plan. The submittal established transportation conformity “Conformity” criteria and procedures related to interagency consultation, and enforceability of certain transportation related control and mitigation measures.


(cc) Approval—On January 16, 2015, the State of Wisconsin submitted a revision to its State Implementation Plan for Sheboygan County, Wisconsin. The submittal established new Motor Vehicle Emissions Budgets (MVEB) for Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) and Oxides of Nitrogen (NO_X_) for the year 2015. The MVEBs for Sheboygan County are now: 1.972 tons per day of VOC emissions and 4.435 tons per day of NO_X_ emissions for the year 2015.


(dd) On November 14, 2014, Wisconsin submitted 2011 volatile organic compounds and oxides of nitrogen emission inventories for the Sheboygan County and Wisconsin portion (Kenosha area) of the Chicago-Naperville, Illinois-Indiana-Wisconsin nonattainment areas for the 2008 ozone national ambient air quality standard as a revision of the Wisconsin state implementation plan. The documented emission inventories are approved as a revision of the State's implementation plan.


(ee) Approval—On January 16, 2015, the State of Wisconsin submitted a revision to its State Implementation Plan for Kenosha County, Wisconsin. The submittal established new Motor Vehicle Emissions Budgets (MVEB) for Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) and Oxides of Nitrogen (NO_X_) for the year 2015. The MVEBs for Kenosha County nonattainment area are now: 1.994 tons per day of VOC emissions and 4.397 tons per day of NO_X_ emissions for the year 2015.


(ff) Approval—On April 17, 2017, as supplemented on January 23, 2018, Wisconsin submitted a revision to its State Implementation Plan along with a prior submission on August 15, 2016, to satisfy the emissions statement, emission inventory, reasonable further progress (RFP), RFP contingency measure, oxides of nitrogen (NO_X_) reasonably available control technology (RACT), motor vehicle inspection and maintenance (I/M), and transportation conformity requirements for the Wisconsin portion of the Chicago area for the 2008 ozone NAAQS moderate nonattainment plan. These elements of the plan meet the requirements of section 110 and part D of the CAA for the Wisconsin portion of the Chicago area, which was reclassified on May 4, 2016, as moderate nonattainment for the 2008 ozone NAAQS. The April 17, 2017, submittal as supplemented on January 23, 2018, also established new Motor Vehicle Emissions Budgets (MVEB) for volatile organic compounds (VOC) and NO_X_ for the years 2017 and 2018. The MVEBs for the Wisconsin portion of the Chicago 2008 ozone NAAQS nonattainment area, which is the portion of Kenosha County inclusive and east of Interstate 94, are now: 1.56 tons per summer day of VOC emissions and 3.05 tons per summer day of NO_X_ emissions for the year 2017, and 1.44 tons per summer day of VOC emissions and 2.75 tons per summer day of NO_X_ emissions for the year 2018.


(gg) Disapproval—EPA is disapproving Wisconsin's August 15, 2016, ozone redesignation request for the Wisconsin portion of the Chicago-Naperville, IL-IN-WI nonattainment area for the 2008 ozone standard. EPA is also disapproving Wisconsin's maintenance plan and motor vehicle emission budgets submitted with the redesignation request.


(hh) Approval—On July 19, 2018, Wisconsin submitted a SIP revision certifying that the existing SIP-approved nonattainment new source review regulations fully satisfy the nonattainment new source review requirements for marginal and moderate ozone nonattainment areas for the 2008 ozone NAAQS.


(ii) *Determination of attainment.* EPA has determined, as of July 15, 2019, that the Inland Sheboygan County, WI area has attained the 2008 8-hour ozone standard. This determination suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration and associated reasonably available control measures (RACM), a reasonable further progress plan (RFP), contingency measures, and other State Implementation Plan (SIP) revisions related to attainment of the standard for as long as the area continues to attain the 2008 8-hour ozone standard.


(jj) *Redesignation.* Approval—On January 27, 2020, Wisconsin submitted a request to redesignate the Newport State Park area in Door County to attainment of the 2015 8-hour ozone standard. As part of the redesignation request, the State submitted a maintenance plan as required by section 175A of the Clean Air Act. Elements of the section 175 maintenance plan include a contingency plan and an obligation to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision in eight years as required by the CAA. The ozone maintenance plan also establishes 2023 and 2030 Motor Vehicle Emission Budgets (MVEBs) for the area. The 2023 MVEBs for the area are 0.00027 tpd for VOC and 0.00032 tpd for NO_X_. The 2030 MVEBs for the area are 0.00019 tpd for VOC and 0.00016 tpd for NO_X_.


(kk) *Second maintenance plan.* Approval—On December 13, 2019 Wisconsin submitted 1997 Ozone NAAQS second maintenance plans for the Kewaunee County, Door County, Manitowoc County, and Milwaukee-Racine areas. These second maintenance plans are designed to keep the Kewaunee County area in attainment of the 1997 ozone NAAQS through 2028, Door County and Manitowoc County in attainment of the 1997 ozone NAAQS though 2030, and the Milwaukee-Racine area in attainment of the 1997 ozone NAAQS through 2032.


(ll) *Redesignation.* Approval—On October 9, 2019, Wisconsin submitted a request to redesignate the Inland Sheboygan County area to attainment of the 2008 8-hour ozone standard. As part of the redesignation request, the State submitted a maintenance plan as required by section 175A of the Clean Air Act. Elements of the section 175 maintenance plan include a contingency plan and an obligation to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision in eight years as required by the Clean Air Act. The ozone maintenance plan also establishes 2020 and 2030 Motor Vehicle Emission Budgets (MVEBs) for the area. The 2020 MVEBs for the Inland Sheboygan County area are 0.65 tons per hot summer day for VOC and 1.16 tons per hot summer day for NO_X_. The 2030 MVEBs for the Inland Sheboygan County area are 0.34 tons per hot summer day for VOC and 0.54 tons per hot summer day for NO_X_.


(mm) *Redesignation.* Approval—On February 11, 2020, Wisconsin submitted a request to redesignate the Shoreline Sheboygan County area to attainment of the 2008 8-hour ozone standard. As part of the redesignation request, the State submitted a maintenance plan as required by section 175A of the Clean Air Act. Elements of the section 175 maintenance plan include a contingency plan and an obligation to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision in eight years as required by the Clean Air Act. The ozone maintenance plan also establishes 2025 and 2032 Motor Vehicle Emission Budgets (MVEBs) for the area. The 2025 MVEBs for the Inland Sheboygan County area are 0.50 tons per hot summer day for VOC and 1.00 tons per hot summer day for NO_X_. The 2032 MVEBs for the Inland Sheboygan County area are 0.36 tons per hot summer day for VOC and 0.77 tons per hot summer day for NO_X_.


(oo) *Determination of attainment by the attainment date.* Effective August 30, 2021. Effective August 30, 2021. On February 8, 2019, the EPA determined the Sheboygan County, WI, area attained the revoked 1997 8-hour ozone NAAQS by the attainment date of June 15, 2010. On July 15, 2019, the EPA revised the designation for the Sheboygan County, WI, area for the revoked 1997 8-hour ozone NAAQS and the 2008 8-hour ozone NAAQS, by splitting the original full-county area into the separate Inland Sheboygan County, WI, and Shoreline Sheboygan County, WI, areas. On July 10, 2020, EPA redesignated both the Inland Sheboygan County, WI, nonattainment area [85 FR 41400] and the Shoreline Sheboygan County, WI, nonattainment area [85 FR 41405] to attainment for the 2008 8-hour ozone NAAQS. Therefore, under 40 CFR 51.1105(b)(1), the areas are no longer subject to the anti-backsliding obligations for the revoked 1997 ozone NAAQS under 40 CFR 51.1105(a)(1).


(pp) *NNSR certification.* Approval—On July 27, 2021, Wisconsin submitted a SIP revision certifying that the existing SIP-approved nonattainment new source review regulations fully satisfy the nonattainment new source review requirements for all areas not attaining the 2015 Ozone NAAQS.


(qq) *Serious Plan Elements.* Approval—On December 1, 2020, Wisconsin submitted a revision to its State Implementation Plan to satisfy the meet the volatile organic compound (VOC) and nitrogen oxides (NO_X_) reasonably available control technology (RACT), Clean-fuel vehicle programs (CFVP), and the Enhanced monitoring of ozone and ozone precursors (EMP) requirements of the Clean Air Act (CAA) in the Wisconsin portion of the Chicago-Naperville, Illinois-Indiana-Wisconsin nonattainment area (Chicago area) for the 2008 ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS or standards). These elements of the plan meet the requirements of section 110 and part D of the CAA for the Wisconsin portion of the Chicago area, which serious nonattainment for the 2008 ozone NAAQS.


(rr) *Redesignation.* Approval—On October 29, 2021, Wisconsin submitted a request to redesignate the Manitowoc County area to attainment of the 20158-hour ozone standard. As part of the redesignation request, the State submitted a maintenance plan as required by section 175A of the Clean Air Act. Elements of the section 175 maintenance plan include a contingency plan and an obligation to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision in eight years as required by the Clean Air Act. The ozone maintenance plan also establishes 2025 and 2033 Motor Vehicle Emission Budgets (MVEBs) for the area. The 2025 MVEBs for the Manitowoc County area are 0.47 tons per hot summer day for VOC and 0.91 tons per hot summer day for NO_X_. The 2033 MVEBs for the Manitowoc County area are 0.32 tons per hot summer day for VOC and 0.61 tons per hot summer day for NO_X_.


(ss) *Redesignation.* Approval—On December 3, 2021, Wisconsin submitted a request to redesignate the Wisconsin portion of the Chicago-Naperville, IL-IN-WI area to attainment of the 2008 ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS). As part of the redesignation request, the State submitted a maintenance plan as required by section 175A of the Clean Air Act (CAA). Elements of the section 175 maintenance plan include a contingency plan and an obligation to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision in eight years as required by the CAA. The ozone maintenance plan also establishes 2030 and 2035 Motor Vehicle Emission Budgets (Budgets) for the area. The 2030 Budgets for the area are 0.54 tons/day for volatile organic compounds (VOC) and 0.85 tons/day for oxides of nitrogen (NO_X_). The 2035 Budgets for the area are 0.47 tons/day for VOC and 0.75 tons/day for NO_X_. Wisconsin also submitted a revision to its State Implementation Plan to satisfy the Enhanced Inspection/Maintenance recertification for the 2008 ozone NAAQS requirements of the CAA.


(tt) *Redesignation.* Approval—On January 5, 2022, Wisconsin submitted a request to redesignate the revised Door County (partial) area to attainment of the 2015 8-hour ozone standard. As part of the redesignation request, the State submitted a maintenance plan as required by section 175A of the Clean Air Act. Elements of the section 175 maintenance plan include a contingency plan and an obligation to submit a subsequent maintenance plan revision in eight years as required by the Clean Air Act. The ozone maintenance plan also establishes 2030 and 2035 motor vehicle emission budgets for the area. The 2030 MVEBs for the area are 0.1349 tons per summer day for VOC and 0.2995 tons per summer day for NO_X_. The 2035 MVEBs for the area are 0.1153 tons per summer day for VOC and 0.2586 tons per summer day for NO_X_.



---

[N] [54 FR 29557, July 13, 1989]


