# ยง 232.307   Modification of brake test procedures.

(a) *Request.* The AAR or other authorized representative of the railroad industry may seek modification of brake test procedures prescribed in this chapter. The request for modification shall be submitted to the Associate Administrator for Safety, Federal Railroad Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20590 and shall contain:


(1) The name, title, address, and telephone number of the primary person to be contacted with regard to review of the modification;


(2) The section and paragraph at issue, and the modification, in detail, to be substituted for a particular procedure prescribed in this chapter;


(3) Appropriate data or analysis, or both, for FRA to consider in determining whether the modification will provide at least an equivalent level of safety; and


(4) A statement affirming that the railroad industry has served a copy of the request on the designated representatives of the employees responsible for the equipment's operation, inspection, testing, and maintenance under this part, together with a list of the names and addresses of the persons served. 


(b) *Federal Register document.* Upon receipt of a request for modification, FRA will publish a document in the _Federal Register_ containing the requested modification. The document will permit interested parties 60 days to comment on any requested modification. 


(c) *FRA review.* During the 60 days provided for public comment, FRA will review the petition. If FRA objects to the requested modification, written notification will be provided, within this 60-day period, to the party requesting the modification detailing FRA's objection. 


(d) *Disposition.* (1) If no comment objecting to the requested modification is received during the 60-day comment period, provided by paragraph (b) of this section, or if FRA does not issue a written objection to the requested modification, the modification will become effective 15 days after the close of the 60-day comment period. 


(2) If an objection is raised by an interested party, during the 60-day comment period, or if FRA issues a written objection to the requested modification, the requested modification will be handled as follows: 


(i) If FRA finds that the request complies with the requirements of this section and that the proposed modification is acceptable and justified, the request will be granted, normally within 90 days of its receipt. If the request for modification is neither granted nor denied within 90 days, the request remains pending for decision. FRA may attach special conditions to the approval of any request for modification. Following the approval of a request for modification, FRA may reopen consideration of the request for cause. 


(ii) If FRA finds that the request does not comply with the requirements of this section and that the proposed modification is not acceptable or justified, the requested modification will be denied, normally within 90 days of its receipt. 


(iii) When FRA grants or denies a request for modification, or reopens consideration of the request, written notice is sent to the requesting party and other interested parties.



---

[N] [66 FR 39688, Aug. 1, 2001, as amended at 74 FR 25174, May 27, 2009; 85 FR 80573, Dec. 11, 2020]




