# § 63.8242   What are the installation, operation, and maintenance requirements for my continuous mercury monitoring systems?

(a) If you choose the continuous mercury monitoring option under § 63.8240(a), you must install, operate, and maintain each mercury continuous emissions monitor according to paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section. 


(1) Each mercury continuous emissions monitor must sample, analyze, and record the concentration of mercury at least once every 15 minutes. 




(2) Each mercury continuous emissions monitor analyzer must have a detector with the capability to detect a mercury concentration of either 0.1 µg/m
3 or 0.5 times the mercury concentration level measured during the performance test conducted according to § 63.8232.






(3) In lieu of a promulgated performance specification as required in § 63.8(a)(2), you must develop a site-specific monitoring plan that addresses the elements in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (vi) of this section. 


(i) Installation and measurement location downstream of the final control device for each by-product hydrogen stream, end box ventilation system vent, and mercury thermal recovery unit vent. 


(ii) Performance and equipment specifications for the sample interface, the pollutant concentration analyzer, and the data collection and reduction system. 


(iii) Performance evaluation procedures and acceptance criteria (*i.e.,* calibrations).


(iv) Ongoing operation and maintenance procedures according to the requirements of § 63.8(c)(1), (3), and (4)(ii). 


(v) Ongoing data quality assurance procedures according to the requirements of § 63.8(d)(1) and (2). You shall keep these written procedures on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan is revised, you shall keep previous (*i.e.,* superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. The program of corrective action shall be included in the plan required under § 63.8(d)(2).




(vi) Ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.10(c), (e)(1), and (e)(2)(i). 


(4) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each mercury continuous emissions monitor according to your site-specific monitoring plan. 


(5) You must operate and maintain each mercury continuous emissions monitor in continuous operation according to the site-specific monitoring plan. 


(b) If you choose the periodic monitoring option and your final control device is not a nonregenerable carbon adsorber, you must install, operate, and maintain a continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) for each parameter specified in § 63.8232(f)(1), according to § 63.8(c).



---

[N] [68 FR 70928, Dec. 19, 2003, as amended at 87 FR 27021, May 6, 2022]








