# ยง 891.720   Leasing to eligible families.

(a) *Availability of assisted units for occupancy by eligible families.* During the term of the PAC, a Borrower shall make all units (or residential spaces in a group home) available for eligible families. For purposes of this section, making units or residential spaces available for occupancy by eligible families means that the Borrower: 


(1) Is conducting marketing in accordance with ยง 891.740(a); 


(2) Has leased or is making good faith efforts to lease the units or residential spaces to eligible and otherwise acceptable families, including taking all feasible actions to fill vacancies by renting to such families; and (3) Has not rejected any such applicant family except for reasons acceptable to HUD. If the Borrower is temporarily unable to lease all units or residential spaces to eligible families, one or more units or residential spaces may, with the prior approval of HUD, be leased to otherwise eligible families that do not meet the income requirements of part 813 of this chapter, as modified by ยง 891.505. Failure on the part of the Borrower to comply with these requirements is a violation of the PAC and grounds for all available legal remedies, including an action for specific performance of the PAC, suspension or debarment from HUD programs, and reduction of the number of units (or in the case of group homes, reduction of the number of residential spaces) under the PAC as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. 


(3) Has not rejected any such applicant family except for reasons acceptable to HUD. If the Borrower is temporarily unable to lease all units or residential spaces to eligible families, one or more units or residential spaces may, with the prior approval of HUD, be leased to otherwise eligible families that do not meet the income requirements of part 5, subpart F of this title. Failure on the part of the Borrower to comply with these requirements is a violation of the PAC and grounds for all available legal remedies, including an action for specific performance of the PAC, suspension or debarment from HUD programs, and reduction of the number of units (or in the case of group homes, reduction of the number of residential spaces) under the PAC as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.










(b) *Reduction of number of units covered by the PAC.* HUD may reduce the number of units (or in the case of group homes, the number of residential spaces) covered by the PAC to the number of units or residential spaces available for occupancy by eligible families if: 


(1) The Borrower fails to comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section; or 


(2) Notwithstanding any prior approval by HUD, HUD determines that the inability to lease units or residential spaces to eligible families is not a temporary problem. 


(c) *Restoration.* HUD will agree to an amendment of the PAC to provide for subsequent restoration of any reduction made under paragraph (b) of this section if: 


(1) HUD determines that the restoration is justified by demand; 


(2) The Borrower otherwise has a record of compliance with the Borrower's obligations under the PAC; and 


(3) Contract and budget authority is available. 


(d) *Occupancy by families that are not handicapped.* HUD may relieve the Borrower of the requirement that all units in the project (or residential spaces in a group home) must be leased to handicapped families if: 


(1) The Borrower has made reasonable efforts to lease to eligible families; 


(2) The Borrower has been granted HUD approval under paragraph (a) of this section; and 


(3) The Borrower is temporarily unable to achieve or maintain a level of occupancy sufficient to prevent financial default and foreclosure under the Section 202 loan documents. HUD approval under this paragraph will be of limited duration. HUD may impose terms and conditions to this approval that are consistent with program objectives and necessary to protect its interest in the Section 202 loan. 



---

[N] [61 FR 11956, Mar. 22, 1996, as amended at 88 FR 75233, Nov. 2, 2023]












