# § 271.10   Published information.

(a) _Federal Register._ The Committee publishes, or incorporates by reference, in the _Federal Register_ for the guidance of the public:


(1) A description of its organization;


(2) Statements of the general course and method by which its functions are channeled and determined, including the nature and requirements of procedures;


(3) Rules of procedure;


(4) Substantive rules, interpretations of general applicability, and statements of general policy formulated and adopted by the Committee;


(5) Every amendment, revision, or repeal of the foregoing in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section; and


(6) Other notices as required by law.


(b) *Publicly available information*—(1) *Electronic reading room.* Information relating to the Committee, including its open market operations, is made publicly available on the websites of the Board and the Federal Reserve Banks, as well as in the Committee's electronic reading room, *https://www.federalreserve.gov/foia/fomc/readingrooms.htm#rr1.* The Committee also makes the following records available in its electronic reading room.


(i) Final opinions, including concurring and dissenting opinions, as well as final orders and written agreements, made in the adjudication of cases.


(ii) Statements of policy and interpretations adopted by the Committee that are not published in the _Federal Register_.


(iii) Administrative staff manuals and instructions to staff that affect the public.


(iv) Copies of all records, regardless of form or format—


(A) That have been released to any person under § 271.11; and


(B)(*1*) That because of the nature of their subject matter, the Committee has determined have become or are likely to become the subject of subsequent requests for substantially the same records; or


(*2*) That have been requested three or more times.


(v) A general index of the records referred to in paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section.


(2) *Inspection in electronic format at Reserve Banks.* The Committee may determine that certain classes of publicly available filings shall be made available for inspection in electronic format only at the Reserve Bank where those records are filed.


(3) *Privacy protection.* The Committee may delete identifying details from any public record to prevent a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.






