# § 522.1962   Promazine.

(a) *Specifications.* Each milliliter of solution contains 50 milligrams (mg) promazine hydrochloride.


(b) *Sponsors.* See sponsors in § 510.600(c) of this chapter for use as in paragraph (c) of this section:


(1) No. 054771 for use as in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A), (c)(1)(ii)(A), (c)(1)(iii), and (c)(2) of this section.


(2) No. 061133 for use as in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(B), (c)(1)(ii)(B), and (c)(1)(iii) of this section.


(c) *Conditions of use*—(1) *Horses*—(i) *Amount.* (A) 0.2 to 0.5 milligrams per pounds (mg/lb) body weight intramuscularly or intravenously every 4 to 6 hours.


(B) 0.2 to 0.5 mg/lb body weight intravenously as required.


(ii) *Indications for use.* (A) For use as a tranquilizer, preanesthetic, or for minor operative procedures in conjunction with local anesthesia; and as adjunctive therapy for tetanus.


(B) For use as a tranquilizer and preanesthetic.


(iii) *Limitations.* Do not use in horses intended for human consumption. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(2) *Dogs and cats*—(i) *Amount.* 1 to 2 mg/lb body weight intramuscularly or intravenously every 4 to 6 hours.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For use as a tranquilizer, preanesthetic, for minor operative procedures in conjunction with local anesthesia, as adjunctive therapy for tetanus, and as an antiemetic prior to worming; or to prevent motion sickness in dogs.


(iii) *Limitations.* Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.



---

[N] [46 FR 18962, Mar. 27, 1981, as amended at 68 FR 59881, Oct. 20, 2003; 70 FR 50183, Aug. 26, 2005; 79 FR 16194, Mar. 25, 2014; 84 FR 8974, Mar. 13, 2019] 




