# ยง 52.1   Definitions.

*Accredited veterinarian.* A veterinarian approved by the Administrator in accordance with the provisions of part 161 of this chapter to perform functions specified in subchapters B, C, and D of this chapter. 


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any other employee of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, United States Department of Agriculture, delegated to act in the Administrator's stead.


*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS).* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.


*APHIS employee.* Any individual employed by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service who is authorized by the Administrator to do any work or perform any duty in connection with the control and eradication of disease.


*Approved differential pseudorabies test.* Any test for the diagnosis of pseudorabies that can distinguish vaccinated swine from infected swine; is produced under license from the Secretary of Agriculture under the Virus-Serum-Toxin Act of March 4, 1913, and subsequent amendments (21 U.S.C. 151 *et seq.*) with indications for use in the Cooperative State-Federal Pseudorabies Eradication Program; and is conducted in a laboratory approved by the Administrator. 
1

*Department.* The United States Department of Agriculture.


*Herd.* Any group of swine maintained on common ground for any purpose, or two or more groups of swine under common ownership or supervision that are geographically separated but that are determined by an official pseudorabies epidemiologist to have an interchange or movement of animals that could cause the transmission of pseudorabies from one group to another.


*Inspector in charge.* An APHIS employee who is designated by the Administrator to take charge of work in connection with the control and eradication of disease.


*Known infected breeding sow.* Any breeding sow that has been determined to be infected with pseudorabies based on an official pseudorabies test or an approved differential pseudorabies test, or as diagnosed by an official pseudorabies epidemiologist as having pseudorabies. 


*Known infected herd.* Any herd in which swine have been determined to be infected with pseudorabies based on an official pseudorabies test or an approved differential pseudorabies test, or based on a diagnosis by an official pseudorabies epidemiologist.


*Materials.* Parts of barns or other structures, straw, hay, and other feed for animals, farm products or equipment, clothing, and articles stored in or adjacent to barns or other structures.


*Mortgage.* Any mortgage, lien, or other security or beneficial interest held by any person other than the one claiming indemnity.


*Net salvage.* The amount received for swine destroyed because of pseudorabies, after deducting freight, trucking, yardage, commission, slaughtering charges, and similar costs to the owner.


*Official pseudorabies epidemiologist.* A State or Federally employed veterinarian designated by the State animal health official and the veterinarian in charge to investigate and diagnose pseudorabies in livestock.


*Official pseudorabies test.* Any test for the diagnosis of pseudorabies approved by the Administrator and conducted in a laboratory approved by the Administrator. The following tests for the diagnosis of pseudorabies have been approved by the Administrator: Microtitration Serum-Virus Neutralization Test; Virus Isolation and Identification Test; Fluorescent Antibody Tissue Section Test; Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) Test, except for approved differential pseudorabies tests other than the glycoprotein I (gpI) ELISA test; Latex Agglutination Test (LAT); and Particle Concentration Fluorescence Immunoassay (PCFIA) Test. 
2 State, Federal, and university laboratories will be approved by the Administrator following his determination that the laboratory: has personnel trained at the Veterinary Services Diagnostic Laboratory at Ames, Iowa, assigned to supervise the test; follows standard test protocol; meets check test proficiency requirements; and will report all test results to State and Federal animal health officials. 
3

*Official seal.* A serially numbered metal or plastic strip, consisting of a self-locking device on one end and a slot on the other end, that forms a loop when the ends are engaged and that cannot be reused if opened, or a serially numbered, self-locking button that can be used for this purpose. 


*Permit.* An official document for movement of swine under this part that is issued by an APHIS employee, State representative, or accredited veterinarian and that lists the disease status and individual identification of the animal, where consigned, cleaning and disinfection requirements, and proof of slaughter certification by a recognized slaughtering establishment. 


*Person.* Any individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, joint stock company, or other legal entity.


*Pseudorabies.* The contagious, infectious, and communicable disease of livestock and other animals, also known as Aujeszky's disease, mad itch, or infectious bulbar paralysis.


*Recognized slaughtering establishment.* A slaughtering establishment operating under the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601 *et seq.*) or a State meat inspection act. 
4

*Secretary.* The Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the Department delegated to act in the Secretary's stead.


*State.* Each of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, or any other territory or possession of the United States.


*State representative.* A person regularly employed in the animal health work of a State and who is authorized by that State to perform the function involved under a cooperative agreement with the United States Department of Agriculture.


*Veterinarian in charge.* The veterinary official of Veterinary Services, APHIS, who is assigned by the Administrator to supervise and perform official animal health work for APHIS in the State concerned.



---

[N] [64 FR 2549, Jan. 15, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 20711, Apr. 18, 2000; 68 FR 6342, Feb. 7, 2003]




