# § 241.1005   Definitions.

(a) All of the definitions of § 241.1 apply to equity and acquisition loans insured under subpart E of this part except the following definitions:


(b) As used in subpart E of this part, the following terms have the meaning indicated: 


*Acquisition loan* means a loan or advance of credit made to a purchaser of eligible low income housing which is made for the purpose of implementing a plan of action approved in accordance with part 248 of this chapter. 


*Borrower* means the owner or qualified purchaser of an eligible low income housing project, which owner receives and becomes primarily obligated for the repayment of an equity loan. With respect to loans insured in connection with a plan of action under part 248, subpart C of this chapter, the term includes a public entity, a nonprofit organization or a limited equity cooperative, which entity is purchasing an eligible low income housing project by means of an equity loan and is obligated for the payment of the equity loan. 


*Eligible low income housing* has the same meaning as provided at § 248.101 or § 248.201 of this chapter, with respect to loans insured in connection with plans of action under subparts B or C of part 248 of this chapter. 


*Equity* means, for purpose of subparts E and F of this part only, the difference between the fair market value of the project as determined by the Commissioner and the outstanding indebtedness relating to the property. 


*Equity Loan* means a loan or advance of credit to the owner of an eligible low income housing project which is made for the purpose of implementing a plan of action approved in accordance with part 248 of this chapter. 


*Extension preservation equity* has the same meaning as provided at § 248.101 of this chapter. 


*Limited equity cooperative* means a tenant cooperative corporation which, in a manner acceptable to the Commissioner, restricts the initial and resale price of the shares of stock in the cooperative corporation so that the shares remain affordable to low-income families and moderate income families.


*Low-income families* has the same meaning as provided at § 248.101 of this chapter. 


*Moderate income families* has the same meaning as provided at § 248.101 of this chapter. 


*Plan of action* has the same meaning as provided at § 248.101 or § 248.201 of this chapter. 


*Preservation equity* has the same meaning as provided at § 248.101 of this chapter. 


*Priority purchaser* has the same meaning as provided at § 248.101 of this chapter. 


*Qualified Purchaser* has the same meaning as provided at § 248.101 of this chapter.




