# § 1.2110   Designated entities.

(a) Designated entities are small businesses (including businesses owned by members of minority groups and/or women), rural telephone companies, and eligible rural service providers.


(b) *Eligibility for small business and entrepreneur provisions*— (1) *Size attribution.* (i) The gross revenues of the applicant (or licensee), its affiliates, its controlling interests, and the affiliates of its controlling interests shall be attributed to the applicant (or licensee) and considered on a cumulative basis and aggregated for purposes of determining whether the applicant (or licensee) is eligible for status as a small business, very small business, or entrepreneur, as those terms are defined in the service-specific rules. An applicant seeking status as a small business, very small business, or entrepreneur, as those terms are defined in the service-specific rules, must disclose on its short- and long-form applications, separately and in the aggregate, the gross revenues for each of the previous three years of the applicant (or licensee), its affiliates, its controlling interests, and the affiliates of its controlling interests.


(ii) If applicable, pursuant to § 24.709 of this chapter, the total assets of the applicant (or licensee), its affiliates, its controlling interests, and the affiliates of its controlling interests shall be attributed to the applicant (or licensee) and considered on a cumulative basis and aggregated for purposes of determining whether the applicant (or licensee) is eligible for status as an entrepreneur. An applicant seeking status as an entrepreneur must disclose on its short- and long-form applications, separately and in the aggregate, the gross revenues for each of the previous two years of the applicant (or licensee), its affiliates, its controlling interests, and the affiliates of its controlling interests.


(2) *Aggregation of affiliate interests.* Persons or entities that hold interests in an applicant (or licensee) that are affiliates of each other or have an identity of interests identified in § 1.2110(c)(5)(iii) will be treated as though they were one person or entity and their ownership interests aggregated for purposes of determining an applicant's (or licensee's) compliance with the requirements of this section.


(3) *Standard for evaluating eligibility for small business benefits.* To be eligible for small business benefits:


(i) An applicant must meet the applicable small business size standard in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, and


(ii) Must retain *de jure* and *de facto* control over the spectrum associated with the license(s) for which it seeks small business benefits. An applicant or licensee may lose eligibility for size-based benefits for one or more licenses without losing general eligibility for size-based benefits so long as it retains *de jure* and *de facto* control of its overall business.


(4) *Exceptions*—(i) *Consortium.* Where an applicant to participate in bidding for Commission licenses or permits is a consortium of entities eligible for size-based bidding credits and/or closed bidding based on gross revenues and/or total assets, the gross revenues and/or total assets of each consortium member shall not be aggregated. Where an applicant to participate in bidding for Commission licenses or permits is a consortium of entities eligible for rural service provider bidding credits pursuant to paragraph (f)(4) of this section, the subscribers of each consortium member shall not be aggregated. Each consortium member must constitute a separate and distinct legal entity to qualify for this exception. Consortia that are winning bidders using this exception must comply with the requirements of § 1.2107(g) of this chapter as a condition of license grant.


(ii) Applicants without identifiable controlling interests. Where an applicant (or licensee) cannot identify controlling interests under the standards set forth in this section, the gross revenues of all interest holders in the applicant, and their affiliates, will be attributable. 


(iii) *Rural telephone cooperatives.* (A)(*1*) An applicant will be exempt from § 1.2110(c)(2)(ii)(F) for the purpose of attribution in § 1.2110(b)(1), if the applicant or a controlling interest in the applicant, as the case may be, meets all of the following conditions:


(*i*) The applicant (or the controlling interest) is organized as a cooperative pursuant to state law;


(*ii*) The applicant (or the controlling interest) is a “rural telephone company” as defined by the Communications Act; and


(*iii*) The applicant (or the controlling interest) demonstrates either that it is eligible for tax-exempt status under the Internal Revenue Code or that it adheres to the cooperative principles articulated in *Puget Sound Plywood, Inc.* v. *Commissioner of Internal Revenue,* 44 T.C. 305 (1965).


(*2*) If the condition in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(A)(*1*)(*i*) above cannot be met because the relevant jurisdiction has not enacted an organic statute that specifies requirements for organization as a cooperative, the applicant must show that it is validly organized and its articles of incorporation, by-laws, and/or other relevant organic documents provide that it operates pursuant to cooperative principles.


(B) However, if the applicant is not an eligible rural telephone cooperative under paragraph (a) of this section, and the applicant has a controlling interest other than the applicant's officers and directors or an eligible rural telephone cooperative's officers and directors, paragraph (a) of this section applies with respect to the applicant's officers and directors and such controlling interest's officers and directors only when such controlling interest is either: 


(*1*) An eligible rural telephone cooperative under paragraph (a) of this section or 


(*2*) controlled by an eligible rural telephone cooperative under paragraph (a) of this section. 


(c) *Definitions*—(1) *Small businesses.* The Commission will establish the definition of a small business on a service-specific basis, taking into consideration the characteristics and capital requirements of the particular service. 


(2) *Controlling interests.* (i) For purposes of this section, controlling interest includes individuals or entities with either *de jure* or *de facto* control of the applicant. *De jure* control is evidenced by holdings of greater than 50 percent of the voting stock of a corporation, or in the case of a partnership, general partnership interests. *De facto* control is determined on a case-by-case basis. An entity must disclose its equity interest and demonstrate at least the following indicia of control to establish that it retains *de facto* control of the applicant: 


(A) The entity constitutes or appoints more than 50 percent of the board of directors or management committee; 


(B) The entity has authority to appoint, promote, demote, and fire senior executives that control the day-to-day activities of the licensee; and 


(C) The entity plays an integral role in management decisions. 


(ii) *Calculation of certain interests.* (A) *Fully diluted requirement.* (*1*) Except as set forth in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A)(*2*) of this section, ownership interests shall be calculated on a fully diluted basis; all agreements such as warrants, stock options and convertible debentures will generally be treated as if the rights thereunder already have been fully exercised. 


(*2*) Rights of first refusal and put options shall not be calculated on a fully diluted basis for purposes of determining *de jure* control; however, rights of first refusal and put options shall be calculated on a fully diluted basis if such ownership interests, in combination with other terms to an agreement, deprive an otherwise qualified applicant or licensee of *de facto* control. 


(B) Partnership and other ownership interests and any stock interest equity, or outstanding stock, or outstanding voting stock shall be attributed as specified. 


(C) Stock interests held in trust shall be attributed to any person who holds or shares the power to vote such stock, to any person who has the sole power to sell such stock, and to any person who has the right to revoke the trust at will or to replace the trustee at will. If the trustee has a familial, personal, or extra-trust business relationship to the grantor or the beneficiary, the grantor or beneficiary, as appropriate, will be attributed with the stock interests held in trust. 


(D) Non-voting stock shall be attributed as an interest in the issuing entity. 


(E) Limited partnership interests shall be attributed to limited partners and shall be calculated according to both the percentage of equity paid in and the percentage of distribution of profits and losses. 


(F) Officers and directors of the applicant shall be considered to have a controlling interest in the applicant. The officers and directors of an entity that controls a licensee or applicant shall be considered to have a controlling interest in the licensee or applicant. The personal net worth, including personal income of the officers and directors of an applicant, is not attributed to the applicant. To the extent that the officers and directors of an applicant are affiliates of other entities, the gross revenues of the other entities are attributed to the applicant. 


(G) Ownership interests that are held indirectly by any party through one or more intervening corporations will be determined by successive multiplication of the ownership percentages for each link in the vertical ownership chain and application of the relevant attribution benchmark to the resulting product, except that if the ownership percentage for an interest in any link in the chain exceeds 50 percent or represents actual control, it shall be treated as if it were a 100 percent interest. 


(H) Any person who manages the operations of an applicant or licensee pursuant to a management agreement shall be considered to have a controlling interest in such applicant or licensee if such person, or its affiliate, has authority to make decisions or otherwise engage in practices or activities that determine, or significantly influence: 


(*1*) The nature or types of services offered by such an applicant or licensee; 


(*2*) The terms upon which such services are offered; or 


(*3*) The prices charged for such services. 


(I) Any licensee or its affiliate who enters into a joint marketing arrangement with an applicant or licensee, or its affiliate, shall be considered to have a controlling interest, if such applicant or licensee, or its affiliate, has authority to make decisions or otherwise engage in practices or activities that determine, or significantly influence: 


(*1*) The nature or types of services offered by such an applicant or licensee; 


(*2*) The terms upon which such services are offered; or 


(*3*) The prices charged for such services. 


(J) In addition to the provisions of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (f)(4)(i)(C) of this section, for purposes of determining an applicant's or licensee's eligibility for bidding credits for designated entity benefits, the gross revenues (or, in the case of a rural service provider under paragraph (f)(4) of this section, the subscribers) of any disclosable interest holder of an applicant or licensee are also attributable to the applicant or licensee, on a license-by-license basis, if the disclosable interest holder uses, or has an agreement to use, more than 25 percent of the spectrum capacity of a license awarded with bidding credits. For purposes of this provision, a disclosable interest holder in a designated entity applicant or licensee is defined as any individual or entity holding a ten percent or greater interest of any kind in the designated entity, including but not limited to, a ten percent or greater interest in any class of stock, warrants, options or debt securities in the applicant or licensee. This rule, however, shall not cause a disclosable interest holder, which is not otherwise a controlling interest, affiliate, or an affiliate of a controlling interest of a rural service provider to have the disclosable interest holder's subscribers become attributable to the rural service provider applicant or licensee when the disclosable interest holder has a spectrum use agreement to use more than 25 percent of the spectrum capacity of a license awarded with a rural service provider bidding credit, so long as


*(1)* The disclosable interest holder is independently eligible for a rural service provider bidding credit, and;


*(2)* The disclosable interest holder's spectrum use and any spectrum use agreements are otherwise permissible under the Commission's rules.


(3) *Businesses owned by members of minority groups and/or women.* Unless otherwise provided in rules governing specific services, a business owned by members of minority groups and/or women is one in which minorities and/or women who are U.S. citizens control the applicant, have at least greater than 50 percent equity ownership and, in the case of a corporate applicant, have a greater than 50 percent voting interest. For applicants that are partnerships, every general partner must be either a minority and/or woman (or minorities and/or women) who are U.S. citizens and who individually or together own at least 50 percent of the partnership equity, or an entity that is 100 percent owned and controlled by minorities and/or women who are U.S. citizens. The interests of minorities and women are to be calculated on a fully diluted basis; agreements such as stock options and convertible debentures shall be considered to have a present effect on the power to control an entity and shall be treated as if the rights thereunder already have been fully exercised. However, upon a demonstration that options or conversion rights held by non-controlling principals will not deprive the minority and female principals of a substantial financial stake in the venture or impair their rights to control the designated entity, a designated entity may seek a waiver of the requirement that the equity of the minority and female principals must be calculated on a fully-diluted basis. The term minority includes individuals of Black or African American, Hispanic or Latino, American Indian or Alaskan Native, Asian, and Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander extraction. 


(4) *Rural telephone companies.* A rural telephone company is any local exchange carrier operating entity to the extent that such entity— 


(i) Provides common carrier service to any local exchange carrier study area that does not include either: 


(A) Any incorporated place of 10,000 inhabitants or more, or any part thereof, based on the most recently available population statistics of the Bureau of the Census, or 


(B) Any territory, incorporated or unincorporated, included in an urbanized area, as defined by the Bureau of the Census as of August 10, 1993; 


(ii) Provides telephone exchange service, including exchange access, to fewer than 50,000 access lines; 


(iii) Provides telephone exchange service to any local exchange carrier study area with fewer than 100,000 access lines; or 


(iv) Has less than 15 percent of its access lines in communities of more than 50,000 on the date of enactment of the Telecommunications Act of 1996. 


(5) *Affiliate.* (i) An individual or entity is an affiliate of an applicant or of a person holding an attributable interest in an applicant if such individual or entity— 


(A) Directly or indirectly controls or has the power to control the applicant, or 


(B) Is directly or indirectly controlled by the applicant, or 


(C) Is directly or indirectly controlled by a third party or parties that also controls or has the power to control the applicant, or 


(D) Has an “identity of interest” with the applicant. 


(ii) Nature of control in determining affiliation. 


(A) Every business concern is considered to have one or more parties who directly or indirectly control or have the power to control it. Control may be affirmative or negative and it is immaterial whether it is exercised so long as the power to control exists.


(B) Control can arise through stock ownership; occupancy of director, officer or key employee positions; contractual or other business relations; or combinations of these and other factors. A key employee is an employee who, because of his/her position in the concern, has a critical influence in or substantive control over the operations or management of the concern. 


(C) Control can arise through management positions where a concern's voting stock is so widely distributed that no effective control can be established. 


(iii) *Identity of interest between and among persons.* Affiliation can arise between or among two or more persons with an identity of interest, such as members of the same family or persons with common investments. In determining if the applicant controls or has the power to control a concern, persons with an identity of interest will be treated as though they were one person.


(A) *Spousal affiliation.* Both spouses are deemed to own or control or have the power to control interests owned or controlled by either of them, unless they are subject to a legal separation recognized by a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States. In calculating their net worth, investors who are legally separated must include their share of interests in property held jointly with a spouse. 


(B) *Kinship affiliation.* Immediate family members will be presumed to own or control or have the power to control interests owned or controlled by other immediate family members. In this context “immediate family member” means father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, father- or mother-in-law, son- or daughter-in-law, brother- or sister-in-law, step-father or -mother, step-brother or -sister, step-son or -daughter, half brother or sister. This presumption may be rebutted by showing that the family members are estranged, the family ties are remote, or the family members are not closely involved with each other in business matters.


(iv) *Affiliation through stock ownership.* (A) An applicant is presumed to control or have the power to control a concern if he or she owns or controls or has the power to control 50 percent or more of its voting stock. 


(B) An applicant is presumed to control or have the power to control a concern even though he or she owns, controls or has the power to control less than 50 percent of the concern's voting stock, if the block of stock he or she owns, controls or has the power to control is large as compared with any other outstanding block of stock. 


(C) If two or more persons each owns, controls or has the power to control less than 50 percent of the voting stock of a concern, such minority holdings are equal or approximately equal in size, and the aggregate of these minority holdings is large as compared with any other stock holding, the presumption arises that each one of these persons individually controls or has the power to control the concern; however, such presumption may be rebutted by a showing that such control or power to control, in fact, does not exist. 


(v) Affiliation arising under stock options, convertible debentures, and agreements to merge. Except as set forth in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A)(*2*) of this section, stock options, convertible debentures, and agreements to merge (including agreements in principle) are generally considered to have a present effect on the power to control the concern. Therefore, in making a size determination, such options, debentures, and agreements are generally treated as though the rights held thereunder had been exercised. However, an affiliate cannot use such options and debentures to appear to terminate its control over another concern before it actually does so.


(vi) *Affiliation under voting trusts.* (A) Stock interests held in trust shall be deemed controlled by any person who holds or shares the power to vote such stock, to any person who has the sole power to sell such stock, and to any person who has the right to revoke the trust at will or to replace the trustee at will. 


(B) If a trustee has a familial, personal or extra-trust business relationship to the grantor or the beneficiary, the stock interests held in trust will be deemed controlled by the grantor or beneficiary, as appropriate. 


(C) If the primary purpose of a voting trust, or similar agreement, is to separate voting power from beneficial ownership of voting stock for the purpose of shifting control of or the power to control a concern in order that such concern or another concern may meet the Commission's size standards, such voting trust shall not be considered valid for this purpose regardless of whether it is or is not recognized within the appropriate jurisdiction. 


(vii) *Affiliation through common management.* Affiliation generally arises where officers, directors, or key employees serve as the majority or otherwise as the controlling element of the board of directors and/or the management of another entity. 


(viii) *Affiliation through common facilities.* Affiliation generally arises where one concern shares office space and/or employees and/or other facilities with another concern, particularly where such concerns are in the same or related industry or field of operations, or where such concerns were formerly affiliated, and through these sharing arrangements one concern has control, or potential control, of the other concern. 


(ix) *Affiliation through contractual relationships.* Affiliation generally arises where one concern is dependent upon another concern for contracts and business to such a degree that one concern has control, or potential control, of the other concern. 


(x) *Affiliation under joint venture arrangements.* (A) A joint venture for size determination purposes is an association of concerns and/or individuals, with interests in any degree or proportion, formed by contract, express or implied, to engage in and carry out a single, specific business venture for joint profit for which purpose they combine their efforts, property, money, skill and knowledge, but not on a continuing or permanent basis for conducting business generally. The determination whether an entity is a joint venture is based upon the facts of the business operation, regardless of how the business operation may be designated by the parties involved. An agreement to share profits/losses proportionate to each party's contribution to the business operation is a significant factor in determining whether the business operation is a joint venture. 


(B) The parties to a joint venture are considered to be affiliated with each other. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to define a small business consortium, for purposes of determining status as a designated entity, as a joint venture under attribution standards provided in this section. 


(xi) *Exclusion from affiliation coverage.* For purposes of this section, Indian tribes or Alaska Regional or Village Corporations organized pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*), or entities owned and controlled by such tribes or corporations, are not considered affiliates of an applicant (or licensee) that is owned and controlled by such tribes, corporations or entities, and that otherwise complies with the requirements of this section, except that gross revenues derived from gaming activities conducted by affiliate entities pursuant to the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2701 *et seq.*) will be counted in determining such applicant's (or licensee's) compliance with the financial requirements of this section, unless such applicant establishes that it will not receive a substantial unfair competitive advantage because significant legal constraints restrict the applicant's ability to access such gross revenues.


(6) *Consortium.* A consortium of small businesses, very small businesses, entrepreneurs, or rural service providers is a conglomerate organization composed of two or more entities, each of which individually satisfies the definition of a small business, very small business, entrepreneur, or rural service provider as those terms are defined in this section and in applicable service-specific rules. Each individual member must constitute a separate and distinct legal entity to qualify.


(d) The Commission may set aside specific licenses for which only eligible designated entities, as specified by the Commission, may bid.


(e) The Commission may permit partitioning of service areas in particular services for eligible designated entities.


(f) *Bidding credits.* (1) The Commission may award bidding credits (*i.e.,* payment discounts) to eligible designated entities. Competitive bidding rules applicable to individual services will specify the designated entities eligible for bidding credits, the licenses for which bidding credits are available, the amounts of bidding credits and other procedures.


(2) *Small business bidding credits.*—(i) *Size of bidding credits.* A winning bidder that qualifies as a small business, and has not claimed a rural service provider bidding credit pursuant to paragraph (f)(4) of this section, may use the following bidding credits corresponding to its respective average gross revenues for the preceding 3 years:


(A) Businesses with average gross revenues for the preceding 3 years not exceeding $4 million are eligible for bidding credits of 35 percent;


(B) Businesses with average gross revenues for the preceding 3 years not exceeding $20 million are eligible for bidding credits of 25 percent; and


(C) Businesses with average gross revenues for the preceding 3 years not exceeding $55 million are eligible for bidding credits of 15 percent.


(ii) *Cap on winning bid discount.* A maximum total discount that a winning bidder that is eligible for a small business bidding credit may receive will be established on an auction-by-auction basis. The limit on the discount that a winning bidder that is eligible for a small business bidding credit may receive in any particular auction will be no less than $25 million. The Commission may adopt a market-based cap on an auction-by-auction basis that would establish an overall limit on the discount that a small business may receive for certain license areas.


(3) *Bidding credit for serving qualifying tribal land.* A winning bidder for a market will be eligible to receive a bidding credit for serving a qualifying tribal land within that market, provided that it complies with § 1.2107(e). The following definition, terms, and conditions shall apply for the purposes of this section and § 1.2107(e): 


(i) Qualifying tribal land means any federally recognized Indian tribe's reservation, Pueblo, or Colony, including former reservations in Oklahoma, Alaska Native regions established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688), and Indian allotments, that has a wireline telephone subscription rate equal to or less than eighty-five (85) percent based on the most recently available U.S. Census Data.


(ii) *Certification.* (A) Within 180 days after the filing deadline for long-form applications, the winning bidder must amend its long-form application and attach a certification from the tribal government stating the following:


(*1*) The tribal government authorizes the winning bidder to site facilities and provide service on its tribal land;


(*2*) The tribal area to be served by the winning bidder constitutes qualifying tribal land; and


(*3*) The tribal government has not and will not enter into an exclusive contract with the applicant precluding entry by other carriers, and will not unreasonably discriminate among wireless carriers seeking to provide service on the qualifying tribal land.


(B) In addition, within 180 days after the filing deadline for long-form applications, the winning bidder must amend its long-form application and file a certification that it will comply with the construction requirements set forth in paragraph (f)(3)(vii) of this section and consult with the tribal government regarding the siting of facilities and deployment of service on the tribal land.


(C) If the winning bidder fails to submit the required certifications within the 180-day period, the bidding credit will not be awarded, and the winning bidder must pay any outstanding balance on its winning bid amount.


(iii) *Bidding credit formula.* Subject to the applicable bidding credit limit set forth in § 1.2110(f)(3)(iv), the bidding credit shall equal five hundred thousand (500,000) dollars for the first two hundred (200) square miles (518 square kilometers) of qualifying tribal land, and twenty-five hundred (2500) dollars for each additional square mile (2.590 square kilometers) of qualifying tribal land above two hundred (200) square miles (518 square kilometers).


(iv) *Bidding credit limit.* If the high bid is equal to or less than one million (1,000,000) dollars, the maximum bidding credit calculated pursuant to § 1.2110(f)(3)(iii) shall not exceed fifty (50) percent of the high bid. If the high bid is greater than one million (1,000,000) dollars, but equal to or less than two million (2,000,000) dollars, the maximum bidding credit calculated pursuant to § 1.2110(f)(3)(iii) shall not exceed five hundred thousand (500,000) dollars. If the high bid is greater than two million (2,000,000) dollars, the maximum bidding credit calculated pursuant to § 1.2110(f)(3)(iii) shall not exceed thirty-five (35) percent of the high bid.


(v) *Bidding credit limit in auctions subject to specified reserve price(s).* In any auction of eligible frequencies described in section 113(g)(2) of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization Act (47 U.S.C. 923(g)(2) with reserve price(s) and in any auction with reserve price(s) in which the Commission specifies that this provision shall apply, the aggregate amount available to be awarded as bidding credits for serving qualifying tribal land with respect to all licenses subject to a reserve price shall not exceed the amount by which winning bids for those licenses net of discounts the Commission takes into account when reporting net bids in the Public Notice closing the auction exceed the applicable reserve price. If the total amount that might be awarded as tribal land bidding credits based on applications for all licenses subject to the reserve price exceeds the aggregate amount available to be awarded, the Commission will award eligible applicants a pro rata tribal land bidding credit. The Commission may determine at any time that the total amount that might be awarded as tribal land bidding credits is less than the aggregate amount available to be awarded and grant full tribal land bidding credits to relevant applicants, including any that previously received pro rata tribal land bidding credits. To determine the amount of an applicant's pro rata tribal land bidding credit, the Commission will multiply the full amount of the tribal land bidding credit for which the applicant would be eligible excepting this limitation ((f)(3)(v)) of this section by a fraction, consisting of a numerator in the amount by which winning bids for licenses subject to the reserve price net of discounts the Commission takes into account when reporting net bids in the Public Notice closing the auction exceed the reserve price and a denominator in the amount of the aggregate maximum tribal land bidding credits for which applicants for such licenses might have qualified excepting this limitation ((f)(3)(v)) of this section. When determining the aggregate maximum tribal land bidding credits for which applicants for such licenses might have qualified, the Commission shall assume that any applicant seeking a tribal land bidding credit on its long-form application will be eligible for the largest tribal land bidding credit possible for its bid for its license excepting this limitation ((f)(3)(v)) of this section. After all applications seeking a tribal land bidding credit with respect to licenses covered by a reserve price have been finally resolved, the Commission will recalculate the pro rata credit. For these purposes, final determination of a credit occurs only after any review or reconsideration of the award of such credit has been concluded and no opportunity remains for further review or reconsideration. To recalculate an applicant's pro rata tribal land bidding credit, the Commission will multiply the full amount of the tribal land bidding credit for which the applicant would be eligible excepting this limitation ((f)(3)(v)) of this section by a fraction, consisting of a numerator in the amount by which winning bids for licenses subject to the reserve price net of discounts the Commission takes into account when reporting net bids in the Public Notice closing the auction exceed the reserve price and a denominator in the amount of the aggregate amount of tribal land bidding credits for which all applicants for such licenses would have qualified excepting this limitation ((f)(3)(v)) of this section.


(vi) *Application of credit.* A pending request for a bidding credit for serving qualifying tribal land has no effect on a bidder's obligations to make any auction payments, including down and final payments on winning bids, prior to award of the bidding credit by the Commission. Tribal land bidding credits will be calculated and awarded prior to license grant. If the Commission grants an applicant a pro rata tribal land bidding credit prior to license grant, as provided by paragraph (f)(3)(v) of this section, the Commission shall recalculate the applicant's pro rata tribal land bidding credit after all applications seeking tribal land biddings for licenses subject to the same reserve price have been finally resolved. If a recalculated tribal land bidding credit is larger than the previously awarded pro rata tribal land bidding credit, the Commission will award the difference.


(vii) *Post-construction certification.* Within fifteen (15) days of the third anniversary of the initial grant of its license, a recipient of a bidding credit under this section shall file a certification that the recipient has constructed and is operating a system capable of serving seventy-five (75) percent of the population of the qualifying tribal land for which the credit was awarded. The recipient must provide the total population of the tribal area covered by its license as well as the number of persons that it is serving in the tribal area.


(viii) *Performance penalties.* If a recipient of a bidding credit under this section fails to provide the post-construction certification required by paragraph (f)(3)(vii) of this section, then it shall repay the bidding credit amount in its entirety, plus interest. The interest will be based on the rate for ten-year U.S. Treasury obligations applicable on the date the license is granted. Such payment shall be made within thirty (30) days of the third anniversary of the initial grant of its license. Failure to repay the bidding credit amount and interest within the required time period will result in automatic termination of the license without specific Commission action. Repayment of bidding credit amounts pursuant to this provision shall not affect the calculation of amounts available to be awarded as tribal land bidding credits pursuant to (f)(3)(v) of this section.


(4) *Rural service provider bidding credit*—(i) *Eligibility.* A winning bidder that qualifies as a rural service provider and has not claimed a small business bidding credit pursuant to paragraph (f)(2) of this section will be eligible to receive a 15 percent bidding credit. For the purposes of this paragraph, a rural service provider means a service provider that—


(A) Is in the business of providing commercial communications services and together with its controlling interests, affiliates, and the affiliates of its controlling interests as those terms are defined in paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(5) of this section, has fewer than 250,000 combined wireless, wireline, broadband, and cable subscribers as of the date of the short-form filing deadline; and


(B) Serves predominantly rural areas, defined as counties with a population density of 100 or fewer persons per square mile.


(C) *Size attribution. (1)* The combined wireless, wireline, broadband, and cable subscribers of the applicant (or licensee), its affiliates, its controlling interests, and the affiliates of its controlling interests shall be attributed to the applicant (or licensee) and considered on a cumulative basis and aggregated for purposes of determining whether the applicant (or licensee) is eligible for the rural service provider bidding credit.


*(2) Exception.* For rural partnerships providing service as of July 16, 2015, the Commission will determine eligibility for the 15 percent rural service provider bidding credit by evaluating whether the individual members of the rural partnership individually have fewer than 250,000 combined wireless, wireline, broadband, and cable subscribers, and for those types of rural partnerships, the subscribers will not be aggregated.


(ii) *Cap on winning bid discount.* A maximum total discount that a winning bidder that is eligible for a rural service provider bidding credit may receive will be established on an auction-by-auction basis. The limit on the discount that a winning bidder that is eligible for a rural service provider bidding credit may receive in any particular auction will be no less than $10 million. The Commission may adopt a market-based cap on an auction-by-auction basis that would establish an overall limit on the discount that a rural service provider may receive for certain license areas.


(g) *Installment payments.* The Commission may permit small businesses (including small businesses owned by women, minorities, or rural telephone companies that qualify as small businesses) and other entities determined to be eligible on a service-specific basis, which are high bidders for licenses specified by the Commission, to pay the full amount of their high bids in installments over the term of their licenses pursuant to the following:


(1) Unless otherwise specified by public notice, each eligible applicant paying for its license(s) on an installment basis must deposit by wire transfer in the manner specified in § 1.2107(b) sufficient additional funds as are necessary to bring its total deposits to ten (10) percent of its winning bid(s) within ten (10) days after the Commission has declared it the winning bidder and closed the bidding. Failure to remit the required payment will make the bidder liable to pay a default payment pursuant to § 1.2104(g)(2).


(2) Within ten (10) days of the conditional grant of the license application of a winning bidder eligible for installment payments, the licensee shall pay another ten (10) percent of the high bid, thereby commencing the eligible licensee's installment payment plan. If a winning bidder eligible for installment payments fails to submit this additional ten (10) percent of its high bid by the applicable deadline as specified by the Commission, it will be allowed to make payment within ten (10) business days after the payment deadline, provided that it also pays a late fee equal to five percent of the amount due. When a winning bidder eligible for installment payments fails to submit this additional ten (10) percent of its winning bid, plus the late fee, by the late payment deadline, it is considered to be in default on its license(s) and subject to the applicable default payments. Licenses will be awarded upon the full and timely payment of second down payments and any applicable late fees.


(3) Upon grant of the license, the Commission will notify each eligible licensee of the terms of its installment payment plan and that it must execute a promissory note and security agreement as a condition of the installment payment plan. Unless other terms are specified in the rules of particular services, such plans will:


(i) Impose interest based on the rate of U.S. Treasury obligations (with maturities closest to the duration of the license term) at the time of licensing;


(ii) Allow installment payments for the full license term;


(iii) Begin with interest-only payments for the first two years; and


(iv) Amortize principal and interest over the remaining term of the license.


(4) A license granted to an eligible entity that elects installment payments shall be conditioned upon the full and timely performance of the licensee's payment obligations under the installment plan. 


(i) Any licensee that fails to submit its quarterly payment on an installment payment obligation (the “Required Installment Payment”) may submit such payment on or before the last day of the next quarter (the “first additional quarter”) without being considered delinquent. Any licensee making its Required Installment Payment during this period (the “first additional quarter grace period”) will be assessed a late payment fee equal to five percent (5%) of the amount of the past due Required Installment Payment. The late payment fee applies to the total Required Installment Payment regardless of whether the licensee submitted a portion of its Required Installment Payment in a timely manner. 


(ii) If any licensee fails to make the Required Installment Payment on or before the last day of the first additional quarter set forth in paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section, the licensee may submit its Required Installment Payment on or before the last day of the next quarter (the “second additional quarter”), except that no such additional time will be provided for the July 31, 1998 suspension interest and installment payments from C or F block licensees that are not made within 90 days of the payment resumption date for those licensees, as explained in Amendment of the Commission's Rules Regarding Installment Payment Financing for Personal Communications Services (PCS) Licensees, *Order on Reconsideration of the Second Report and Order,* WT Docket No. 97-82, 13 FCC Rcd 8345 (1998). Any licensee making the Required Installment Payment during the second additional quarter (the “second additional quarter grace period”) will be assessed a late payment fee equal to ten percent (10%) of the amount of the past due Required Installment Payment. Licensees shall not be required to submit any form of request in order to take advantage of the first and second additional quarter grace periods. 


(iii) All licensees that avail themselves of these grace periods must pay the associated late payment fee(s) and the Required Installment Payment prior to the conclusion of the applicable additional quarter grace period(s). Payments made at the close of any grace period(s) will first be applied to satisfy any lender advances as required under each licensee's “Note and Security Agreement,” with the remainder of such payments applied in the following order: late payment fees, interest charges, installment payments for the most back-due quarterly installment payment. 


(iv) If an eligible entity obligated to make installment payments fails to pay the total Required Installment Payment, interest and any late payment fees associated with the Required Installment Payment within two quarters (6 months) of the Required Installment Payment due date, it shall be in default, its license shall automatically cancel, and it will be subject to debt collection procedures. A licensee in the PCS C or F blocks shall be in default, its license shall automatically cancel, and it will be subject to debt collection procedures, if the payment due on the payment resumption date, referenced in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this section, is more than ninety (90) days delinquent. 


(h) The Commission may establish different upfront payment requirements for categories of designated entities in competitive bidding rules of particular auctionable services.


(i) The Commission may offer designated entities a combination of the available preferences or additional preferences.


(j) Designated entities must describe on their long-form applications how they satisfy the requirements for eligibility for designated entity status, and must list and summarize on their long-form applications all agreements that affect designated entity status such as partnership agreements, shareholder agreements, management agreements, spectrum leasing arrangements, spectrum resale (including wholesale) arrangements, spectrum use agreements, and all other agreements including oral agreements, establishing as applicable, *de facto* or *de jure* control of the entity. Designated entities also must provide the date(s) on which they entered into each of the agreements listed. In addition, designated entities must file with their long-form applications a copy of each such agreement. In order to enable the Commission to audit designated entity eligibility on an ongoing basis, designated entities that are awarded eligibility must, for the term of the license, maintain at their facilities or with their designated agents the lists, summaries, dates and copies of agreements required to be identified and provided to the Commission pursuant to this paragraph and to § 1.2114.


(k) The Commission may, on a service-specific basis, permit consortia, each member of which individually meets the eligibility requirements, to qualify for any designated entity provisions.


(l) The Commission may, on a service-specific basis, permit publicly-traded companies that are owned by members of minority groups or women to qualify for any designated entity provisions.


(m) *Audits.* (1) Applicants and licensees claiming eligibility shall be subject to audits by the Commission, using in-house and contract resources. Selection for audit may be random, on information, or on the basis of other factors. 


(2) Consent to such audits is part of the certification included in the short-form application (FCC Form 175). Such consent shall include consent to the audit of the applicant's or licensee's books, documents and other material (including accounting procedures and practices) regardless of form or type, sufficient to confirm that such applicant's or licensee's representations are, and remain, accurate. Such consent shall include inspection at all reasonable times of the facilities, or parts thereof, engaged in providing and transacting business, or keeping records regarding FCC-licensed service and shall also include consent to the interview of principals, employees, customers and suppliers of the applicant or licensee.


(n) *Annual reports.* (1) Each designated entity licensee must file with the Commission an annual report no later than September 30 of each year for each license it holds that was acquired using designated entity benefits and that, as of August 31 of the year in which the report is due (the “cut-off date”), remains subject to designated entity unjust enrichment requirements (a “designated entity license”). The annual report must provide the information described in paragraph (n)(2) of this section for the year ending on the cut-off date (the “reporting year”). If, during the reporting year, a designated entity has assigned or transferred a designated entity license to another designated entity, the designated entity that holds the designated entity license on September 30 of the year in which the application for the transaction is filed is responsible for filing the annual report.


(2) The annual report shall include, at a minimum, a list and summaries of all agreements and arrangements (including proposed agreements and arrangements) that relate to eligibility for designated entity benefits. In addition to a summary of each agreement or arrangement, this list must include the parties (including affiliates, controlling interests, and affiliates of controlling interests) to each agreement or arrangement, as well as the dates on which the parties entered into each agreement or arrangement.


(3) A designated entity need not list and summarize on its annual report the agreements and arrangements otherwise required to be included under paragraphs (n)(1) and (n)(2) of this section if it has already filed that information with the Commission, and the information on file remains current. In such a situation, the designated entity must instead include in its annual report both the ULS file number of the report or application containing the current information and the date on which that information was filed.


(o) *Gross revenues.* Gross revenues shall mean all income received by an entity, whether earned or passive, before any deductions are made for costs of doing business (e.g., cost of goods sold), as evidenced by audited financial statements for the relevant number of most recently completed calendar years or, if audited financial statements were not prepared on a calendar-year basis, for the most recently completed fiscal years preceding the filing of the applicant's short-form (FCC Form 175). If an entity was not in existence for all or part of the relevant period, gross revenues shall be evidenced by the audited financial statements of the entity's predecessor-in-interest or, if there is no identifiable predecessor-in-interest, unaudited financial statements certified by the applicant as accurate. When an applicant does not otherwise use audited financial statements, its gross revenues may be certified by its chief financial officer or its equivalent and must be prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.


(p) *Total assets.* Total assets shall mean the book value (except where generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) require market valuation) of all property owned by an entity, whether real or personal, tangible or intangible, as evidenced by the most recently audited financial statements or certified by the applicant's chief financial offer or its equivalent if the applicant does not otherwise use audited financial statements.



---

[N] [63 FR 2343, Jan. 15, 1998; 63 FR 12659, Mar. 16, 1998, as amended at 63 FR 17122, Apr. 8, 1998; 65 FR 47355, Aug. 2, 2000; 65 FR 52345, Aug. 29, 2000; 65 FR 68924, Nov. 15, 2000; 67 FR 16650, Apr. 8, 2002; 67 FR 45365, July 9, 2002; 68 FR 23422, May 2, 2003; 68 FR 42996, July 21, 2003; 69 FR 61321, Oct. 18, 2004; 70 FR 57187, Sept. 30, 2005; 71 FR 6227, Feb. 7, 2006; 71 FR 26251, May 4, 2006; 77 FR 16470, Mar. 21, 2012; 80 FR 56813, Sept. 18, 2015]




