# ยง 76.132   What assurances must be in a consolidated grant application?

(a) An Insular Area shall include in its consolidated grant application assurances to the Secretary that it will:


(1) Follow policies and use administrative practices that will insure that non-Federal funds will not be supplanted by Federal funds made available under the authority of the programs in the consolidated grant;


(2) Comply with the requirements (except those relating to the submission of State plans or similar documents) in the applicable statutes and implementing regulations for the programs under which funds are to be used and administered, (except requirements for matching funds);


(3) Provide for proper and efficient administration of funds in accordance with the authorizing statutes and implementing regulations for those programs under which funds are to be used and administered;


(4) Provide for fiscal control and fund accounting procedures to ensure proper disbursement of, and accounting for, Federal funds received under the consolidated grant;


(5) Submit an annual report to the Secretary containing information covering the program or programs for which the grant is used and administered, including the financial and program performance information required under 2 CFR 200.328 and 200.329.


(6) Provide that funds received under the consolidated grant will be under control of, and that title to property acquired with these funds will be in, a public agency, institution, or organization. The public agency shall administer these funds and property;


(7) Keep records, including a copy of the State Plan or application document under which funds are to be spent, which show how the funds received under the consolidated grant have been spent.


(8) Adopt and use methods of monitoring and providing technical assistance to any agencies, organizations, or institutions that carry out the programs under the consolidated grant and enforce any obligations imposed on them under the applicable statutes and regulations.


(9) Evaluate the effectiveness of these programs in meeting the purposes and objectives in the applicable statutes under which program funds are used and administered;


(10) Conduct evaluations of these programs at intervals and in accordance with procedures the Secretary may prescribe; and


(11) Provide appropriate opportunities for participation by local agencies, representatives of the groups affected by the programs, and other interested institutions, organizations, and individuals in planning and operating the programs.


(b) These assurances remain in effect for the duration of the programs they cover.





---

[N] [47 FR 17421, Apr. 22, 1982, as amended at 64 FR 50392, Sept. 16, 1999; 79 FR 76093, Dec. 19, 2014; 89 FR 70336, Aug. 29, 2024]




