# ยง 105-56.005   Employee response.

(a) *Voluntary repayment agreement.* An employee may submit a request to the appropriate program official who signed the pre-offset notice to enter into a written repayment agreement of the debt in lieu of offset. The request must be made within 7 days of receipt of notice under ยง 105-56.004 of this subpart. The agreement must be in writing, signed by both the employee and the appropriate program official making the notice, and a signed copy must be sent to the appropriate Finance Center serving the program activity. Acceptance of such an agreement is discretionary with the Agency. An employee who enters into such an agreement may, nevertheless, seek a waiver under paragraph (b) of this section. 


(b) *Waiver.* An employee may submit a signed waiver request of overpayment of pay or allowances (e.g., 5 U.S.C. 5584, 10 U.S.C. 2774, or 32 U.S.C. 716) to the GSA National Payroll Center (NPC). When an employee requests waiver consideration, further collection on the debt may be suspended until a final administrative decision is made on the waiver request. During the period of any suspension, interest, penalties and administrative charges may be held in abeyance. GSA will not duplicate, for purposes of salary offset, any of the notices/procedures already provided the debtor prior to a request for waiver. 


(c) *Reconsideration.* (1) An employee may seek a reconsideration of GSA's determination regarding the existence and/or amount of the debt. The request must be submitted to the appropriate program official indicated in the pre-offset notice, within 7 days of receipt of notice under ยง 105-56.004 of this subpart. Within 20 days of receipt of this notice, the employee must submit a detailed statement of reasons for reconsideration that must be accompanied by supporting documentation. 


(2) An employee may request a reconsideration of the proposed offset schedule. The request must be submitted to the appropriate program official indicated in the pre-offset notice, within 7 days of receipt of notice under ยง 105-56.004 of this subpart. Within 20 days of receipt of this notice, the employee must submit an alternative repayment schedule accompanied by a detailed statement, supported by documentation, evidencing financial hardship resulting from GSA's proposed schedule. Acceptance of the request is at GSA's discretion. GSA will notify the employee in writing of its decision concerning the request to reduce the rate of an involuntary deduction. 




