# ยง 51.59   Authority to continue payment of per diem when veterans are relocated due to emergency.

(a) *Definition of emergency.* For the purposes of this section, emergency means an occasion or instance where all of the following are true:


(1) It would be unsafe for veterans receiving care at a State home to remain in that home.


(2) The State is not, or believes that it will not be, able to provide care in the State home on a temporary or long-term basis for any or all of its veteran residents due to a situation involving the State home, and not due to a situation where a particular veteran's medical condition requires that the veteran be transferred to another facility, such as for a period of hospitalization.


(3) The State determines that the veterans must be evacuated to another facility or facilities.


(b) *General authority to pay per diem during a relocation period.* Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, VA will continue to pay per diem for a period not to exceed 30 calendar days for any eligible veteran who resided in a State home, and for whom VA was paying per diem, if such veteran is evacuated during an emergency into a facility other than a VA nursing home, hospital, domiciliary, or other VA site of care if the State is responsible for providing or paying for the care. VA will not pay per diem under this section for more than 30 calendar days of care provided in the evacuation facility, unless the official who approved the emergency response under paragraph (e) of this section determines that it is not reasonably possible to return the veteran to a State home within the 30-calendar-day period, in which case such official will approve additional period(s) of no more than 30 calendar days in accordance with this section. VA will not pay per diem if VA determines that a veteran is or has been placed in a facility that does not meet the standards set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, and VA may recover all per diem paid for the care of the veteran in that facility.


(c) *Selection of evacuation facilities.* The following standards and procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) apply to the selection of an evacuation facility in order for VA to continue to pay per diem during an emergency. These standards and procedures also apply to evacuation facilities when veterans are evacuated from a nursing home in which care is being provided pursuant to a contract under 38 U.S.C. 1720.


(1) Each veteran who is evacuated must be placed in a facility that, at a minimum, will meet the needs for food, shelter, toileting, and essential medical care of that veteran.


(2) For veterans evacuated from nursing homes, the following types of facilities may meet the standards under paragraph (c)(1) of this section:


(i) VA Community Living Centers;


(ii) VA contract nursing homes;


(iii) Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services certified facilities; and


(iv) Licensed nursing homes.


(3) For veterans evacuated from domiciliaries, the following types of facilities may meet the standards in paragraph (c)(1) of this section:


(i) Emergency evacuation facilities identified by the city or State;


(ii) Assisted living facilities; and


(iii) Hotels.


(d) *Applicability to adult day health care programs of care.* Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, VA will continue to pay per diem for a period not to exceed 30 calendar days for any eligible veteran who was receiving adult day health care, and for whom VA was paying per diem, if the adult day health care facility becomes temporarily unavailable due to an emergency. Approval of a temporary program of care for such veteran is subject to paragraph (e) of this section. If after 30 calendar days the veteran cannot return to the adult day health care program in the State home, VA will discontinue per diem payments unless the official who approved the emergency response under paragraph (e) of this section determines that it is not reasonably possible to provide care in the State home or to relocate an eligible veteran to a different recognized or certified facility, in which case such official will approve additional period(s) of no more than 30 calendar days at the temporary program of care in accordance with this section. VA will not pay per diem if VA determines that a veteran was provided adult day health care in a facility that does not meet the standards set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, and VA may recover all per diem paid for the care of the veteran in that facility.


(e) *Approval of response.* Per diem payments will not be made under this section unless and until the Director of the VA medical center of jurisdiction or the director of the VISN in which the State home is located (if the VAMC Director is not capable of doing so) determines, that an emergency exists and that the evacuation facility meets VA standards set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.



---

[N] [83 FR 61276, Nov. 28, 2018]




