# § 3565.351   Project management.

As a condition of the guarantee, the lender is to obtain borrower certification that the project is in compliance with local, state, federal laws and program requirements.


(a) *Regulatory agreement.* A regulatory agreement between the borrower and lender must be executed at the time of loan closing and contain the following covenants:


(1) That it is binding upon the borrower and any of its successors and assigns, as well as upon the lender and any of its successors and assigns, for the duration of the guaranteed loan;


(2) That the borrower makes all payments due under the note and to the required escrow and reserve accounts;


(3) That the borrower maintains the project as affordable housing in accordance with the purposes and for the duration defined in the statute;


(4) That the borrower maintains the project in good physical and financial condition at all times;


(5) That the borrower obtains and maintains property insurance and any other insurance coverage required to protect the security;


(6) That the borrower maintains complete project books and financial records, and provides the Agency and the lender with an annual audited financial statement after the end of each fiscal year;


(7) That the borrower makes project books and records available for review by the Office of Inspector General, Rural Development staff, General Accounting Office, and the Department of Justice, or their representatives or successors upon appropriate notification;


(8) That the borrower prepares and complies with the Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan and all other Fair Housing requirements;


(9) That the borrower operates as a single asset ownership entity, unless otherwise approved by the Agency;


(10) That the borrower complies with applicable federal, state and local laws; and


(11) That the borrower provides management satisfactory to the lender and to the Agency and complies with an approved management plan for the project.


(b) *Management plan.* The lender must approve the borrower's management plan and assure that the borrower is in compliance with Agency standards regarding property management, including the requirements contained in subparts E and F of this part.


(c) *Tenant protection and grievance procedures.* Tenants in properties subject to a guaranteed loan are entitled to the grievance and appeal rights contained in 7 CFR part 3560, subpart D or successor regulation. The borrower must inform tenants in writing of these rights.


(d) *Financial management*—(1) *Borrower reporting requirements.* At a minimum, the lender must obtain, on an annual basis, an audited annual financial statement conducted in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards.


(2) *Lender reporting requirements.* The lender must review the financial reports to assure that the property is in sound fiscal condition and the borrower is in compliance with financial requirements. The lender must report findings to the Agency as follows:


(i) *Annual reports.* The lender must submit to the Agency a copy of the annual financial audit of the project and must report on the nature and status of any findings. To the extent that outstanding findings or issues remain, the lender must submit to the Agency a copy of a plan of action for any unresolved findings.


(ii) *Monthly reports.* The lender must submit monthly reports to the Agency on all loans that are either in default, delinquent, or not in compliance with program requirements. This report must provide information on the financial condition of each loan, the physical condition of the property, the amount of delinquency, any other non-compliance with program requirements and the proposed actions and timetable to resolve the delinquency, default or non-compliance.


(3) *Reserve releases.* The lender is responsible for approving or disapproving all borrower requests for release of funds from the reserve and escrow accounts. Security deposit accounts will not be considered a reserve or escrow account.


(4) *Insurance requirements.* At loan closing, the borrower will provide the lender with documentary evidence that Agency insurance requirements have been met. The borrower must maintain insurance in accordance with Agency requirements until the loan is repaid and the lender must be named as the insurance policy's beneficiary. The lender must obtain insurance on the secured property if the borrower is unable or unwilling to do so and charge the cost as an advance.


(5) *Distribution of surplus cash.* Prior to the distribution of surplus cash to the owner, the lender must certify that the property is in good financial and physical condition and in compliance with the regulatory agreement. Such compliance includes payment of outstanding obligations, debt service, and required funding of reserve and escrow accounts.


(e) *Physical maintenance.* The lender must annually inspect the property to ensure that it is in compliance with state and local codes and program requirements. The lender must certify to the Agency that a property is in such compliance, or report to the Agency on any non-compliance items and proposed actions and timetable for resolution. Failure to provide responsive corrective action can result in reduction or cancellation of the guarantee by the Agency.



---

[N] [63 FR 39458, July 22, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 32372, June 16, 1999; 69 FR 69176, Nov. 26, 2004]




