# ยง 671.5   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Accountable Executive* means a single identifiable person who has ultimate responsibility for carrying out the Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan of a transit agency; responsibility for carrying out the transit agency's Transit Asset Management Plan; and control or direction over the human and capital resources needed to develop and maintain both the transit agency's Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan, in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 5329(d), and the transit agency's Transit Asset Management Plan in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 5326.


*Ample time* means the time necessary for a roadway worker to be clear of the track zone or in a place of safety 15 seconds before a rail transit vehicle moving at the maximum authorized speed on that track could arrive at the location of the roadway worker.


*Equivalent entity* means an entity that carries out duties similar to that of a Board of Directors, for a recipient or subrecipient of FTA funds under 49 U.S.C. chapter 53, including sufficient authority to review and approve a recipient or subrecipient's Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan.


*Equivalent protection* means alternative designs, materials, or methods that the RTA can demonstrate to the SSOA will provide equal or greater safety for roadway workers than the means specified in this part.


*Flag person* means a roadway worker designated to direct or restrict the movement of rail transit vehicles or equipment past a point on a track to provide on-track safety for roadway workers, while engaged solely in performing that function.


*Foul time protection* is a method of establishing working limits in which a roadway worker is notified by the control center that no rail transit vehicles will be authorized to operate within a specific segment of track until the roadway worker reports clear of the track.


*Fouling a track* means the placement of an individual or an item of equipment in such proximity to a track that the individual or equipment could be struck by a moving rail transit vehicle or on-track equipment, typically within four feet of the outside rail on both sides of any track.


*Individual rail transit vehicle detection* means a process by which a lone worker acquires on-track safety by visually detecting approaching rail transit vehicles or equipment and leaving the track in ample time.


*Job safety briefing* means a meeting addressing the requirements of this part that is conducted prior to commencing work by the Roadway Worker in Charge, typically at the job site, to notify roadway workers or other transit workers about the hazards related to the work to be performed and the protections to eliminate or protect against those hazards. Alternatively, briefings can be conducted virtually for those individuals who are working remotely on the job site.


*Lone worker* means an individual roadway worker who is not afforded on-track safety by another roadway worker, who is not a member of a roadway work group, and who is not engaged in a common task with another roadway worker.


*Maximum authorized speed* means the highest speed permitted for the movement of rail transit vehicles established by the rail transit vehicle control system, service schedule, and operating rules. This speed is used when calculating ample time.


*Minor tasks* mean those tasks performed without the use of tools during the execution of which a roadway worker or other transit worker can hear and visually assess their surroundings at least every five (5) seconds for approaching rail transit vehicles and that can be performed without violating ample time.


*Near-miss* means a narrowly avoided safety event.


*On-track safety* means a state of freedom from the danger of being struck by a moving rail transit vehicle or other equipment, and other on-track hazards, as provided by operating and safety rules that govern track occupancy by roadway workers, other transit workers, rail transit vehicles, and on-track equipment.


*Place of safety* means a space an individual or individuals can safely occupy outside the track zone, sufficiently clear of any rail transit vehicle, including any on-track equipment, moving on any track.


*Qualified* means a status attained by a roadway worker or other transit worker who has successfully completed required training (including refresher training) for, has demonstrated proficiency in, and is authorized by the RTA to perform the duties of a particular position or function.


*Rail fixed guideway public transportation system* means any fixed guideway system, or any such system in engineering or construction, that uses rail, is operated for public transportation, is within the jurisdiction of a State, and is not subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Railroad Administration. These include but are not limited to rapid rail, heavy rail, light rail, monorail, trolley, inclined plane, funicular, and automated guideway.


*Rail transit agency (RTA)* means any entity that provides services on a rail fixed guideway public transportation system.


*Rail transit vehicle* means any rolling stock used on a rail fixed guideway public transportation system, including but not limited to passenger and maintenance vehicles.


*Rail transit vehicle approach warning* means a method of establishing on-track safety by warning roadway workers of the approach of rail transit vehicles in ample time for them to move to or remain in a place of safety in accordance with the requirements of this part.


*Redundant protection* means at least one additional protection beyond individual rail transit vehicle detection to ensure on-track safety for roadway workers. Redundant protections may be procedural, physical, or both.


*Roadway* means land on which rail transit tracks and support infrastructure have been constructed to support the movement of rail transit vehicles.


*Roadway maintenance machine* means a device which is used on or near rail transit track for maintenance, repair, construction or inspection of track, bridges, roadway, signal, communications, or electric traction systems. Roadway maintenance machines may have road or rail wheels or may be stationary.


*Roadway worker* means a transit worker whose duties involve inspection, construction, maintenance, repairs, or providing on-track safety such as flag persons and watchpersons on or near the roadway or right-of-way or with the potential of fouling track.


*Roadway work group* means two or more roadway workers organized to work together on a common task.


*Roadway worker in charge* means a roadway worker who is qualified under this part to establish on-track safety.


*Roadway Worker Protection (RWP)* means the polices, processes, and procedures implemented by an RTA to prevent safety events for transit workers who must access the roadway in the performance of their work.


*RWP manual* means the entire set of the RTA's on-track safety rules and instructions maintained together, including operating rules and other procedures concerning on-track safety protection and on-track safety measures, designed to prevent roadway workers from being struck by rail transit vehicles or other on-track equipment.


*Safety event* means an unexpected outcome resulting in injury or death; damage to or loss of the facilities, equipment, rolling stock, or infrastructure of a public transportation system; or damage to the environment.


*Sight distance* means the length of roadway visible ahead for a roadway worker.


*State Safety Oversight Agency (SSOA)* means an agency established by a State that meets the requirements and performs the functions specified by 49 U.S.C. 5329(e) and (k) and 49 CFR part 674.


*Track access guide* means a document that describes the physical characteristics of the RTA's track system, including track areas with close or no clearance, curves with blind spots or restricted sight lines, areas with loud noise, and potential environmental conditions that require additional consideration in establishing on-track safety.


*Track zone* means an area identified by the RTA where a person or equipment could be struck by the widest equipment that could occupy the track.


*Transit worker* means any employee, contractor, or volunteer working on behalf of the RTA or SSOA.


*Transit Worker Safety Reporting Program* means the process required under ยง 673.23(b) that allows transit workers to report safety concerns, including transit worker assaults, near-misses, and unsafe acts and conditions to senior management, provides protections for transit workers who report safety conditions to senior management, and describes transit worker behaviors that may result in disciplinary action.


*Watchperson* means a roadway worker qualified to provide warning to roadway workers of approaching rail transit vehicles or track equipment whose sole duty is to look out for approaching rail transit vehicles and track equipment and provide at least 15 seconds advanced warning plus time to clear based on the maximum authorized track speed for the work location to transit workers before the arrival of rail transit vehicles.


*Working limits* means a segment of track with explicit boundaries upon which rail transit vehicles and on-track equipment may move only as authorized by the roadway worker having control over that defined segment of track.


*Work zone* means the immediate area where work is being performed within the track zone.




