# ยง 98.54   Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.

(a) You must conduct a new performance test and calculate a new emissions factor for each adipic acid production unit according to the frequency specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) Conduct the performance test annually. The test must be conducted at a point during production that is representative of the average emissions rate from your process. You must document the methods used to determine the representative point.


(2) Conduct the performance test when your adipic acid production process is changed either by altering the ratio of cyclohexanone to cyclohexanol or by installing abatement equipment.


(3) If you requested Administrator approval for an alternative method of determining N_2_O emissions under ยง 98.53(a)(2), you must conduct the performance test if your request has not been approved by the Administrator within 150 days of the end of the reporting year in which it was submitted.


(b) You must measure the N_2_O concentration during the performance test using one of the methods in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section.


(1) EPA Method 320, Measurement of Vapor Phase Organic and Inorganic Emissions by Extractive Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) Spectroscopy in 40 CFR part 63, Appendix A;


(2) ASTM D6348-03 Standard Test Method for Determination of Gaseous Compounds by Extractive Direct Interface Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) Spectroscopy (incorporated by reference, *see* ยง 98.7); or


(3) An equivalent method, with Administrator approval.


(c) You must determine the adipic acid production rate during the performance test according to paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section.


(1) Direct measurement (such as using flow meters or weigh scales).


(2) Existing plant procedures used for accounting purposes.


(d) You must determine the volumetric flow rate during the performance test in conjunction with the applicable EPA methods in 40 CFR part 60, appendices A-1 through A-4. Conduct three emissions test runs of 1 hour each. All QA/QC procedures specified in the reference test methods and any associated performance specifications apply. For each test, the facility must prepare an emissions factor determination report that must include the items in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section:


(1) Analysis of samples, determination of emissions, and raw data.


(2) All information and data used to derive the emissions factor.


(3) The production rate(s) during the performance test and how each production rate was determined.


(e) You must determine the monthly amount of adipic acid produced. You must also determine the monthly amount of adipic acid produced during which N_2_O abatement technology is operating. These monthly amounts are determined according to the methods in paragraphs (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section.


(f) You must determine the annual amount of adipic acid produced. You must also determine the annual amount of adipic acid produced during which N_2_O abatement technology is operating. These are determined by summing the respective monthly adipic acid production quantities determined in paragraph (e) of this section.



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 66460, Oct. 28, 2010; 78 FR 71953, Nov. 29, 2013]




