# § 1073.305   Procedures for hearing.

(a) *Obtaining the services of a hearing official.* The Director must obtain the services of an impartial hearing official who is an administrative law judge or who is an other official not under the supervision or control of the Director. The Director shall designate an administrative law judge or contact an agent of another agency designated in appendix A to 5 CFR part 581 to arrange for a hearing official.


(b) *Notice and format of hearing*—(1) *Notice.* The hearing official shall determine whether the hearing shall be oral or documentary and shall notify the employee of the form of the hearing. If the hearing will be oral, the notice shall set forth the date, time, and location of the hearing, which must be held within 30 calendar days after the request is received, unless the employee requests that the hearing be delayed. If the hearing will be documentary, the employee shall be notified to submit evidence and written arguments in support of his or her case to the hearing official within 30 calendar days.


(2) *Oral hearing.* The hearing official may grant a request for an oral hearing if he or she determines that the issues raised by the employee cannot be resolved by review of documentary evidence alone (e.g., where credibility or veracity is at issue). Witnesses who testify in oral hearings shall do so under written or recorded oath or affirmation. An oral hearing is not required to be a formal evidentiary hearing. Oral hearings may take the form of, but are not limited to:


(i) Informal conferences with the hearing official in which the employee and Bureau representative are given full opportunity to present evidence, witnesses, and argument;


(ii) Informal meetings in which the hearing official interviews the employee; or


(iii) Formal written submissions with an opportunity for oral presentation.


(3) *Documentary hearing.* If the hearing official determines that an oral hearing is not necessary, he or she will make the determination based upon a review of the available written record, including any documentation submitted by the employee in support of his or her position.


(4) *Record.* The hearing official shall maintain a summary record of any hearing conducted under this section.


(c) *Rescheduling of the hearing date.* The hearing official shall reschedule a hearing if requested to do so by both parties, who shall be given reasonable notice of the time and place of this new hearing.


(d) *Failure to appear or submit documentary evidence.* In the absence of good cause shown, an employee who fails to appear at an oral hearing, or fails to submit documentary evidence for a documentary hearing, will have waived the right to a hearing. Furthermore, the employee will have been deemed to admit the existence and amount of the debt as described in the Notice of Intent. If the representative of the creditor agency fails to appear without good cause shown, the hearing official shall proceed with the hearing as scheduled, and issue a decision based upon the oral testimony presented and the documentation submitted by both parties.


(e) *Date of decision.* The hearing official shall issue a written decision based upon the evidence and information developed at the hearing, as soon as practicable after the hearing, but not later than 60 calendar days after the date on which the request for hearing was received by the Bureau, unless the hearing was delayed at the request of the employee. In the event of such a delay, the 60-day decision period shall be extended by the number of days by which the hearing was postponed. The decision of the hearing official shall be final.


(f) *Content of decision.* The written decision shall include:


(1) The facts purported to evidence the nature and origin of the proposed debt;


(2) The hearing official's analysis, findings and conclusions, in light of the hearing, as to the employee's and/or Bureau's grounds, the amount and validity of the alleged debt and, where applicable, the repayment schedule.




