# § 301.48   Continuing guaranties.

(a)(1) Under section 10 of the Act any person residing in the United States and handling fur or fur products may file a continuing guaranty with the Federal Trade Commission. When filed with the Commission a continuing guaranty shall be fully executed in duplicate. Forms for use in preparing continuing guaranties shall be supplied by the Commission upon request.


(2) Continuing guaranties filed with the Commission shall continue in effect until revoked. The guarantor shall promptly report any change in business status to the Commission.


(3) The prescribed form for a continuing guaranty is found in § 303.38(b) of this chapter. The form is available upon request from the Textile Section, Enforcement Division, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20580.


(b) Any person who has a continuing guaranty on file with the Commission may, during the effective dates of the guaranty, give notice of such fact by setting forth on the invoice or other document covering the marketing or handling of the product guaranteed the following: “Continuing guaranty under the Fur Products Labeling Act filed with the Federal Trade Commission.”


(c) Any person who falsely represents in writing that he has a continuing guaranty on file with the Federal Trade Commission when such is not a fact shall be deemed to have furnished a false guaranty under section 10(b) of the Act.



---

[N] [26 FR 3188, Apr. 14, 1961, as amended at 48 FR 12517, Mar. 25, 1983; 63 FR 7517, Feb. 13, 1998; 63 FR 71583, Dec. 28, 1998; 79 FR 30458, May 28, 2014]




