# § 50.3   Definitions.

*Agent.* An individual who receives remuneration as a salesperson or whose remuneration is dependent on volume of sales of a product or products. (Also referred to as “commercial agent” or “producer”). In this part, the term “agent” includes “general agent” unless the content clearly conveys a contrary intent.


*“Authorized” Bank and/or Credit Union.* Bank and/or credit union selected by the installation commander through open competitive solicitation to provide exclusive on-base delivery of financial services to the installation under a written operating agreement.


*Banking institution.* An entity chartered by a State or the Federal Government to provide financial services.


*Commercial sponsorship.* The act of providing assistance, funding, goods, equipment (including fixed assets), or services to an MWR program or event by an individual, agency, association, company or corporation, or other entity (sponsor) for a specified (limited) period of time in return for public recognition or advertising promotions. Enclosure 9 of DoD Instruction 1015.10 
1 provides general policy governing commercial sponsorship.


*Credit union.* A cooperative nonprofit association, incorporated under the Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1751), or similar state statute, for the purpose of encouraging thrift among its members and creating a source of credit at a fair and reasonable rate of interest.


*DoD installation.* For the purposes of this part, any Federally owned, leased, or operated base, reservation, post, camp, building, or other facility to which DoD personnel are assigned for duty, including barracks, transient housing, and family quarters.


*DoD personnel.* For the purposes of this part, all active duty officers (commissioned and warrant) and enlisted members of the Military Departments and all civilian employees, including nonappropriated fund employees and special Government employees, of the Department of Defense.


*Financial services.* Those services commonly associated with financial institutions in the United States, such as electronic banking (e.g., ATMs), in-store banking, checking, share and savings accounts, fund transfers, sale of official checks, money orders and travelers checks, loan services, safe deposit boxes, trust services, sale and redemption of U.S. Savings Bonds, and acceptance of utility payments and any other consumer-related banking services.


*General agent.* A person who has a legal contract to represent a company. See the definition of “Agent” in this section.


*Insurance carrier.* An insurance company issuing insurance through an association reinsuring or coinsuring such insurance.


*Insurance product.* A policy, annuity, or certificate of insurance issued by an insurer or evidence of insurance coverage issued by a self-insured association, including those with savings and investment features.


*Insurer.* An entity licensed by the appropriate department to engage in the business of insurance.


*Military services.* See Joint Publication 1-02, “DoD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms.” 
2

*Normal home enterprises.* Sales or services that are customarily conducted in a domestic setting and do not compete with an installation's officially sanctioned commerce.


*Personal commercial solicitation.* Personal contact, to include meetings, meals, or telecommunications contact, for the purpose of seeking private business or trade.


*Securities.* Mutual funds, stocks, bonds, or any product registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission except for any insurance or annuity product issued by a corporation subject to supervision by State insurance authorities.


*Suspension.* Temporary termination of privileges pending completion of a commander's inquiry or investigation.


*Withdrawal.* Termination of privileges for a set period of time following completion of a commander's inquiry or investigation.




