# § 147.1851   State-administered program—Class II wells.

The UIC program for Class II wells in the State of Oklahoma, including the lands of the Five Civilized Tribes, but not including those on other Indian lands, is the program administered by the Oklahoma Corporation Commission approved by EPA pursuant to SDWA section 1425. Notice of this approval was published in the _Federal Register_ on December 2, 1981 (46 FR 58588). This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:


(a) *Incorporation by reference.* [Reserved]


(b) *Other laws.* The following statutes and regulations, although not incorporated by reference, are also part of the approved State-administered UIC program: 


(1) Oklahoma Statutes, title 17 sections 51-53; title 52 sections 86.1-86.5, 139-153, 243, 307-318.1 (1971).


(2) OCC-OGR Rules No. 1-101-3-303.


(c) (1) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region VI and the Oklahoma Corporation Commission, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on April 13, 1981; 


(2) Letter from the Manager, Underground Injection Control, Oklahoma Corporation Commission, to EPA, June 18, 1981. 


(d) *Statement of legal authority.* “Statement of Legal Authority of the Oklahoma Corporation Commission to Conduct an Underground Injection Control Program,” (Part IV, pages 30-41 of “State of Oklahoma Primacy Application for Authority to Regulate Class II Injection Wells,” submitted April 14, 1981), signed by the Conservation Attorney, Counsel to the Director and the Oklahoma Corporation Commission. 


(e) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto. 



---

[N] [49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43090, Oct. 25, 1988]




