# ยง 5510.0-3   Authority.

(a) *Nonsale disposals Act of June 3, 1878.* (1) Authority for free use of timber on mineral and nonmineral public lands. Section 5511 is issued under authority of the Act of June 3, 1878 (20 Stat. 88; 16 U.S.C. 604 through 606) and March 3, 1891 (26 Stat. 1093; 16 U.S.C. 607), as supplemented by the Act of January 11, 1921 (41 Stat. 1088; 16 U.S.C. 604, 612), settlers upon public lands, citizens and *bona fide* residents of the State, and corporations doing business in the State may obtain free use permit for timber. 


(2) Authority for the issuance of regulations governing the free use of timber for fuel in drilling operations by oil and gas lessees is contained in section 32 of the Act of February 25, 1920 (41 Stat. 405; 30 U.S.C. 189). 


(b) *Nonsale disposals Act of July 23, 1955.* The Act of July 23, 1955, supra, authorizes the Secretary of the Interior in his discretion to permit free use of timber or other vegetative resources or mineral materials by any Federal or State governmental agency, unit or subdivision, including municipalities, or any association or corporation not organized for profit for use other than for commercial or industrial purposes or resale. The Act of July 23, 1955, supra, also provides in part, under certain circumstances, for a mining claimant to obtain free-use of timber from other Bureau administered land in lieu of timber disposed of by the Bureau from lands covered by his mining locations. See ยง 5511.3-8. 


(c) *Nonsale disposals Act of May 14, 1898.* Section 5511.2 is issued under the authority of section 11, 30 Stat. 414, as amended; 48 U.S.C. 423. Section 5511.2 appears at 19 FR 8880, Dec. 23, 1954. (1) Section 11 of the Act of May 14, 1898 (30 Stat. 414; 48 U.S.C. 423), empowers the Secretary of the Interior to permit the use of timber found upon the public lands in Alaska by actual settlers residents, individual miners, and prospectors for minerals for firewood, fencing, buildings, mining, prospecting, and for domestic purposes as may actually be needed by such persons for such purposes. This section was amended by the Act of June 15, 1938 (52 Stat. 699), so as to permit the use of such timber by churches, hospitals, and charitable institutions for firewood, fencing, buildings, and for other domestic purposes. 




