# ยง 1002.3   Updating user fees.

(a) *Update.* Each fee established in this part shall be updated in accordance with this section at least once a year. However, any fee may be updated more than once a year, if the Board finds that an additional update is necessary. 


(b) *Publication and effective dates.* Updated fees shall be published in the _Federal Register_ and shall become effective 30 days after publication.


(c) *Payment of fees.* Any person submitting a filing for which a fee is established shall pay the fee in effect at the time of the filing.


(d) *Method of updating fees.* Each fee shall be updated by updating the cost components comprising the fee. Cost components shall be updated as follows:


(1) Direct labor costs shall be updated by multiplying base level direct labor costs by percentage changes in average wages and salaries of Board employees. Base level direct labor costs are direct labor costs determined by the cost study set forth in *Revision of Fees For Services,* 1 I.C.C.2d 60 (1984) or subsequent cost studies. The base period for measuring changes shall be April 1984.


(2) Operations overhead shall be developed each year on the basis of current relationships existing on a weighted basis, for indirect labor applicable to the first supervisory work centers directly associated with user fee activity. Actual updating of operations overhead will be accomplished by applying the current percentage factor to updated direct labor, including current governmental overhead costs.


(3)(i) Office general and administrative costs shall be developed each year on the basis of current level costs, i.e., dividing actual office general and administrative costs for the current fiscal year by total office costs for the Offices directly associated with user fee activity. Actual updating of office general and administrative costs will be accomplished by applying the current percentage factor to updated direct labor, including current governmental overhead and current operations overhead costs.


(ii) Board general and administrative costs shall be developed each year on the basis of current level costs; i.e., dividing actual Board general and administrative costs for the current fiscal year by total agency expenses for the current fiscal year. Actual updating of Board general and administrative costs will be accomplished by applying the current percentage factor to updated direct labor, including current governmental overhead, operations overhead and office general and administrative costs.


(4) Publication costs shall be adjusted on the basis of known changes in the costs applicable to publication of material in the _Federal Register._

(e) All updated fees shall be rounded downward in the following manner:


(1) Fees between $1-$30 will be rounded to the nearest $1;


(2) Fees between $30-$100 will be rounded to the nearest $10;


(3) Fees between $100-$999 will be rounded to the nearest $50; and


(4) Fees above $1,000 will be rounded to the nearest $100. (This rounding procedure excludes copying, printing and search fees.)



---

[N] [49 FR 18494, May 1, 1984, as amended at 52 FR 46483, Dec. 8, 1987; 59 FR 44644, Aug. 30, 1994; 61 FR 42194, Aug. 14, 1996; 79 FR 41141, July 15, 2014] 




