# ยง 515.20   Changes in organization.

(a) *Licenses.* The following changes in an existing licensee's organization require prior approval of the Commission, and application for such status change or license transfer shall be made on Form FMC-18, filed with the Commission's Bureau of Certification and Licensing, and accompanied by the fee required under ยง 515.5(c):


(1) Transfer of a corporate license to another person;


(2) Change in ownership of a sole proprietorship;


(3) Any change in the business structure of a licensee from or to a sole proprietorship, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation, whether or not such change involves a change in ownership;


(4) Any change in a licensee's name, including adding or deleting a trade name relating to its OTI services; or


(5) Change in the identity or status of the designated QI, except as described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.


(b) *Operation after death of sole proprietor.* In the event that the owner of a licensed sole proprietorship dies, the licensee's executor, administrator, heir(s), or assign(s) may continue operation of such proprietorship solely with respect to shipments for which the deceased sole proprietor had undertaken to act as an ocean transportation intermediary pursuant to the existing license, if the death is reported within 30 days to the Commission and to all principals and shippers for whom services on such shipments are to be rendered. The acceptance or solicitation of any other shipments is expressly prohibited until a new license has been issued. Applications for a new license by the executor, administrator, heir(s), or assign(s) shall be made on Form FMC-18, and shall be accompanied by the fee required under ยง 515.5(c).


(c) *Operation after retirement, resignation, or death of QI.* When a partnership, LLC, or corporation has been licensed on the basis of the qualifications of one or more of the partners, members, managers or officers thereof, and the QI no longer serves as a full-time employee with the OTI or is no longer responsible for the licensee's OTI activities, the licensee shall report such change to the Commission within thirty (30) days. Within the same 30-day period, the licensee shall furnish to the Commission the name(s) and detailed intermediary experience of any other active partner(s), member(s), manager(s) or officer(s) who may qualify the licensee. Such QI(s) must meet the applicable requirements set forth in ยง 515.11(a) through (c). The licensee may continue to operate as an ocean transportation intermediary while the Commission investigates the qualifications of the newly designated partner, member, manager, or officer.


(d) *Acquisition of one or more additional licensees.* In the event a licensee acquires one or more additional licensees, for the purpose of merger, consolidation, or control, the acquiring licensee shall advise the Commission of such acquisition, including any change in ownership, within 30 days after such change occurs by submitting an amended Form FMC-18. No application fee is required when reporting this change.


(e) *Other changes.* Other changes in material fact of a licensee shall be reported within thirty (30) days of such changes, in writing by mail or email (*bcl@fmc.gov*) to the Director, Bureau of Certification and Licensing, Federal Maritime Commission, Washington, DC 20573. Material changes include, but are not limited to: Changes in business address; any criminal indictment or conviction of a licensee, QI, or officer; any voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy filed by or naming a licensee, QI, or officer; changes of five (5) percent or more of the common equity ownership or voting securities of the OTI; or, the addition or reduction of one or more partners of a licensed partnership, one or more members or managers of a Limited Liability Company, or one or more branch offices. No fee shall be charged for reporting such changes.



---

[N] [80 FR 68734, Nov. 5, 2015, as amended at 84 FR 62468, Nov. 15, 2019]




