# § 4262.16   Conditions for special financial assistance.

(a) *In general.* A plan that receives special financial assistance must be administered in accordance with the conditions in this section.


(b) *Benefit increases.* This paragraph (b) applies to benefits and benefit increases described in section 4022A(b)(1) of ERISA without regard to the time the benefit or benefit increase has been in effect. This paragraph (b) does not apply to the reinstatement of benefits that were suspended under section 305(e)(9) or 4245(a) of ERISA (as provided under § 4262.15) or a restoration of benefits under 26 CFR 1.432(e)(9)-1(e)(3).


(1) *Retrospective.* A benefit or benefit increase must not be adopted during the SFA coverage period if it is in whole or in part attributable to service accrued or other events occurring before the adoption date of the amendment.


(2) *Prospective.* A benefit or benefit increase must not be adopted during the SFA coverage period unless—


(i) The plan actuary certifies that employer contribution increases projected to be sufficient to pay for the benefit increase have been adopted or agreed to; and


(ii) Those increased contributions were not included in the determination of the special financial assistance.


(3) *Request for exception.* No earlier than 10 years after the end of the plan year in which the plan receives payment of special financial assistance under § 4262.12, the plan sponsor may request approval from PBGC for an exception from the conditions under paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section by demonstrating to the satisfaction of PBGC that, taking into account the value of the proposed benefit or benefit increase, the plan will avoid insolvency. A request for PBGC approval of a proposed benefit or benefit increase must be submitted by the plan sponsor or its duly authorized representative and must contain all of the following identifying, actuarial, and financial information:


(i) Name, address, email, and telephone number of the plan sponsor and the plan sponsor's authorized representatives, if any.


(ii) The nine-digit employer identification number (EIN) assigned to the plan sponsor by the IRS and the three-digit plan identification number (PN) assigned to the plan by the plan sponsor, and, if different, the EIN and PN last filed with PBGC. If an EIN or PN has not been assigned, that should be indicated.


(iii) A certification by the enrolled actuary that the plan or any of its component parts received special financial assistance and the most recent value of special financial assistance assets.


(iv) The EIN assigned to the plan sponsor by the IRS and the PN assigned to the plan by the plan sponsor of the plan that applied for special financial assistance, if not the same as the EIN and PN in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.


(v) A copy of the proposed benefit or benefit increase amendment.


(vi) Most recent plan document or restatement of the plan document and all subsequent amendments adopted (if any).


(vii) A copy of the most recent actuarial valuation performed for the plan before the date of the plan's submission of a request for approval under this paragraph (b)(3), and the actuarial valuation performed for each of the 2 plan years immediately preceding the most recent actuarial valuation.


(viii) A copy of the plan actuary's most recent certification under section 305(b)(3) of ERISA, including a detailed description of the assumptions used in the certification, and the basis under which they were determined. The description must include information about the assumptions used for the projection of future contributions, withdrawal liability payments, and investment returns, and any other assumption that may have a material effect on projections.


(ix) A statement certified by an enrolled actuary of the effect of the proposed benefit or benefit increase on the plan's existing benefit formula and benefit amount, and a demonstration that the expected contributions equal or exceed the estimated amount necessary, taking into account the proposed benefit or benefit increase, to satisfy the minimum funding requirement of section 431 of the Code.


(x) A detailed statement certified by an enrolled actuary that the plan is projected to avoid insolvency, taking into account the value of the proposed benefit or benefit increase. The statement must include the basis for the conclusion, supporting data, calculations, assumptions, a description of the methodology, the basis for assumptions used, and the present value of the proposed benefit or benefit increase. The statement must also specify the amount of the change in the minimum required contribution under section 431 of the Code attributable to the proposed benefit or benefit increase for the first full plan year in which it is in effect, including the change in normal cost, the change in actuarial accrued liability and the annual amortization amount associated with the change in actuarial accrued liability.


(xi) The statement in paragraph (b)(3)(x) of this section must include an exhibit showing the annual cash flow projection for the plan for 30 years beginning on or after the proposed adoption date of the amendment. The cash flow projection should use an open group valuation. Annual cash flow projections must reflect the following information:


(A) Fair market value of assets as of the beginning of the year, splitting the assets by special financial assistance and non-special financial assistance amounts.


(B) Contributions and withdrawal liability payments made and expected to be made to the plan taking into account a reasonable allowance for amounts considered uncollectible.


(C) Plan level benefit payments organized by participant type (*e.g.,* active, retiree, terminated vested) for the projection period.


(D) Administrative expenses for the projection period.


(E) Assumed investment return separately for special financial assistance and non-special financial assistance amounts.


(F) Fair market value of assets as of the end of the year.


(xii) The present value of accrued benefits.


(xiii) Any additional information PBGC determines it needs to review a request for approval of a proposed amendment, including any adjustments to assumptions required by PBGC in its review of whether the plan is projected to avoid insolvency.


(c) *Allocation of plan assets.* During the SFA coverage period, plan assets, including special financial assistance, must be invested in investment grade fixed income as described in § 4262.14(d) sufficient to pay for at least 1 year (or until the date the plan is projected to become insolvent, if earlier) of projected benefit payments and administrative expenses, taking into account the limitations on derivatives and leverage in § 4262.14(h).


(d) *Contribution decreases.* (1) During the SFA coverage period, the contributions to a plan that receives special financial assistance required for each contribution base unit must not be less than, and the definition of the contribution base units used must not be different from, those set forth in collective bargaining agreements or plan documents (including contribution increases to the end of the collective bargaining agreements) in effect on March 11, 2021, unless the plan sponsor determines that the change lessens the risk of loss to plan participants and beneficiaries and, if the contribution reduction affects over $10 million of annual contributions and over 10 percent of all employer contributions, PBGC also determines that the change lessens the risk of loss to plan participants and beneficiaries.


(2) A request for PBGC approval of a proposed contribution change that affects over $10 million of annual contributions and over 10 percent of all employer contributions must be submitted by the plan sponsor or its duly authorized representative and must contain all of the following information:


(i) Name, address, email, and telephone number of the plan sponsor and the plan sponsor's authorized representatives, if any.


(ii) The nine-digit employer identification number (EIN) assigned to the plan sponsor by the IRS and the three-digit plan identification number (PN) assigned to the plan by the plan sponsor, and, if different, the EIN and PN last filed with PBGC. If an EIN or PN has not been assigned, that should be indicated.


(iii) Name, address, email, and telephone number of the contributing employer for which the proposed contribution change is being submitted, and the employer's authorized representatives, if any.


(iv) Names and addresses of each controlled group member of the contributing employer identified in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, along with a chart depicting the structure of the controlled group by entity and its ownership with ownership percentage.


(v) Audited financial statements (income statement, balance sheet, cashflow statement, and notes) for the contributing employer and the controlled group including the contributing employer, if available, for the most recent 4 years, or, if audited financial statements were not prepared, unaudited financial statements, a statement explaining why audited statements are not available, and tax returns with all schedules for the most recent 4 years available. The financial statement submissions must:


(A) Identify the cash contributions to the multiemployer plan for which the contributing employer is seeking contribution relief;


(B) Identify all outstanding indebtedness, including the name of the lender, the amount of the outstanding loan, scheduled repayments interest rate, collateral, significant covenants, and whether the loan is in default;


(C) Identify and explain any material changes in financial position since the date of the last financial statement;


(D) To the extent that the contributing employer has undergone or is in the process of undergoing a partial liquidation, estimate the sales, gross profit, and operating profit that would have been reported for each of the 3 years covered by the financial statement for only that portion of the business that is currently expected to continue; and


(E) State the estimated liquidation values for any assets related to discontinued operations or operations that are not expected to continue, along with the sources for the estimates.


(vi) Projected financial statements (income statement, balance sheet, cash flow statement) for the current year and the following 4 years as well as the key assumptions underlying those projections and a justification for the reasonableness for each of those key assumptions. The projections must include:


(A) All business or operating plans prepared by or for management, including all explanatory text and schedules;


(B) All financial submissions, if any, made within the prior 3 years to a financial institution, government agency, or investment banker in support of possible outside financing or sale of the business;


(C) All recent financial analyses done by an outside party with a certification by the employer's chief executive officer that the information on which each analysis is based is accurate and complete; and


(D) Any other relevant information.


(vii) Description of events leading to the current financial distress.


(viii) Description of financial and operational restructuring actions taken to address financial distress, including cost cutting measures, employee count or compensation reductions, creditor concessions obtained, and any other restructuring efforts undertaken; also, indicate whether any new profit-sharing or other retirement plan has been or will be established or if benefits under any such existing plan will be increased.


(ix) Any additional information PBGC determines it needs to review a request for approval of a proposed contribution change.


(e) *Allocating contributions and other practices*—(1) *In general.* During the SFA coverage period, a decrease in the proportion of income or an increase in the proportion of expenses allocated to a plan that receives special financial assistance pursuant to a written or oral agreement or practice (other than a written agreement in existence on March 11, 2021, to the extent not subsequently amended or modified) under which the income or expenses are divided or to be divided between a plan that receives special financial assistance and one or more other employee benefit plans is prohibited. The prohibition in the preceding sentence does not apply to a good faith allocation of:


(i) Contributions pursuant to a reciprocity agreement;


(ii) Costs of securing shared space, goods, or services, where such allocation does not constitute a prohibited transaction under ERISA or is exempt from such prohibited transaction provisions pursuant to section 408(b)(2) or 408(c)(2) of ERISA, or pursuant to a specific prohibited transaction exemption issued by the Department of Labor under section 408(a) of ERISA;


(iii) The actual cost of services provided to the plan by an unrelated third party; or


(iv) Contributions where the contributions to a plan that receives special financial assistance required for each base unit are not reduced, except as otherwise permitted by paragraph (d) of this section.


(2) *Request for exception.* No earlier than 5 years after the end of the plan year in which the plan receives payment of special financial assistance under § 4262.12, the plan sponsor may request approval from PBGC for an exception from the conditions under paragraph (e) of this section by demonstrating to the satisfaction of PBGC that, taking into account the value of any proposed reallocation of contributions, the plan will avoid insolvency, that the reallocation is needed due to a significant increase in health benefit costs due to a change in Federal law which goes into effect after March 11, 2021, that the reallocation is no more than a 10 percent reduction in the amount of the contribution rate negotiated on or before March 11, 2021, that is allocable to the pension plan, and that the reallocation relating to any change in Federal law is for no more than 5 years. A continuation of the reallocation of contributions relating to any change in Federal law after the initial reallocation beyond 5 years must satisfy the requirement for a contribution decrease under paragraph (d) of this section. A subsequent change in Federal law causing a significant increase in health benefit costs is a separate event for purposes of applying this exception, except that a plan may reallocate contributions under this exception from the conditions under paragraph (e) of this section for no more than 10 years cumulatively for all reallocation requests during the SFA coverage period. A request for PBGC approval of a proposed reallocation of contributions must be submitted by the plan sponsor or its duly authorized representative and must contain all of the following identifying, actuarial, and financial information:


(i) Name, address, email, and telephone number of the plan sponsor and the plan sponsor's authorized representatives, if any.


(ii) The nine-digit employer identification number (EIN) assigned to the plan sponsor by the IRS and the three-digit plan identification number (PN) assigned to the plan by the plan sponsor, and, if different, the EIN and PN last filed with PBGC. If an EIN or PN has not been assigned, that should be indicated.


(iii) A certification by the enrolled actuary that the plan or any of its component parts received special financial assistance and the most recent value of special financial assistance assets.


(iv) The EIN assigned to the plan sponsor by the IRS and the PN assigned to the plan by the plan sponsor of the plan that applied for special financial assistance, if not the same as the EIN and PN in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section.


(v) A copy of the proposed reallocation of contributions amendment.


(vi) Most recent plan document or restatement of the plan document and all subsequent amendments adopted (if any).


(vii) A copy of the most recent actuarial valuation performed for the plan before the date of the plan's submission of a request for approval under this paragraph (e)(2), and the actuarial valuation performed for each of the 2 plan years immediately preceding the most recent actuarial valuation.


(viii) A copy of the plan actuary's most recent certification under section 305(b)(3) of ERISA, including a detailed description of the assumptions used in the certification, and the basis under which they were determined. The description must include information about the assumptions used for the projection of future contributions, withdrawal liability payments, and investment returns, and any other assumption that may have a material effect on projections.


(ix) A statement certified by an enrolled actuary of the effect of the proposed reallocation of contributions on the plan's existing contributions, and a demonstration that the expected contributions equal or exceed the estimated amount necessary, taking into account the proposed reallocation of contributions, to satisfy the minimum funding requirement of section 431 of the Code.


(x) A detailed statement certified by an enrolled actuary that the plan is projected to avoid insolvency, taking into account the value of the proposed reallocation of contributions. The statement must include the basis for the conclusion, supporting data, calculations, assumptions, a description of the methodology, the basis for assumptions used, and the present value of the proposed reallocation of contributions.


(xi) The statement in paragraph (e)(2)(x) of this section must include an exhibit showing the annual cash flow projection for the plan for 30 years beginning on or after the proposed adoption date of the amendment. The cash flow projection should use an open group valuation. Annual cash flow projections must reflect the following information:


(A) Fair market value of assets as of the beginning of the year, splitting the assets by special financial assistance and non-special financial assistance amounts.


(B) Contributions and withdrawal liability payments expected to be made to the plan taking into account a reasonable allowance for amounts considered uncollectible.


(C) Plan level benefit payments organized by participant type (*e.g.,* active, retiree, terminated vested) for the projection period.


(D) Administrative expenses for the projection period.


(E) Assumed investment return separately for special financial assistance and non-special financial assistance amounts.


(F) Fair market value of assets as of the end of the year.


(xii) The present value of accrued benefits.


(xiii) A demonstration that the reallocation is needed due to a significant increase in health benefit costs due to a change in Federal law, that the reallocation is no more than a 10 percent reduction in the amount of the contribution rate negotiated on or before March 11, 2021, going to the pension plan, and that the reallocation is for no more than 5 years for a reallocation request relating to any single change in Federal law and no more than 10 years cumulatively for all reallocation requests during the plan's SFA coverage period.


(xiv) Any additional information PBGC determines it needs to review a request for approval of a proposed amendment, including any adjustments to assumptions required by PBGC in its review of whether the plan is projected to avoid insolvency.


(f) *Transfer or merger.* During the SFA coverage period, a plan must not engage in a transfer of assets or liabilities (including a spinoff) or merger except with PBGC's approval. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in 29 CFR part 4231, the plans involved in the transaction must request approval from PBGC.


(1) *In general.* PBGC will approve a proposed transfer of assets or liabilities (including a spinoff) or merger if PBGC determines that the transaction complies with section 4231(a)-(d) of ERISA and that the transaction, or the larger transaction of which the transfer or merger is a part, does not unreasonably increase PBGC's risk of loss with respect to any plan involved in the transaction, and is not reasonably expected to be adverse to the overall interests of the participants and beneficiaries of any of the plans involved in the transaction.


(2) *Request for approval.* A request for approval of a proposed transfer of assets or liabilities (including a spinoff) or merger must be submitted by the plan sponsor or its duly authorized representative and must contain the information that must be submitted with a notice of merger or transfer and a request for a compliance determination under subpart A of part 4231 of this chapter and all of the following information for each of the plans involved in the transaction:


(i) A certification by the enrolled actuary that the plan or any of its component parts received special financial assistance and the most recent value of special financial assistance assets.


(ii) A copy of the actuarial valuation performed for each of the 2 plan years before the most recent actuarial valuation filed in accordance with § 4231.9(f) of this chapter.


(iii) A copy of the plan actuary's most recent certification under section 305(b)(3) of ERISA, including a detailed description of the assumptions used in the certification, and the basis under which they were determined. The description must include information about the assumptions used for the projection of future contributions, withdrawal liability payments, and investment returns, and any other assumption that may have a material effect on projections.


(iv) A detailed narrative description demonstrating that the transaction does not unreasonably increase PBGC's risk of loss with respect to any plan involved in the transaction. The narrative must be supported by a detailed determination certified by the enrolled actuary of the present value of financial assistance under section 4261 of ERISA which is calculated using the guaranteed benefits and administrative expenses presented in the cash flow projections under paragraph (f)(2)(v) of this section, discounted using interest rates published under section 4044 of ERISA. The certification must include supporting data, calculations, assumptions, a description of the methodology, the basis for assumptions used, and the projected date of insolvency.


(v) The statement in paragraph (f)(2)(iv) of this section must include an exhibit showing the annual cash flow projections for each plan before and after the transaction, through the year that each plan pays its last dollar of benefit (but not to exceed 100 years). The cash flow projection should use an open group valuation until the plan reaches insolvency. Annual cash flow projections must reflect the following information:


(A) Fair market value of assets as of the beginning of the year, splitting the assets by special financial assistance and non-special financial assistance amounts.


(B) Contributions and withdrawal liability payments taking into account a reasonable allowance for amounts considered uncollectible.


(C) Plan level benefit payments organized by participant type (*e.g.,* active, retiree, terminated vested) for the projection period.


(D) Guaranteed benefits payable post insolvency by participant type (*e.g.,* active, retiree, terminated vested).


(E) Administrative expenses for the projection period.


(F) Assumed investment return separately for special financial assistance and non-special financial assistance amounts.


(G) Fair market value of assets as of the end of the year.


(vi) If the plan requests that PBGC approve that a waiver of the conditions in paragraph (b)(1) of this section (retrospective benefits), paragraph (d) of this section (contribution decreases), and the condition in paragraph (e) of this section relating to allocating contributions and other income applies to the merged plan, a demonstration that the requirements for a waiver in paragraph (f)(4) of this section are met.


(vii) A detailed narrative description with supporting documentation demonstrating that the transaction is not reasonably expected to be adverse to the overall interests of the participants and beneficiaries of any of the plans involved in the transaction. The narrative description and supporting documentation must consider the projected month and year of plan insolvency for each of the plans before and after the transaction.


(viii) Any additional information PBGC determines it needs to review a request for approval of a proposed transfer of assets or liabilities (including a spinoff) or merger.


(3) *Application of conditions with respect to an approved transfer or merger.* If PBGC approves a transfer of assets and liabilities (that is not a merger) from a plan that receives special financial assistance to another plan (the transferee plan) under this paragraph (f), the restrictions and conditions that apply to the plan that receives special financial assistance will also apply to the transferee plan as determined by PBGC as a condition of the approval. If PBGC approves a merger under this paragraph (f), the restrictions and conditions that apply to a plan that receives special financial assistance will apply after the merger as follows:


(i) The restrictions in §§ 4262.13(b) and 4262.14 and the conditions in this paragraph (f) (transfer or merger), paragraph (h) of this section (withdrawal liability settlement), paragraph (i) of this section (annual compliance statement), and paragraph (j) of this section (audit) apply to the merged plan.


(ii) The conditions in paragraph (b)(2) of this section (prospective benefit increase), paragraph (c) of this section (allocation of plan assets), and paragraph (e) of this section relating to allocating expenses do not apply to the merged plan.


(iii) In the absence of a waiver described in paragraph (f)(4) of this section, the condition in paragraph (b)(1) of this section (retrospective benefit increase) continues to apply to participants in the plan that received special financial assistance before the merger, the condition in paragraph (d) of this section (contribution decreases) continues to apply to employers who had an obligation to contribute to the plan that received special financial assistance before the merger, and the condition in paragraph (e) of this section relating to allocating contributions and other income continues to apply to contributions or income relative to the plan that received special financial assistance before the date of the merger.


(iv) For the condition described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section (withdrawal liability interest assumption), the merged plan must use the interest assumptions under § 4044.54 of this chapter to determine the unfunded vested benefits that arose under the plan that received special financial assistance before the date of the merger for purposes of allocating unfunded vested benefits under subpart D of part 4211 of this chapter and determining withdrawal liability for employers that participated in that plan.


(v) For the condition described in paragraph (g)(2) of this section (withdrawal liability amount of special financial assistance required to be phased in), the merged plan must apply the special financial assistance phase-in condition to determine the unfunded vested benefits that arose under the plan that received special financial assistance before the date of the merger for purposes of allocating unfunded vested benefits under subpart D of part 4211 of this chapter and determining withdrawal liability for employers that participated in that plan.


(4) *Waiver of conditions with respect to an approved merger.* A plan may request a waiver of the condition in paragraph (b)(1) of this section (retrospective benefit increase), paragraph (d) of this section (contribution decreases), and the condition in paragraph (e) of this section relating to allocating contributions and other income for the merged plan in the plan's request for PBGC's approval of a merger pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section. If any of the plans involved in the merger engage in multiple transactions in any 1-year period, the transactions will be considered in the aggregate. The plan's application must demonstrate the following requirements for a waiver—


(i) The total current value of assets of the plans that received special financial assistance before the merger must be 25 percent or less of the total current value of assets of the merged plan, calculated using the current value of assets most recently required before the merger to be entered by the plans on the Form 5500 Schedule MB.


(ii) The total current liability of the plans that received special financial assistance before the merger must be 25 percent or less of the total current liability of the merged plan, calculated using the current liability most recently required before the merger to be entered by the plans on the Form 5500 Schedule MB.


(iii) In the most recent certification of plan status for any plan that did not receive special financial assistance before the merger, the plan actuary must have certified that the plan is not in endangered or critical status (including critical and declining status) and is not projected to be in critical status within 5 years from the date of the plan's request for approval, and the plan must not be described in section 432(b)(5) of the Code.


(g) *Withdrawal liability determination*—(1) *Interest assumptions.* A plan must use the interest assumptions under § 4044.54 of this chapter in determining the unfunded vested benefits of the plan under section 4213(c) of ERISA (for the purpose of determining withdrawal liability), and in determining the amortization schedule under section 4219(c)(1)(A) of ERISA, beginning with the first plan year in which the plan receives payment of special financial assistance under § 4262.12 and until the later of—


(i) The end of the tenth plan year after the first plan year in which the plan receives payment of special financial assistance under § 4262.12; or


(ii) The end of the plan year described in paragraph (g)(1)(iii) of this section (if the special financial assistance most recently paid to the plan as of the end of that plan year is calculated under this part as in effect before August 8, 2022); otherwise the end of the plan year described in paragraph (g)(1)(iv) of this section.


(iii) The plan year described in this paragraph (g)(1)(iii) is the plan year by which the plan is projected to exhaust any SFA assets as determined under the methodology of § 4262.4(b), applying the interest rate under § 4262.4(e)(2) to the special financial assistance as determined as of the SFA measurement date as determined under this part as in effect before August 8, 2022. However, if the first plan year in which the plan receives payment of special financial assistance is after the plan year that includes the plan's SFA measurement date, the plan year by which the plan is projected to exhaust any SFA assets is deferred by the number of years by which the first plan year in which the plan receives payment is after the plan year that includes the plan's SFA measurement date.


(iv) The end of the plan year by which, according to the plan's projection, the plan is projected to exhaust any SFA assets, as determined under § 4262.4(b). However, if the first plan year in which the plan receives payment of special financial assistance is after the plan year that includes the plan's SFA measurement date, the plan year by which the plan is projected to exhaust any SFA assets is deferred by the number of years by which the first plan year in which the plan receives payment of special financial assistance is after the plan year that includes the plan's SFA measurement date.


(2) *Phase-in of SFA*—(i) *In general.* In determining unfunded vested benefits under section 4213(c) of ERISA (for the purpose of determining withdrawal liability), the procedures in this paragraph (g)(2) must be followed.


(ii) *Phase-in period.* The procedures in this paragraph (g)(2) apply to the determination of unfunded vested benefits as of the end of any determination year that is not earlier than the payment year or later than the exhaustion year.


(iii) *Determination year.* For purposes of this paragraph (g)(2), the determination year is the plan year as of the end of which unfunded vested benefits are being valued.


(iv) *Payment year.* For purposes of this paragraph (g)(2), the payment year is the first plan year in which the plan receives special financial assistance.


(v) *Determination of exhaustion year.* For purposes of this paragraph (g)(2), if the special financial assistance most recently paid to the plan as of the last day of the determination year is calculated under this part as amended effective August 8, 2022, then the exhaustion year is the plan year described in paragraph (g)(2)(vi) of this section; otherwise, the exhaustion year is the plan year described in paragraph (g)(2)(vii) of this section.


(vi) *Exhaustion year.* The plan year described in this paragraph (g)(2)(vi) is the plan year by which, according to the plan's projection, the plan is projected to exhaust any SFA assets, as determined under § 4262.4(b). However, if the first plan year in which the plan receives payment of SFA is after the plan year that includes the plan's SFA measurement date, the exhaustion year is deferred by the number of years by which the payment year is after the plan year that includes the plan's SFA measurement date.


(vii) *Exhaustion year before any SFA paid under this part.* The plan year described in this paragraph (g)(2)(vii) is the plan year by which the plan is projected to exhaust any SFA assets, determined under the methodology of § 4262.4(b), applying the interest rate under § 4262.4(e)(2) to the special financial assistance as determined as of the SFA measurement date as determined under this part as in effect before August 8, 2022. However, if the first plan year in which the plan receives payment of SFA is after the plan year that includes the plan's SFA measurement date, the exhaustion year is deferred by the number of years by which the payment year is after the plan year that includes the plan's SFA measurement date.


(viii) *SFA assets excluded.* The value of the plan assets taken into account as of the end of each determination year is the value of the assets that would otherwise be taken into account in the absence of this provision reduced by the amount described in paragraph (g)(2)(ix) of this section. The value of plan assets determined under this paragraph (g)(2)(viii) may not be less than zero.


(ix) *Calculation of SFA assets excluded*—(A) *In general.* Except for plans required to pay make-up payments described in § 4262.15(b), the amount described in this paragraph (g)(2)(ix)(A) is, as of the end of the determination year—


(*1*) The total amount of special financial assistance paid to the plan under § 4262.12 (as determined under § 4262.12(a) or (b), or under § 4262.12(b) and (c) for plans paid under a supplemented application, as applicable), minus the amount paid to PBGC under § 4262.12(e), as of the end of the determination year;


(*2*) Multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of years determined under paragraph (g)(2)(x) of this section as of the end of the determination year and the denominator of which is the number of years determined under paragraph (g)(2)(xi) of this section as of the end of the determination year.


(B) *Plans required to pay make-up payments.* For plans required to pay make-up payments described in § 4262.15(b), the amount described in this paragraph (g)(2)(ix)(B) is, as of the end of the determination year—


(*1*) The total amount of special financial assistance paid to the plan under § 4262.12 (as determined under § 4262.12(a) or (b), or under § 4262.12(b) and (c) for plans paid under a supplemented application, as applicable), minus the amount paid to PBGC under § 4262.12(e), and minus the amount of make-up payments paid by the plan to participants and beneficiaries under § 4262.15(b) whether the payments are made from SFA assets or non-SFA assets, as of the end of the determination year;


(*2*) Multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of years determined under paragraph (g)(2)(x) of this section as of the end of the determination year and the denominator of which is the number of years determined under paragraph (g)(2)(xi) of this section as of the end of the determination year.


(x) *Numerator.* The number of years determined under this paragraph (g)(2)(x) is the number of plan years in the period beginning with the determination year and ending with the exhaustion year.


(xi) *Denominator.* The number of years determined under this paragraph (g)(2)(xi) is the number of plan years in the period beginning with the payment year and ending with the exhaustion year.


(xii) *Plan year.* For purposes of this paragraph (g)(2), any reference to a plan year means a complete plan year.


(xiii) *No receivable.* Special financial assistance assets must be excluded from the determination of unfunded vested benefits until the date that special financial assistance is paid to the plan under § 4262.12, and no receivable shall be set up as of any earlier date in anticipation of the plan receiving such payment.


(xiv) *Reporting.* For any withdrawal liability assessed during the phase-in period, the amount described under paragraph (g)(2)(ix) of this section must be reported in the plan's annual statement of compliance (as required under paragraph (i) of this section) for the plan year in which the liability is assessed.


(xv) *Applicability.* This paragraph (g)(2) applies to a plan in determining withdrawal liability for withdrawals occurring after the plan year in which the plan receives payment of special financial assistance under this part. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, for a plan that received special financial assistance under this part in effect before August 8, 2022, this paragraph (g)(2) will not apply unless the plan files a supplemented application under this part. If the plan files a supplemented application, this paragraph (g)(2) applies to the plan in determining withdrawal liability for withdrawals occurring on or after the date the plan files the supplemented application.


(xvi) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of paragraph (g)(2) of this section.


(A) *Example 1.* Plan A, a calendar-year plan, filed an application for special financial assistance under this part with an SFA measurement date in plan year 2023 and received a special financial assistance payment of $1,000,000 in 2024. In the plan's application, Plan A is projected to exhaust its special financial assistance assets during plan year 2028. Accordingly, the payment year is 2024 and the exhaustion year is 2029 (the projected SFA exhaustion year in the application plus 1 year for the difference between the plan year that includes the SFA measurement date and the payment year). Employer P withdraws from Plan A in 2028. For Employer P: {1} the determination year is 2027; {2} the numerator of the phase-in fraction is 3 (2027 to 2029); {3} the denominator of the phase-in fraction is 6 (2024 to 2029); and {4} the phased in amount is $500,000 ($1,000,000 × 
3/6). If total assets (assuming no phased recognition of SFA) are $100,000,000, unfunded vested benefits are based on assets of $99,500,000.


(B) *Example 2.* Plan B, a calendar-year plan, filed an application for special financial assistance under the terms of the interim provisions of this part with an SFA measurement date in plan year 2022 and received a special financial assistance payment of $1,000,000 in 2022. According to the methodology under paragraph (g)(2) of this section and the information submitted in the plan's application under the interim provisions of this part, Plan B is projected to exhaust its special financial assistance assets during plan year 2028. However, Plan B files a supplemented application under this part in 2023 and receives an additional special financial assistance payment of $100,000 in 2024. In Plan B's supplemented application, the plan is projected to exhaust its special financial assistance assets during plan year 2030. Employer R withdraws from Plan B in 2024, which is after Plan B filed a supplemented application. For Employer R: {1} the payment year is 2022; {2} the determination year is 2023; {3} the exhaustion year is 2028; {4} the numerator of the phase-in fraction is 6 (2023 to 2028); {5} the denominator of the phase-in fraction is 7 (2022 to 2028); and {6} the phased in amount is $857,143 ($1,000,000 × 
6/7). If total assets (assuming no phased recognition of SFA) are $100,000,000, unfunded vested benefits are based on assets of $99,142,857. Employer S withdraws from Plan B in 2028. For Employer S: {1} the payment year is 2022; {2} the determination year is 2027; {3} the exhaustion year is 2030; {4} the numerator of the phase-in fraction is 4 (2027 to 2030); {5} the denominator of the phase-in fraction is 9 (2022 to 2030); and {6} the phased in amount is $488,889 ($1,100,000 × 
4/9). If total assets (assuming no phased recognition of SFA) are $100,000,000, unfunded vested benefits are based on assets of $99,511,111. If, instead of withdrawing in 2024, Employer R withdrew from Plan B in 2023 before Plan B filed its supplemented application, the phase-in condition would not apply and unfunded vested benefits would be based on total assets of $100,000,000.


(C) *Example 3.* Plan C, a calendar-year plan, filed an application for special financial assistance under this part with an SFA measurement date in plan year 2024 and received a special financial assistance payment of $1,000,000 in 2025. According to the plan's application, Plan C is projected to exhaust its SFA assets during plan year 2024. Accordingly, the payment year is 2025 and the exhaustion year is 2025 (the projected SFA exhaustion year in the application plus 1 year for the difference between the plan year that includes the SFA measurement date and the payment year). Employer T withdraws from Plan C in 2026. For Employer T: {1} the determination year is 2025; {2} the numerator of the phase-in fraction is 1 (2025 to 2025); {3} the denominator of the phase-in fraction is 1 (2025 to 2025); and {4} the phased in amount is $1,000,000 ($1,000,000 × 
1/1). If total assets (assuming no phased recognition of SFA) are $100,000,000, unfunded vested benefits are based on assets of $99,000,000.


(D) *Example 4.* In plan year 2022, Plan D received an SFA payment amount of $50,000,000 (not including the amount paid to PBGC for repayment of traditional financial assistance) and a supplemented SFA payment amount of $30,000,000. A total of $20,000,000 in lump-sum make-up payments were paid by Plan D in plan year 2022. An employer withdraws in 2023. At the end of the determination year (2022), the amount of SFA required to be excluded from assets equals $60,000,000 ($50,000,000 + $30,000,000—$20,000,000). If, instead, the make-up payments were paid by Plan D in plan year 2023, the amount of SFA required to be excluded from assets at the end of the determination year (2022) would equal $80,000,000. Under this scenario, Plan D's unfunded vested benefit liability would be the same at the end of the determination year because the additional $20,000,000 of SFA required to be excluded from assets offsets the $20,000,000 in SFA that the plan still holds for make-up payments but has not yet distributed as of the end of the determination year. Similarly, if the employer withdraws in 2024, the make-up payments were paid in 2023, and the phase-in fraction was 9/10th for 2023, the amount of SFA excluded from the assets at the end of the determination year (2023) would be $54,000,000 (9/10th × $60,000,000), where the $60,000,000 is calculated as the total $80,000,000 in SFA paid to the plan minus the $20,000,000 in make-up payments that were disbursed prior to the end of the determination year.


(3) *Request for exception.* The plan sponsor of a plan eligible for special financial assistance may request approval from PBGC for an exception from the conditions under paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section by demonstrating to the satisfaction of PBGC that the exception lessens the risk of loss to plan participants and beneficiaries and does not increase expected employer withdrawals. The plan sponsor must also demonstrate to the satisfaction of PBGC that the exception does not increase the amount of the plan's special financial assistance or unreasonably increase PBGC's risk of loss. A request for PBGC approval of an exception must be submitted by the plan sponsor, or its duly authorized representative, either before an initial application or before a revised application for special financial assistance is filed by the plan, and must contain all of the following identifying, actuarial, and financial information:


(i) Name, address, email, and telephone number of the plan sponsor and the plan sponsor's authorized representatives, if any.


(ii) The nine-digit employer identification number (EIN) assigned to the plan sponsor by the IRS and the three-digit plan identification number (PN) assigned to the plan by the plan sponsor, and, if different, the EIN and PN last filed with PBGC. If an EIN or PN has not been assigned, that should be indicated.


(iii) Most recent plan document or restatement of the plan document and all subsequent amendments adopted (if any) and most recent Declaration of Trust.


(iv) Administrative manuals and other documents governing the plan's assessment or administration of withdrawal liability.


(v) A copy of the most recent actuarial valuation performed for the plan before the date of the plan's submission of a request for approval under this paragraph (g)(3), and the actuarial valuation performed for each of the 2 plan years immediately preceding the most recent actuarial valuation.


(vi) A copy of the plan actuary's most recent certification under section 305(b)(3) of ERISA, including a detailed description of the assumptions used in the certification, and the basis under which they were determined. The description must include information about the assumptions used for the projection of future contributions, withdrawal liability payments, and investment returns, and any other assumption that may have a material effect on projections.


(vii) A statement of whether the plan sponsor is requesting an exception from the condition under paragraph (g)(1) or (2) of this section or both and a demonstration of how the proposed exception lessens the risk of loss to plan participants and beneficiaries and does not increase expected employer withdrawals. The statement must also include a demonstration that the exception does not increase the amount of the plan's special financial assistance or unreasonably increase PBGC's risk of loss.


(viii) A list of employers contributing greater than 5 percent of plan contributions in a plan year.


(ix) A certification by the plan's actuary that the amount of special financial assistance that will be requested in the plan's application for special financial assistance will be determined assuming the exception will be approved.


(x) A detailed statement certified by an enrolled actuary of the effect of the proposed exception, and a demonstration for 30 years that the estimated withdrawal liability payments and contributions with the proposed exception exceed the estimated withdrawal liability payments and contributions without the proposed exception. The demonstration must show an aggregate of all withdrawal liability payments and an aggregate of all contributions for each year in the 30-year period and include representative examples of employer withdrawal liability payments and contributions. An individual employer's withdrawal liability assessment reflecting the proposed exception must be no less than what would be assessed without the proposed exception.


(xi) Any additional information PBGC determines it needs to review a request for approval of a proposed exception.


(h) *Withdrawal liability settlement.* (1) During the SFA coverage period, a plan must obtain PBGC approval for a proposed settlement of withdrawal liability if the amount of the liability settled is greater than $50 million calculated as the lesser of—


(i) The allocation of unfunded vested benefits to the employer under section 4211 of ERISA; or


(ii) The present value of withdrawal liability payments assessed for the employer discounted using the interest assumptions under § 4044.54 of this chapter.


(2) PBGC will approve a proposed settlement of withdrawal liability if it determines—


(i) Implementation of the settlement is in the best interests of participants and beneficiaries; and


(ii) The settlement does not create an unreasonable risk of loss to PBGC.


(3) A request for approval of a proposed settlement of withdrawal liability must be submitted by the plan sponsor or its duly authorized representative and must contain all of the following information:


(i) Name, address, email, and telephone number of the plan sponsor and the plan sponsor's authorized representatives, if any.


(ii) The nine-digit employer identification number (EIN) assigned to the plan sponsor by the IRS and the three-digit plan number (PN) assigned to the plan by the plan sponsor, and, if different, the EIN and PN last filed with PBGC. If an EIN or PN has not been assigned, that should be indicated.


(iii) A copy of the proposed settlement agreement.


(iv) A description of the facts leading up to the proposed settlement, including—


(A) The date the employer withdrew from the plan;


(B) The calculation of the withdrawal liability amount, including payment dates and amounts listed in the schedule for liability payments provided to the withdrawn employer in accordance with section 4291(b)(1)(A) of ERISA;


(C) The amount(s) and date(s) of withdrawal liability payments made; and


(D) How the proposed settlement amount was determined (discount rate used, financial condition of the employer, and other factors, as applicable).


(v) Most recent 3 years of audited financial statements and a 5-year cash flow projection for the employer with which the plan proposes to settle.


(vi) A copy of the most recent actuarial valuation report of the plan.


(vii) A statement certifying the trustees have determined that the proposed settlement is in the best interest of the plan and the plan's participants and beneficiaries.


(viii) Any additional information PBGC determines it needs to review a request for approval of a proposed withdrawal liability settlement.


(i) *Reporting.* In accordance with the statement of compliance instructions on PBGC's website at *www.pbgc.gov,* a plan sponsor must file with PBGC for each plan year, beginning with the plan year in which the plan received payment of special financial assistance and through the last plan year ending in 2051, a statement of compliance with the terms and conditions of the special financial assistance under this part and section 4262 of ERISA as follows—


(1) Except as provided in paragraph (i)(2) of this section, a plan's statement of compliance for each plan year must be filed no later than 90 days after the end of the plan year.


(2) If six months or fewer remain in the plan year after the month that includes the date the plan first received payment of special financial assistance, the first statement of compliance must cover the period from the date the plan received payment of special financial assistance through the last day of the plan year following the plan year in which the plan received payment of special financial assistance, and must be filed no later than 90 days after the end of such plan year.


(3) Each statement of compliance must be signed and dated by a trustee who is a current member of the board of trustees and authorized to sign on behalf of the board of trustees, or by another authorized representative of the plan sponsor.


(j) *Audit.* As authorized under section 4003 of ERISA, PBGC may conduct periodic audits of a plan that receives special financial assistance to review compliance with the terms and conditions of the special financial assistance under this part and section 4262 of ERISA.


(k) *Filing rules.* The filing rules in this paragraph (k) apply to a request for PBGC approval under paragraph (b), (d), (f), or (h) of this section and a statement of compliance under paragraph (i) of this section.


(1) *Method of filing.* A filing described under paragraph (b), (d), (f), (h), or (i) of this section must be made electronically in accordance with the rules in part 4000 of this chapter. The time period for filing a request or statement of compliance must be computed under the rules in subpart D of part 4000 of this chapter.


(2) *Where to file.* A filing described under paragraph (b), (d), (f), (h), or (i) of this section must be submitted as described in § 4000.4 of this chapter.



---

[N] [87 FR 41006, July 8, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 4905, Jan. 26, 2023; 88 FR 76664, Nov. 7, 2023; 89 FR 48309, June 6, 2024]






