# § 63.996   General monitoring requirements for control and recovery devices.

(a) *General monitoring requirements applicability.* (1) This section applies to the owner or operator of a regulated source required to monitor under this subpart.


(2) Flares subject to § 63.987(c) are not subject to the requirements of this section.


(3) Flow indicators are not subject to the requirements of this section.


(b) *Conduct of monitoring.* (1) Monitoring shall be conducted as set forth in this section and in the relevant sections of this subpart unless the provision in either paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section applies.


(i) The Administrator specifies or approves the use of minor changes in methodology for the specified monitoring requirements and procedures; or


(ii) The Administrator approves the use of alternatives to any monitoring requirements or procedures as provided in the referencing subpart or paragraph (d) of this section.


(2) When one CPMS is used as a backup to another CPMS, the owner or operator shall report the results from the CPMS used to meet the monitoring requirements of this subpart. If both such CPMS's are used during a particular reporting period to meet the monitoring requirements of this subpart, then the owner or operator shall report the results from each CPMS for the time during the six month period that the instrument was relied upon to demonstrate compliance.


(c) *Operation and maintenance of continuous parameter monitoring systems.* (1) All monitoring equipment shall be installed, calibrated, maintained, and operated according to manufacturer's specifications or other written procedures that provide adequate assurance that the equipment would reasonably be expected to monitor accurately.


(2) The owner or operator of a regulated source shall maintain and operate each CPMS as specified in this section, or in a relevant subpart, and in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices.


(i) The owner or operator of a regulated source shall ensure the immediate repair or replacement of CPMS parts to correct “routine” or otherwise predictable CPMS malfunctions. The necessary parts for routine repairs of the affected equipment shall be readily available.


(ii) If under the referencing subpart, an owner or operator has developed a start-up, shutdown, and malfunction plan, the plan is followed, and the CPMS is repaired immediately, this action shall be recorded as specified in § 63.998(c)(1)(ii)(E).


(iii) The Administrator's determination of whether acceptable operation and maintenance procedures are being used for the CPMS will be based on information that may include, but is not limited to, review of operation and maintenance procedures, operation and maintenance records as specified in § 63.998(c)(1)(i) and (ii), manufacturer's recommendations and specifications, and inspection of the CPMS.


(3) All CPMS's shall be installed and operational, and the data verified as specified in this subpart either prior to or in conjunction with conducting performance tests. Verification of operational status shall, at a minimum, include completion of the manufacturer's written specifications or recommendations for installation, operation, and calibration of the system or other written procedures that provide adequate assurance that the equipment would reasonably be expected to monitor accurately.


(4) All CPMS's shall be installed such that representative measurements of parameters from the regulated source are obtained.


(5) In accordance with the referencing subpart, except for system breakdowns, repairs, maintenance periods, instrument adjustments, or checks to maintain precision and accuracy, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments, all continuous parameter monitoring systems shall be in continuous operation when emissions are being routed to the monitored device.


(6) The owner or operator shall establish a range for monitored parameters that indicates proper operation of the control or recovery device. In order to establish the range, the information required in § 63.999(b)(3) shall be submitted in the Notification of Compliance Status or the operating permit application or amendment. The range may be based upon a prior performance test meeting the specifications of § 63.997(b)(1) or a prior TRE index value determination, as applicable, or upon existing ranges or limits established under a referencing subpart. Where the regeneration stream flow and carbon bed temperature are monitored, the range shall be in terms of the total regeneration stream flow per regeneration cycle and the temperature of the carbon bed determined within 15 minutes of the completion of the regeneration cooling cycle.


(d) *Alternatives to monitoring requirements*—(1) *Alternatives to the continuous operating parameter monitoring and recordkeeping provisions.* An owner or operator may request approval to use alternatives to the continuous operating parameter monitoring and recordkeeping provisions listed in §§ 63.988(c), 63.990(c), 63.993(c), 63.994(c), 63.998(a)(2) through (4), 63.998(c)(2) and (3), as specified in § 63.999(d)(1).


(2) *Monitoring a different parameter than those listed.* An owner or operator may request approval to monitor a different parameter than those established in paragraph (c)(6) of this section or to set unique monitoring parameters if directed by § 63.994(c)(2) or § 63.995(c), as specified in § 63.999(d)(2).




