# 47.200   Scope of subpart.

(a) This subpart prescribes procedures for the acquisition by sealed bid or negotiated contracts of—


(1) Freight transportation (including local drayage) from rail, motor (including bus), domestic water (including inland, coastwise, and intercoastal) carriers, and from freight forwarders; and


(2) Transportation-related services including but not limited to stevedoring, storage, packing, marking, and ocean freight forwarding.


(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) below, this subpart does not apply to—


(1) The acquisition of freight transportation from (i) domestic or international air carriers and (ii) international ocean carriers (see subparts 47.4 and 47.5);


(2) Freight transportation acquired by bills of lading;


(3) Household goods for which rates are negotiated under 49 U.S.C. 10721 and 13712. (These statutes do not apply in intrastate moves); or


(4) Contracts at or below the simplified acquisition threshold.


(c) With appropriate modifications, the procedures in this subpart may be applied to the acquisition of freight transportation from the carriers listed in paragraph (b)(1) above and passenger transportation from any carrier or mode.


(d) The procedures in this subpart are applicable to the transportation of household goods of persons being relocated at Government expense except when acquired—


(1) Under the commuted rate schedules as required in the Federal Travel Regulation (41 CFR Chapter 302);


(2) By DoD under the DoD 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation; or


(3) Under 49 U.S.C. 10721 and 13712 rates. (These statutes do not apply in intrastate moves.)


(e) Additional guidance for DoD acquisition of freight and passenger transportation is in the Defense Transportation Regulation.



---

[N] [48 FR 42424, Sept. 19, 1983, as amended at 50 FR 1745, Jan. 11, 1985; 50 FR 52429, Dec. 23, 1985; 59 FR 11383, Mar. 10, 1994; 60 FR 34760, July 3, 1995; 61 FR 39190, July 26, 1996; 71 FR 205, Jan. 3, 2006]




