# § 721.10237   Formaldehyde, polymers with acetone-phenol reaction products and phenol, sodium salts.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as formaldehyde, polymers with acetone-phenol reaction products and phenol, sodium salts (PMN P-09-146; CAS No. 1065544-88-8) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance that have been completely reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k) including:


(A) Manufacture or import of the PMN substance only where the maximum unbound formaldehyde residual levels and typical polymer weight to weight composition ratios are as specified in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order.


(B) Upon start-up of manufacture of the PMN at any new facility, conduct the American Society for Testing and Materials International (ASTM) E1333-10 test or its equivalent on a representative sample of the finished cured resin product, demonstrating that formaldehyde emissions are less than or equal to 0.04 ppm.


(C) Development and implementation of a written control plan that includes analysis of representative samples to ensure compliance with (a)(2)(i)(A) and (a)(2)(i)(B) of this section.


(D) Manufacturing, processing, distribution, or use of the PMN substance only as described in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order.


(E) Processing or distribution for processing only under the conditions described in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order and which are capable of irreversibly curing the PMN substance into a thermoset polymer matrix.


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [76 FR 61582, Oct. 5, 2011]




