# § 1066.605   Mass-based and molar-based exhaust emission calculations.

(a) Calculate your total mass of emissions over a test cycle as specified in paragraph (c) of this section or in 40 CFR part 1065, subpart G, as applicable.


(b) See the standard-setting part for composite emission calculations over multiple test intervals and the corresponding weighting factors.


(c) Perform the following sequence of preliminary calculations to correct recorded concentration measurements before calculating mass emissions in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section:


(1) For vehicles above 14,000 pounds GVWR, correct all THC and CH_4_ concentrations for initial contamination as described in 40 CFR 1065.660(a), including continuous readings, sample bag readings, and dilution air background readings. This correction is optional for vehicles at or below 14,000 pounds GVWR.


(2) Correct all concentrations measured on a “dry” basis to a “wet” basis, including dilution air background concentrations.


(3) Calculate all NMHC and CH_4_ concentrations, including dilution air background concentrations, as described in 40 CFR 1065.660.


(4) For vehicles at or below 14,000 pounds GVWR, calculate HC concentrations, including dilution air background concentrations, as described in this section, and as described in § 1066.635 for NMOG. For emission testing of vehicles above 14,000 pounds GVWR, with fuels that contain 25% or more oxygenated compounds by volume, calculate THCE and NMHCE concentrations, including dilution air background concentrations, as described in 40 CFR part 1065, subpart I.


(5) Correct all gaseous concentrations for dilution air background as described in § 1066.610.


(6) Correct NO_X_ emission values for intake-air humidity as described in § 1066.615.


(7) Correct all PM filter masses for sample media buoyancy as described in 40 CFR 1065.690.


(d) Calculate g/mile emission rates using the following equation unless the standard-setting part specifies otherwise:


(e) Calculate the emission mass of each gaseous pollutant using the following equation:


(f) Calculation of the emission mass of PM, *m*_PM,_ is dependent on how many PM filters you use, as follows:


(1) Except as otherwise specified in this paragraph (f), calculate *m*_PM_ using the following equation:


(2) If you sample PM onto a single filter as described in § 1066.815(b)(4)(i) or (b)(4)(ii) (for constant volume samplers), calculate *m*_PM_ using the following equation:


(3) If you sample PM onto a single filter as described in § 1066.815(b)(4)(ii) (for partial flow dilution systems), calculate *m*_PM_ using the following equation:


(4) If you sample PM onto a single filter as described in § 1066.815(b)(5)(i) or (b)(5)(ii) (for constant volume samplers), calculate *m*_PM_ using the following equation:


(5) If you sample PM onto a single filter as described in § 1066.815(b)(5)(ii) (for partial flow dilution systems), calculate *m*_PM_ using the following equation:


(g) This paragraph (g) describes how to correct flow and flow rates to standard reference conditions and provides an example for determining *V*_mix_ based on CVS total flow and the removal of sample flow from the dilute exhaust gas. You may use predetermined nominal values for removed sample volumes, except for flows used for batch sampling.


(1) Correct flow and flow rates to standard reference conditions as needed using the following equation:


(2) The following example provides a determination of *V*_mix_ based on CVS total flow and the removal of sample flow from one dilute exhaust gas analyzer and one PM sampling system that is utilizing secondary dilution. Note that your *V*_mix_ determination may vary from Eq. 1066.605-7 based on the number of flows that are removed from your dilute exhaust gas and whether your PM sampling system is using secondary dilution. For this example, *V*_mix_ is governed by the following equation:


(h) Calculate total flow volume over a test interval, *V*_[flow],_ for a CVS or exhaust gas sampler as follows:


(1) *Varying versus constant flow rates.* The calculation methods depend on differentiating varying and constant flow, as follows:


(i) We consider the following to be examples of varying flows that require a continuous multiplication of concentration times flow rate: raw exhaust, exhaust diluted with a constant flow rate of dilution air, and CVS dilution with a CVS flow meter that does not have an upstream heat exchanger or electronic flow control.


(ii) We consider the following to be examples of constant exhaust flows: CVS diluted exhaust with a CVS flow meter that has an upstream heat exchanger, an electronic flow control, or both.


(2) *Continuous sampling.* For continuous sampling, you must frequently record a continuously updated flow signal. This recording requirement applies for both varying and constant flow rates.


(i) *Varying flow rate.* If you continuously sample from a varying exhaust flow rate, calculate *V*_[flow]_ using the following equation:


Eq. 1066.605-11


(ii) *Constant flow rate.* If you continuously sample from a constant exhaust flow rate, use the same calculation described in paragraph (h)(2)(i) of this section or calculate the mean flow recorded over the test interval and treat the mean as a batch sample, as described in paragraph (h)(3)(ii) of this section.


(3) *Batch sampling.* For batch sampling, calculate total flow by integrating a varying flow rate or by determining the mean of a constant flow rate, as follows:


(i) *Varying flow rate.* If you proportionally collect a batch sample from a varying exhaust flow rate, integrate the flow rate over the test interval to determine the total flow from which you extracted the proportional sample, as described in paragraph (h)(2)(i) of this section.


(ii) *Constant flow rate.* If you batch sample from a constant exhaust flow rate, extract a sample at a proportional or constant flow rate and calculate *V*_[flow]_ from the flow from which you extract the sample by multiplying the mean flow rate by the time of the test interval using the following equation:



---

[N] [79 FR 23823, Apr. 28, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 9121, Feb. 19, 2015; 81 FR 74203, Oct. 25, 2016; 86 FR 34583, June 29, 2021]




