# § 210.22   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart:


(a) Unless otherwise specified, the terms used have the meanings set forth in 17 U.S.C. 115(e).


(b) The term *blanket licensee* means a digital music provider operating under a blanket license.


(c) The term *DDEX* means Digital Data Exchange, LLC.




(d) The term *derivative works exception* means the limitations contained in 17 U.S.C. 203(b)(1) and 304(c)(6)(A).






(e) The term *GAAP* means U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, except that if the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission permits or requires entities with securities that are publicly traded in the U.S. to employ International Financial Reporting Standards, as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, or as accepted by the Securities and Exchange Commission if different from that issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, in lieu of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, then an entity may employ International Financial Reporting Standards as “GAAP” for purposes of this section.


(f) The term *historical unmatched royalties* means the accrued royalties transferred to the mechanical licensing collective by digital music providers pursuant to 17 U.S.C. 115(d)(10) and § 210.10.




(g) The term *IPI* means interested parties information code.


(h) The term *ISNI* means international standard name identifier.


(i) The term *ISRC* means international standard recording code.


(j) The term *ISWC* means international standard musical work code.


(k) The term *matched historical royalties* means historical unmatched royalties attributable to a musical work (or share thereof) matched after being transferred to the mechanical licensing collective.


(l) The term *payee snapshot* means the royalty payee information in the mechanical licensing collective's records as of a particular date used for a particular monthly royalty distribution.


(m) The term *pre-termination copyright owner* means the owner of the relevant copyright immediately prior to:


(1) The effective date of termination for an effective termination under 17 U.S.C. 203 or 304; or


(2) The purported effective date of termination for a claimed, disputed, or invalid termination under 17 U.S.C. 203 or 304.












(n) The term *producer* means the primary person(s) contracted by and accountable to the content owner for the task of delivering the sound recording as a finished product.




(o) The term *terminating party* means:


(1) A party entitled under 17 U.S.C. 203 or 304 to terminate a grant, who is seeking to terminate such a grant under such provisions;


(2) A party who has effectuated termination of a grant under 17 U.S.C. 203 or 304;


(3) A party to whom rights have reverted or are expected to revert pursuant to the effective termination of a grant under 17 U.S.C. 203 or 304; or


(4) A successor in interest to a party identified in paragraph (o)(1), (2), or (3) of this section (*e.g.,* a subsequent publisher or administrator).






(p) The term *UPC* means universal product code.





---

[N] [85 FR 58143, Sept. 17, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 56612, July 9, 2024]










