# § 60.5411b   What additional requirements must I meet to determine initial compliance for my covers and closed vent systems?

For each cover or closed vent system at your well, centrifugal compressor, reciprocating compressor, process controller, pump, storage vessel, and process unit equipment affected facilities, you must comply with the applicable requirements of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.


(a) *Closed vent system requirements.* (1) Reciprocating compressor rod packing, process controllers, and pumps. You must design the closed vent system to capture and route all gases, vapors, and fumes to a process.


(2) Associated gas wells, centrifugal compressors, process controllers in Alaska, pumps complying with § 60.5393b(b)(1), storage vessels, and process unit equipment. You must design the closed vent system to capture and route all gases, vapors, and fumes to a process or a control device that meets the requirements specified in § 60.5412b(a) through (d) of this section. For pumps complying with § 60.5393b(b)(3), you must design the closed vent system to capture and route all gases, vapors, and fumes to a control device that meets the requirements specified in § 60.5412b(a) through (d) of this section.


(3) You must design and operate the closed vent system with no identifiable emissions as demonstrated by § 60.5416b(a) and (b).


(4) Bypass devices. You must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section if the closed vent system contains one or more bypass devices that could be used to divert all or a portion of the gases, vapors, or fumes from entering the control device or being routed to a process.


(i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section, you must comply with either paragraph (a)(4)(i)(A) or (B) of this section for each bypass device.


(A) You must properly install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a flow indicator at the inlet to the bypass device. The flow indicator must be capable of taking periodic readings as specified in § 60.5416b(a)(4)(i) and sound an alarm, or initiate notification via remote alarm to the nearest field office, when the bypass device is open such that the stream is being, or could be, diverted away from the control device or process, and sent to the atmosphere. You must maintain records of each time the alarm is activated according to § 60.5420b(c)(10).


(B) You must secure the bypass device valve installed at the inlet to the bypass device in the non-diverting position using a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration.


(ii) Low leg drains, high point bleeds, analyzer vents, open-ended valves or lines, and safety devices are not subject to the requirements of paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section.


(b) *Cover requirements for storage vessels and centrifugal compressors, and reciprocating compressors.* (1) The cover and all openings on the cover (*e.g.,* access hatches, sampling ports, pressure relief devices and gauge wells) shall form a continuous impermeable barrier over the entire surface area of the liquid in the storage vessel or centrifugal compressor wet seal fluid degassing system, or reciprocating compressor rod packing emissions collection system.


(2) Each cover opening shall be secured in a closed, sealed position (*e.g.,* covered by a gasketed lid or cap) whenever material is in the unit on which the cover is installed except during those times when it is necessary to use an opening as follows:


(i) To add material to, or remove material from the unit (this includes openings necessary to equalize or balance the internal pressure of the unit following changes in the level of the material in the unit);


(ii) To inspect or sample the material in the unit;


(iii) To inspect, maintain, repair, or replace equipment located inside the unit; or


(iv) To vent liquids, gases, or fumes from the unit through a closed vent system designed and operated in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section to a control device or to a process.


(3) Each storage vessel thief hatch shall be equipped, maintained and operated with a weighted mechanism or equivalent, to ensure that the lid remains properly seated and sealed under normal operating conditions, including such times when working, standing/breathing, and flash emissions may be generated. You must select gasket material for the hatch based on composition of the fluid in the storage vessel and weather conditions.


(4) You must design and operate the cover with no identifiable emissions as demonstrated by § 60.5416b(a) and (b), except when operated as provided in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(c) *Design requirements.* (1) You must conduct an assessment that the closed vent system is of sufficient design and capacity to ensure that all gases, vapors, and fumes from the affected facility are routed to the control device or process and that the control device or process is of sufficient design and capacity to accommodate all emissions from the affected facility. The assessment must be certified by a qualified professional engineer or an in-house engineer with expertise on the design and operation of the closed vent system in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) You must provide the following certification, signed and dated by a qualified professional engineer or an in-house engineer: “I certify that the closed vent system design and capacity assessment was prepared under my direction or supervision. I further certify that the closed vent system design and capacity assessment was conducted, and this report was prepared pursuant to the requirements of subpart OOOOb of this part. Based on my professional knowledge and experience, and inquiry of personnel involved in the assessment, the certification submitted herein is true, accurate, and complete.”


(ii) The assessment shall be prepared under the direction or supervision of a qualified professional engineer or an in-house engineer who signs the certification in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section.



---

[N] [89 FR 17043, Mar. 8, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 62897, Aug. 1, 2024]






