# ยง 303.1   Terms defined.

As used in this part, unless the context otherwise specifically requires:


(a) The term *Act* means the *Textile Fiber Products Identification Act* (approved September 2, 1958, 85th Congress, 2d Sess.; 15 U.S.C. 70, 72 Stat. 1717).


(b) The terms *rule, rules, regulations,* and *rules and regulations* mean the rules and regulations prescribed by the Commission pursuant to section 7(c) of the Act.


(c) The definition of terms contained in section 2 of the Act shall be applicable also to such terms when used in rules promulgated under the Act.


(d) The term *United States* means the several States, the District of Columbia, and the Territories and possessions of the United States.


(e) The terms *required information* and *information required* mean such information as is required to be disclosed on labels or invoices and in advertising under the Act and regulations.


(f) The terms *label, labels, labeled,* and *labeling* mean the stamp, tag, label, or other means of identification, or authorized substitute therefor, required to be on or affixed to textile fiber products by the Act and regulations and on which the information required is to appear.


(g) The terms *marketing or handling* and *marketed or handled,* when applied to textile fiber products, mean any one or all of the transactions set forth in section 3 of the Act.


(h) The terms *invoice* and *invoice or other document* mean an account, order, memorandum, list, or catalog, which is issued to a purchaser, consignee, bailee, correspondent, agent, or any other person, electronically, in writing, or in some other form capable of being read and preserved in a form that is capable of being accurately reproduced for later reference, whether by transmission, printing, or otherwise, in connection with the marketing or handling of any textile fiber product transported or delivered to such person.


(i) The term *outer coverings of furniture, mattresses, and box springs* means those coverings as are permanently incorporated in such articles.


(j) The term *wearing apparel* means any costume or article of clothing or covering for any part of the body worn or intended to be worn by individuals.


(k) The term *beddings* means sheets, covers, blankets, comforters, pillows, pillowcases, quilts, bedspreads, pads, and all other textile fiber products used or intended to be used on or about a bed or other place for reclining or sleeping but shall not include furniture, mattresses or box springs.


(l) The term *headwear* means any textile fiber product worn exclusively on or about the head or face by individuals.


(m) The term *backings,* when applied to floor coverings, means that part of a floor covering to which the pile, face, or outer surface is woven, tufted, hooked, knitted, or otherwise attached, and which provides the structural base of the floor covering. The term *backing* shall also include fabrics attached to the structural base of the floor covering in such a way as to form a part of such structural base, but shall not include the pile, face, or outer surface of the floor covering or any part thereof.


(n) The term *elastic material* means a fabric composed of yarn consisting of an elastomer or a covered elastomer.


(o) The term *coated fabric* means any fabric which is coated, filled, impregnated, or laminated with a continuous-film-forming polymeric composition in such a manner that the weight added to the base fabric is at least 35 percent of the weight of the fabric before coating, filling, impregnation, or lamination.


(p) The term *upholstered product* means articles of furniture containing stuffing and shall include mattresses and box springs.


(q) The term *ornamentation* means any fibers or yarns imparting a visibly discernible pattern or design to a yarn or fabric.


(r) The term *fiber trademark* means a word or words used by a person to identify a particular fiber produced or sold by him and to distinguish it from fibers of the same generic class produced or sold by others. Such term shall not include any trade mark, product mark, house mark, trade name or other name which does not identify a particular fiber.


(s) The term *wool* means the fiber from the fleece of the sheep or lamb or hair of the Angora or Cashmere goat (and may include the so-called specialty fibers from the hair of the camel, alpaca, llama, and vicuna) which has never been reclaimed from any woven or felted wool product.


(t) The term *recycled wool* means (1) the resulting fiber when wool has been woven or felted into a wool product which, without ever having been utilized in any way by the ultimate consumer, subsequently has been made into a fibrous state, or (2) the resulting fiber when wool or reprocessed wool has been spun, woven, knitted, or felted into a wool product which, after having been used in any way by the ultimate consumer, subsequently has been made into a fibrous state.


(u) The terms *mail order catalog* and *mail order promotional material* mean any materials, used in the direct sale or direct offering for sale of textile products, that are disseminated to ultimate consumers in print or by electronic means, other than by broadcast, and that solicit ultimate consumers to purchase such textile products by mail, telephone, electronic mail, or some other method without examining the actual product purchased.



---

[N] [24 FR 4480, June 2, 1959, as amended at 45 FR 44263, July 1, 1980; 50 FR 15106, Apr. 17, 1985; 63 FR 7517, Feb. 13, 1998; 79 FR 18770, Apr. 4, 2014]




