# ยง 310.2   Definitions.

For the purpose of this part, except where the context requires otherwise:


(a) *Act* means Pub. L. 91-269.


(b) *Secretary* means the Secretary of Commerce.


(c) *Commissioner General* means the person appointed to act as the senior Federal official for the exposition as required by BIE rules and regulations.


(d) *Director* means the Director of the International Expositions Staff, Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Development, International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce.


(e) *Applicant* means a State, County, municipality, a political subdivision of the foregoing, private non-profit or not-for-profit organizations, or individuals filing an application with the Director seeking Federal recognition of an international exposition to be held in the United States.


(f) *State* means one of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.


(g) *Exposition* means an international exposition proposed to be held in the United States for which an application has been filed with the Director seeking Federal recognition under the Act; which proposes to invite more than one foreign country to participate; and, which would exceed three weeks in duration. Any event under three weeks in duration is not considered an international exposition under BIE rules.



---

[N] [40 FR 34107, Aug. 14, 1975. Redesignated and amended at 46 FR 57457, Nov. 24, 1981]




