# § 747.2001   Scope.

(a) *Independent review process.* The rules and procedures set forth in this subpart apply to federally insured credit unions, whether federally- or state-chartered (other than corporate credit unions), which are subject to discretionary supervisory actions under part 702 of this chapter, and to reclassification under §§ 702.102(b) and 702.202(d) of this chapter, to facilitate prompt corrective action under section 216 of the Federal Credit Union Act, 12 U.S.C. 1790d; and to senior executive officers and directors of such credit unions who are dismissed pursuant to a discretionary supervisory action imposed under part 702. NCUA staff decisions to impose discretionary supervisory actions under part 702 shall be considered material supervisory determinations for purposes of 12 U.S.C. 1790d(k). Section 747.2002 of this subpart provides an independent appellate process to challenge such decisions. 


(b) *Notice to State officials.* With respect to a federally insured State-chartered credit union under §§ 747.2002, 747.2003 and 747.2004 of this subpart, notices, directives and decisions on appeal served upon a credit union, or a dismissed director or officer thereof, by the NCUA Board shall also be served upon the appropriate State official. Responses, requests for a hearing and to present witnesses, requests to modify or rescind a discretionary supervisory action and requests for reinstatement served upon the NCUA Board by a credit union, or dismissed director or officer thereof, shall also be served upon the appropriate State official. 



---

[N] [65 FR 8594, Feb. 18, 2000, as amended at 80 FR 66723, Oct. 29, 2015]




