# ยง 1216.311   Emergency responses.

(a) When the Responsible Official determines that emergency circumstances exist which make it necessary to take immediate response and/or recovery action(s) before preparing a NEPA analysis, then the following provisions apply:


(1) The Responsible Official may undertake immediate emergency response and/or recovery action(s) necessary to protect life, property, or valuable resources. When taking such action(s), the Responsible Official shall, to the extent practicable, mitigate foreseeable adverse environmental impacts.


(2) At the earliest practicable time, the Responsible Official shall notify the SAO of the emergency and any past, ongoing, or future NASA emergency response and/or recovery action(s). The SAO shall determine if NEPA applies and the appropriate level of NEPA analysis to document the emergency. If the emergency response and/or recovery action(s) will reasonably result in significant environmental impacts, the SAO shall consult with the CEQ about alternative arrangements for compliance with NEPA.


(b) If the Responsible Official proposes emergency response and/or recovery actions that will continue beyond those needed to immediately protect life, property, and valuable resources, the Responsible Official shall consult with the SAO to determine the appropriate level of NEPA compliance. If continuation of the emergency actions will reasonably result in significant environmental impacts, the SAO shall consult with the CEQ about alternative arrangements for compliance.





---

[N] [89 FR 25502, Apr. 11, 2024]














