# ยง 3108.21   Automatic termination.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any lease on which there is no well capable of producing oil or gas in paying quantities will automatically terminate by operation of law (30 U.S.C. 188) if the lessee fails to pay the rental at the designated ONRR office on or before the lease anniversary date. However, if the designated ONRR office is closed on the anniversary date, a rental payment received on the next business day the ONRR office is open to the public will be considered timely made.


(b) If the rental payment due under a lease is paid on or before its anniversary date but the amount of the payment is deficient and the deficiency is nominal as defined in this section, or the amount of payment made was determined in accordance with the rental or acreage figure stated in a decision rendered by the authorized officer, and such figure is found to be in error resulting in a deficiency, such lease will not have automatically terminated unless the lessee fails to pay the deficiency within the period prescribed in the Notice of Deficiency provided for in this section. A deficiency will be considered nominal if it is not more than $100 or more than 5 percent of the total payment due, whichever is less. The designated ONRR office will send a Notice of Deficiency to the lessee. The Notice will allow the lessee 15 days from the date of receipt or until the due date, whichever is later, to submit the full balance due to the designated ONRR office. If the payment required by the Notice is not paid within the time allowed, the lease will have terminated by operation of law as of its anniversary date.


(c) The automatic termination provision does not apply where, due to other contingencies, additional rental is due on a date other than the lease anniversary date and where the lessee did not receive notice that the obligation had accrued, unless the lessee fails to pay the rental within the period prescribed in the BLM Notice.






