# § 192.25   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this part and the forms prescribed under this part:


*Acting in concert* has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 5.50(d)(2). The rebuttable presumptions of 12 CFR 5.50(f)(2), other than 12 CFR 5.50(f)(2)(ii)(A) and (B), apply to the share purchase limitations at §§ 192.355 through 192.395.


*Affiliate of,* or a person *affiliated with,* a specified person is a person that directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with the specified person.


*Appropriate Federal banking agency* means appropriate Federal banking agency as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(q)).


*Associate* of a person is:


(1) A corporation or organization (other than a savings association or its majority-owned subsidiaries), if the person is a senior officer or partner, or beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 10 percent or more of any class of equity securities of the corporation or organization.


(2) A trust or other estate, if the person has a substantial beneficial interest in the trust or estate or is a trustee or fiduciary of the trust or estate. For purposes of §§ 192.370 through 192.395 and 192.505, a person who has a substantial beneficial interest in a savings association's tax-qualified or non-tax-qualified employee stock benefit plan, or who is a trustee or a fiduciary of the plan, is not an associate of the plan. For the purposes of § 192.370, a savings association's tax-qualified employee stock benefit plan is not an associate of a person.


(3) Any person who is related by blood or marriage to such person and:


(i) Who lives in the same home as the person; or


(ii) Who is the savings association's director or senior officer, or a director or senior officer of the savings association's holding company or its subsidiary.


*Association members* or *members* are persons who, under applicable law, are eligible to vote at the meeting on conversion.


*Community offering* means the offer to sell to the members of the general public in the savings association's community the securities not subscribed for in the subscription offering. The community offering may occur concurrently with the subscription offering and any syndicated community offering, or upon conclusion of the subscription offering.


*Control* (including *controlling, controlled by,* and *under common control with*) means the direct or indirect power to direct or exercise a controlling influence over the management and policies of a person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise as described in 12 CFR 5.50.


*Demand accounts* means non-interest-bearing demand deposits that are subject to check or to withdrawal or transfer on negotiable or transferable order to the savings association and that are permitted to be issued by statute, regulation, or otherwise and are payable on demand.


*Eligibility record date* is the date for determining eligible account holders. The eligibility record date must be at least one year before the date a savings association's board of directors adopts the plan of conversion.


*Eligible account holders* are any persons holding qualifying deposits on the eligibility record date.


*Federal savings association* means a Federal savings association or Federal savings bank chartered under section 5 of the Home Owners' Loan Act (HOLA) (12 U.S.C. 1464).


*IRS* is the Internal Revenue Service.


*Local community* includes:


(1) Every county, parish, or similar governmental subdivision in which a savings association has a home or branch office;


(2) Each county's, parish's, or subdivision's metropolitan statistical area;


(3) All zip code areas in a savings association's Community Reinvestment Act assessment area; and


(4) Any other area or category that a savings association sets out in its plan of conversion, as approved by the appropriate Federal banking agency.


*Offer, offer to sell,* or *offer for sale* is an attempt or offer to dispose of, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, a security or interest in a security for value. Preliminary negotiations or agreements with an underwriter, or among underwriters who are or will be in privity of contract with a savings association, are not offers, offers to sell, or offers for sale.


*Offering circular* means the securities offering materials for the conversion.


*Person* is an individual, a corporation, a partnership, an association, a joint-stock company, a limited liability company, a trust, an unincorporated organization, or a government or political subdivision of a government.


*Proxy soliciting material* includes a proxy statement, form of proxy, or other written or oral communication regarding the conversion.


*Purchase* or *buy* includes every contract to acquire a security or interest in a security for value.


*Qualifying deposit* is the total balance in an account holder's savings accounts at the close of business on the eligibility or supplemental eligibility record date. A savings association's plan of conversion may provide that only savings accounts with total deposit balances of $50 or more will qualify.


*Sale* or *sell* includes every contract to dispose of a security or interest in a security for value. An exchange of securities in a merger or acquisition approved by the appropriate Federal banking agency is not a sale.


*Savings account* means any withdrawable account, including a demand account, except this term does not mean a tax and loan account, a note account, a United States Treasury general account, or a United States Treasury time deposit-open account.


*Savings association* means a savings association as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(b)(1)).


*Solicitation* and *solicit* is a request for a proxy, whether or not accompanied by or included in a form of proxy; a request to execute, not execute, or revoke a proxy; or the furnishing of a form of proxy or other communication reasonably calculated to cause a savings association's members to procure, withhold, or revoke a proxy. Solicitation or solicit does not include providing a form of proxy at the unsolicited request of a member, the acts required to mail communications for members, or ministerial acts performed on behalf of a person soliciting a proxy.


*State* means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, any territory of the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Virgin Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands.


*State savings association* means a State savings association as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(b)(3)).


*Subscription offering* is the offering of shares through nontransferable subscription rights to:


(1) Eligible account holders under § 192.355;


(2) Tax-qualified employee stock ownership plans under § 192.380;


(3) Supplemental eligible account holders under § 192.355; and


(4) Other voting members under § 192.365.


*Supplemental eligibility record date* is the date for determining supplemental eligible account holders. The supplemental eligibility record date is the last day of the calendar quarter before the appropriate Federal banking agency approves a savings association's conversion and will only occur if such agency has not approved such conversion within 15 months after the eligibility record date.


*Supplemental eligible account holders* are any persons, except a savings association's officers, directors, and their associates, holding qualifying deposits on the supplemental eligibility record date.


*Tax-qualified employee stock benefit plan* is any defined benefit plan or defined contribution plan, such as an employee stock ownership plan, stock bonus plan, profit-sharing plan, or other plan, and a related trust, that is qualified under section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 401).


*Underwriter* is any person who purchases any securities from a savings association with a view to distributing the securities, offers or sells securities for a savings association in connection with the securities' distribution, or participates or has a direct or indirect participation in the direct or indirect underwriting of any such undertaking. Underwriter does not include a person whose interest is limited to a usual and customary distributor's or seller's commission from an underwriter or dealer.


*Voluntary supervisory conversion* is a mutual to stock conversion for a savings association that is unable to complete a standard mutual to stock conversion under part 192, subpart A, and that meets the eligibility requirements of § 192.625.




