# Appendix C to Part 420—Risk Analysis 




(1) This appendix provides a method for an applicant to estimate the expected casualty (E_c_) for a launch of a guided expendable launch vehicle using a flight corridor generated either by appendix A or appendix B. This appendix also provides an applicant options to simplify the method where population at risk is minimal. 


(2) An applicant shall perform a risk analysis when a populated area is located within a flight corridor defined by either appendix A or appendix B. If the estimated expected casualty exceeds 1 × 10_−4_, an applicant may either modify its proposal, or if the flight corridor used was generated by the appendix A method, use the appendix B method to narrow the flight corridor and then redo the overflight risk analysis pursuant to this appendix. If the estimated expected casualty still exceeds 1 × 10_−4_, the FAA will not approve the location of the proposed launch point.




(1) An applicant shall obtain the data specified by subparagraphs (b)(2) and (3) and summarized in table C-1. Table C-1 provides sources where an applicant may obtain data acceptable to the FAA. An applicant must also employ the flight corridor information from appendix A or B, including flight azimuth and, for an appendix B flight corridor, trajectory information. 


(2) Population data. Total population (N) and the total landmass area within a populated area (A) are required. Population data up to and including 100 nm from the launch point are required at the U.S. census block group level. Population data downrange from 100 nm are required at no greater than 1° × 1° latitude/longitude grid coordinates. 


(3) Launch vehicle data. Launch vehicle data consist of the launch vehicle failure probability (P_f_), the launch vehicle effective casualty area (A_c_), trajectory position data, and the overflight dwell time (t_d_). The failure probability is a constant (P_f_ = 0.10) for a guided orbital or suborbital expendable launch vehicle. Table C-3 provides effective casualty area data based on IIP range. Trajectory position information is provided from distance computations provided by this appendix for an appendix A flight corridor, or trajectory data used in appendix B for an appendix B flight corridor. The dwell time (t_d_) may be determined from trajectory data produced when creating an appendix B flight corridor. 


(1) A corridor casualty expectation [E_C_(Corridor)] estimate is the sum of the expected casualty measurement of each populated area inside a flight corridor. 


(2) An applicant shall identify and locate each populated area in the proposed flight corridor. 


(3) An applicant shall determine the probability of impact in each populated area using the procedures in subparagraphs (5) or (6) of this paragraph. Figures C-1 and C-2 illustrate an area considered for probability of impact (P_i_) computations by the dashed-lined box around the populated area within a flight corridor, and figure C-3 illustrates a populated area in a final stage impact dispersion area. An applicant shall then estimate the E_C_ for each populated area in accordance with subparagraphs (7) and (8) of this paragraph. 


(4) The P_i_ computations do not directly account for populated areas whose areas are bisected by an appendix A flight corridor centerline or an appendix B nominal trajectory ground trace. Accordingly, an applicant must evaluate P_i_ for each of the bi-sections as two separate populated areas, as shown in figure C-4, which shows one bi-section to the left of an appendix A flight corridor's centerline and one to its right. 


(5) Probability of impact (P_i_) computations for a populated area in an appendix A flight corridor. An applicant shall compute P_i_ for each populated area using the following method: 


(i) For the launch and downrange areas, but not for a final stage impact dispersion area for a guided suborbital launch vehicle, an applicant shall compute P_i_ for each populated area using the following equation: 


(ii) For each populated area within a final stage impact dispersion area, an applicant shall compute P_i_ using the following method: 


(A) An applicant shall estimate the probability of final stage impact in the x and y sectors of each populated area within the final stage impact dispersion area using equations C2 and C3: 


(B) If a populated area intersects the impact dispersion area boundary so that the x_2_ or y_2_ distance would otherwise extend outside the impact dispersion area, the x_2_ or y_2_ distance should be set equal to the impact dispersion area radius. The x_2_ distance for populated area A in figure C-3 is an example. If a populated area intersects the flight azimuth, an applicant shall solve equation C3 by obtaining the solution in two parts. An applicant shall determine, first, the probability between y_1_ = 0 and y_2_ = a and, second, the probability between y_1_ = 0 and y_2_ = b, as depicted in figure C-4. The probability P_y_ is then equal to the sum of the probabilities of the two parts. If a populated area intersects the line that is normal to the flight azimuth on the impact point, an applicant shall solve equation C2 by obtaining the solution in two parts in the same manner as with the values of x. 


(C) An applicant shall calculate the probability of impact for each populated area using equation C4 below: 


(6) Probability of impact computations for a populated area in an appendix B flight corridor. An applicant shall compute P_i_ using the following method: 


(i) For the launch and downrange areas, but not for a final stage impact dispersion area for a guided suborbital launch vehicle, an applicant shall compute P_i_ for each populated area using the following equation: 


(ii) For each populated area within a final stage impact dispersion area, an applicant shall compute P_i_ using the following method: 


(A) An applicant shall estimate the probability of final stage impact in the x and y sectors of each populated area within the final stage impact dispersion area using equations C6 and C7:


(B) If a populated area intersects the impact dispersion area boundary so that the x_2_ or y_2_ distance would otherwise extend outside the impact dispersion area, the x_2_ or y_2_ distance should be set equal to the impact dispersion area radius. The x_2_ distance for populated area A in figure C-3 is an example. If a populated area intersects the flight azimuth, an applicant shall solve equation C7 by obtaining the solution in two parts. An applicant shall determine, first, the probability between y_1_ = 0 and y_2_ = a and, second, the probability between y_1_ = 0 and y_2_ = b, as depicted in figure C-4. The probability P_y_ is then equal to the sum of the probabilities of the two parts. If a populated area intersects the line that is normal to the flight azimuth on the impact point, an applicant shall solve equation C6 by obtaining the solution in two parts in a similar manner with the values of x. 


(C) An applicant shall calculate the probability of impact for each populated area using equation C8 below: 


(7) Using the P_i_ calculated in either subparagraph (c)(5) or (6) of this paragraph, an applicant shall calculate the casualty expectancy for each populated area within the flight corridor in accordance with equation C9. E_ck_ is the casualty expectancy for a given populated area as shown in equation C9, where individual populated areas are designated with the subscript “k”. 


(8) An applicant shall estimate the total corridor risk using the following summation of risk:


(9) Alternative casualty expectancy (E_C_) analyses. An applicant may employ specified variations to the analysis defined by subparagraphs (c)(1)-(8). Those variations are identified in subparagraphs (9)(i) through (vi) of this paragraph. Subparagraphs (i) through (iv) permit an applicant to make conservative assumptions that would lead to an overestimation of the corridor E_C_ compared with the analysis defined by subparagraphs (c)(1)-(8). In subparagraphs (v) and (vi), an applicant that would otherwise fail the analysis prescribed by subparagraphs (c)(1)-(8) may avoid (c)(1)-(8)'s overestimation of the probability of impact in each populated area. An applicant employing a variation shall identify the variation used, show and discuss the specific assumptions made to modify the analysis defined by subparagraphs (c)(1)-(8), and demonstrate how each assumption leads to overestimation of the corridor E_C_ compared with the analysis defined by subparagraphs (c)(1)-(c)(8). 


(i) Assume that P_x_ and P_y_ have a value of 1.0 for all populated areas. 


(ii) Combine populated areas into one or more larger populated areas, and use a population density for the combined area or areas equal to the most densely populated area. 


(iii) For any given populated area, assume P_y_ has a value of one. 


(iv) For any given P_x_ sector (an area spanning the width of a flight corridor and bounded by two time points on the trajectory IIP ground trace) assume P_y_ has a value of one and use a population density for the sector equal to the most densely populated area. 


(v) For a given populated area, divide the populated area into smaller rectangles, determine P_i_ for each individual rectangle, and sum the individual impact probabilities to determine P_i_ for the entire populated area. 


(vi) For a given populated area, use the ratio of the populated area to the area of the P_i_ rectangle from the subparagraph (c)(1)-(8) analysis. 


(1) If the estimated expected casualty does not exceed 1 × 10_−4_, the FAA will approve the launch site location.


(2) If the estimated expected casualty exceeds 1 × 10_−4_, then an applicant may either modify its proposal, or, if the flight corridor used was generated by the appendix A method, use the appendix B method to narrow the flight corridor and then perform another appendix C risk analysis.



---

[N] [Doc. No. FAA-1999-5833, 65 FR 62861, Oct. 19, 2000, as amended by Amdt. 420-2, 71 FR 51972, Aug. 31, 2006; Docket No. FAA-2014-0418, Amdt. No. 420-7, 81 FR 47027, July 20, 2016]




