# ยง 162.6   Reasonable opportunity to opt out.

(a) *In general.* A covered affiliate must not use eligibility information about a consumer that the covered affiliate receives from an affiliate to make a solicitation to such consumer about the covered affiliate's financial products or services, unless the consumer is provided a reasonable opportunity to opt out, as required by this subpart.


(b) *Examples.* A reasonable opportunity to opt out under this subpart is:


(1) If the opt-out notice is mailed to the consumer, the consumer has 30 days from the date the notice is mailed to opt out.


(2) If the opt-out notice is sent *via* electronic means to the consumer, the consumer has 30 days from the date the consumer acknowledges receipt to elect to opt out by any reasonable method.


(3) If the opt-out notice is sent *via* e-mail (where the consumer has agreed to receive disclosures by e-mail), the consumer is given 30 days after the e-mail is sent to elect to opt out by any reasonable method.


(4) If the opt-out notice provided to the consumer at the time of an electronic transaction, the consumer is required to decide, as a necessary part of proceeding with the transaction, whether to opt out before completing the transaction.


(5) If the opt-out notice is provided during an in-person transaction, the consumer is required to decide, as a necessary part of completing the transaction, whether to opt out through a simple process.


(6) If the opt-out notice is provided in conjunction with other privacy notices required by law, the consumer is allowed to exercise the opt-out election within a reasonable period of time and in the same manner as the opt out under that privacy notice.




