# ยง 51.49   Approved identifications.

(a) *Grade marks.* The approved shield mark with the appropriate U.S. grade designation may be used on containers, labels or otherwise indicated on the package when: (1) The product has been packed under continuous inspection as provided by the Inspection Service, (2) the plant in which the product is packed is maintained under good commercial sanitary practices, and (3) the product has been certified by an inspector as meeting the requirements of U.S. Grade A, U.S. Grade No. 1, or a higher U.S. grade as shown within the shield. The shields with approved grade designation for use shall be similar in form and design to the examples in figures 1 and 2 of this section.


(b) *Inspection legends.* The approved continuous inspection legends may be used on containers, labels or otherwise indicated on the package when: (1) The product has been packed under continuous inspection provided by the Inspection Service, (2) the plant in which the product is packed is maintained under good commercial sanitary practices, and (3) the product meets the requirements of such quality, grade, or specification as may be approved by the Administrator. The continuous inspection legends approved for use shall be similar in form and design to the examples in figures 3 and 4.


(c) *Combined grade and inspection legends.* The grade marks set forth in paragraph (a) of this section and illustrated by figures 1 and 2 of this section and the inspection legends set forth in paragraph (b) of this section and illustrated by figures 3 and 4 of paragraph (b) of this section may be combined into a consolidated grade and inspection legend for use on products which meet the requirements of both of these paragraphs. See figure 5.


(d) *Packer identification.* The packer's name and address or assigned code number or other mark identifying the packer as may be approved by the Administrator, shall appear on any container bearing grade marks or inspection legends approved under paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, as illustrated by the example in figure 6.


(e) *Other identification marks.* Products may be inspected on a lot inspection basis as provided in this part and identified by an official inspection mark similar in form and design to figure 7 of this paragraph. The use of this mark or other comparable identification marks may be required by the Administrator whenever he determines that such identification is necessary in order to maintain the identity of lots which have been inspected and certified.



---

[N] [38 FR 7448, Mar. 22, 1973. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]


