# § 296.41   Payment procedures.

(a) *Amount payable.* An MSP Operating Agreement shall provide, subject to the availability of appropriations and to the extent the MSP Operating Agreement is in effect, for each Agreement Vessel, an annual payment equal to $2,600,000 for FY 2006, FY 2007, FY 2008; $2,900,000 for FY 2009, FY 2010, FY 2011; $3,100,000 for FY 2012, FY 2013, FY 2014, and FY 2015; $3,500,000 for FY 2016; $4,999,950 for FY 2017; $5,000,000 for FY 2018, FY 2019, and FY 2020; $5,233,463 for FY 2021; and $3,700,000 for FY 2022, FY 2023, FY 2024, and FY 2025. This amount shall be paid in equal monthly installments at the end of each month. The annual amount payable shall not be reduced except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.


(b) *Reductions in amount payable.* (1) The annual amount otherwise payable under an MSP Operating Agreement shall be reduced on a pro rata basis for each day less than 320 in a fiscal year that an Agreement Vessel:


(i) Is not operated exclusively in the foreign commerce, except for tank vessels, which may be operated in foreign-to-foreign commerce;


(ii) Is operated in the coastwise trade; or


(iii) Is not documented under 46 U.S.C. chapter 121.


(2) To the extent that a Contractor operates MSP vessels less than 320 days under the provisions of § 296.31(d), payments will be reduced for each day less than 320 days.


(c) *No payment.* (1) Regardless of whether the Contractor has or will operate for 320 days in a fiscal year, a Contractor shall not be paid:


(i) For any day that an Agreement Vessel is engaged in transporting more than 7,500 tons (using the U.S. English standard of short tons, which converts to 6,696.75 long tons, or 6,803.85 metric tons) of civilian bulk preference cargoes pursuant to section 901(a), 901(b), or 901b of the Act, provided that it is bulk cargo;


(ii) During a period in which the Contractor participates in noncontiguous domestic trade, unless that Contractor is a Section 2 Citizen;


(iii) While under charter to the United States Government other than a charter pursuant to an EPA under § 53107 of the MSA 2003. A voyage charter that is essentially a contract of affreightment will not be considered to be a charter;


(iv) For a vessel in excess of 25 years of age, except for a LASH vessel in excess of 30 years of age or a tank vessel which is limited to 20 years of age, unless the vessel is a Participating Fleet Vessel meeting the requirements of § 296.21(e);


(v) For days in excess of 30 days in a fiscal year in which a vessel is drydocked or undergoing survey, inspection, or repair unless prior to the expiration of the vessel's 30-day period, approval is obtained from MARAD for an extension beyond 30 days. Drydocking, survey, inspection, or repair periods of 30 days or less are considered operating days; and


(vi) If the contracted vessel is not operated or maintained in accordance with the terms of the MSP Operating Agreement.


(2) To the extent that non-payment days under paragraph (c) of this section are known, Contractor payments shall be reduced at the time of the current billing. The daily reduction amounts shall be based on the annual amounts in paragraph (a) of this section divided by 365 days (366 days in leap years) and rounded to the nearest cent. Daily reduction amounts shall be applied.


(3) MARAD may require, for good cause, that a portion of the funds payable under this section be withheld if the provisions of § 296.31(d) have not been met.


(4) Amounts owed to MARAD for reductions applicable to a prior billing period shall be electronically transferred using MARAD's prescribed format, or a check may be forwarded to the Maritime Administration, P.O. Box 845133, Dallas, Texas 75284-5133, or the amount owed can be credited to MARAD by offsetting amounts payable in future billing periods.



---

[N] [70 FR 55588, Sept. 22, 2005, as amended at 82 FR 56898, Dec. 1, 2017]




