# § 137.30   Objectives and performance factors.

(a) *Objectives.* This part is intended to result in the identification of conditions indicative of the presence or likely presence of oil at the facility and the real property on which the facility is located. In order to meet the objectives of this regulation, persons specified in § 137.1(a) and the environmental professional must seek to identify, through the conduct of the standards and practices in this subpart, the following types of information about the facility and the real property on which the facility is located:


(1) Current and past uses and occupancies of the facility and the real property on which the facility is located.


(2) Current and past uses of oil.


(3) Waste management and disposal activities that indicate presence or likely presence of oil.


(4) Current and past corrective actions and response activities that indicate presence or likely presence of oil.


(5) Engineering controls.


(6) Institutional controls, such as zoning restrictions, building permits, and easements.


(7) Properties adjoining or located nearby the facility and the real property on which the facility is located that have environmental conditions that could have resulted in conditions indicative of the presence or likely presence of oil at the facility and the real property on which the facility is located.


(b) *Performance factors.* In order to meet this part and to meet the objectives stated in paragraph (a) of this section, the persons specified in § 137.1(a) or the environmental professional (as appropriate to the particular standard and practice) must—


(1) Gather the information that is required for each standard and practice listed in this subpart that is publicly available, is obtainable from its source within a reasonable time and cost, and can be reviewed practicably; and


(2) Review and evaluate the thoroughness and reliability of the information gathered in complying with each standard and practice listed in this subpart taking into account information gathered in the course of complying with the other standards and practices of this part.




