# ยง 165.T01-0404   Safety Zone; Hackensack River, Kearny and Secaucus, NJ.

(a) *Location.* The following area is a safety zone: All the navigable waters of the Hackensack River between the New Jersey Turnpike/I-95 Fixed Bridge (River Mile 5.3) and 150 feet south of the existing Portal Bridge (River Mile 5.0).


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this section, *designated representative* means a Coast Guard Patrol Commander, including a Coast Guard coxswain, petty officer, or other officer operating a Coast Guard vessel and a Federal, State, and local officer designated by or assisting the Captain of the Port New York (COTP) in the enforcement of the safety zone.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) Under the general safety zone regulations in subpart C of this part, you may not enter the safety zone described in paragraph (a) of this section unless authorized by the COTP or the COTP's designated representative.


(2) To seek permission to enter, contact the COTP or the COTP's representative via VHF Channel 16 or by phone at (718) 354-4353 (Sector New York Command Center). Those in the safety zone must comply with all lawful orders or directions given to them by the COTP or the COTP's designated representative.


(d) *Enforcement period.* This section is effective from November 21, 2024, through December 31, 2025, but will only be enforced during periods when heavy lift operations at the new bridge are in progress. The Coast Guard will make notice of this safety zone via the Local Notice to Mariners and issue a Broadcast Notice to Mariners via marine channel 16 (VHF-FM) as soon as practicable. In addition, if the project is completed before December 31, 2025, enforcement of the safety zone will be suspended, and notice given via Local Notice to Mariners.



---

[N] [USCG-2024-0404, 89 FR 92037, Nov. 21, 2024]


