# § 12.405   Examination and demonstration of ability for Able Seafarer endorsements.

(a) Before an applicant is issued an endorsement as an Able Seafarer, they must prove, to the satisfaction of the Coast Guard, by oral or other means of examination, or by actual demonstration in a Coast Guard-approved course, their knowledge of seamanship and the ability to carry out effectively all the duties that may be required of an Able Seafarer, including those of a Lifeboat Operator or Lifeboat Operator-Limited.


(b) The examination, whether administered orally or by other means, must be conducted only in the English language and must consist of questions regarding—


(1) The applicant's knowledge of nautical terms, use of the compass for navigation, running lights, passing signals, and fog signals for vessels on the high seas, inland waters, or Great Lakes, and distress signals; and


(2) The applicant's knowledge of commands in handling the wheel by obeying orders passed to them as helmsman, and knowledge of the use of the engine room telegraph.


(c) The applicant must provide evidence, to the satisfaction of the Coast Guard, of the knowledge of principal knots, bends, splices, and hitches in common use by actually making them.


(d) The applicant must demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Coast Guard, knowledge of pollution laws and regulations, procedures for discharge containment and cleanup, and methods for disposal of sludge and waste material from cargo and fueling operations.



---

[N] [USCG-2004-17914, 78 FR 77975, Dec. 24, 2013, as amended by USCG-2021-0097, 89 FR 93100, Nov. 25, 2024; USCG-2021-0834, 89 FR 102336, Dec. 17, 2024]






