# ยง 36.70   What terms do I need to know?

The following definitions apply to this subpart:


*Behavioral health professional* means a State licensed or State certified Social Worker, School Counselor, Drug and Alcohol Counselor, School Psychologist, or School Psychometrist responsible for coordinating a broad range of needs including:


(1) Support groups;


(2) Individual counseling;


(3) Crisis intervention;


(4) Preventive activities; and


(5) Coordination of referrals and outside services with appropriate providers.


*Behavioral Health Program* means a homeliving based service designed to decrease barriers to learning or increase positive, personal well-being by:


(1) Providing early intervention services, coordinating crisis intervention and prevention services;


(2) Promoting a positive social and emotional environment;


(3) Reducing the incidence of problems; and


(4) Referring students with behavioral needs that require professional medical care to an appropriate residential care facility.


*Behavioral health services* means the services provided by a school behavioral health program as defined in this section.


*Homeliving Manager* means the employee responsible for direct supervision of the homeliving program staff and students.


*Homeliving Program* means a program that provides room and board in a boarding school or dormitory to residents who are either:


(1) Enrolled in and are current members of a public school in the community in which they reside; or


(2) Members of the instructional program in the same boarding school in which they are counted as residents and:


(i) Are officially enrolled in the residential program of a Bureau-operated or funded school; and


(ii) Are actually receiving a homeliving program provided to all students who are provided room and board in a boarding school or dormitory.


*Homeliving Program Staff* means the employee(s) responsible for direct supervision of students in the homeliving area.


*Homeliving Supervisor* means the employee with overall administrative responsibility for supervising students, programs, and personnel in the homeliving area.




