# § 1203.15   Positional stability test (roll-off resistance).

(a) *Test equipment*—(1) *Headforms.* The test headforms shall comply with the dimensions of the full chin ISO reference headforms sizes A, E, J, M, and O.


(2) *Test fixture.* The headform shall be secured in a test fixture with the headform's vertical axis pointing downward and 45 degrees to the direction of gravity (see Figure 7 of this part). The test fixture shall permit rotation of the headform about its vertical axis and include means to lock the headform in the face up and face down positions.


(3) *Dynamic impact apparatus.* A dynamic impact apparatus shall be used to apply a shock load to a helmet secured to the test headform. The dynamic impact apparatus shall allow a 4-kg (8.8-lb) drop weight to slide in a guided free fall to impact a rigid stop anvil (see Figure 7 of this part). The entire mass of the dynamic impact assembly, including the drop weight, shall be no more than 5 kg (11 lb).


(4) *Strap or cable.* A hook and flexible strap or cable shall be used to connect the dynamic impact apparatus to the helmet. The strap or cable shall be of a material having an elongation of no more than 5 mm (0.20 in.) per 300 mm (11.8 in.) when loaded with a 22-kg (48.5 lb) weight in a free hanging position.


(b) *Test procedure.* (1) Orient the headform so that its face is down, and lock it in that orientation.


(2) Place the helmet on the appropriate size full chin headform in accordance with the HPI and fasten the retention system in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. Adjust the straps to remove any slack.


(3) Suspend the dynamic impact system from the helmet by positioning the flexible strap over the helmet along the midsagittal plane and attaching the hook over the edge of the helmet as shown in Figure 7 of this part.


(4) Raise the drop weight to a height of 0.6 m (2 ft) from the stop anvil and release it, so that it impacts the stop anvil.


(5) The test shall be repeated with the headform's face pointing upwards, so that the helmet is pulled from front to rear.




