# ยง 73.350   Mica-based pearlescent pigments.

(a) *Identity.* (1) The color additive is formed by depositing titanium salts onto mica, followed by heating to produce titanium dioxide on mica. Mica used to manufacture the color additive shall conform in identity to the requirements of ยง 73.1496(a)(1).


(2) Color additive mixtures for food use made with mica-based pearlescent pigments may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable for use in color additive mixtures for coloring food.


(b) *Specifications.* Mica-based pearlescent pigments shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such other impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:


(1) Lead (as Pb), not more than 4 parts per million (ppm).


(2) Arsenic (as As), not more than 3 ppm.


(3) Mercury (as Hg), not more than 1 ppm.


(c) *Uses and restrictions.* (1) The substance listed in paragraph (a) of this section may be safely used as a color additive in food as follows:


(i) In amounts up to 1.25 percent, by weight, in the following foods: Cereals, confections and frostings, gelatin desserts, hard and soft candies (including lozenges), nutritional supplement tablets and gelatin capsules, and chewing gum.


(ii) In amounts up to 0.07 percent, by weight, in the following:


(A) Distilled spirits containing not less than 18 percent and not more than 25 percent alcohol by volume.


(B) Cordials, liqueurs, flavored alcoholic malt beverages, wine coolers, and cocktails.


(C) Non-alcoholic cocktail mixes and mixers, such as margarita mix, Bloody Mary mix, and daiquiri mix, but excluding eggnog, tonic water, and beverages that are typically consumed without added alcohol (*e.g.,* fruit juices, fruit juice drinks, and soft drinks).


(iii) In egg decorating kits used for coloring the shells of eggs in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.


(2) The color additive may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been issued under section 401 of the act, unless the use of the added color is authorized by such standards.


(d) *Labeling.* The label of the color additive and of any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of ยง 70.25 of this chapter.


(e) *Exemption from certification.* Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.



---

[N] [71 FR 31929, June 2, 2006, as amended at 78 FR 35117, June 12, 2013; 80 FR 32307, June 8, 2015; 80 FR 58602, Sept. 30, 2015]




