# § 52.930   Control strategy: Ozone.

(a) The VOC bubble for Alcan Foil Products in Louisville submitted as a SIP revision on March 3, 1986, is disapproved. The source must continue to meet all the requirements of Jefferson County Regulation 6.29.


(b) *Part D—disapproval*—(1) *Campbell and Kenton Counties nonattainment area.* The 1979 SIP revisions for these two counties are disapproved because the Commonwealth failed to submit evidence of legal authority to implement a vehicle inspection and maintenance program as required under section 172(b)(11)(B) of the Clean Air Act. No major new or modified sources of volatile organic compounds can be built in these two counties by virtue of the provisions of section 110(a)(2)(l) of the Clean Air Act.


(2) *Northern Kentucky (Boone, Campbell and Kenton Counties) ozone nonattainment area.* The demonstration of attainment of the ozone standards by the end of 1982, submitted as part of Kentucky's ozone SIP revision on June 23, 1982, (draft), September 27, 1982, and November 3, 1982, is disapproved. As a result, the extension of the attainment deadline until December 31, 1987, remains in effect, along with the related requirement to submit a SIP revision addressing all requirements of Part D extension areas.


(c) The redesignation request submitted by the Commonwealth of Kentucky, on November 11, 1994, for the Kentucky portion of the Cincinnati-Northern Kentucky moderate interstate ozone nonattainment area from nonattainment to attainment was disapproved on September 27, 1996.


(d) Kentucky's November 15, 1996, request for a 1-year attainment date extension for the Kentucky portion of the Cincinnati-Hamilton metropolitan moderate ozone nonattainment area which consists of Kenton, Boone, and Campbell Counties is approved. The date for attaining the ozone standard in these counties is November 15, 1997.


(e) Kentucky's November 15, 1996, request for a 1-year attainment date extension for the Kentucky portion of the Louisville moderate ozone nonattainment area which consists of Jefferson County and parts of Bullitt and Oldham Counties is approved. The date for attaining the ozone standard in these counties is November 15, 1997.


(f) Kentucky's January 7, 1998, request for a 1-year attainment date extension for the Kentucky portion of the Cincinnati-Hamilton metropolitan moderate ozone nonattainment area which consists of Kenton, Boone, and Campbell Counties is approved. The date for attaining the ozone standard in these counties is November 15, 1998.


(g) The redesignation request submitted by the Commonwealth of Kentucky, on October 29, 1999, for the Kentucky portion of the Cincinnati-Hamilton moderate interstate ozone nonattainment area from nonattainment to attainment was approved on July 5, 2000. The mobile source budgets for the Kentucky portion of the area for the purposes of transportation conformity are now 5.83 tons per summer day of volatile organic compounds and 15.13 tons per summer day of nitrogen oxides for the year 2010.


(h) Determination—EPA is determining that as of July 5, 2000, the Kentucky portion of the Cincinnati-Hamilton ozone nonattainment area (which includes the Counties of Boone, Kenton, and Campbell) has attained the 1-hour ozone standard and that the attainment demonstration requirements of section 182(b)(1), 182(j), and 172(c)(1), along with the section 172(c)(9) contingency measure requirements, do not apply to the area.


(i) Approval—EPA is approving an exemption from the requirements contained in section 182(f) of the Clean Air Act. This approval exempts Boone, Kenton, and Campbell counties in Kentucky from the NO_X_ related general conformity provisions; nonattainment NSR for new sources and modifications that are major for NO_X_; NO_X_ RACT; and the requirement for a demonstration of compliance with the enhanced I/M performance standard for NO_X_.


(j) [Reserved]


(k) The redesignation request submitted by the Commonwealth of Kentucky, on March 30, 2001, and supplemented on July 9, 2001, for the Kentucky portion of the Louisville moderate interstate ozone nonattainment area from nonattainment to attainment was approved on October 23, 2001. The motor vehicle emissions budgets for VOC and NO_X_ in the Kentucky portion of the Louisville moderate interstate maintenance plan are adequate for conformity purposes and approvable as part of the maintenance plan. The 1-hour ozone standard maintenance plan motor vehicle emission budgets for the entire interstate Louisville area for the purposes of transportation conformity are now 48.17 tons per summer day of VOC and 92.93 tons per summer day of NO_X_ for the year 2012.


(l) *Disapproval.* EPA is disapproving in part, the Commonwealth of Kentucky's Infrastructure SIP for the 2008 8-hour Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards addressing section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) concerning interstate transport requirements, submitted July 17, 2012.


(m) *Determination of attainment.* The EPA has determined, as of June 3, 2016, that based on 2012 to 2014 ambient air quality data, the Cincinnati, OH-KY-IN 2008 ozone Marginal nonattainment area has attained the 2008 ozone NAAQS. Therefore, the EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 181(b)(2)(A) to determine, based on the area's air quality data as of the attainment date, whether the area attained the standard. The EPA also determined that the Cincinnati, OH-KY-IN nonattainment area will not be reclassified for failure to attain by its applicable attainment date under section 181(b)(2)(A).


(n) *Disapproval.* The state implementation plan (SIP) revision submitted on January 11, 2019, addressing Clean Air Act section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) (prongs 1 and 2) for the 2015 ozone national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS) is disapproved.



---

[N] [46 FR 58082, Nov. 30, 1981]


