# ยง 782.5   Contents of communication initiating claim.

(a) *Requirements for claim.* A patent or copyright infringement claim for compensation, asserted against the United States as represented by the Department of Energy under any of the applicable statutes cited in ยง 782.3, must be actually communicated to and received by an agency, organization, office, or field establishment within the Department of Energy. Claims must be in writing and must include the following: 


(1) An allegation of infringement; 


(2) A request, either expressed or implied, for compensation; 


(3) A citation of the patents or copyrighted items alleged to be infringed; 


(4) In the case of a patent infringement claim, a sufficiently specific designation to permit identification of the items or processes alleged to infringe the patents, giving the commercial designation if known to the claimant, or, in the case of a copyright infringement claim, the acts alleged to infringe the copyright; 


(5) In the case of a patent infringement claim, a designation of at least one claim of each patent alleged to be infringed or, in the case of a copyright infringement claim, a copy of each work alleged to be infringed; 


(6) As an alternative to paragraphs (a) (4) and (5) of this section, certification that the claimant has made a bona fide attempt to determine the items or processes which are alleged to infringe the patents, or the acts alleged to infringe the copyrights, but was unable to do so, giving reasons, and stating a reasonable basis for the claimant's belief that the patents or copyrighted items are being infringed. 


(b) *Additional information for patent infringement claims.* In addition to the information listed in paragraph (a) of this section the following material and information generally is necessary in the course of processing a claim of patent infringement. Claimants are encouraged to furnish this information at the time of filing a claim to permit rapid processing and resolution of the claim. 


(1) A copy of the asserted patents and identification of all claims of the patents alleged to be infringed. 


(2) Identification of all procurements known to claimant that involve the accused items or processes, including the identity of the vendors or contractors and the Government acquisition activity or activities.


(3) A detailed identification and description of the accused articles or processes, particularly where the articles or processes relate to components or subcomponents of the item acquired, and an element-by-element comparison of representative claims with the accused articles or processes. If available, the identification and description should include documentation and drawings to illustrate the accused articles or processes in sufficient detail to enable verification that the claims of the asserted patents read on the accused articles or processes.


(4) Names and addresses of all past and present licensees under the patents and copies of all license agreements and releases involving the patents.


(5) A brief description of all litigation in which the patents have been or are now involved, and their present status.


(6) A list of all persons to whom notices of infringement have been sent, including all departments and agencies of the Government, and a statement of the status or ultimate disposition of each.


(7) A description of Government employment or military service, if any, by the inventors or patent owner.


(8) A list of all contracts between the Government and inventors, patent owner, or anyone in privity with them that were in effect at the time of conception or actual reduction to practice of the inventions covered by the patents.


(9) Evidence of title to the asserted patents or other right to make the claim.


(10) If it is available to claimant, a copy of the Patent Office file of each patent.


(11) Pertinent prior art of which the claimant has become aware after issuance of the asserted patents.


In addition to the foregoing, if claimant can provide a statement that the investigation may be limited to the specifically identified accused articles or processes, or to a specific acquisition (e.g. identified contracts), it may speed disposition of the claim.


(c) *Denial for refusal to provide information.* In the course of investigating a claim, it may become necessary for the Department of Energy to request information in the control and custody of claimant that is relevant to the disposition of the claim. Failure of the claimant to respond to a request for such information may be sufficient reason alone for denying a claim.




