# § 701.501   What is a recreational vessel?

(a) *Recreational vessel* means a vessel—


(1) Being manufactured or operated primarily for pleasure; or


(2) Leased, rented, or chartered to another for the latter's pleasure.


(b) In applying the definition in paragraph (a) of this section, the following rules apply:


(1) A vessel being *manufactured* or *built,* or being repaired under warranty by its manufacturer or builder, is a *recreational vessel* if the vessel appears intended, based on its design and construction, to be for ultimate recreational uses. The manufacturer or builder bears the burden of establishing that a vessel is recreational under this standard.


(2) A vessel being *repaired, dismantled for repair,* or *dismantled at the end of its life* is not a *recreational vessel* if the vessel had been operating, around the time of its repair or dismantling, in one or more of the following categories on more than an infrequent basis—


(A) “Passenger vessel” as defined by 46 U.S.C. 2101(22);


(B) “Small passenger vessel” as defined by 46 U.S.C. 2101(35);


(C) “Uninspected passenger vessel” as defined by 46 U.S.C. 2101(42);


(D) Vessel routinely engaged in “commercial service” as defined by 46 U.S.C. 2101(5); or


(E) Vessel that routinely carries “passengers for hire” as defined by 46 U.S.C. 2101(21a).


(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a vessel will be deemed recreational if it is a *public vessel, i.e.,* a vessel owned or bareboat-chartered and operated by the United States, or by a State or political subdivision thereof, at the time of repair, dismantling for repair, or dismantling, provided that such vessel shares elements of design and construction with traditional recreational vessels and is not normally engaged in a military, commercial or traditionally commercial undertaking.


(c) All subsequent amendments to the statutes referenced in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and the regulations implementing those provisions in Title 46 of the Code of Federal Regulations will apply when determining whether a vessel is recreational.



---

[N] [76 FR 82128, Dec. 30, 2011]




