# § 94.10   Swine from regions where classical swine fever exists.

(a) APHIS considers classical swine fever to exist in all regions of the world except those declared free of the disease by APHIS.


(1) A list of regions that APHIS has declared free of classical swine fever is maintained on the APHIS website at

*https://www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/animalhealth/animal-and-animal-product-import-information/animal-health-status-of-regions.* Copies of the list are also available via postal mail upon request to Regionalization Evaluation Services, Strategy and Policy, Veterinary Services, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, 4700 River Road, Unit 38, Riverdale, Maryland 20737; *AskRegionalization@usda.gov.*

(2) APHIS will add a region to the list of those it has declared free of classical swine fever after it conducts an evaluation of the region in accordance with § 92.2 of this subchapter and finds that the disease is not present. In the case of a region formerly on this list that is removed due to an outbreak, the region may be returned to the list in accordance with the procedures for reestablishment of a region's disease-free status in § 92.4 of this subchapter. APHIS will remove a region from the list of those it has declared free of classical swine fever upon determining that the disease exists in the region based on reports APHIS receives of outbreaks of the disease from veterinary officials of the exporting country, from the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE), or from other sources the Administrator determines to be reliable.


(b) The APHIS-defined European CSF region is a single region of low-risk for CSF.


(c) Except as provided in § 94.31 for the APHIS-defined European CSF region, no swine that are moved from or transit any region where classical swine fever is known to exist may be imported into the United States, except for wild swine imported into the United States in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.


(d) Wild swine may be allowed importation into the United States by the Administrator upon request in specific cases under § 93.501 or § 93.504(c) of this chapter.



---

[N] [71 FR 29070, May 19, 2006, as amended at 71 FR 31070, June 1, 2006; 72 FR 30470, June 1, 2007; 72 FR 67232, Nov. 28, 2007; 75 FR 69857, Nov. 16, 2010; 76 FR 70039, Nov. 10, 2011; 77 FR 1393, Jan. 10, 2012; 78 FR 72998, Dec. 4, 2013; 86 FR 45626, Aug. 16, 2021]




