# § 416.120   General definitions and use of terms.

(a) *Terms relating to acts and regulations.* As used in this part:


(1) *The Act* means the Social Security Act as amended (42 U.S.C. Chap. 7).


(2) Wherever a title is referred to, it means such title of the Act.


(3) Vocational Rehabilitation Act means the act approved June 2, 1920 (41 Stat. 735), 29 U.S.C. 31-42, as amended, and as may be amended from time to time hereafter.


(b) *Commissioner; Appeals Council; Administrative Law Judge; Administrative Appeals Judge defined*—(1) *Commissioner* means the Commissioner of Social Security.


(2) *Appeals Council* means the Appeals Council of the Office of Analytics, Review, and Oversight in the Social Security Administration or such member or members thereof as may be designated by the Chair of the Appeals Council.


(3) *Administrative Law Judge* means an Administrative Law Judge in the Office of Hearings Operations in the Social Security Administration.


(4) *Administrative Appeals Judge* means an Administrative Appeals Judge serving as a member of the Appeals Council.


(c) *Miscellaneous.* As used in this part unless otherwise indicated:


(1) *Supplemental security income benefit* means the amount to be paid to an eligible individual (or eligible individual and his eligible spouse) under title XVI of the Act.


(2) *Income* means the receipt by an individual of any property or service which he can apply, either directly or by sale or conversion, to meeting his basic needs (see subpart K of this part).


(3) *Resources* means cash or other liquid assets or any real or personal property that an individual owns and could convert to cash to be used for support and maintenance (see § 416.1201(a)).


(4) *Attainment of age.* An individual attains a given age on the first moment of the day preceding the anniversary of his birth corresponding to such age.


(5) *Couple* means an eligible individual and his eligible spouse.


(6) *Institution* (see § 416.201).


(7) *Public institution* (see § 416.201).


(8) *Resident of a public institution* (see § 416.201).


(9) *State,* unless otherwise indicated, means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, or effective January 9, 1978, the Northern Mariana Islands.


(10) The term *United States* when used in a geographical sense means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and effective January 9, 1978, the Northern Mariana Islands.


(11) Masculine gender includes the feminine, unless otherwise indicated.


(12) *Section* means a section of the regulations in part 416 of this chapter unless the context indicates otherwise.


(13) *Eligible individual* means an aged, blind, or disabled individual who meets all the requirements for eligibility for benefits under the supplemental security income program.


(14) *Eligible spouse* means an aged, blind, or disabled individual who is the husband or wife of another aged, blind, or disabled individual and who is living with that individual (see § 416.1801(c)).


(d) *Periods of limitation ending on nonwork days.* Pursuant to the Act, where any provision of title XVI, or any provision of another law of the United States (other than the Internal Revenue Code of 1954) relating to or changing the effect of title XVI, or any regulation of the Commissioner issued under title XVI, provides for a period within which an act is required to be done which affects eligibility for or the amount of any benefit or payment under title XVI or is necessary to establish or protect any rights under title XVI and such period ends on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal legal holiday or on any other day all or part of which is declared to be a nonworkday for Federal employees by statute or Executive Order, then such act shall be considered as done within such period if it is done on the first day thereafter which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday or any other day all or part of which is declared to be a nonworkday for Federal employees either by statute or Executive Order. For purposes of this paragraph, the day on which a period ends shall include the final day of any extended period where such extension is authorized by law or by the Commissioner pursuant to law. Such extension of any period of limitation does not apply to periods during which an application for benefits or payments may be accepted as such an application pursuant to subpart C of this part.



---

[N] [39 FR 28625, Aug. 9, 1974, as amended at 43 FR 25091, June 9, 1978; 51 FR 11719, Apr. 7, 1986; 60 FR 16374, Mar. 30, 1995; 62 FR 38454, July 18, 1997; 85 FR 73159, Nov. 16, 2020]




