# ยง 450.208   Coordination of planning process activities.

(a) In carrying out the statewide transportation planning process, each State shall, at a minimum:


(1) Coordinate planning carried out under this subpart with the metropolitan transportation planning activities carried out under subpart C of this part for metropolitan areas of the State. The State is encouraged to rely on information, studies, or analyses provided by MPOs for portions of the transportation system located in metropolitan planning areas;


(2) Coordinate planning carried out under this subpart with statewide trade and economic development planning activities and related multistate planning efforts;


(3) Consider the concerns of Federal land management agencies that have jurisdiction over land within the boundaries of the State;


(4) Cooperate with affected local elected and appointed officials with responsibilities for transportation, or, if applicable, through RTPOs described in section 450.210(d) in nonmetropolitan areas;


(5) Consider the concerns of Indian Tribal governments that have jurisdiction over land within the boundaries of the State;


(6) Consider related planning activities being conducted outside of metropolitan planning areas and between States; and


(7) Coordinate data collection and analyses with MPOs and public transportation operators to support statewide transportation planning and programming priorities and decisions.


(b) The State air quality agency shall coordinate with the State department of transportation (State DOT) to develop the transportation portion of the State Implementation Plan (SIP) consistent with the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 *et seq.*).


(c) Two or more States may enter into agreements or compacts, not in conflict with any law of the United States, for cooperative efforts and mutual assistance in support of activities under this subpart related to interstate areas and localities in the States and establishing authorities the States consider desirable for making the agreements and compacts effective. The right to alter, amend, or repeal interstate compacts entered into under this part is expressly reserved.


(d) States may use any one or more of the management systems (in whole or in part) described in 23 CFR part 500.


(e) In carrying out the statewide transportation planning process, States should apply asset management principles and techniques consistent with the State Asset Management Plan for the NHS and the Transit Asset Management Plan, and Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan in establishing planning goals, defining STIP priorities, and assessing transportation investment decisions, including transportation system safety, operations, preservation, and maintenance.


(f) For non-NHS highways, States may apply principles and techniques consistent with other asset management plans to the transportation planning and programming processes, as appropriate.


(g) The statewide transportation planning process shall (to the maximum extent practicable) be consistent with the development of applicable regional intelligent transportation systems (ITS) architectures, as defined in 23 CFR part 940.


(h) Preparation of the coordinated public transit-human services transportation plan, as required by 49 U.S.C. 5310, should be coordinated and consistent with the statewide transportation planning process.



---

[N] [81 FR 34135, May 27, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 93469, Dec. 20, 2016; 82 FR 56542, Nov. 29, 2017]




