# ยง 901.45   Evidence.

(a) *In general.* The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law and equity are not controlling in hearings on complaints for the suspension or the termination of the enrollment of enrolled actuaries. However, the Administrative Law Judge shall exclude evidence which is irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious.


(b) *Depositions.* The deposition of any witness taken pursuant to ยง 901.46 may be admitted.


(c) *Proof of documents.* Official documents, records, and papers of the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Labor, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries or the Office of the Executive Director of the Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries shall be admissible into evidence without the production of an officer or employee to authenticate them. Any such documents, records, and papers may be evidenced by a copy attested to or identified by an officer or employee of the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Labor, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries, or the Office of the Executive Director of the Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries, as the case may be.


(d) *Exhibits.* If any document, record, or other paper is introduced into evidence as an exhibit, the Administrative Law Judge may authorize the withdrawal of the exhibit subject to any conditions which he/she deems proper.


(e) *Objections.* Objections to evidence shall state the grounds relied upon, and the record shall not include argument thereon, except as ordered by the Administrative Law Judge. Rulings on such objections shall be part of the record. No exception to the ruling is necessary to preserve the rights of the parties.




