# § 1208.51   Definitions.

The following terms apply to this subpart D—


*Debt or claim* means an amount of money, funds or property which has been determined by FHFA to be due to the Federal Government from any person, organization, or entity, except another Federal agency.


(1) A debt becomes eligible for tax refund offset procedures if:


(i) It cannot currently be collected pursuant to the salary offset procedures of 5 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1);


(ii) The debt is ineligible for administrative offset or cannot be collected currently by administrative offset; and


(iii) The requirements of this section are otherwise satisfied.


(2) All judgment debts are past due for purposes of this subpart D. Judgment debts remain past due until paid in full.


*Debtor* means a person who owes a debt or a claim. The term “person” includes any individual, organization or entity, except another Federal agency.


*Dispute* means a written statement supported by documentation or other evidence that all or part of an alleged debt is not past due or legally enforceable, that the amount is not the amount currently owed, that the outstanding debt has been satisfied, or in the case of a debt reduced to judgment, that the judgment has been satisfied or stayed.


*Notice* means the information sent to the debtor pursuant to § 1208.53. The date of the notice is that date shown on the notice letter as its date of issuance.


*Tax refund offset* means withholding or reducing a tax refund payment by an amount necessary to satisfy a debt owed by the payee(s) of a tax refund payment.


*Tax refund payment* means any overpayment of Federal taxes to be refunded to the person making the overpayment after the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) makes the appropriate credits.




