# ยง 110.44   Legal or personal representatives of requesters.

(a) *Generally.* Persons other than a requester (*e.g.,* a lawyer, guardian, family member, friend) may file a Request Package on a requester's behalf as his or her legal or personal representative. A requester need not use the services of a lawyer to apply for benefits under this Program. A legal representative, or a personal representative (who does not need to be a lawyer) is only required, as described in this section, for requesters who are minors or adults who lack legal capacity to receive payment of benefits. In the event that a legal or personal representative files on behalf of a requester, the representative will be bound by the obligations and documentation requirements that apply to the requester (*e.g.,* if a requester is required to submit employment records, the representative must file the requester's employment records). The representative must also satisfy the requirements specific to representatives set out in this part. If a requester has a representative, the Program will generally direct all communications to the representative. However, the Secretary reserves the right of the Program to contact the requester directly if necessary, and to conduct a follow-up survey to determine the ability of the Program to meet requesters' needs.


(b) *Legal or personal representatives of legally competent adults.* A requester who is a legally competent adult *may* use a legal or personal representative to submit a Request Package on his or her behalf. In such circumstances, the requester must indicate on the Request Form that he or she is authorizing the representative to seek benefits under this Program on his or her behalf.


(c) *Legal or personal representatives of minors and adults who lack legal capacity to receive payment of benefits.* A requester who is a minor or an adult who lacks legal capacity to receive payment of benefits *must* use a legal or personal representative to apply for benefits under this Program on his or her behalf. In such circumstances, the representative must indicate, in the place provided on the Request Form, that the requester is a minor or an adult who lacks legal capacity to receive payment of benefits and that the representative is filing on behalf of the requester. In addition, before the requester will be paid by the Program, the representative must submit the documentation described in ยง 110.63. A minor who is emancipated, as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction, does not need a legal or personal representative to file a Request Form or Request Package on his or her behalf.


(d) *No payment or reimbursement for legal or personal representatives' fees or costs.* The Act does not authorize the Secretary to pay for, or reimburse, any fees or costs associated with the requester's use of the services of a legal or personal representative under this Program, including those of an attorney.




