# § 1500.5   Efficient process.

Agencies shall improve efficiency of their NEPA processes by:


(a) Establishing categorical exclusions to define categories of actions that normally do not have a significant effect on the human environment (§§ 1501.4 and 1507.3(c)(8) of this subchapter) and therefore do not require preparation of an environmental assessment or environmental impact statement.


(b) Using a finding of no significant impact when an action not otherwise excluded will not have a significant effect on the human environment (§ 1501.6 of this subchapter) and therefore does not require preparation of an environmental impact statement.


(c) Integrating the NEPA process into early planning (§ 1501.2 of this subchapter).


(d) Engaging in interagency cooperation, including with affected Federal, State, Tribal, and local agencies, before or during the preparation of an environmental assessment or environmental impact statement, rather than waiting to request or submit comments on a completed document (§§ 1501.7 and 1501.8 of this subchapter).


(e) Ensuring the swift and fair resolution of lead agency disputes (§ 1501.7 of this subchapter).


(f) Using the scoping process for early identification of the important issues that require detailed analysis (§ 1502.4 of this subchapter).


(g) Meeting appropriate deadlines for the environmental assessment and environmental impact statement processes (§ 1501.10 of this subchapter).


(h) Preparing environmental documents early in the process (§§ 1502.5 and 1501.5(d) of this subchapter).


(i) Integrating NEPA requirements with other environmental review and consultation requirements (§ 1502.24 of this subchapter).


(j) Eliminating duplication with State, Tribal, and local procedures by providing for joint preparation of environmental documents where practicable (§ 1506.2 of this subchapter) and with other Federal procedures by providing that agencies may jointly prepare or adopt appropriate environmental documents prepared by another agency (§ 1506.3 of this subchapter).


(k) Combining environmental documents with other documents (§ 1506.4 of this subchapter).


(l) Using accelerated procedures for proposals for legislation (§ 1506.8 of this subchapter).








