# § 1036.235   Testing requirements for certification.

This section describes the emission testing you must perform to show compliance with the emission standards in §§ 1036.104 and 1036.108.


(a) Select and configure one or two emission-data engines from each engine family as follows:


(1) You may use one engine for criteria pollutant testing and a different engine for greenhouse gas emission testing, or you may use the same engine for all testing.


(2) For criteria pollutant emission testing, select the engine configuration with the highest volume of fuel injected per cylinder per combustion cycle at the point of maximum torque—unless good engineering judgment indicates that a different engine configuration is more likely to exceed (or have emissions nearer to) an applicable emission standard or FEL. If two or more engines have the same fueling rate at maximum torque, select the one with the highest fueling rate at rated speed. In making this selection, consider all factors expected to affect emission-control performance and compliance with the standards, including emission levels of all exhaust constituents, especially NO_X_ and PM. To the extent we allow it for establishing deterioration factors, select for testing those engine components or subsystems whose deterioration best represents the deterioration of in-use engines.


(3) For greenhouse gas emission testing, the standards of this part apply only with respect to emissions measured from the tested configuration and other configurations identified in § 1036.205(l)(2). Note that configurations identified in § 1036.205(l)(2) are considered to be “tested configurations” whether or not you test them for certification. However, you must apply the same (or equivalent) emission controls to all other engine configurations in the engine family. In other contexts, the tested configuration is sometimes referred to as the “parent configuration”, although the terms are not synonymous.


(b) Test your emission-data engines using the procedures and equipment specified in subpart F of this part. In the case of dual-fuel and flexible-fuel engines, measure emissions when operating with each type of fuel for which you intend to certify the engine.


(1) For criteria pollutant emission testing, measure NO_X_, PM, CO, and NMHC emissions using each duty cycle specified in § 1036.104.


(2) For greenhouse gas emission testing, measure CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O emissions; the following provisions apply regarding test cycles for demonstrating compliance with tractor and vocational standards:


(i) If you are certifying the engine for use in tractors, you must measure CO_2_ emissions using the SET duty cycle specified in § 1036.510, taking into account the interim provisions in § 1036.150(s), and measure CH_4_ and N_2_O emissions using the FTP transient cycle.


(ii) If you are certifying the engine for use in vocational applications, you must measure CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O emissions using the appropriate FTP transient duty cycle, including cold-start and hot-start testing as specified in § 1036.512.


(iii) You may certify your engine family for both tractor and vocational use by submitting CO_2_ emission data and specifying FCLs for both SET and FTP transient duty cycles.


(iv) Some of your engines certified for use in tractors may also be used in vocational vehicles, and some of your engines certified for use in vocational may be used in tractors. However, you may not knowingly circumvent the intent of this part (to reduce in-use emissions of CO_2_) by certifying engines designed for tractors or vocational vehicles (and rarely used in the other application) to the wrong cycle. For example, we would generally not allow you to certify all your engines to the SET duty cycle without certifying any to the FTP transient cycle.


(c) We may perform confirmatory testing by measuring emissions from any of your emission-data engines. If your certification includes powertrain testing as specified in § 1036.630, this paragraph (c) also applies for the powertrain test results.


(1) We may decide to do the testing at your plant or any other facility. If we do this, you must deliver the engine to a test facility we designate. The engine you provide must include appropriate manifolds, aftertreatment devices, ECMs, and other emission-related components not normally attached directly to the engine block. If we do the testing at your plant, you must schedule it as soon as possible and make available the instruments, personnel, and equipment we need.


(2) If we measure emissions on your engine, the results of that testing become the official emission results for the engine as specified in this paragraph (c). Unless we later invalidate these data, we may decide not to consider your data in determining if your engine family meets applicable requirements in this part.


(3) Before we test one of your engines, we may set its adjustable parameters to any point within the practically adjustable ranges (see § 1036.115(f)).


(4) Before we test one of your engines, we may calibrate it within normal production tolerances for anything we do not consider an adjustable parameter. For example, we may calibrate it within normal production tolerances for an engine parameter that is subject to production variability because it is adjustable during production, but is not considered an adjustable parameter because it is permanently sealed. For parameters that relate to a level of performance that is itself subject to a specified range (such as maximum power output), we will generally perform any calibration under this paragraph (c)(4) in a way that keeps performance within the specified range.


(5) For greenhouse gas emission testing, we may use our emission test results for steady-state, idle, cycle-average and powertrain fuel maps defined in § 1036.505(b) as the official emission results. We will not replace individual points from your fuel map.


(i) We will determine fuel masses, *m*_fuel[cycle],_ and mean idle fuel mass flow rates, *m
*_fuelidle_, if applicable, using both direct and indirect measurement. We will determine the result for each test point based on carbon balance error verification as described in § 1036.535(g)(3)(i) and (ii).


(ii) We will perform this comparison using the weighted results from GEM, using vehicles that are appropriate for the engine under test. For example, we may select vehicles that the engine went into for the previous model year.


(iii) If you supply cycle-average engine fuel maps for the highway cruise cycles instead of generating a steady-state fuel map for these cycles, we may perform a confirmatory test of your engine fuel maps for the highway cruise cycles by either of the following methods:


(A) Directly measuring the highway cruise cycle-average fuel maps.


(B) Measuring a steady-state fuel map as described in this paragraph (c)(5) and using it in GEM to create our own cycle-average engine fuel maps for the highway cruise cycles.


(iv) We will replace fuel maps as a result of confirmatory testing as follows:


(A) Weight individual duty cycle results using the vehicle categories determined in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section and respective weighting factors in 40 CFR 1037.510(c) to determine a composite CO_2_ emission value for each vehicle configuration; then repeat the process for all the unique vehicle configurations used to generate the manufacturer's fuel maps.


(B) The average percent difference between fuel maps is calculated using the following equation:


(C) Where the unrounded average percent difference between our composite weighted fuel map and the manufacturer's is at or below 0%, we will not replace the manufacturer's maps, and we will consider an individual engine to have passed the fuel map.


(6) We may perform confirmatory testing with an engine dynamometer to simulate normal engine operation to determine whether your emission-data engine meets off-cycle emission standards. The accuracy margins described in § 1036.420(a) do not apply for such laboratory testing.


(d) You may ask to use carryover emission data from a previous model year instead of doing new tests, but only if all the following are true:


(1) The engine family from the previous model year differs from the current engine family only with respect to model year, items identified in § 1036.225(a), or other characteristics unrelated to emissions. We may waive this criterion for differences we determine not to be relevant.


(2) The emission-data engine from the previous model year remains the appropriate emission-data engine under paragraph (a) of this section.


(3) The data show that the emission-data engine would meet all the requirements that apply to the engine family covered by the application for certification.


(e) We may require you to test a second engine of the same configuration in addition to the engines tested under paragraph (a) of this section.


(f) If you use an alternate test procedure under 40 CFR 1065.10 and later testing shows that such testing does not produce results that are equivalent to the procedures specified in subpart F of this part, we may reject data you generated using the alternate procedure.


(g) We may evaluate or test your engines to determine whether they have a defeat device before or after we issue a certificate of conformity. We may test or require testing on any vehicle or engine at a designated location, using driving cycles and conditions that may reasonably be expected in normal operation and use to investigate a potential defeat device. If we designate an engine's AECD as a possible defeat device, you must demonstrate to us that that the AECD does not reduce emission control effectiveness when the engine operates under conditions that may reasonably be expected in normal operation and use, unless one of the specific exceptions described in § 1036.115(h) applies.






