# ยง 1203b.108   Management oversight.

(a) The Administrator shall establish a committee to exercise management oversight over the implementation of arrest authority.


(b) The Administrator shall establish a reporting requirement for NASA Headquarters and NASA Centers.


(c) The Assistant Administrator for Protective Services, or designee, will ensure that all persons who are authorized to exercise arrest authority will, before performing these duties:


(1) Receive instructions on regulations regarding the use of force, including deadly force; and


(2) Demonstrate requisite knowledge and skill in the use of unarmed defense techniques and their assigned firearms.


(d) The Associate Assistant Administrator for Protective Services, or designee, will also:


(1) Ensure periodic refresher training to maintain continued proficiency and current knowledge of unarmed defense techniques;


(2) Require security force personnel exercising arrest authority to requalify semiannually with their assigned firearms; and


(3) Require periodic refresher training to ensure continued familiarity with regulations.


(e) The Executive Director for Headquarters Operations, and Center Directors shall issue local policies and procedural requirements, subject to prior NASA Headquarters approval, which will supplement this regulation for NASA Headquarters or NASA Center-specific concerns.



---

[N] [57 FR 4926, Feb. 11, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 5263, Jan. 21, 1993; 78 FR 5125, Jan. 24, 2013]




