# ยง 1208.23   Content of appeal; request for hearing.

(a) *Content.* A VEOA appeal may be in any format, including letter form, but must contain the following: 


(1) The nine (9) items or types of information required in 5 CFR 1201.24(a)(1) through (a)(9); 


(2) Evidence or argument that the appellant is a preference eligible; 


(3) A statement identifying the statute or regulation relating to veterans' preference that was allegedly violated, an explanation of how the provision was violated, and the date of the violation; 


(4) Evidence that a complaint under 5 U.S.C. 3330a(a) was filed with the Secretary of Labor, including the date the complaint was filed; and 


(5) Evidence identifying the specific veterans' preference claims that the appellant raised before the Secretary; and


(b) *Request for hearing.* An appellant must submit any request for a hearing with the VEOA appeal, or within any other time period the judge sets. A hearing may be provided to the appellant once the Board's jurisdiction over the appeal is established and it has been determined that the appeal is timely. The judge may also order a hearing if necessary to resolve issues of jurisdiction or timeliness. The appellant has the burden of proof with respect to issues of jurisdiction and timeliness (5 CFR 1201.56(a)(2)(i) and (ii)). 


(c) *Electronic filing.* An appeal may be filed electronically by using the Board's e-Appeal site (*https://e-appeal.mspb.gov*) in accordance with ยง 1201.14 of this chapter.



---

[N] [65 FR 5412, Feb. 4, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 49896, Aug. 16, 2000; 68 FR 59865, Oct. 20, 2003; 69 FR 57631, Sept. 27, 2004; 77 FR 62373, Oct. 12, 2012]




