# § 146.3   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part:


(a) The term *corn sirup* means a clarified, concentrated, aqueous solution of the products obtained by the incomplete hydrolysis of cornstarch, and includes dried corn sirup. The solids of corn sirup and of dried corn sirup contain not less than 40 percent by weight of reducing sugars calculated as anhydrous dextrose.


(b) The term *dextrose* means the hydrated or anhydrous, refined monosaccharide obtained from hydrolyzed starch.


(c) The term *dried glucose sirup* means the product obtained by drying glucose sirup.


(d) The term *glucose sirup* means a clarified, concentrated, aqueous solution of the products obtained by the incomplete hydrolysis of any edible starch. The solids of glucose sirup contain not less than 40 percent by weight of reducing sugars calculated as anhydrous dextrose.


(e) The term *invert sugar sirup* means an aqueous solution of inverted or partly inverted, refined or partly refined sucrose, the solids of which contain not more than 0.3 percent by weight of ash, and which is colorless, odorless, and flavorless, except for sweetness.


(f) The term *sugar* means refined sucrose.


(g) Compliance means the following: Unless otherwise provided in a standard, a lot of canned fruits shall be deemed in compliance for the following factors, to be determined by the sampling and acceptance procedure as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, namely:


(1) *Quality.* The quality of a lot shall be considered acceptable when the number of defectives does not exceed the acceptance number in the sampling plans.


(2) *Fill of container.* A lot shall be deemed to be in compliance for fill of container when the number of defectives does not exceed the acceptance number (c) in the sampling plans.


(h) The sampling and acceptance procedure means the following:


(1) *Definitions*—(i) *Lot.* A collection of primary containers or units of the same size, type, and style manufactured or packed under similar conditions and handled as a single unit of trade.


(ii) *Lot size.* The number of primary containers or units in the lot.


(iii) *Sample size.* The total number of sample units drawn for examination from a lot.


(iv) *Sample unit.* A container, a portion of the contents of a container, or a composite mixture of product from small containers that is sufficient for the examination or testing as a single unit.


(v) *Defective.* Any sample unit shall be regarded as defective when the sample unit does not meet the criteria set forth in the standards.


(vi) *Acceptance number* (*c*). The maximum number of defective sample units permitted in the sample in order to consider the lot as meeting the specified requirements.


(vii) *Acceptable quality level* (*AQL*). The maximum percent of defective sample units permitted in a lot that will be accepted approximately 95 percent of the time.


(2) *Sampling plans:*

