# § 704.102   Hexachloronorbornadiene.

(a) *Definitions*—(1) *Endrin* means the pesticide 2,7:3,6-Dimethanonaphth[2,3-b]oxirene,3,4,5,6,9,9-hexachloro-1a,2,2a,3,6,6a,7,7a-octahydro-, (1a*alpha,* 2*beta,* 2a*beta,* 3*alpha,* 6*alpha,* 6*abeta,* 7*beta,* 7a*alpha*)-, CAS Number 72-20-8.


(2) *HEX-BCH* means the chemical substance 1,2,3,4,7,7-hexachloronorbornadiene, CAS Number 3389-71-7.


(3) *Isodrin* means the pesticide 1,4:5,8-Dimethanonaphthalene,1,2,3,4,10,10-hexacholoro-1,4,4a,5,8,8a-hexahydro-, (1*alpha,* 4*alpha,* 4a*beta,* 5*beta,* 8*beta,* 8a*beta*)-, CAS Number 465-73-6.


(4) *Small business* means any manufacturer, importer, or processor who meets either paragraph (a)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section:


(i) A business is small if its total annual sales, when combined with those of its parent (if any), are less than $40 million. However, if the annual manufacture, importation, or processing volume of a particular chemical substance at any individual site owned or controlled by the business is greater than 45,400 kilograms (100,000 pounds), the business shall not qualify as small for purposes of reporting on the manufacture, importation, or processing of that chemical substance at that site, unless the business qualifies as small under paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section.


(ii) A business is small if its total annual sales, when combined with those of its parent company (if any), are less than $4 million, regardless of the quantity of the particular chemical substance manufactured, imported, or processed by that business.


(iii) For imported and processed mixtures containing HEX-BCH, the 45,400 kilograms (100,000 pounds) standard in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section applies only to the amount of HEX-BCH in a mixture and not the other components of the mixture.


(5) *8-hour time weighted average* means the cumulative exposure for an 8-hour work shift computed as follows:


(6) *Year* means corporate fiscal year.


(b) *Persons who must report.* (1) Reports must be submitted by: 


(i) Persons who are manufacturing, importing, or processing HEX-BCH for use as an intermediate in the production or isodrin or endrin on or after January 2, 1986; and


(ii) Persons who propose to manufacture, import, or process HEX-BCH for use as an intermediate in the production of isodrin or endrin, on or after January 2, 1986.


(2) Persons described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section who engage or propose to engage in more than one activity (i.e., manufacture and processing) must report the information required in paragraph (d) separately for each activity.


(c) *Persons exempt from reporting.* (1) Small businesses.


(2) Persons described in § 704.5(a) and (c).


(d) *Information to report.* (1) Initial reports must include, to the extent that it is known to or reasonably ascertainable by the person reporting, the following information:


(i) Company name and address.


(ii) Name, address, and telephone number of the principal contact.


(iii) Name and address of plant sites where HEX-BCH is or is proposed to be manufactured, imported, or processed, noting for each plant site which activity takes or would take place at each site.


(iv) If applicable, the intended date for initiating the manufacture, import, or processing of HEX-BCH.


(v) If applicable, the actual quantity (by weight) of HEX-BCH manufactured, imported, or processed during the most recently concluded year.


(vi) The estimated quantity (by weight) of HEX-BCH to be manufactured, imported, or processed each year during the first 3 years following the date of the report or the date of the intended start of manufacture, import, or processing, whichever occurs later.


(vii) For each year described in paragraphs (d)(1) (v) and (vi) of this section: the number or expected number of employees exposed to HEX-BCH during the manufacture, import, processing, distribution in commerce, use, and disposal; the routes of exposure; and the 8-hour time weighted average of exposure.


(viii) If employees are exposed or expected to be exposed to HEX-BCH, state for each reported route of exposure, whether personal protective equipment is used or expected to be used, and a description of the personal protective equipment.


(ix) The actual or anticipated quantity, content, method of disposal, and disposal site of any wastes generated or expected to be generated during the manufacture, importation, or processing of HEX-BCH.


(2) Subsequent reports must provide, to the extent known to or reasonably ascertainable by the person reporting, the information in paragraph (d)(1) of this section and a statement explaining why the subsequent report is required.


(e) *When to report.* (1) Persons who are manufacturing, importing, or processing HEX-BCH on January 2, 1986, must submit an initial report to EPA by February 3, 1986.


(2) Persons who propose to manufacture, import, or process HEX-BCH on or after January 2, 1986, must submit an initial report to EPA by February 3, 1986, or 30 days after making the management decision described in § 704.3 “Propose to manufacture, import, or process,” whichever is later in time.


(3) Persons described in paragraph (b) of this section, who have submitted a report described in paragraph (d) of this section, must submit a subsequent report within 30 days of any of the following events. Based on the most recently submitted report:


(i) The manufacture, importation, or processing of HEX-BCH begins at a plant site different than that reported pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section.


(ii) The actual quantity (by weight) of HEX-BCH manufactured, imported, or processed in a given year is greater than or equal to 200 percent of the estimated value for that year reported pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(vi) of this section.


(iii) The total number of employees exposed to HEX-BCH is greater than 130 percent of the projected value reported pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(vii) of this section.


(iv) The route of exposures to HEX-BCH differs from that reported pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(vii) of this section.


(v) The actual 8-hour time weighted average exposure for any activity exceeds the projection reported pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(vii) of this section by more than 100 percent.


(vi) The method of disposal or disposal site reported pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(ix) of this section has changed.


(vii) Three years have passed since the most recent submission of a report and the person is still engaged in the manufacture, importation, or processing of HEX-BCH.


(f) *Certification of review.* Each person who submits a report under this section must for 3 years following the submission date of the most recent submission, review their activities at the end of each year to determine whether any reportable event specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section has occurred. If a review shows that none of these events has occurred, the person is required to certify this fact in writing.


(g) *Recordkeeping.* Any person subject to the reporting requirements of this section must:


(1) Retain documentation of information contained in their reports. This documentation must be maintained for a period of 3 years from the date of the submission of the report; and 


(2) Retain the certification required by paragraph (f) of this section for 3 years from the date of its creation.



---

[N] [50 FR 47536, Nov. 19, 1985, as amended at 52 FR 20083, May 29, 1987. Redesignated at 53 FR 51717, Dec. 22, 1988; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




