# ยง 721.11195   Oxirane, 2-methyl-, polymer with oxirane, monobutyl ether, monoether with propylene oxide-2-[[3-(triethoxysilyl)propoxy] methyl]oxirane polymer.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as oxirane, 2-methyl-, polymer with oxirane, monobutyl ether, monoether with propylene oxide-2-[[3-(triethoxysilyl)propoxy] methyl]oxirane polymer (PMN P-15-726, CAS No. 1644400-33-8) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substance after they have been reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in ยง 721.72(a) through (e) (concentration set at 1.0%), (f), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(ii), and (g)(5). Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* It is a significant new use to manufacture, process, or use the substance in any manner that generates a vapor, dust, mist, or aerosol.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in ยง 721.125(a) through (c) and (f) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of ยง 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [85 FR 1109, Jan. 9, 2020]




