# § 49.11   Verification of swap data accuracy.

(a) *General requirement.* Each swap data repository shall verify the accuracy and completeness of swap data that it receives from swap execution facilities, designated contract markets, reporting counterparties, or third-party service providers acting on their behalf, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Verifying swap data accuracy and completeness*—(1) *Swap data access.* Each swap data repository shall provide a mechanism that allows each reporting counterparty that is a user of the swap data repository to access all swap data maintained by the swap data repository for each open swap for which the reporting counterparty is serving as the reporting counterparty, as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. This mechanism shall allow sufficient access, provide sufficient information, and be in a form and manner to enable each reporting counterparty to perform swap data verification as required under § 45.14 of this chapter.


(2) *Scope of swap data access.* The swap data accessible through the mechanism provided by each swap data repository shall accurately reflect the most current swap data maintained by the swap data repository, as of the time the reporting counterparty accesses the swap data using the provided mechanism, for each data field that the reporting counterparty was required to report for each relevant open swap pursuant to part 45 of this chapter, except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The swap data accessible through the mechanism provided by each swap data repository shall include sufficient information to allow reporting counterparties to successfully perform the swap data verification required under § 45.14 of this chapter.


(3) *Confidentiality.* The swap data access each swap data repository shall provide pursuant to this section is subject to all applicable confidentiality requirements of the Act and this chapter, including, but not limited to, § 49.17. The swap data accessible to any reporting counterparty shall not include any swap data that the relevant reporting counterparty is prohibited to access under any Commission regulation.


(4) *Frequency of swap data access.* Each swap data repository shall allow each reporting counterparty that is a user of the relevant swap data repository to utilize the mechanism as required under this section with at least sufficient frequency to allow each relevant reporting counterparty to perform the swap data verification required under § 45.14 of this chapter.


(5) *Third-party service providers.* If a reporting counterparty informs a swap data repository that the reporting counterparty will utilize a third-party service provider to perform verification as required pursuant to § 45.14 of this chapter, the swap data repository will satisfy its requirements under this section by providing the third-party service provider with the same access to the mechanism and the relevant swap data for the reporting counterparty under this section, as if the third-party service provider was the reporting counterparty. The access for the third-party service provider shall be in addition to the access for the reporting counterparty required under this section. The access for the third-party service provider under this paragraph shall continue until the reporting counterparty informs the swap data repository that the third-party service provider should no longer have access on behalf of the reporting counterparty. The policies and procedures each swap data repository adopts under paragraph (c) of this section shall include instructions detailing how each reporting counterparty can successfully inform the swap data repository regarding a third-party service provider.


(c) *Policies and procedures*—(1) *Contents.* Each swap data repository shall establish, maintain, and enforce policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with the requirements of this section. Such policies and procedures shall include, but are not limited to, instructions detailing how each reporting counterparty, or third-party service provider acting on behalf of a reporting counterparty, can successfully utilize the mechanism provided pursuant to this section to perform each reporting counterparty's verification responsibilities under § 45.14 of this chapter.


(2) *Amendments.* Each swap data repository shall comply with the requirements under part 40 of this chapter in adopting or amending the policies and procedures required by this section.



---

[N] [85 FR 75658, Nov. 25, 2020]




