# § 52.1602   Control strategy and regulations: PM

(a) Approval—On May 18, 2006, New Jersey submitted an early PM_2.5_ implementation plan to set motor vehicle emissions budgets for the New Jersey portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, PM_2.5_ nonattainment area. The budgets were allocated by metropolitan planning organization as follows: North Jersey Transportation Planning Authority: 1,207 tons per year of direct PM_2.5_ and 61,676 tons per year of NO_X_; Delaware Valley Regional Planning Commission: 89 tons per year of direct PM_2.5_ and 4,328 tons per year of NO_X_.


(b) Approval—On February 25, 2008, New Jersey submitted a revision to its early PM_2.5_ implementation plan to revise the motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Mercer County, New Jersey portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, PM_2.5_ nonattainment area. The revised budgets, applicable to the Delaware Valley Regional Planning Commission, are as follows: 108 tons per year of direct PM_2.5_ and 5,056 tons per year of NO_X_.


(c) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of December 15, 2010, that the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT fine particle (PM_2.5_) nonattainment area has attained the 1997 PM_2.5_ National Ambient Air Quality Standard. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 51.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as the area continues to attain the 1997 PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(d) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of *May 16, 2012,* that the Philadelphia-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE fine particle (PM_2.5_) nonattainment area has attained the 1997 PM_2.5_ National Ambient Air Quality Standard. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 51.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as the area continues to attain the 1997 PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(e) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of December 31, 2012, that the New York-N. New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT fine particle (PM_2.5_) nonattainment area has attained the 2006 PM_2.5_ National Ambient Air Quality Standard. This determination suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as the area continues to attain the 2006 PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(f) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of January 7, 2013, that based on 2008 to 2010 and 2009 to 2011 ambient air quality data, the Philadelphia-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE fine particulate (PM_2.5_) nonattainment area has attained the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS). This determination suspends the requirements for the Philadelphia-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE PM_2.5_ nonattainment area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(g) Approval—The maintenance plan submitted on December 26, 2012, and supplemented on May 3, 2013, for the 1997 PM_2.5_ National Ambient Air Quality Standard and the 2006 PM_2.5_ National Ambient Air Quality Standard for the New Jersey portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, PM_2.5_ nonattainment area and the New Jersey portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE, PM_2.5_ nonattainment area has been approved.


(1) The maintenance plan establishes 2009 motor vehicle emission budgets for the New Jersey portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, PM_2.5_ nonattainment area. The budgets were allocated by metropolitan planning organization as follows: North Jersey Transportation Planning Authority: 67,272 tons per year for NO_X_ and 2,736 tons per year for PM_2.5_; Delaware Valley Regional Planning Commission (Mercer County): 5,835 tons per year for NO_X_ and 224 tons per year for PM_2.5_.


(2) The maintenance plan establishes 2025 motor vehicle emission budgets for the New Jersey portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, PM_2.5_ nonattainment area. The budgets were allocated by metropolitan planning organization as follows: North Jersey Transportation Planning Authority: 25,437 tons per year for NO_X_ and 1,509 tons per year for PM_2.5_; Delaware Valley Regional Planning Commission (Mercer County): 2,551 tons per year for NO_X_ and 119 tons per year for PM_2.5_.


(3) The maintenance plan establishes 2009 motor vehicle emission budgets for the New Jersey portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE, PM_2.5_ nonattainment area. The budgets were allocated by metropolitan planning organization as follows: Delaware Valley Regional Planning Commission (Burlington, Camden, and Gloucester Counties): 18,254 tons per year for NO_X_ and 680 tons per year for PM_2.5_.


(4) The maintenance plan establishes 2025 motor vehicle emission budgets for the New Jersey portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE, PM_2.5_ nonattainment area. The budgets were allocated by metropolitan planning organization as follows: Delaware Valley Regional Planning Commission (Burlington, Camden, and Gloucester Counties): 8,003 tons per year for NO_X_ and 363 tons per year for PM_2.5_.


(h) Approval—The 2007 attainment year emissions inventory for the New Jersey portions of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, PM_2.5_ nonattainment area and the Philadelphia-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE, PM_2.5_ nonattainment area consisting of NO_X_, VOC, NH_3_, directly emitted PM_2.5_, and SO_2_ emissions. This inventory satisfies the comprehensive emission inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3).



---

[N] [73 FR 24870, June 5, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 69591, Nov. 15, 2010; 77 FR 28785, May 15, 2012; 77 FR 76871, Dec. 31, 2012; 78 FR 54398, Sept. 4, 2013]






