# § 34.48   Derivative engines for emissions certification purposes.

(a) *General.* A type certificate holder may request from the FAA a determination that an engine configuration is considered a derivative engine for emissions certification purposes (all gaseous emissions and either nvPM or smoke number as applicable). To be considered a derivative engine for emissions certification purposes under this part, the configuration must have been derived from the original engine that was certificated to the requirements of part 33 of this chapter and one of the following:




(1) The FAA has determined that a safety issue exists that requires an engine modification.


(2) Emissions from the derivative engines are determined to be similar. In general, this means the emissions must meet the criteria specified in paragraph (b) of this section. The FAA may amend the criteria of paragraph (b) in unusual circumstances, for individual cases, consistent with good engineering judgment.


(3) All of the regulated emissions from the derivative engine are lower than the original engine.


(b) *Emission similarity* (1) The type certificate holder must demonstrate that the proposed derivative engine model's emissions meet the applicable standards and differ from the original model's emission rates within the following ranges and values:


(i) ±3.0 g/kN for NO_X_.


(ii) ±1.0 g/kN for HC.


(iii) ±5.0 g/kN for CO.


(iv) ±2.0 SN for smoke (where applicable).


(v) The following values apply for maximum nvPM_MC_, nvPM_mass_, and nvPM_num_ (where applicable):


(A) maximum nvPM_MC_:


(*1*) ±200 µg/m3 if the characteristic level of maximum nvPM_MC_ is below 1,000 µg/m
3; or


(*2*) ±20% of the characteristic level if the characteristic level for maximum nvPM_MC_ is at or above 1,000 µg/m
3.


(B) nvPM_mass_:


(*1*) 80 mg/kN if the characteristic level for nvPM_mass_ emissions is below 400 mg/kN; or


(*2*) ±20% of the characteristic level if the characteristic level for nvPM_mass_ emissions is greater than or equal to 400 mg/kN.


(C) nvPM_num_:


(*1*) 4 × 10
14 particles/kN if the characteristic level for nvPM_num_ emissions is below 2×10
15 particles/kN; or


(*2*) ±20% of the characteristic level if the characteristic level for nvPM_num_ emissions is greater than or equal to 2 × 10
15 particles/kN.


(2) If the characteristic level of the original certificated engine model (or any other sub-models within the emission type certificate family tested for certification) before modification is at or above 95% of the applicable standard for any pollutant, an applicant must measure the proposed derivative engine model's emissions for all pollutants to demonstrate that the derivative engine's resulting characteristic levels will not exceed the applicable emission standards. If the characteristic levels of the originally certificated engine model (and all other sub-models within the emission type certificate family tested for certification) are below 95% of the applicable standard for each pollutant, the applicant may use engineering analysis consistent with good engineering judgment to demonstrate that the derivative engine will not exceed the applicable emission standards. The engineering analysis must address all modifications from the original engine, including those approved for previous derivative engines.


(3) In unusual circumstances and consistent with good engineering judgement, the FAA may adjust the ranges specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section to evaluate a proposed derivative engine.




(c) *Continued production allowance.* Derivative engines for emissions certification purposes may continue to be produced after the applicability date for new emissions standards when the engines conform to the specifications of this section.


(d) *Non-derivative engines.* If the FAA determines that an engine model does not meet the requirements for a derivative engine for emissions certification purposes, the type certificate holder is required to demonstrate that the engine complies with the emissions standards applicable to a new engine type.



---

[N] [Doc. No. 34-5, 77 FR 76852, Dec. 31, 2012, as amended by  Amdt. No. 34-7, 89 FR 31088, Apr. 24, 2024]




