# § 60.272   Standard for particulate matter.

(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from an electric arc furnace any gases which:


(1) Exit from a control device and contain particulate matter in excess of 12 mg/dscm (0.0052 gr/dscf).


(2) Exit from a control device and exhibit three percent opacity or greater, as measured in accordance with EPA Method 9 of appendix A of this part, or, as an alternative, according to ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under *Shop opacity* in § 60.271.


(3) Exit from a shop and, due solely to operations of any EAF(s), exhibit 6 percent opacity or greater, as measured in accordance with EPA Method 9 of appendix A of this part, or, as an alternative, according to ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under *Shop opacity* in § 60.271. Shop opacity shall be recorded for any point(s) where visible emissions are observed. Where it is possible to determine that a number of visible emission sites relate to only one incident of visible emissions, only one observation of shop opacity will be required. In this case, the shop opacity observations must be made for the site of highest opacity that directly relates to the cause (or location) of visible emissions observed during a single incident, except:


(i) Shop opacity less than 20 percent may occur during charging periods.


(ii) Shop opacity less than 40 percent may occur during tapping periods.


(iii) The shop opacity standards under paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall apply only during periods when the monitoring parameter limits specified in § 60.274(b) are being established according to § 60.274(c) and (g), unless the owner or operator elects to perform daily shop opacity observations in lieu of furnace static pressure monitoring as provided for under § 60.273(d).


(iv) Where the capture system is operated such that the roof of the shop is closed during the charge and the tap, and emissions to the atmosphere are prevented until the roof is opened after completion of the charge or tap, the shop opacity standards under paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall apply when the roof is opened and shall continue to apply for the length of time defined by the charging and/or tapping periods.


(b) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from dust-handling equipment any gases which exhibit 10 percent opacity or greater, as measured in accordance with EPA Method 9 of appendix A of this part, or, as an alternative, according to ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under *Shop opacity* in § 60.271.



---

[N] [40 FR 43852, Sept. 23, 1975, as amended at 49 FR 43843, Oct. 31, 1984; 64 FR 10109, Mar. 2, 1999; 88 FR 58476, Aug. 25, 2023]






