# § 390.3   Policy considerations.

(a) *In general.* It is the policy of the United States, as set forth in 46 U.S.C. 50501, that for the national defense and the development of its foreign and domestic commerce, the United States shall have a merchant marine: sufficient to carry a substantial portion of its water-borne export and import foreign commerce and to provide shipping service essential for maintaining the flow of such commerce at all times; capable of serving as auxiliaries in time of war or national emergency; owned and operated by United States citizens insofar as practicable and composed of the best equipped, safest and most suitable types of vessels, constructed and documented in the United States and manned with United States citizens.


(b) *Unacceptable programs*—(1) *In general.* The Maritime Administrator will not enter into an agreement where the proposed program is not, in his opinion, in consonance with the policies of the Act.


(2) *Specific unacceptable programs.* The Maritime Administrator will not enter into an agreement where the proposed program is merely to accomplish the following:


(i) Reconstruction of an existing vessel, unless such reconstruction will exceed $1,000,000 in cost, will be capitalized under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations thereunder and will result in a vessel which is significantly more competitive;


(ii) Acquisition of an existing vessel; or


(iii) Payment of the principal on existing indebtedness.


(3) *Waiver.* The Maritime Administrator may, for good cause shown, waive the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section. For example, the Maritime Administrator may waive the monetary limit in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section where the applicant proposes to reconstruct a small vessel.



---

[N] [41 FR 4265, Jan. 29, 1976, as amended at 73 FR 56740, Sept. 30, 2008]




