# § 25.95   Superseding bonds and new bonds for existing brewers.

(a) *Superseding bonds.* The appropriate TTB officer may at any time, at his or her discretion, require a new bond that supersedes the existing bond. A superseding bond is required immediately in the case of insolvency of a surety. Executors, administrators, assignees, receivers, trustees, or other persons acting in a fiduciary capacity must execute a superseding bond or obtain a consent of surety on all bonds in effect. When the interests of the Government so demand, or in any case when the security of the bond becomes impaired for any reason, the principal will be required to give a superseding bond. When a bond is found to be not acceptable by the appropriate TTB officer, the principal will be required immediately to obtain a satisfactory superseding bond or discontinue business.


(b) *New bonds for existing brewers*—(1) *General.* Subject to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, if an existing brewer has not furnished a bond covering operations and withdrawals of beer because the brewer was exempt from bond requirements under § 25.91(e), the brewer must furnish a bond as provided in this subpart beginning in any portion of a calendar year following the first date on which the aggregate amount of tax due from the brewer during the calendar year exceeds $50,000. When furnishing the bond, the brewer must also file an amended Brewer's Notice, Form 5130.10, as provided in § 25.79 to change the brewer's bond status.


(2) *Grace period for new bonds for existing brewers*—(i) *Bonds covering operations.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, an existing brewer who must furnish a bond as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section will be treated as having furnished the required bond if the brewer submits the bond on Form 5130.22 no later than 30 days following the first date on which the aggregate amount of tax due from the brewer during the relevant calendar year exceeds $50,000. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the brewer will be treated as having furnished the required bond for the purposes of this paragraph until TTB approves or disapproves the bond.


(ii) *Bonds covering tax-deferred removals.* The grace period specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section does not apply to beer removed for consumption or sale on deferred payment of tax. A brewer that must furnish a bond under paragraph (b)(1) of this section may not remove beer for consumption or sale on deferred payment of tax until TTB approves the bond.



---

[N] [T.D. TTB-146, 82 FR 1128, Jan. 4, 2017]




