# § 125.10   Mentor-Protégé programs of other agencies.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a Federal department or agency may not carry out a mentor-protégé program for small business unless the head of the department or agency submits a plan to the SBA Administrator for the program and the SBA Administrator approves the plan. Before starting a new mentor protégé program, the head of a department or agency must submit a plan to the SBA Administrator. Within one year of the effective date of this section, the head of a department or agency must submit a plan to the SBA for any previously existing mentor-protégé program that the department or agency seeks to continue.


(b) The SBA Administrator will approve or disapprove a plan submitted under paragraph (a) of this section based on whether the proposed program:


(1) Will assist protégés to compete for Federal prime contracts and subcontracts; and


(2) Complies with the provisions set forth in §§ 125.9 and 124.520 of this chapter, as applicable.


(c) Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to:


(1) Any mentor-protégé program of the Department of Defense;


(2) Any mentoring assistance provided under a Small Business Innovation Research Program or a Small Business Technology Transfer Program; and


(3) A mentor-protégé program operated by a Department or agency on January 2, 2013, for a period of one year after the effective date of this section.


(d) The head of each Federal department or agency carrying out an agency-specific mentor-protégé program must report annually to SBA:


(1) The participants (both protégé firms and their approved mentors) in its mentor-protégé program. This includes identifying the number of participants that are:


(i) Small business concerns;


(ii) Small business concerns owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans;


(iii) Small business concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals;


(iv) Small business concerns owned and controlled by Indian tribes, Alaska Native Corporations, Native Hawaiian Organizations, and Community Development Corporations; and


(v) Small business concerns owned and controlled by women;


(2) The assistance provided to small businesses through the program; and


(3) The progress of protégé firms under the program to compete for Federal prime contracts and subcontracts.



---

[N] [81 FR 48585, July 25, 2016]








