# ยง 963.12   Alternative procurement process.

(a) *Method of procurement.* In contracting with resident-owned businesses, the PHA shall follow the applicable method of procurement as set forth in 24 CFR 85.36(d) (as revised April 1, 2013), with solicitation limited to resident-owned businesses. Additionally, the PHA shall ensure that the method of procurement conforms to the procurement standards set forth in 24 CFR 85.36(b) (as revised April 1, 2013).


(b) *Contract awards.* Contracts awarded under this part shall be made only to resident-owned businesses that meet the requirements of ยง 963.10, and that comply with such other requirements as may be required of a contractor under the particular procurement and the Department's regulations. An award shall not be made to the resident-owned business if the contract award exceeds the independent cost estimate required by 24 CFR 85.36(f) (as revised April 1, 2013), and the price normally paid for comparable supplies, services, or construction in the project area.


(c) *Contract requirements.* Any contract entered into between a PHA and a resident-owned business under this part shall comply with: the contract provisions of 24 CFR 85.36(i) (as revised April 1, 2013); the provisions of 24 CFR 85.36(h) (as revised April 1, 2013) or 24 CFR 905.316(d) governing bonding requirements, where applicable; and such other contract terms that may be applicable to the particular procurement under the Department's regulations. In addition to the recordkeeping requirements imposed by 24 CFR 85.36(i) (as revised April 1, 2013), the PHA also shall maintain records sufficient to detail the significant history of the procurement made under this part. These records will include, but are not necessarily limited to the following: The independent cost estimate and comparable price analysis as required by paragraph (b) of this section; the basis for contractor selection, including documentation concerning the eligibility of the selected resident-owned business under ยง 963.10; and the basis for determining the reasonableness of the proposed contract price.



---

[N] [57 FR 20189, May 11, 1992, as amended at 80 FR 75942, Dec. 7, 2015]




