# ยง 1.1335-1   Elective method; time and manner of making election and effect thereof.

(a) *In general.* If the taxpayer elects to have the provisions of section 1333 applicable to any taxable year in which any money or property is recovered in respect of war loss property, section 1333 will be applicable by virtue of that election to all taxable years of the taxpayer beginning after December 31, 1941. Thus, the taxpayer need not make an election with respect to each separate taxable year in which he had a recovery. An election for any taxable year in which the taxpayer had a recovery in respect of a prior war loss is sufficient to make the provisions of section 1333 applicable not only to war loss recoveries received by the taxpayer in any past taxable year beginning after December 31, 1941, but to any recoveries which may be received by the taxpayer in any future taxable year. Such election once made shall be irrevocable. The election to have the provisions of section 1333 applicable to any taxable year cannot be made unless the taxpayer recovers money or property (in respect of a prior war loss) during the taxable year for which such election is made.


(b) *Manner of election.* In all cases the election to have the provisions of section 1333 apply must be made by the taxpayer not later than six months from the last day prescribed by law for the filing of his income tax return for any taxable year in which a recovery of war loss property has occurred. The election shall be evidenced by a written statement, made within such 6-month period, that the taxpayer elects to have the provisions of section 1333 apply to any taxable year in which any money or property is recovered in respect of war loss property. The statement may be made in (or attached to):


(1) The return or amended return filed for such taxable year;


(2) A claim for refund or credit filed for such taxable year for an overpayment resulting from application of such provisions;


(3) A timely petition or amended petition to The Tax Court of the United States for a redetermination of any deficiency for any taxable year in which a recovery of war loss property occurred; or


(4) A letter addressed to the district director for the district in which the return for such taxable year was required to be filed.


(c) *Effect of election.* (1) If the provisions of section 1333 are applicable to any taxable year pursuant to an election made by the taxpayer in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, the period of limitations provided in chapter 66 of the Code on the making of assessments and the beginning of distraint or a proceeding in court for collection with respect to (i) the amount to be added to the tax for such taxable year under the provisions of section 1333 and (ii) any deficiency for such taxable year or for any other taxable year to the extent attributable to the basis of the recovered property being determined under the provisions of section 1336(b), shall not expire prior to the expiration of two years following the date of the making of such election. Such amount or such deficiency may be assessed at any time prior to the expiration of such period, notwithstanding any law or rule of law which would otherwise prevent such assessment and collection.


(2) If the provisions of section 1333 are applicable to any taxable year pursuant to an election made by the taxpayer in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, and refund or credit of any overpayment resulting from the application of such provisions to such taxable year is prevented on the date of the making of such election, or within one year from such date, by the operation of any law or rule of law (other than section 7122 relating to compromises), refund or credit of such overpayment may nevertheless be made or allowed, provided claim therefor is filed within one year from such date. Thus, the amount of such overpayment which may be refunded or credited is not subject to the limitations contained in section 6511 or 6512(b).


(3) In the case of any taxable year ending before the date of the making by the taxpayer of an election under section 1335, no interest shall be paid on any overpayment specified in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph for any period before the expiration of six months following the date of the making of such election by the taxpayer, and no interest shall be assessed or collected with respect to any amount or any deficiency specified in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph for any period before the expiration of six months following the date of the making of such election by the taxpayer.



---

[N] [T.D. 6500, 25 FR 12047, Nov. 26, 1960]




