# § 73.31   Establishment of accounts.

(a) *Existing affected units.* The Administrator will establish a compliance account and allocate allowances for each source that includes a unit that is, or will become, an existing affected unit pursuant to sections 404(a) or 405 of the Act and § 72.6 of this chapter.


(b) *New units.* Upon receipt of a complete certificate of representation for the designated representative for a new unit pursuant to part 72, subpart B of this chapter, the Administrator will establish a compliance account for the source that includes the unit, unless the source already has a compliance account.


(c) *General accounts.* (1) Any person may apply to open an Allowance Tracking System account for the purpose of holding and transferring allowances. Such application shall be submitted to the Administrator in a format to be specified by the Administrator by means of the Allowance Account Information Form, or by providing the following information in a similar format:


(i) Name and title of the authorized account representative and alternate authorized account representative (if any) pursuant to § 73.33;


(ii) Mailing address, telephone number and facsimile transmission number (if any) of the authorized account representative and alternate authorized account representative (if any);


(iii) Organization or company name (if applicable) and type of organization (if applicable);


(iv) A list of all persons subject to a binding agreement for the authorized account representative to represent their ownership interest with respect to the allowances held in the general account and which shall be amended and resubmitted within 30 days following any transaction giving rise to any change of the list of persons subject to the binding agreement;


(v) A certification statement by the authorized account representative and alternate authorized account representative (if any) that reads “I certify that I was selected under the terms of an agreement that is binding on all persons who have an ownership interest with respect to allowances held in the general account. I certify that I have all necessary authority to carry out my duties and responsibilities on behalf of the persons with an ownership interest and that they shall be fully bound by my representations, actions, inactions, or submissions under 40 CFR part 73. I am authorized to make this submission on behalf of the persons with an ownership interest for whom this submission is made. I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined and am familiar with the information submitted in this document and all its attachments. Based on my inquiry of those individuals with primary responsibility for obtaining the information, I certify that the information is to the best of my knowledge and belief true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false material information, or omitting material information, including the possibility of fine or imprisonment for violations.”;


(vi) The signature of the authorized account representative and the alternate authorized account representative (if any); and


(vii) The date of the signature of the authorized account representative and the alternate authorized account representative (if any).


(2) Upon receipt of such complete application, the Administrator will establish an Allowance Tracking System account for the person or persons identified in the application.


(3) No allowance transfers will be recorded for a general account until the Administrator has established the new account.


(d) *Account identification.* The Administrator will assign a unique identifying number to each account established pursuant to this section.



---

[N] [58 FR 3687, Jan. 11, 1993; 58 FR 40747, July 30, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 25378, Apr. 28, 2006; 70 FR 25335, May 12, 2005]




