# § 122.119   Transportation to another U.S. port.

(a) *Application.* Air cargo shipments may be transferred for transportation as transit air cargo from the port of arrival to another port in the U.S. under this section. The director of the port of arrival may require Customs supervision of the transfer.


(b) *Time.* Transit air cargo traveling to a final port of destination in the U.S. shall be delivered to Customs at its destination within 30 days from the date the receiving airline gives the receipt for the cargo at the port of arrival.


(c) *Transit air cargo manifest copies.* Four copies of the transit air cargo manifest, including a carrier manifest copy, shall be filed by the airline giving a receipt for moving the cargo shipments to their destination. The permit copy is used and kept by Customs at the port of arrival.


(d) *Failure to deliver on time*—(1) *Procedure.* If transit air cargo does not arrive at the destination port on time, the director of the port of arrival shall take action as provided in §§ 18.6 and 18.8 of this chapter. The amount of duty and tax shall be decided at the port of arrival on the basis of information:


(i) On the permit copy kept at the port of arrival; and


(ii) Obtained from the carriers as necessary.


(2) *Responsibility of airline.* When the airline that presented a receipt for the cargo receives notice of discrepancies, the airline shall answer within 90 days of the date of such notice to the director of the port of arrival. The answer shall provide any information or documents related to the value and description of the cargo involved that the receipting airline and the importing airline can produce.


(e) *Surface movement to port of destination.* If an aircraft arrives at the port of arrival with cargo to be carried as transit air cargo, the cargo may be transferred to another carrier for surface movement to the port of destination. The transfer is allowed under the following conditions:


(1) The bond of the party receiving the cargo for surface movement must cover the transfer and surface movement;


(2) The description of the cargo on the transit air cargo manifest must be complete;


(3) The entire shipment listed in the transit air cargo manifest must be shipped from the port of arrival to the port of destination by the same surface carrier; and


(4) The requirements of § 122.114(b) must be followed.



---

[N] [T.D. 88-12, 54 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988; T.D. 00-22, 65 FR 16518, Mar. 29, 2000, as amended by CBP Dec. 17-13, 82 FR 45405, Sept. 28, 2017]




