# ยง 4284.1008   Compliance with other laws and regulations.

The Agency, Applicants, and Recipients must comply with all applicable laws and regulations. An effort has been made to identify the most-commonly cited laws and regulations and reference them as follows:


(a) *Federal laws.* Federal laws are codified in the United States Code (U.S.C.). A selection of laws applicable to this program is identified as follows:


(1) Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1691 *et seq.*).


(2) Consumer Credit Protection Act (15 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*).


(3) Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 *et seq.*).


(4) The Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title VI (42 U.S.C. 2000d *et seq.*).


(5) The Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Section 504 (29 U.S.C. 794).


(b) *Federal regulations.* Federal regulations are codified in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR). In particular, 2 CFR parts 1 through 200 are applicable to all Federal grant programs. These parts address items such as universal entity identifiers, reporting subaward and executive compensation, debarment and suspension, drug-free workplaces, administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements. We particularly advise Applicants and Recipients to become familiar with 2 CFR part 200 in its entirety.


(c) *Departmental regulations.* Departmental regulations are those regulations that are specific to awards made through USDA. They are codified in the CFR. A selection of applicable regulations is identified as follows:


(1) *2 CFR parts 400 through 499.* These parts include USDA's adoption of Federal administrative requirements and cost principles. They also include regulations on debarment and suspension, lobbying, drug-free workplaces, and research awards.


(2) *7 CFR part 11.* This part includes USDA's procedures for administrative appeals, as handled by its National Appeals Division.


(3) *7 CFR part 15.* This part includes USDA's procedures for compliance with nondiscrimination laws and regulations.


(d) *Agency regulations.* Agency regulations are those regulations that are specific to awards made through the Agency and they may also be specific to a program. They are codified in the CFR. A selection of those regulations is as follows:


(1) *7 CFR part 1900.* This part covers delegations of authority, Adverse Decisions and administrative appeals, applicability of Federal law, and processing and servicing grant awards.


(2) *7 CFR part 1901, subpart E.* This subpart covers civil rights compliance requirements.


(3) *7 CFR part 1951.* This part covers servicing grant awards, including unauthorized assistance.


(4) *7 CFR part 1970.* This part covers environmental policies and considerations.


(e) *Access to laws and regulations.* (1) Laws may be accessed through the U.S.C. At the time this subpart was published, the U.S.C. may be accessed electronically at this website: *https://uscode.house.gov/.*

(2) Regulations may be accessed through the CFR. At the time this subpart was published, the CFR may be accessed electronically at this website: *https://www.ecfr.gov/.*

