# ยง 990.4   USDA approval of State and Tribal plans.

(a) *General authority.* No later than 60 calendar days after the receipt of a State or Tribal plan for a State or Tribal territory in which production of hemp is legal, the Secretary shall:


(1) Approve the State or Tribal plan only if the State or Tribal plan complies with this part; or


(2) Disapprove the State or Tribal plan if the plan does not comply with this part. USDA shall provide the State or Tribe with written notification of the disapproval and the cause for the disapproval.


(b) *Amended plans.* A State or Tribal government, as applicable, must submit to the Secretary an amended plan if:


(1) The Secretary disapproves a State or Tribal plan and the State or Indian Tribe wishes to have primary regulatory authority over hemp production within its State or territory of the Indian Tribe; or


(2) The State or Indian Tribe makes substantive revisions to its plan or its laws which alter the way the plan meets the requirements of this part. If this occurs, the State or Tribal government must re-submit the revised plan for USDA approval. Such re-submissions should be provided to USDA within 60 days from the date that the State or Tribal laws and regulations are effective. Producers shall continue to comply with the requirements of the existing plan while such modifications are under consideration by USDA. If State or Tribal government laws or regulations in effect under the USDA-approved plan change but the State or Tribal government does not submit a revised plan within 60 days from the effective date of the new law or regulation, the existing plan is revoked.


(3) USDA approval of State or Tribal government plan shall remain in effect unless an amended plan must be submitted to USDA because of a substantive revision to a State's or Tribe's plan, a relevant change in State or Tribal laws or regulations, or approval of the plan is revoked by USDA.


(4) Upon USDA approval of a Tribal plan, an Indian Tribe may exercise jurisdiction and therefore primary regulatory authority over all production of hemp in its Territory regardless of the extent of its inherent regulatory authority.


(c) *Technical assistance.* The Secretary may provide technical assistance to help a State or Indian Tribe develop or amend a plan. This may include the review of draft plans or other informal consultation as necessary.


(d) *Approved State or Tribal plans.* If the Secretary approves a State or Tribal plan, the Secretary shall notify the State or Indian Tribe by letter or email.


(1) In addition to the approval letter, the State or Indian Tribe shall receive their plan approval certificate either as an attachment or via website link.


(2) The USDA shall post information regarding approved plans on its website.


(3) USDA approval of State or Tribal government plans shall remain in effect unless:


(i) The State or Tribal government's laws and regulations in effect under the USDA-approved plan change, thus requiring such plan to be revised and re-submitted for USDA approval.


(ii) A State or Tribal plan must be amended in order to comply with future amendments to Subtitle G the Act and this part.


(e) *Producer rights upon revocation of State or Tribal plan.* If USDA revokes approval of a State or Tribal plan due to noncompliance as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and ยง 990.5, producers licensed or authorized to produce hemp under the revoked State or Tribal plan may continue to produce for the remainder of the calendar year in which the revocation became effective. Producers operating in a State or Tribal territory with a revoked plan would have to apply to USDA for a license to continue producing.




