# ยง 29.6   Program performance standards.

(a) Every registered apprenticeship program must have at least one registered apprentice, except for the following specified periods of time, which may not exceed 1 year:


(1) Between the date when a program is registered and the date of registration for its first apprentice(s); or


(2) Between the date that a program graduates an apprentice and the date of registration for the next apprentice(s) in the program.


(b) Registration Agencies must evaluate performance of registered apprenticeship programs.


(1) The tools and factors to be used must include, but are not limited to:


(i) Quality assurance assessments;


(ii) Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Compliance Reviews; and


(iii) Completion rates.


(2) Any additional tools and factors used by the Registration Agency in evaluating program performance must adhere to the goals and policies of the Department articulated in this part and in guidance issued by the Office of Apprenticeship.






(c) In order to evaluate completion rates, the Registration Agency must review a program's completion rates in comparison to the national average for completion rates. Based on the review, the Registration Agency must provide technical assistance to programs with completion rates lower than the national average.


(d) Cancellation of apprenticeship agreements during the probationary period will not have an adverse impact on a sponsor's completion rate. 



---

[N] [73 FR 64425, Oct. 29, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 14387, Mar. 11, 2020; 87 FR 58287, Sept. 26, 2022]




