# § 8.21   Non-housing facilities.

(a) *New construction.* New non-housing facilities shall be designed and constructed to be readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps.


(b) *Alterations to facilities.* Alterations to existing non-housing facilities shall, to the maximum extent feasible, be made to be readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. For purposes of this paragraph, the phrase *to the maximum extent feasible* shall not be interpreted as requiring that a recipient make a non-housing facility, or element thereof, accessible if doing so would impose undue financial and administrative burdens on the operation of the recipient's program or activity.


(c) *Existing non-housing facilities*—(1) *General.* A recipient shall operate each non-housing program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. This paragraph does not— 


(i) Necessarily require a recipient to make each of its existing non-housing facilities accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps; 


(ii) In the case of historic preservation programs or activities, require the recipient to take any action that would result in a substantial impairment of significant historic features of an historic property; or 


(iii) Require a recipient to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of its program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the recipient shall take any action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that individuals with handicaps receive the benefits and services of the program or activity. 


(2) *Methods*—(i) *General.* A recipient may comply with the requirements of this section in its programs and activities receiving Federal financial assistance through such means as location of programs or services to accessible facilities or accessible portions of facilities, assignment of aides to beneficiaries, home visits, the addition or redesign of equipment (e.g., appliances or furnishings) changes in management policies or procedures, acquisition or construction of additional facilities, or alterations to existing facilities on a selective basis, or any other methods that result in making its program or activity accessible to individuals with handicaps. A recipient is not required to make structural changes in existing facilities where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this section. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirements of this section, the recipient shall give priority to those methods that offer programs and activities to qualified individuals with handicaps in the most integrated setting appropriate. 


(ii) *Historic preservation programs or activities.* In meeting the requirements of § 8.21(c) in historic preservation programs or activities, a recipient shall give priority to methods that provide physical access to individuals with handicaps. In cases where a physical alteration to an historic property is not required because of § 8.21(c)(1)(ii) or (iii), alternative methods of achieving program accessibility include using audio-visual materials and devices to depict those portions of an historic property that cannot otherwise be made accessible; assigning persons to guide individuals with handicaps into or through portions of historic properties that cannot otherwise be made accessible; or adopting other innovative methods. 


(3) *Time period for compliance.* The recipient shall comply with the obligations established under this section within sixty days of July 11, 1988, except that where structural changes in facilities are undertaken, such changes shall be made within three years of July 11, 1988, but in any event as expeditiously as possible. 


(4) *Transition plan.* If structural changes to non-housing facilities will be undertaken to achieve program accessibility, a recipient shall develop, within six months of July 11, 1988, a transition plan setting forth the steps necessary to complete such changes. The plan shall be developed with the assistance of interested persons, including individuals with handicaps or organizations representing individuals with handicaps. A copy of the transition plan shall be made available for public inspection. The plan shall, at a minimum— 


(i) Identify physical obstacles in the recipient's facilities that limit the accessibility of its programs or activities to individuals with handicaps; 


(ii) Describe in details the methods that will be used to make the facilities accessible; 


(iii) Specify the schedule for taking the steps necessary to achieve compliance with this section and, if the time period of the transition plan is longer than one year, identify steps that will be taken during each year of the transition period; 


(iv) Indicate the official responsible for implementation of the plan; and 


(v) Identify the persons or groups with whose assistance the plan was prepared.



---

[N] [53 FR 20233, June 2, 1988; 53 FR 28115, July 26, 1988, as amended at 54 FR 37645, Sept. 12, 1989]




