# § 1065.275   N

(a) *General component requirements.* We recommend that you use an analyzer that meets the specifications in Table 1 of § 1065.205. Note that your system must meet the linearity verification in § 1065.307.


(b) *Instrument types.* You may use any of the following analyzers to measure N_2_O:


(1) Nondispersive infrared (NDIR) analyzer.


(2) Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) analyzer. Use appropriate analytical procedures for interpretation of infrared spectra. For example, EPA Test Method 320 in 40 CFR part 63, appendix A, and ASTM D6348 (incorporated by reference, see § 1065.1010) are considered valid methods for spectral interpretation.




(3) Laser infrared analyzer. Examples of laser infrared analyzers are pulsed-mode high-resolution narrow band mid-infrared analyzers, and modulated continuous wave high-resolution narrow band mid-infrared analyzers.


(4) Photoacoustic analyzer. Use an optical wheel configuration that gives analytical priority to measurement of the least stable components in the sample. Select a sample integration time of at least 5 seconds. Take into account sample chamber and sample line volumes when determining flush times for your instrument.


(5) Gas chromatograph analyzer. You may use a gas chromatograph with an electron-capture detector (GC-ECD) to measure N_2_O concentrations of diluted exhaust for batch sampling.


(i) You may use a packed or porous layer open tubular (PLOT) column phase of suitable polarity and length to achieve adequate resolution of the N_2_O peak for analysis. Examples of acceptable columns are a PLOT column consisting of bonded polystyrene-divinylbenzene or a Porapack Q packed column. Take the column temperature profile and carrier gas selection into consideration when setting up your method to achieve adequate N_2_O peak resolution.


(ii) Use good engineering judgment to zero your instrument and correct for drift. You do not need to follow the specific procedures in §§ 1065.530 and 1065.550(b) that would otherwise apply. For example, you may perform a span gas measurement before and after sample analysis without zeroing and use the average area counts of the pre-span and post-span measurements to generate a response factor (area counts/span gas concentration), which you then multiply by the area counts from your sample to generate the sample concentration.


(c) *Interference verification.* Certain compounds can positively interfere with NDIR, FTIR, laser infrared analyzers, and photoacoustic analyzers by causing a response similar to N_2_O. Perform interference verification for NDIR, FTIR, laser infrared analyzers, and photoacoustic analyzers using the procedures of § 1065.375. Interference verification is not required for GC-ECD. Perform interference verification for the following interference species:


(1) The interference species for NDIR analyzers are CO, CO_2_, H_2_O, CH_4_, and SO_2_. Note that interference species, with the exception of H_2_O, are dependent on the N_2_O infrared absorption band chosen by the instrument manufacturer. For each analyzer determine the N_2_O infrared absorption band. For each N_2_O infrared absorption band, use good engineering judgment to determine which interference species to evaluate for interference verification.


(2) Use good engineering judgment to determine interference species for FTIR and laser infrared analyzers. Note that interference species, with the exception of H_2_O, are dependent on the N_2_O infrared absorption band chosen by the instrument manufacturer. For each analyzer determine the N_2_O infrared absorption band. Determine interference species under this paragraph (c)(2) that are appropriate for each N_2_O infrared absorption band, or you may identify the interference species based on the instrument manufacturer's recommendations.


(3) The interference species for photoacoustic analyzers are CO, CO_2_, and H_2_O.







---

[N] [74 FR 56512, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 76 FR 57443, Sept. 15, 2011; 78 FR 36398, June 17, 2013;79 FR 23761, Apr. 28, 2014; 81 FR 74163, Oct. 25, 2016; 86 FR 34536, June 29, 2021; 89 FR 29796, Apr. 22, 2024]












