# § 1000.5   What key terms do I need to know?

*403(c) Program or Nexus Program* means a non-BIA program eligible under 25 U.S.C. 5363(c) and, specifically, a program, function, service, or activity that is of special geographic, historical, or cultural significance to a self-governance Tribe/Consortium. These programs may also be referred to as “nexus programs.”


*Act* means title IV of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975, Public Law 93-638, as amended by Public Law 103-413, Public Law 104-109, and Public Law 116-180.


*BIA* means the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department or any successor bureau. For purposes of this part, BIA shall include the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, BIE, and BTFA, or any successor bureau, unless specified otherwise.


*BIA Program* means any program, service, function, or activity, or portion thereof, that is performed or administered by the Department through the BIA. For purposes of this part, BIA Program shall also include any PSFA performed or administered by the Department through the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, BIE, or BTFA which are eligible for inclusion in a compact or funding agreement under the Act unless specified otherwise.


*BIE* means the Bureau of Indian Education of the Department, or any successor bureau.


*BIE Program* means any program, service, function, or activity, or portion thereof, that is performed or administered by the Department through the BIE and is eligible for inclusion in a compact and funding agreement under the Act.


*BTFA* means the Bureau of Trust Funds Administration of the Department, or any successor bureau, to which the Department has transferred fiduciary programs, services, functions, and activities from the Office of Special Trustee for American Indians, as it is referenced in 25 U.S.C. 5361, *et seq.,* as amended.


*Bureau* means a bureau, service, office, agency, and other such subsidiary entity within the Department.


*Compact* means a self-governance compact entered under 25 U.S.C. 5364.


*Consortium* means an organization of Indian Tribes that is authorized by those Tribes to participate in self-governance under this part and is responsible for negotiating, executing, and implementing funding agreements and compacts.


*Construction management services (CMS)* means activities limited to administrative support services, coordination, oversight of engineers and construction activities. CMS services include services that precede project design: all project design and actual construction activities are subject to subpart K of these regulations whether performed by a Tribe subcontractor, or consultant.


*Construction program* or *construction project* means a Tribal undertaking relating to the administration, planning, environmental determination, design, construction, repair, improvement, or expansion of roads, bridges, buildings, structures, systems, or other facilities for purposes of housing, law enforcement, detention, sanitation, water supply, education, administration, community, health, irrigation, agriculture, conservation, flood control, transportation, or port facilities, or for other Tribal purposes.


*Days* means calendar days, except where the last day of any time period specified in this part falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or a Federal holiday, the period must carry over to the next business day unless otherwise prohibited by law.


*Director* means the Director of the Office of Self-Governance (OSG).


*DOI* or *Department* means the Department of the Interior.


*Funding agreement* means a funding agreement entered into under 25 U.S.C. 5363.


*Funding year* means either fiscal or calendar year.


*Gross mismanagement* means a significant violation, shown by a preponderance of the evidence, of a compact, funding agreement, or statutory or regulatory requirement applicable to Federal funds for a PSFA administered by an Indian Tribe under a compact or funding agreement.


*Indian* means a person who is a member of an Indian Tribe.


*Indian Tribe* or *Tribe* means any Indian Tribe, band, nation or other organized group or community, including pueblos, rancherias, colonies and any Alaska Native village, or regional or village corporations as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, that is recognized as eligible for special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.


*Indirect costs* means costs incurred for a common or joint purpose benefitting more than one program and that are not readily assignable to individual programs.


*Indirect cost rates* means the rate(s) arrived at through negotiation between an Indian Tribe/Consortium and the appropriate Federal agency.


*Inherent Federal function* means a Federal function that may not legally be delegated to an Indian Tribe.


*Non-BIA Bureau* means any bureau within the Department other than the BIA, the BIE, the BTFA, or the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs.


*Non-BIA bureaus director/commissioner* means the director of Non-BIA bureaus and the commissioner of the Bureau of Reclamation.


*Non-BIA Programs* means all or a portion of a program, function, service, or activity that is administered by any bureau other than the BIA, the BIE, the BTFA, or the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs within the Department.


*Office of Self-Governance (OSG)* means the office within the Office of the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs responsible for the implementation and development of the Tribal Self-Governance Program.


*Program* or *PSFA* means any program, service, function, or activity (or portions thereof) within the Department that is included in a funding agreement.


*Public Law 93-638* means sections 1 through 9 and title I of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975, as amended.


*Reassumption* means the Secretary, without consent of the Tribe/Consortium, takes control or operation of the PSFAs and associated funding in a compact or funding agreement, in whole or in part, and assumes the responsibility to provide such PSFAs.


*Residual Funds* means funding that is necessary for the Department to carry out inherent Federal functions that cannot be delegated to a Tribe/Consortia by law.


*Retained Tribal shares* means those funds that were available as a Tribal share but under the funding agreement were left with BIA to administer.


*Retrocession* means the voluntary full or partial return by a Tribe/Consortium to a bureau of a PSFA operated under a funding agreement before the agreement expires.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior or his or her designee authorized to act on the behalf of the Secretary as to the matter at hand.


*Self-determination contract* means a self-determination contract entered into under 25 U.S.C. 5321.


*Self-governance* means the Tribal Self-Governance Program established under 25 U.S.C. 5362.


*Self-governance Tribe/Consortium* means a Tribe or Consortium that has been selected to participate in self-governance. May also be referred to as “participating Tribe/Consortium.”


*Subsequent funding agreement* means a funding agreement negotiated after a Tribe's/Consortium's initial agreement with a bureau.


*Tribal share* means the portion of all funds and resources determined for that Tribe/Consortium that supports any program within BIA, the BIE, the BTFA, or the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs and are not required by the Secretary for the performance of an inherent Federal function.






