# ยง 1108.24   Use of the Small Rate Case Arbitration Program.

(a) *Eligible matters.* The arbitration program under this subpart may be used only in the following instances:


(1) Rate disputes involving shipments of regulated commodities not subject to a rail transportation contract are eligible to be arbitrated under this subpart. If the parties dispute whether a challenged rate was established pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 10709, the parties must petition the Board to resolve that dispute, which must be resolved before the parties initiate the arbitration process under this part.


(2) A complainant may challenge rates for multiple traffic lanes within a single arbitration under this part, subject to the relief cap in ยง 1108.28 for all lanes.


(3) For movements in which more than one carrier participates, arbitration under this subpart may be used only if all carriers agree to participate (pursuant to ยง 1108.23(a)(1) or (4)).


(b) *Eligible parties.* Any party eligible to bring or defend a rate dispute before the Board is eligible to participate in the arbitration program under this part.


(c) *Use limits.* A complainant may not bring separate arbitrations for shipments with the same origin-destination or shipments where facilities are shared.


(d) *Arbitration clauses.* Nothing in the Board's regulations in this part shall preempt the applicability of, or otherwise supersede, any new or existing arbitration clauses contained in agreements between complainants and carriers.






