# ยง 990.165   Computation of project expense level (PEL).

(a) *Computation of PEL.* The PEL is calculated in terms of PUM cost and represents the costs associated with the project, except for utility and add-on costs. Costs associated with the PEL are administration, management fees, maintenance, protective services, leasing, occupancy, staffing, and other expenses, such as project insurance. HUD will calculate the PEL using regression analysis and benchmarking for the actual costs of Federal Housing Administration (FHA) projects to estimate costs for public housing projects. HUD will use the ten variables described in paragraph (b) of this section and their associated coefficient (*i.e.*, values that are expressed in percentage terms) to produce a PEL.


(b) *Variables.* The ten variables are:


(1) Size of project (number of units);


(2) Age of property (Date of Full Availability (DOFA));


(3) Bedroom mix;


(4) Building type;


(5) Occupancy type (family or senior);


(6) Location (an indicator of the type of community in which a property is located; location types include rural, city central metropolitan, and non-city central metropolitan (suburban) areas);


(7) Neighborhood poverty rate;


(8) Percent of households assisted;


(9) Ownership type (profit, non-profit, or limited dividend); and


(10) Geographic.


(c) *Cost adjustments.* HUD will apply four adjustments to the PEL. The adjustments are:


(1) Application of a $200 PUM floor for any senior property and a $215 PUM floor for any family property;


(2) Application of a $420 PUM ceiling for any property except for New York City Housing Authority projects, which have a $480 PUM ceiling;


(3) Application of a four percent reduction for any PEL calculated over $325 PUM, with the reduction limited so that a PEL will not be reduced to less than $325; and


(4) The reduction of audit costs as reported for FFY 2003 in a PUM amount.


(d) *Annual inflation factor.* The PEL for each project shall be adjusted annually, beginning in 2005, by the local inflation factor. The local inflation factor shall be the HUD-determined weighted average percentage increase in local government wages and salaries for the area in which the PHA is located, and non-wage expenses.


(e) *Calculating a PEL.* To calculate a specific PEL for a given property, the sum of the coefficients for nine variables (all variables except ownership type) shall be added to a formula constant. The exponent of that sum shall be multiplied by a percentage to reflect the non-profit ownership type, which will produce an unadjusted PEL. For the calculation of the initial PEL, the cost adjustments described in paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)(3) of this section will be applied. After these initial adjustments are applied, the audit adjustment described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section will be applied to arrive at the PEL in year 2000 dollars. After the PEL in year 2000 dollars is created, the annual inflation factor as described in paragraph (d) of this section will be applied cumulatively to this number through 2004 to yield an initial PEL in terms of current dollars.


(f) *Calculation of the PEL for Moving to Work PHAs.* PHAs participating in the Moving to Work (MTW) Demonstration authorized under section 204 of the Omnibus Consolidated Rescissions and Appropriations Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-134, approved April 26, 1996) shall receive an operating subsidy as provided in Attachment A of their MTW Agreements executed prior to November 18, 2005. PHAs with an MTW Agreement will continue to have the right to request extensions of or modifications to their MTW Agreements.


(g) *Calculation of the PELs for mixed-finance developments.* If, prior to November 18, 2005, a PHA has either a mixed-finance arrangement that has closed or has filed documents in accordance with 24 CFR 941.606 for a mixed-finance transaction, then the project covered by the mixed-finance transaction will receive funding based on the higher of its former Allowable Expense Level or the new computed PEL.


(h) *Calculation of PELs when data are inadequate or unavailable.* When sufficient data are unavailable for the calculation of a PEL, HUD may calculate a PEL using an alternative methodology. The characteristics may be used from similarly situated properties.


(i) *Review of PEL methodology by advisory committee.* In 2009, HUD will convene a meeting with representation of appropriate stakeholders, to review the methodology to evaluate the PEL based on actual cost data. The meeting shall be convened in accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. Appendix) (FACA). HUD may determine appropriate funding levels for each project to be effective in FY 2011 after following appropriate rulemaking procedures.




