# § 344.3   What provisions apply to the SLGSafe Service?

(a) *What is the SLGSafe Service?* SLGSafe is a secure Internet site on the World Wide Web through which subscribers submit SLGS securities transactions. SLGSafe Internet transactions constitute electronic messages under 31 CFR part 370.


(b) *Is SLGSafe use mandatory?* Yes. Except as provided in paragraph (f)(3) or (f)(4) of this section, you must submit all transactions through SLGSafe.


(c) *What terms and conditions apply to SLGSafe?* The terms and conditions contained in the following documents, which may be downloaded from Fiscal Service's Web site and which may change from time to time, apply to SLGSafe transactions:


(1) SLGSafe Application for Internet Access and SLGSafe User Acknowledgment; and


(2) SLGSafe User's Manual.


(d) *Who can apply for SLGSafe access?* If you are an owner or a potential owner of SLGS securities, or act as a trustee or other agent of the owner, you can apply to Fiscal Service for SLGSafe access. Other potential users of SLGSafe include, but are not limited to, underwriters, financial advisors, and bond counsel.


(e) *How do I apply for SLGSafe access?* Submit to Fiscal Service a completed SLGSafe Application for internet Access, which is found on Fiscal Service's website.


(f) *What are the conditions of SLGSafe use?* If you are designated as an authorized user, on a SLGSafe application that we've approved, you must:


(1) Assume the sole responsibility and the entire risk of use and operation of your electronic connection;


(2) Agree that we may act on any electronic message to the same extent as if we had received a written instruction bearing the signature of your duly authorized officer;


(3) Submit electronic messages and other transaction requests exclusively through SLGSafe, except to the extent you establish to the satisfaction of Fiscal Service that good cause exists for you to submit such subscriptions and requests by other means; and


(4) Agree to submit transactions manually if we notify you that due to problems with hardware, software, data transmission, or any other reason, we are unable to send or receive electronic messages through SLGSafe.


(g) *When is the SLGSafe window open?* All SLGSafe subscriptions, requests for early redemption of Time Deposit securities, and requests for redemption of Demand Deposit securities must be received by Fiscal Service on business days no earlier than 10 a.m. and no later than 10 p.m., Eastern time. The official time is the date and time as shown on Fiscal Service's application server. Except as otherwise provided in §§ 344.5(d) and 344.8(d), all other functions may be performed during the extended SLGSafe hours, from 8 a.m. until 10 p.m., Eastern time. 



---

[N] [70 FR 37911, June 30, 2005, as amended at 89 FR 15449, Mar. 4, 2024]








