# § 1.1234-2   Special rule for grantors of straddles applicable to certain options granted on or before September 1, 1976.

(a) *In general.* Section 1234(c)(1) provides a special rule applicable in the case of gain on the lapse of an option granted by the taxpayer as part of a straddle. In such a case, the gain shall be deemed to be gain from the sale or exchange of a capital asset held for not more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977) on the day that the option expired. Thus, such gain shall be treated as a short-term capital gain, as defined in section 1222(1). Section 1234(c)(1) does not apply to any person who holds securities (including options to acquire or sell securities) for sale to customers in the ordinary course of his trade or business.


(b) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply for purposes of section 1234(c) and this section.


(1) *Straddle.* The term *straddle* means a simultaneously granted combination of an option to buy (i.e., a *call*) and an option to sell (i.e., a *put*) the same quantity of a security at the same price during the same period of time.


(2) *Security.* The term *security* has the meaning assigned to such term by section 1236(c) and the regulations thereunder. Thus, for example, the term *security* does not include commodity futures.


(3) *Grantor.* The term *grantor* means the writer or issuer of the option contracts making up the straddle.


(4) *Multiple option.* The term *multiple option* means a simultaneously granted combination of an option to buy plus an option to sell plus one or more additional options to buy or sell a security.


(c) *Special rules in the case of a multiple option.* (1) If, in the case of a multiple option, the number of the options to sell and the number of the options to buy are the same and if the terms of all of the options are identical (as to the quantity of the security, price, and period of time), then each of the options contained in the multiple option shall be deemed to be a component of a straddle for purposes of section 1234(c)(1) and paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) If, in the case of a multiple option, the number of the options to sell and the number of the options to buy are not the same or if the terms of all of the options are not identical (as to the quantity of the security, price, and period of time), then section 1234(c)(1) applies to gain on the lapse of an option granted as part of the multiple option only if:


(i) The grantor of the multiple option identifies the two options which comprise each straddle contained in the multiple option in the manner prescribed in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph; or


(ii) It is clear from the facts and circumstances that the lapsed option was part of a straddle. See example (6) of paragraph (f) of this section. A multiple option to which this subdivision applies may not be regarded as consisting of a number of straddles which exceeds the lesser of the options to sell or the options to buy as the case may be. For example, if a multiple option of five puts and four calls is granted it may not be regarded as consisting of more than four straddles, although the particular facts and circumstances could dictate that the option consists of less than four straddles.


(3) The identification required under subparagraph (2)(i) of this paragraph shall be made by the grantor indicating in his records, to the extent feasible, the individual serial number of, or other characteristic symbol imprinted upon, each of the two individual options which comprise the straddle, or by adopting any other method of identification satisfactory to the Commissioner. Such identification must be made before the expiration of the 15th day after the day on which the multiple option is granted. The preceding sentence shall apply only with respect to multiple options granted after January 24, 1972. In computing the 15-day period prescribed by this paragraph, the first day of such period is the day following the day on which the multiple option is granted.


(d) *Allocation of premium.* The allocation of a premium received for a straddle or a multiple option between or among the component options thereof shall be made on the basis of the relative market value of such component options at the time of their issuance or on any other reasonable and consistently applied basis which is acceptable to the Commissioner.


(e) *Effective date*—(1) *In general.* This section, relating to special rules for grantors of straddles, shall apply only with respect to straddle transactions entered into after January 25, 1965, and before September 2, 1976.


(2) *Special rule.* For a special rule with respect to the identification of a straddle granted as part of a multiple option, see paragraph (c).


(f) *Illustrations.* The application of section 1234(c) and this section may be illustrated by the following examples:



---

[N] [T.D. 7152, 36 FR 24801, Dec. 23, 1971, as amended by T.D. 7210, 37 FR 20688, Oct. 3, 1972; T.D. 7652, 44 FR 62282, Oct. 30, 1979; 44 FR 67657, Nov. 27, 1979; T.D. 7728, 45 FR 72650, Nov. 3, 1980]




