# § 412.507   Limitation on charges to beneficiaries.

(a) *Prohibited charges.* Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a long-term care hospital may not charge a beneficiary for any covered services for which payment is made by Medicare, even if the hospital's costs of furnishing services to that beneficiary are greater than the amount the hospital is paid under the prospective payment system.


(1) If Medicare has paid at the full LTCH prospective payment system standard Federal payment rate, that payment applies to the hospital's costs for services furnished until the high-cost outlier threshold is met.


(2) If Medicare pays less than the full LTCH prospective payment system standard Federal payment rate and payment was not made at the site neutral payment rate (including, when applicable, the blended payment rate), that payment only applies to the hospital's costs for those costs or days used to calculate the Medicare payment.


(3) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2016, for Medicare payments to a long-term care hospital described in § 412.23(e)(2)(ii), that payment only applies to the hospital's costs for those costs or days used to calculate the Medicare payment.


(4) If Medicare has paid at the full site neutral payment rate, that payment applies to the hospital's costs for services furnished until the high-cost outlier is met.


(b) *Permitted charges.* (1) A long-term care hospital that receives a payment at the full LTCH prospective payment system standard Federal payment rate or the site neutral payment rate may only charge the Medicare beneficiary for the applicable deductible and coinsurance amounts under §§ 409.82, 409.83, and 409.87 of this chapter, and for items and services as specified under § 489.20(a) of this chapter.


(2) A long-term care hospital that receives a payment at less than the full LTCH prospective payment system standard Federal payment rate for a short-stay outlier case, in accordance with § 412.529 (which would not include any discharge paid at the site neutral payment rate), may only charge the Medicare beneficiary for the applicable deductible and coinsurance amounts under §§ 409.82, 409.83, and 409.87 of this chapter, for items and services as specified under § 489.20(a) of this chapter, and for services provided during the stay that were not the basis for the short-stay adjusted payment.


(3) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2016, a long-term care hospital described in § 412.23(e)(2)(ii) may only charge the Medicare beneficiary for the applicable deductible and coinsurance amounts under §§ 409.82, 409.83, and 409.87 of this chapter, for items and services as specified under § 489.20(a) of this chapter, and for services provided during the stay for which benefit days were not available and that were not the basis for adjusted LTCH prospective payment system payment amount under § 412.526.



---

[N] [80 FR 49767, Aug. 17, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 57268, Aug. 22, 2016]




