# § 599.103   Geographic and population requirements for a nominated area.

(a) *Geographic requirements.* A nominated area must meet the following geographic requirements to be eligible for designation as a Renewal Community:


(1) The area must be within the jurisdiction of one or more local governments.


(2) The boundary of the area must be continuous.


(i) The boundary line of the nominated area may be interrupted by jurisdictional boundaries, such as State or county lines, or natural boundaries, such as rivers, as long as the resulting area is entirely within the boundary line except for the interruptions.


(ii) The nominated area may enclose an area or areas that are excluded from the nominated area, as long as each enclosed area to be excluded is within a continuous boundary line.


(3) The nominated area may be any size, as long as it meets all of the requirements of this part.


(b) *Population requirements*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a nominated area must have a population of not more than 200,000 and at least:


(i) 4,000 if any portion of the area (other than a nominated rural area) is located within an MA which has a population of 50,000 or greater; or


(ii) 1,000 in any other case.


(2) *Nominated areas on Indian reservations.* A nominated area that is entirely within an Indian reservation (as determined by the Secretary of the Interior) is not subject to the population requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.




