# § 1548.7   Approval, amendment, annual renewal, and withdrawal of approval of the security program.

(a) *Original Application*—(1) *Application.* The applicant must apply for a security program in a form and a manner prescribed by TSA not less than 90 calendar days before the applicant intends to begin operations. The application must be in writing and include:


(i) The business name; other names, including doing business as; state of incorporation, if applicable; and tax identification number.


(ii) The applicant names, addresses, and dates of birth of each proprietor, general partner, officer, director, and owner identified under § 1548.16.


(iii) A signed statement from each person listed in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section stating whether he or she has been a proprietor, general partner, officer, director, or owner of an IAC that had its security program withdrawn by TSA.


(iv) Copies of government-issued identification of persons listed in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.


(v) Addresses of all business locations in the United States.


(vi) A statement declaring whether the business is a “'small business”' pursuant to section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632).


(vii) A statement acknowledging and ensuring that each employee and agent of the indirect air carrier, who is subject to training under § 1548.11, will have successfully completed the training outlined in its security program before performing security-related duties.


(viii) Other information requested by TSA concerning Security Threat Assessments.


(ix) A statement acknowledging and ensuring that each employee and agent will successfully complete a Security Threat Assessment under § 1548.15 before authorizing the individual to have unescorted access to cargo.


(2) *Approval.* TSA will approve the security program by providing the indirect air carrier with the Indirect Air Carrier Standard Security Program and any Security Directive upon determining that—


(i) The indirect air carrier has met the requirements of this part, its security program, and any applicable Security Directive;


(ii) The approval of its security program is not contrary to the interests of security and the public interest; and


(iii) The indirect air carrier has not held a security program that was withdrawn within the previous year, unless otherwise authorized by TSA.


(3) *Commencement of operations.* The indirect air carrier may operate under a security program when it meets all requirements, including but not limited to successful completion of training and Security Threat Assessments by relevant personnel.


(4) *Duration of security program.* The security program will remain effective until the end of the calendar month 3 years after the month it was approved, or until the program has been surrendered or withdrawn, whichever is earlier.

(5) *Requirement to report changes in information.* Each indirect air carrier with an approved security program under this part must notify TSA, in a form and manner approved by TSA, of any changes to the information submitted during its initial or renewal application.


(i) This notification must be submitted to the designated official not later than 30 days after the date the change occurred.


(ii) Changes included in the requirement of this paragraph include, but are not limited to, changes in the indirect air carrier's contact information, owners, business addresses and locations, and form of business entity.


(b) *Renewal Application.* Upon timely submittal of an application for renewal, and unless and until TSA denies the application, the indirect air carrier's approved security program remains in effect.


(1) Unless otherwise authorized by TSA, each indirect air carrier that has a security program under this part must timely submit to TSA, at least 30 calendar days before the 36th month after the initial approval of its security program, an application for renewal of its security program in a form and a manner approved by TSA.


(2) The application for renewal must be in writing and include a signed statement that the indirect air carrier has reviewed and ensures the continuing accuracy of the contents of its initial application for a security program, subsequent renewal applications, or other submissions to TSA confirming a change of information and noting the date such applications and submissions were sent to TSA, including the following certification:


(3) TSA will renew approval of the security program if TSA determines that—


(i) The indirect air carrier has met the requirements of this chapter, its security program, and any Security Directive; and


(ii) The renewal of its security program is not contrary to the interests of security and the public interest.


(4) If TSA determines that the indirect air carrier meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, it will renew the indirect air carrier's security program. The security program will remain effective until the end of the calendar month 3 years after the month it was renewed, or until the program has been surrendered or withdrawn, whichever is earlier.

(c) *Amendment requested by an indirect air carrier or applicant.* An indirect air carrier or applicant may file a request for an amendment to its security program with the TSA designated official at least 45 calendar days before the date it proposes for the amendment to become effective, unless the designated official allows a shorter period. Any indirect air carrier may submit a group proposal for an amendment that is on behalf of it and other indirect air carriers that co-sign the proposal.


(1) Within 30 calendar days after receiving a proposed amendment, the designated official, in writing, either approves or denies the request to amend.


(2) An amendment to an indirect air carrier security program may be approved, if the designated official determines that safety and the public interest will allow it, and if the proposed amendment provides the level of security required under this part.


(3) Within 30 calendar days after receiving a denial of the proposed amendment, the indirect air carrier may petition TSA to reconsider the denial. A petition for reconsideration must be filed with the designated official.


(4) Upon receipt of a petition for reconsideration, the designated official either approves the request to amend or transmits the petition, together with any pertinent information, to the TSA for reconsideration. TSA will dispose of the petition within 30 calendar days of receipt by either directing the designated official to approve the amendment or by affirming the denial.


(d) *Amendment by TSA.* TSA may amend a security program in the interest of safety and the public interest, as follows:


(1) TSA notifies the indirect air carrier, in writing, of the proposed amendment, fixing a period of not less than 30 calendar days within which the indirect air carrier may submit written information, views, and arguments on the amendment.


(2) After considering all relevant material, the designated official notifies the indirect air carrier of any amendment adopted or rescinds the notice of amendment. If the amendment is adopted, it becomes effective not less than 30 calendar days after the indirect air carrier receives the notice of amendment, unless the indirect air carrier disagrees with the proposed amendment and petitions the TSA to reconsider, no later than 15 calendar days before the effective date of the amendment. The indirect air carrier must send the petition for reconsideration to the designated official. A timely petition for reconsideration stays the effective date of the amendment.


(3) Upon receipt of a petition for reconsideration, the designated official either amends or withdraws the notice of amendment, or transmits the petition, together with any pertinent information, to TSA for reconsideration. TSA disposes of the petition within 30 calendar days of receipt, either by directing the designated official to withdraw or amend the notice of amendment, or by affirming the notice of amendment.


(e) *Emergency Amendments.* (1) If TSA finds that there is an emergency requiring immediate action, with respect to aviation security that makes procedures in this section contrary to the public interest, the designated official may issue an emergency amendment, without the prior notice and comment procedures described in paragraph (d) of this section.


(2) The emergency amendment is effective without stay on the date the indirect air carrier receives notification. TSA will incorporate in the notification a brief statement of the reasons and findings for the emergency amendment to be adopted.


(3) The indirect air carrier may file a petition for reconsideration with the TSA no later than 15 calendar days after TSA issued the emergency amendment. The indirect air carrier must send the petition for reconsideration to the designated official; however, the filing does not stay the effective date of the emergency amendment.


(f) *Withdrawal of approval of a security program.* Section 1540.301 includes procedures for withdrawal of approval of a security program.


(g) *Service of documents for withdrawal of approval of security program proceedings.* Service may be accomplished by personal delivery, certified mail, or express courier. Documents served on an indirect air carrier will be served at the indirect air carrier's official place of business as designated in its application for approval or its security program. Documents served on TSA must be served to the address noted in the notice of withdrawal of approval or withdrawal of approval, whichever is applicable.


(1) *Certificate of service.* An individual may attach a certificate of service to a document tendered for filing. A certificate of service must consist of a statement, dated and signed by the person filing the document, that the document was personally delivered, served by certified mail on a specific date, or served by express courier on a specific date.


(2) *Date of service.* The date of service will be—


(i) The date of personal delivery;


(ii) If served by certified mail, the mailing date shown on the certificate of service, the date shown on the postmark, if there is no certificate of service, or other mailing date shown by other evidence if there is no certificate of service or postmark; or


(iii) If served by express courier, the service date shown on the certificate of service, or by other evidence if there is no certificate of service.


(h) *Extension of time.* TSA may grant an extension of time of the limits set forth in this section for good cause shown. An indirect air carrier's request for an extension of time must be in writing and be received by TSA at least 2 days before the due date to be extended. TSA may grant itself an extension of time for good cause.



---

[N] [71 FR 30513, May 26, 2006, as amended at 74 FR 47705, Sept. 16, 2009; 89 FR 8557, Feb. 8, 2024]




