# § 12.615   Requirements to qualify for an STCW endorsement in Proficiency in Survival Craft and Rescue Boats other than Lifeboats and Fast Rescue Boats-Limited (PSC-Limited).

(a) To qualify for an STCW endorsement in Proficiency in Survival Craft and Rescue Boats other than Lifeboats and Fast Rescue Boats-Limited (PSC-Limited), the applicant must—


(1) Be at least 18 years of age;


(2) Meet the requirements for a Lifeboat Operator-Limited endorsement in § 12.409 and Table A-VI/2-1 of the STCW Code (incorporated by reference, see § 12.103); and


(3) Complete Basic Training (BT), found in § 12.601(c).


(b) *Continued professional competence.* (1) Seafarers qualified in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section must provide evidence of maintaining the standard of competence as set out in Table A-VI/2-1 of the STCW Code every 5 years.


(2) The Coast Guard will accept onboard training and experience, through evidence of 1 year of sea service within the last 5 years, as meeting the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section for the following areas, as set out in Table A-VI/2-1 of the STCW Code:


(i) Taking charge of a survival craft or rescue boat during and after launch including—


(A) Interpreting the markings on survival craft as to the number of persons they are intended to carry;


(B) Giving correct commands for launching and boarding rescue boats and survival craft other than lifeboats, clearing the ship, and handling and disembarking persons from survival craft;


(C) Preparing and safely launching rescue boats and survival craft, other than lifeboats, starting the engine, and clearing the ship's side quickly; and


(D) Safely recovering rescue boats.


(ii) Managing survivors and survival craft after abandoning ship, including—


(A) Steering a rescue boat and steer by compass;


(B) Using individual items of equipment of survival craft other than lifeboats, except for pyrotechnics; and


(C) Rigging devices to aid location.


(iii) Using locating devices, including communication and signaling apparatuses, including—


(A) Using portable radio equipment for rescue boats and survival craft;


(B) [Reserved]


(iv) Applying first aid to survivors.


(3) The Coast Guard will only accept evidence of assessments conducted ashore as meeting the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section for the areas not included in paragraph (b)(2) of this section as set out in Table A-VI/2-1 of the STCW Code.


(4) Applicants who cannot meet the requirement for 1 year of sea service within the last 5 years, as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, will be required to meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section or complete approved or accepted refresher training.


(c) Seafarers holding an MMD or MMC endorsement as Lifeboat Operator-Limited before January 1, 2017, will be eligible for this endorsement upon showing evidence of sea service of not less than 12 months within the last 60 months. The sea service must be completed prior to January 1, 2017. 



---

[N] [USCG-2004-17914, 78 FR 77975, Dec. 24, 2013, as amended by USCG-2021-0097, 89 FR 93104, Nov. 25, 2024]






