# § 231.28   Box and other house cars with roof hatches built or placed in service after October 1, 1966.

The specifications of § 231.27 shall apply except as to the following:


(a) *Running boards.* Same as specified in § 231.1, except: the end of longitudinal running board shall be not less than six (6) inches from a vertical plane parallel with end of car and passing through the inside face of knuckle when closed with coupler horn against buffer block or end sill.


(b) *Ladders*—(1) *Number.* Two (2).


(2) *Dimensions.* (i) Minimum clear length of tread: Sixteen (16) inches.


(ii) Maximum spacing between treads nineteen (19) inches.


(3) *Location.* One (1) on each end of car not more than eight (8) inches from left-hand side.


(4) *Manner of application.* Same as specified in § 231.1.


(c) *Roof handholds*—(1) *Number.* Two (2), one (1) over each ladder.


(2) *Dimensions.* Same as specified in § 231.1.


(3) *Location.* On roof of car. One (1) parallel to treads of each ladder, not less than eight (8) nor more than fifteen (15) inches from edge of roof, except on refrigerator cars where ice hatches prevent, when location may be nearer edge of roof.


(4) *Manner of application.* Same as specified in § 231.1.


(d) *End handholds.* (Treads of end ladders are end handholds.) Same as specified for § 231.27.


(e) *Existing box and other house cars with roof hatches.* Box and other house cars with roof hatches built on or before April 1, 1966, or under construction prior thereto and placed in service before October 1, 1966, shall be deemed equipped as nearly as possible within the intent of § 231.1 and of this section when: Equipped as specified in § 231.1, except (1) the side ladder treads above the fourth tread from bottom of side ladder near “A” end of car and roof handhold over the side ladder near “A” end shall be removed; (2) and (1) end platform handhold shall be provided on each end of car as specified in § 231.27(i); and when handbrake is operated near roof of car a brake step shall be provided as specified by § 231.1 or when handbrake is operated from approximate level of top of end sill the roof handhold over side ladder near “B” end and treads above the fourth tread from bottom of side ladder near “B” end shall be removed and a brake step as specified in § 231.1 shall be used with top of tread surface level with or not more than four (4) inches below adjacent end handhold.



---

[N] [33 FR 19663, Dec. 25, 1968, as amended at 49 FR 26745, June 29, 1984]




