# § 21.9650   Increase in educational assistance.

The Secretary of the military department concerned may increase the amount of basic educational assistance payable to an individual who has a skill or specialty in which there is a critical shortage of personnel, for which there is difficulty recruiting, or, in the case of critical units, for which there is difficulty retaining personnel, as determined by the Secretary of the military department concerned.


(a) *Chapter 33 increase (“kicker”) amount.* (1) The amount of the increase is set by the Secretary of the military department concerned, but the amount of any such increase may not exceed—


(i) $950.00 per month for full-time training; or


(ii) A percentage of the full-time training amount under paragraph (a)(i) of this section based on the individual's rate of pursuit of training.


(2) The increase (“kicker”) amount payable under paragraph (a) of this section will only be paid to the individual as part of the monthly housing allowance if the individual is entitled to receive a monthly housing allowance under § 21.9640(b)(1)(ii) or (b)(2)(ii) for that term, quarter, or semester.


(b) *Chapter 30 increase (“kicker”) amount.* (1) If an individual is eligible for educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 33 by reason of an irrevocable election to relinquish eligibility under 38 U.S.C. chapter 30 in accordance with the provisions of § 21.9520(c) and, on the date of such election, the individual is also entitled to an increase (“kicker”) of the amount of educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. 3015(d), the individual remains entitled to that increase under 38 U.S.C. chapter 33.


(2) The increase (“kicker”) amount is set by the Secretary of the military department concerned, but the amount of any such increase may not exceed—


(i) $950.00 per month for full-time training; or


(ii) A percentage of the full-time training amount under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section based on the individual's rate of pursuit of training.


(3) The increase (“kicker”) amount payable under paragraph (b) of this section will be paid to the individual as a lump sum in an amount for the entire quarter, semester, or term, as applicable, based on the monthly amount to which the individual was entitled at the time of the election of chapter 33.


(c) *Chapter 1606 increase (“kicker”) amount.* (1) If an individual is eligible for educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 33 by reason of an irrevocable election to relinquish eligibility under 10 U.S.C. chapter 1606 in accordance with the provisions of § 21.9520(c) and, on the date of such election, the individual is also entitled to an increase (“kicker”) of the amount of educational assistance under 10 U.S.C. 16131(i), the individual remains entitled to that increase (“kicker”) under 38 U.S.C. chapter 33.


(2) The increase (“kicker”) amount is set by the Secretary of the military department concerned, but the amount of any such increase may not exceed—


(i) $350.00 per month for full-time training; or


(ii) A percentage of the full-time training amount under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section based on the individual's rate of pursuit of training.


(3) The increase (“kicker”) amount payable under paragraph (c) of this section will be paid to the individual as a lump sum in an amount for the entire quarter, semester, or term, as applicable, based on the monthly amount to which the individual was entitled at the time of the election of chapter 33.



---

[N] [74 FR 14671, Mar. 31, 2009; 74 FR 17907, Apr. 20, 2009]




