# ยง 3560.155   Assignment of rental units and occupancy policies.

(a) *General.* Available rental units are assigned in accordance with the requirements of this section and the priorities and preferences outlined in ยง 3560.154.


(b) *Rental units accessible to individuals with disabilities.* If a rental unit accessible to individuals with disabilities is available and there are no applicants that require the features of the unit, borrowers may rent the unit to a non-disabled tenant subject to the inclusion of a lease provision that requires the tenant to vacate the unit within 30 days of notification from management that an eligible individual with disabilities requires the unit and provided the accessible unit has been marketed as an accessible unit, outreach has been made to organizations representing the disabled, and marketing of the unit as an accessible unit continues after it has been rented to a tenant who is not in need of the special design features.


(c) *Transfer of existing tenants within a housing project.* When a rental unit becomes available for occupancy and an eligible tenant in the housing project is either over housed or under housed as provided for in paragraph (e) of this section, the borrower must use the available unit for the over housed or under housed tenant, if suitable, prior to selecting an eligible applicant from the waiting list.


(d) *Applicant placement.* When a specific rental unit type becomes available for occupancy, borrowers must select eligible applicants suitable for the available unit according to the priorities established in ยง 3560.154.


(e) *Occupancy policies.* Borrowers must establish occupancy policies for each housing project. Households living in a rental unit with more bedrooms than persons in the household will be considered over housed and must be relocated in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. Households under housed as defined by the project's occupancy standards must be relocated in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. Borrowers with no one-bedroom units in a housing project may make an exception to this requirement in their occupancy policies. In addition, a borrower's occupancy policies must establish:


(1) Reasonable standards for determining when a tenant household is considered under housed. The standards will describe the maximum number of persons that may occupy units of a given size based on occupancy guidelines provided by the Agency or another governmental source;


(2) The order in which eligible applicants and existing tenants will be housed or re-housed; and


(3) How fair housing requirements will be met, including how reasonable accommodations will be made for applicants and tenants with disabilities.


(f) *Agency concurrence.* The Agency must concur with a borrower's occupancy rules prior to initial occupancy of the housing project. All modifications to occupancy rules must be posted for tenant comment in accordance with ยง 3560.160 and receive Agency concurrence prior to implementation.










