# § 62.7607   Identification of plan—delegation of authority.

(a) Letter from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP), submitted October 12, 2016, requesting delegation of authority from the EPA to implement and enforce the Federal plan for existing Sewage Sludge Incineration (SSI) units. The Federal plan will be administered by both the NJDEP and the EPA, pursuant to “Federal Plan Requirements for Sewage Sludge Incineration Units Constructed on or Before October 14, 2010” 40 CFR 62.15855-62.16050.


(b) *Identification of sources.* The Federal plan applies to owners or operators of existing facilities that meet all three of the following criteria:


(1) The SSI unit(s) commenced construction on or before October 14, 2010;


(2) The SSI unit(s) meets the definition of an SSI unit as defined in § 62.16045; and


(3) The SSI unit(s) is not exempt under § 62.15860.


(c) On December 27, 2016, the EPA prepared and signed a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) between the EPA and NJDEP that define the policies, responsibilities and procedures pursuant to the SSI Federal plan identified in (a) above by which the Federal plan will be administered by both the NJDEP and the EPA. On January 24, 2017, Bob Martin, NJDEP Commissioner, signed the MOA, therefore agreeing to the terms and conditions of the MOA and accepting responsibility to enforce and implement the policies, responsibilities, and procedures for existing SSI units.


(d) The delegation became fully effective on January 24, 2017, the date the MOA was signed by the NJDEP Commissioner.



---

[N] [82 FR 44529, Sept. 25, 2017]




