# § 1006.10   Definitions.

The following definitions apply in this part: 


*Act* means title VIII of NAHASDA, as amended. 


*Adjusted income* means the annual income that remains after excluding the following amounts: 


(1) *Youths, students, and persons with disabilities.* $480 for each member of the family residing in the household (other than the head of the household or the spouse of the head of the household): 


(i) Who is under 18 years of age; or 


(ii) Who is: 


(A) 18 years of age or older; and 


(B) A person with disabilities or a full-time student. 


(2) *Elderly and disabled families.* $400 for an elderly or disabled family. 


(3) *Medical and attendant expenses.* The amount by which 3 percent of the annual income of the family is exceeded by the aggregate of: 


(i) Medical expenses, in the case of an elderly or disabled family; and 


(ii) Reasonable attendant care and auxiliary apparatus expenses for each family member who is a person with disabilities, to the extent necessary to enable any member of the family (including a member who is a person with disabilities) to be employed. 


(4) *Child care expenses.* Child care expenses, to the extent necessary to enable another member of the family to be employed or to further his or her education. 


(5) *Earned income of minors.* The amount of any earned income of any member of the family who is less than 18 years of age. 


(6) *Travel expenses.* Excessive travel expenses, not to exceed $25 per family per week, for employment—or education-related travel. 


(7) *Other amounts.* Such other amounts as may be provided in the housing plan for Native Hawaiians. 


*Affordable Housing* means housing that complies with the requirements of the Act and this part. The term includes permanent housing for homeless persons who are persons with disabilities, transitional housing, and single room occupancy housing.

 


*Annual income* has one or more of the following meanings, as determined by the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands:


(1) “Annual income” as defined for HUD's Section 8 programs in 24 CFR part 5, subpart F (except when determining the income of a homebuyer for an owner-occupied rehabilitation project, the value of the homeowner's principal residence may be excluded from the calculation of net family assets); or


(2) The definition of income as used by the U.S. Census Bureau. This definition includes:


(i) Wages, salaries, tips, commissions, etc.;


(ii) Self-employment income;


(iii) Farm self-employment income;


(iv) Interest, dividends, net rental income, or income from estates or trusts;


(v) Social security or railroad retirement;


(vi) Supplemental Security Income, Aid to Families with Dependent Children, or other public assistance or public welfare programs;


(vii) Retirement, survivor, or disability pensions; and


(viii) Any other sources of income received regularly, including Veterans' (VA) payments, unemployment compensation, and alimony; or


(3) Adjusted gross income as defined for purposes of reporting under Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Form 1040 series for individual Federal annual income tax purposes.










*Assistant Secretary* means HUD's Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing. 


*Department of Hawaiian Home Lands (DHHL)* means the agency or department of the government of the State of Hawaii that is responsible for the administration of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, 1920 (HHCA 1920) (42 Stat. 108 *et seq.*). 


*Director* means the Director of the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands. 


*Drug-Related Criminal Activity* means the illegal manufacture, sale, distribution, use, or possession with intent to manufacture, sell, distribute, or use a controlled substance (as such term is defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act). 


*Elderly families; near-elderly families* means: 


(1) *In general.* The term “elderly family” or “near-elderly family” means a family whose head (or his or her spouse), or whose sole member, is: 


(i) For an elderly family, an elderly person; or 


(ii) For a near-elderly family, a near-elderly person. 


(2) *Certain families included.* The term “elderly family” or “near-elderly family” includes: 


(i) Two or more elderly persons or near-elderly persons, as the case may be, living together; and 


(ii) One or more persons described in paragraph (2)(i) of this definition living with one or more persons determined under the housing plan to be essential to their care or well-being. 


*Elderly person* means an individual who is at least 62 years of age. 


*Family* includes, but is not limited to, a family with or without children, an elderly family, a near-elderly family, a disabled family, a single person, as determined by the DHHL. 


*Hawaiian Home Lands* means lands that: 


(1) Have the status as Hawaiian home lands under section 204 of the HHCA 1920 (42 Stat. 110); or 


(2) Are acquired pursuant to the HHCA 1920. 


*Homebuyer payment* means the payment of a family purchasing a home pursuant to a long-term lease purchase agreement. 


*Housing area* means an area of Hawaiian Home Lands with respect to which the DHHL is authorized to provide assistance for affordable housing under the Act and this part. 


*Housing plan* means a plan developed by the DHHL pursuant to the Act and this part, particularly § 1006.101. 


*HUD* means the Department of Housing and Urban Development.


*Income* means the term “income” as defined in Section 4(9) of NAHASDA.





 


*Low-income family* means a family whose income does not exceed 80 percent of the median income for the area, as determined by HUD with adjustments for smaller and larger families, except that HUD may, for purposes of this paragraph, establish income ceilings higher or lower than 80 percent of the median for the area on the basis of the findings of HUD or the agency that such variations are necessary because of prevailing levels of construction costs or unusually high or low family incomes. 


*Median income* means, with respect to an area that is a housing area, the greater of: 


(1) The median income for the housing area, which shall be determined by HUD; or 


(2) The median income for the State of Hawaii.




*NAHASDA* means the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4101 *et seq.*).

 


*Native Hawaiian* means any individual who is: 


(1) A citizen of the United States; and 


(2) A descendant of the aboriginal people, who, prior to 1778, occupied and exercised sovereignty in the area that currently constitutes the State of Hawaii, as evidenced by: 


(i) Genealogical records; 


(ii) Verification by kupuna (elders) or kama'aina (long-term community residents); or 


(iii) Birth records of the State of Hawaii. 


*Native Hawaiian Housing Block Grant (NHHBG) Funds* means funds made available under the Act, plus program income. 


*Near-elderly person* means an individual who is at least 55 years of age and less than 62 years of age. 


*Nonprofit* means, with respect to an organization, association, corporation, or other entity, that no part of the net earnings of the entity inures to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor, or individual. 




*Person with a disability,* as further explained in 28 CFR 35.108, is defined as follows:


(1) Definition of person with a disability. “Person with a disability” means a person who:


(i) Has a physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or more major life activities;


(ii) Has a record of having such an impairment;


(iii) Is regarded as having such an impairment;


(iv) Has a disability as defined in section 223 of the Social Security Act; or


(v) Has a developmental disability as defined in section 102 of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act.


(2) Definition of physical or mental impairment. For the purposes of this definition, the term “physical or mental impairment” means:


(i) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more body systems, such as: neurological, musculoskeletal, special sense organs, respiratory (including speech organs), cardiovascular, reproductive, digestive, genitourinary, immune, circulatory, hemic, lymphatic, skin, and endocrine; or


(ii) Any mental or psychological disorder such as intellectual disability, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disability.


(3) *Nonexhaustive list of physical and mental impairments.* For the purposes of this definition, the term “physical or mental impairment” includes, but is not limited to, contagious and noncontagious diseases and conditions such as the following: orthopedic, visual, speech, and hearing impairments, and cerebral palsy, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, intellectual disability, emotional illness, dyslexia and other specific learning disabilities, Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, Human Immunodeficiency Virus infection (whether symptomatic or asymptomatic), tuberculosis, drug addiction, and alcoholism.


(4) *Nonexhaustive list of major life activities.* For the purposes of this definition, the term “major life activities” includes, but is not limited to:


(i) Caring for oneself, performing manual tasks, seeing, hearing, eating, sleeping, walking, standing, sitting, reaching, lifting, bending, speaking, breathing, learning, reading, concentrating, thinking, writing, communicating, interacting with others, and working; and


(ii) The operation of a major bodily function, such as the functions of the immune system, special sense organs and skin, normal cell growth, and digestive, genitourinary, bowel, bladder, neurological, brain, respiratory, circulatory, cardiovascular, endocrine, hemic, lymphatic, musculoskeletal, and reproductive systems. The operation of a major bodily function includes the operation of an individual organ within a body system.




*Project-based rental assistance* means rental assistance provided through an agreement for use of a DHHL property or a contract with the owner of an existing structure, where the owner agrees to lease the subsidized units to program participants. Program participants will not retain the rental assistance if they move from the project.






*Secretary* means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. 


*Tenant-based rental assistance* means a form of rental assistance in which the assisted tenant may move from a dwelling unit with a right to continued assistance. Tenant-based rental assistance under this part also includes security deposits for rental of dwelling units. 


*Transitional housing* means housing that: 


(1) Is designed to provide housing and appropriate supportive services to persons, including (but not limited to) deinstitutionalized individuals with disabilities, homeless individuals with disabilities, and homeless families with children; and 


(2) Has as its purpose facilitating the movement of individuals and families to independent living within a time period that is set by the DHHL or project owner before occupancy. 



---

[N] [67 FR 40776, June 13, 2002, as amended at 89 FR 9760, Feb. 12, 2024]








