# § 85.1510   Maintenance instructions, warranties, emission labeling and fuel economy requirements.

The provisions of this section are applicable to all vehicles or engines imported under the provisions of §§ 85.1505 and 85.1509.


(a) *Maintenance instructions.* (1) The certificate holder shall furnish to the purchaser or to the owner of each vehicle or engine imported under § 85.1505 or § 85.1509 of this section, written instructions for the maintenance and use of the vehicle or engine by the purchaser or owner. Each application for final admission of a vehicle or engine shall provide an attestation that such instructions have been or will be (if the ultimate producer is unknown) furnished to the purchaser or owner of such vehicle or engine at the time of sale or redelivery. The certificate holder shall maintain a record of having furnished such instructions.


(2) For each vehicle or engine imported under § 85.1509, the maintenance and use instructions shall be maintained in a file containing the records for that vehicle or engine.


(3) Such instructions shall not contain requirements more restrictive than those set forth in 40 CFR part 86, subpart A or subpart S, as applicable (Maintenance Instructions), and shall be in sufficient detail and clarity that an automotive mechanic of average training and ability can maintain or repair the vehicle or engine.


(4) Certificate holders shall furnish with each vehicle or engine a list of the emission control parts, and emission-related parts added by the certificate holder and the emission control and emission related parts furnished by the OEM.


(b) *Warranties.* (1) Certificate holders shall provide to vehicle or engine owners emission warranties identical to those required by sections 207 (a) and (b) of the Act and 40 CFR part 85, subpart V. The warranty period for each vehicle or engine shall commence on the date the vehicle or engine is delivered by the certificate holder to the ultimate purchaser or owner.


(2) Certificate holders shall ensure that these warranties:


(i) Are insured by a prepaid mandatory service insurance policy underwritten by an independent insurance company;


(ii) Are transferable to each successive owner for the periods specified in sections 207 (a) and (b); and


(iii) Provide that in the absence of a certificate holder's facility being reasonably available (i.e., within 50 miles) for performance of warranty repairs, such warranty repairs may be performed anywhere.


(3) Certificate holders shall attest in each application for final admission that such warranties will be or have been provided. Copies of such warranties shall be maintained in a file containing the records for that vehicle or engine.


(c) *Emission labeling.* (1) The certificate holder shall affix a permanent legible label in a readily visible position in the engine compartment. The label shall meet all the requirements of part 86 and shall contain the following statement “This vehicle or engine was originally produced in (month and year of original production). It has been imported and modified by (certificate holder's name, address and telephone number) to conform to U.S. emission regulations applicable to the (year) model year.” If the vehicle or engine is owned by the certificate holder at the time of importation, the label shall also state “this vehicle or engine is warranted for five years or 50,000 miles from the date of purchase, whichever comes first.” If the vehicle or engine is not owned by the certificate holder at the time of importation, the label shall state “this vehicle or engine is warranted for five years or 50,000 miles from the date of release to the owner, whichever comes first.” For vehicles imported under § 85.1509, the label shall clearly state in bold letters that “this vehicle has not been manufactured under a certificate of conformity but meets EPA air pollution control requirements under a modification/test program.” In addition, for all vehicles, the label shall contain the vacuum hose routing diagram applicable to the vehicles.


(2) As part of the application to the Administrator for final admission of each individual vehicle or engine under § 85.1509, the certificate holder shall maintain a copy of such label for each vehicle or engine in a file containing the records for that vehicle or engine. Certificate holders importing under § 85.1505 or § 85.1509 shall attest to compliance with the above labeling requirements in each application for final admission.


(d) *Fuel economy labeling.* (1) The certificate holder shall affix a fuel economy label that complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 600, subpart D. The requirement for fuel economy labels does not apply for electric vehicles.


(2) For purposes of generating the fuel economy data to be incorporated on such label, each vehicle imported under § 85.1509 shall be considered to be a separate model type.


(3) As part of the application to the Administrator for final admission of each individual vehicle or engine imported under § 85.1509, the certificate holder shall maintain a copy of such label for each vehicle or engine in a file containing the records for that vehicle or engine. In each application for final admission of a vehicle or engine under § 85.1505 or § 85.1509, the certificate holder shall attest to compliance with the above labeling requirements.


(e) *Gas guzzler tax.* (1) Certificate holders shall comply with any applicable provisions of the Energy Tax Act of 1978, 26 U.S.C. 4064, for every vehicle imported under §§ 85.1505 and 85.1509.


(2) For vehicles not owned by the certificate holder, the certificate holder shall furnish to the vehicle owner applicable IRS forms (currently numbered 720 (Quarterly Federal Excise Tax) and 6197 (Fuel Economy Tax Computation Form)) which relate to the collection of the gas guzzler tax under the Energy Tax Act of 1978, 26 U.S.C. 4064.


(3) As part of the certificate holder's application to EPA for final admission of each vehicle imported under § 85.1509, the certificate holder shall furnish any fuel economy data required by the Energy Tax Act of 1978, 15 U.S.C. 4064.


(f) *Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE).* Certificate holders shall comply with any applicable CAFE requirements of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act, 15 U.S.C. 2001 *et seq.,* and 40 CFR part 600, for all vehicles imported under §§ 85.1505 and 85.1509.





---

[N] [52 FR 36156, Sept. 25, 1987, as amended at 64 FR 23919, May 4, 1999; 89 FR 28149, Apr. 18, 2024]










