# § 100.1311   Special Local Regulation; Montlake Cut, Lake Washington, Seattle, Washington.

(a) *Regulated area.* The regulations in this section apply to the following area: The navigable waters from Montlake Cut and Union Bay Reach between Portage Bay and Webster Point on Lake Washington in Seattle, from the southern corner of University of Washington Oceanography pier at 47°38′57″ N, 122°18′45″ W thence south to 47°38′46″ N, 122°18′45″ W, thence eastward to Webster Point Light 21 at 47°38′51″ N, 122°16′33″ W, thence south to the SR520 bridge at 47°38′37″ N, 122°16′34″ W. These coordinates are based on North American Datum 83 (NAD 83).


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this section—


*Designated representative* means a Coast Guard Patrol Commander, including a Coast Guard coxswain, petty officer, or other officer operating a Coast Guard vessel and a Federal, State, and local officer designated by or assisting the Captain of the Port Sector Puget Sound (COTP) in the enforcement of the regulations in this section.


*Participant* means all persons and vessels registered with the event sponsor as participants in the race. Spectator means any vessel in the vicinity of a marine event with the primary purpose of witnessing the event. Spectator vessels can observe the marine event from one of the designated spectator areas. One area is located north of Union Bay Reach in Union Bay. The other is located in the area between the state route 520 bridge and south of Union Bay Reach.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) All non-participants are prohibited from entering, transiting through, anchoring in, or remaining within the regulated area described in paragraph (a) of this section unless authorized by the COTP or their designated representative.


(2) To seek permission to enter, contact the COTP or the COTP's representative by calling the Sector Puget Sound Command Center at 206-217-6002. Those in the regulated area must comply with all lawful orders or directions given to them by the COTP or the designated representative.


(3) The COTP will provide notice of the regulated area through advanced notice via broadcast notice to mariners, announcement in the local notice to mariners, and by on-scene designated representatives.


(d) *Enforcement period.* This section will be enforced annually from 8 a.m. until 12 p.m. on the first Saturday of May.



---

[N] [USCG-2021-0774, 87 FR 19805, Apr. 6, 2022]




