# § 68.60   Eligibility of a vessel for a coastwise endorsement under this subpart.

(a) To be eligible for a coastwise endorsement under 46 U.S.C. 12106(e) and to operate in coastwise trade under 46 U.S.C. 12106(e) and 12110(b), a vessel must meet the following:


(1) The vessel is eligible for documentation under 46 U.S.C. 12102.


(2) The vessel is eligible for a coastwise endorsement under § 67.19(c) of this chapter and has not lost coastwise eligibility under § 67.19(d) of this chapter.


(3) The person that owns the vessel (or, if the vessel is owned by a trust or similar arrangement, the beneficiary of the trust or similar arrangement) makes the certification in § 68.65.


(4) The person that owns the vessel has transferred to a qualified U.S. citizen under 46 U.S.C. app. 802 full possession, control, and command of the vessel through a demise charter in which the demise charterer is considered the owner *pro hac vice* during the term of the charter.


(5) The charterer must certify to the Director, National Vessel Documentation Center, that the charterer is a citizen of the United States for engaging in the coastwise trade under 46 U.S.C. app. 802.


(6) The demise charter is for a period of at least 3 years, unless a shorter period is authorized by the Director, National Vessel Documentation Center, under circumstances such as—


(i) When the vessel's remaining life would not support a charter of 3 years; or


(ii) To preserve the use or possession of the vessel.


(b) To apply for a coastwise endorsement for a vessel under a demise charter, see § 68.70 and, for a barge, see § 68.75.


