# § 124.605   Reporting and record maintenance requirements.

(a) *Reporting requirements*—(1) *Timing of reports.* (i) A facility shall submit to the Secretary a report to assist the Secretary in determining compliance with this subpart once every three fiscal years, on a schedule to be prescribed by the Secretary. The report required by this section shall be submitted not later than 90 days after the end of the fiscal year, unless a longer period is approved by the Secretary for good cause shown.


(ii) A facility shall also submit the required report whenever the Secretary determines, and so notifies the facility in writing, that a report is needed for proper administration of the program. In this situation the facility shall submit the report specified in this section for the filing of reports, within 90 days after receiving notice from the Secretary, or within 90 days after the close of the fiscal year, whichever is later.


(2) *Content of report.* The report must be submitted on a form prescribed by the Secretary and must include information that the Secretary prescribes to permit a determination of whether a facility has met its obligations under this subpart.


(3) The facility shall provide a copy of any report to the HSA for the area when submitting it to the Secretary.


(4) *Institution of suit.* Not later than 10 days after being served with a summons or complaint, the applicant shall notify the Regional Health Administrator for the Region of HHS in which it is located of any legal action brought against it alleging that it has failed to comply with the requirements of this subpart. 
1

(b) *Record maintenance requirements.* (1) A facility shall maintain, make available for public inspection consistent with personal privacy, and provide to the Secretary on request, any records necessary to document its compliance requirements of this subpart in any fiscal year, including documents from which information required to be reported under paragraph (a) of this section was obtained. A facility shall maintain these records until 180 days following the close of the Secretary's investigation under § 124.606(a).




