# § 63.1363   Standards for equipment leaks.

(a) *General equipment leak requirements.* (1) The provisions of this section apply to “equipment” as defined in § 63.1361. The provisions of this section also apply to any closed-vent systems and control devices required by this section. 


(2) *Consistency with other regulations.* After the compliance date for a process, equipment subject to both this section and either of the following will be required to comply only with the provisions of this subpart:


(i) 40 CFR part 60.


(ii) 40 CFR part 61.


(3) [Reserved]


(4) The provisions in § 63.1(a)(3) of subpart A of this part do not alter the provisions in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(5) Lines and equipment not containing process fluids are not subject to the provisions of this section. Utilities, and other nonprocess lines, such as heating and cooling systems which do not combine their materials with those in the processes they serve, are not considered to be part of a process.


(6) The provisions of this section do not apply to bench-scale processes, regardless of whether the processes are located at the same plant site as a process subject to the provisions of this subpart MMM.


(7) Each piece of equipment to which this section applies shall be identified such that it can be distinguished readily from equipment that is not subject to this section. Identification of the equipment does not require physical tagging of the equipment. For example, the equipment may be identified on a plant site plan, in log entries, or by designation of process boundaries by some form of weatherproof identification. If changes are made to the affected source subject to the leak detection requirements, equipment identification for each type of component shall be updated, if needed, within 15 calendar days of the end of each monitoring period for that component.


(8) Equipment that is in vacuum service is excluded from the requirements of this section.


(9) Equipment that is in organic HAP service, but is in such service less than 300 hours per calendar year, is excluded from the requirements of this section if it is identified as required in paragraph (g)(9) of this section.


(10) When each leak is detected by visual, audible, or olfactory means, or by monitoring as described in § 63.180(b) or (c) of subpart H of this part, the following requirements apply:


(i) A weatherproof and readily visible identification, marked with the equipment identification number, shall be attached to the leaking equipment.


(ii) The identification on a valve in light liquid or gas/vapor service may be removed after it has been monitored as specified in paragraph (e)(7)(iii) of this section, and no leak has been detected during the follow-up monitoring. If an owner or operator elects to comply with § 63.174(c)(1)(i), the identification on a connector may be removed after it has been monitored as specified in § 63.174(c)(1)(i) and no leak is detected during that monitoring. 


(iii) The identification on equipment, except as specified in paragraph (a)(10)(ii) of this section, may be removed after it has been repaired. 


(b) *References.* The owner or operator shall comply with the provisions of subpart H of this part as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section and with paragraph (b)(4) of this section for pressure relief devices. When the term “process unit” is used in subpart H of this part, it shall mean any group of processes for the purposes of this subpart. Groups of processes as used in this subpart may be any individual process or combination of processes.


(1) Sections 63.160, 63.161, 63.162, 63.163, 63.167, 63.168, 63.170, 63.173, 63.175, 63.176, 63.181, and 63.182 of subpart H of this part shall not apply for the purposes of this subpart MMM. The owner or operator shall comply with the provisions specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section.


(i) Sections 63.160 and 63.162 of subpart H of this part shall not apply, instead the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (a) of this section;


(ii) Section 63.161 of subpart H of this part shall not apply, instead the owner or operator shall comply with § 63.1361;


(iii) Sections 63.163 and 63.173 of subpart H of this part shall not apply, instead the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (c) of this section;


(iv) Section 63.167 of subpart H of this part shall not apply, instead the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (d) of this section;


(v) Section 63.168 of subpart H of this part shall not apply, instead the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (e) of this section;


(vi) Section 63.170 of subpart H of this part shall not apply, instead the owner or operator shall comply with § 63.1362(b);


(vii) Section 63.181 of subpart H of this part shall not apply, instead the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (g) of this section; and 


(viii) Section 63.182 of subpart H of this part shall not apply, instead the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (h) of this section.


(2) The owner or operator shall comply with §§ 63.164, 63.166, 63.169, 63.177, and 63.179 of subpart H of this part in their entirety, except that when these sections reference other sections of subpart H of this part, the owner or operator shall comply with the revised sections as specified in paragraphs (b)(1), (3), and (4) of this section. Section 63.164 of subpart H of this part applies to compressors. Section 63.166 of subpart H of this part applies to sampling connection systems. Section 63.169 of subpart H of this part applies to: pumps, valves, connectors, and agitators in heavy liquid service; instrumentation systems; and pressure relief devices in liquid service. Section 63.177 of subpart H of this subpart applies to general alternative means of emission limitation. Section 63.179 of subpart H of this part applies to alternative means of emission limitation for enclosed-vented process units.


(3) The owner or operator shall comply with §§ 63.171, 63.172, 63.174, 63.178, and 63.180 of subpart H of this part with the differences specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) Section 63.171, Delay of repair, shall apply except § 63.171(a) shall not apply. Delay of repair of equipment for which leaks have been detected is allowed if one of the following conditions exist:


(A) The repair is technically infeasible without a process shutdown. Repair of this equipment shall occur by the end of the next scheduled process shutdown.


(B) The owner or operator determines that repair personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger if attempting to repair without a process shutdown. Repair of this equipment shall occur by the end of the next scheduled process shutdown.


(ii) Section 63.172, Closed-vent systems and control devices, shall apply for closed-vent systems used to comply with this section, and for control devices used to comply with this section only, except:


(A) Section 63.172(k) and (l) shall not apply. The owner or operator shall instead comply with paragraph (f) of this section.


(B) Owners or operators may, instead of complying with the provisions of § 63.172(f), design a closed-vent system to operate at a pressure below atmospheric pressure. The system shall be equipped with at least one pressure gauge or other pressure measurement device that can be read from a readily accessible location to verify that negative pressure is being maintained in the closed-vent system when the associated control device is operating.


(iii) Section 63.174, Connectors, shall apply except:


(A) Section 63.174(b), (f), (g), and (h) shall not apply. In place of § 63.174(b), the owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (b)(3)(iii)(C) through (G) of this section. In place of § 63.174(f), (g), and (h), the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (f) of this section. 


(B) Days that the connectors are not in organic HAP service shall not be considered part of the 3-month period in § 63.174(c). 


(C) If the percent leaking connectors in a group of processes was greater than or equal to 0.5 percent during the initial monitoring period, monitoring shall be performed once per year until the percent leaking connectors is less than 0.5 percent. 


(D) If the percent leaking connectors in the group of processes was less than 0.5 percent, but equal to or greater than 0.25 percent, during the last required monitoring period, monitoring shall be performed once every 4 years. An owner or operator may comply with the requirements of this paragraph by monitoring at least 40 percent of the connectors in the first 2 years and the remainder of the connectors within the next 2 years. The percent leaking connectors will be calculated for the total of all monitoring performed during the 4-year period.


(E) The owner or operator shall increase the monitoring frequency to once every 2 years for the next monitoring period if leaking connectors comprise at least 0.5 percent but less than 1.0 percent of the connectors monitored within either the 4 years specified in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(D) of this section, the first 4 years specified in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(G) of this section, or the entire 8 years specified in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(G) of this section. At the end of that 2-year monitoring period, the owner or operator shall monitor once per year while the percent leaking connectors is greater than or equal to 0.5 percent; if the percent leaking connectors is less than 0.5 percent, the owner or operator may again elect to monitor in accordance with paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(D) or (G) of this section, as applicable. 


(F) If an owner or operator complying with the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(D) or (G) of this section for a group of processes determines that 1 percent or greater of the connectors are leaking, the owner or operator shall increase the monitoring frequency to one time per year. The owner or operator may again elect to use the provisions of paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(D) or (G) of this section after a monitoring period in which less than 0.5 percent of the connectors are determined to be leaking. 


(G) Monitoring shall be required once every 8 years, if the percent leaking connectors in the group of process units was less than 0.25 percent during the last required monitoring period. An owner or operator shall monitor at least 50 percent of the connectors in the first 4 years and the remainder of the connectors within the next 4 years. If the percent leaking connectors in the first 4 years is equal to or greater than 0.35 percent, the monitoring program shall revert at that time to the appropriate monitoring frequency specified in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(D), (E), or (F) of this section. 


(iv) Section 63.178, shall apply, except as specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(iv)(A) and (B) of this section. 


(A) Section 63.178(b), requirements for pressure testing, shall apply to all processes, not just batch processes. 


(B) For pumps, the phrase “at the frequencies specified in Table 1 of this subpart” in § 63.178(c)(3)(iii) shall mean “quarterly” for the purposes of this subpart. 


(v) Section 63.180 of subpart H of this part, Test methods and procedures, shall apply except § 63.180(b)(4)(ii)(A) through (C) of subpart H of this part shall not apply. Calibration gases shall be a mixture of methane and air at a concentration of approximately, but less than, 10,000 parts per million methane for agitators, 2,000 parts per million for pumps, and 500 parts per million for all other equipment, except as provided in § 63.180(b)(4)(iii) of subpart H of this part.


(4) *Requirements for pressure relief devices.* Except as specified in paragraph (b)(4)(iv) of this section, the owner or operator must comply with the operating and pressure release requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section for pressure relief devices in organic HAP gas or vapor service. Except as specified in paragraph (b)(4)(iv) of this section, the owner or operator must also comply with the pressure release management requirements specified in paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section for all pressure relief devices in organic HAP service.


(i) *Operating requirements.* Except during a pressure release event, operate each pressure relief device in organic HAP gas or vapor service with an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background as detected by Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.


(ii) *Pressure release requirements.* For pressure relief devices in organic HAP gas or vapor service, comply with paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section, as applicable.


(A) If the pressure relief device does not consist of or include a rupture disk, conduct instrument monitoring, as detected by Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, no later than 5 calendar days after the pressure release to verify that the pressure relief device is operating with an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, except as provided in § 63.171.


(B) If the pressure relief device consists of or includes a rupture disk, install a replacement disk as soon as practicable after a pressure release, but no later than 5 calendar days after the pressure release, except as provided in § 63.171.


(iii) *Pressure release management.* Except as specified in paragraph (b)(4)(iv) of this section, pressure releases to the atmosphere from pressure relief devices in organic HAP service are prohibited, and the owner or operator must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section for all pressure relief devices in organic HAP service.


(A) For each pressure relief device in organic HAP service, the owner or operator must equip each pressure relief device with a device(s) or use a monitoring system that is capable of:


(*1*) Identifying the pressure release;


(*2*) Recording the time and duration of each pressure release; and


(*3*) Notifying operators immediately that a pressure release is occurring. The device or monitoring system may be either specific to the pressure relief device itself or may be associated with the process system or piping, sufficient to indicate a pressure release to the atmosphere. Examples of these types of devices and systems include, but are not limited to, a rupture disk indicator, magnetic sensor, motion detector on the pressure relief valve stem, flow monitor, or pressure monitor.


(B) If any pressure relief device in organic HAP service releases to atmosphere as a result of a pressure release event, the owner or operator must calculate the quantity of organic HAP released during each pressure release event and report this quantity as required in paragraph (h)(3)(v) of this section. Calculations may be based on data from the pressure relief device monitoring alone or in combination with process parameter monitoring data and process knowledge.


(iv) *Pressure relief devices routed to a control device, process, or drain system.* If a pressure relief device in organic HAP service is designed and operated to route all pressure releases through a closed vent system to a control device, process, or drain system, the owner or operator is not required to comply with paragraphs (b)(4)(i), (ii), or (iii) (if applicable) of this section. Both the closed vent system and control device (if applicable) must meet the requirements of § 63.172. The drain system (if applicable) must meet the requirements of § 63.136.


(c) *Standards for pumps in light liquid service and agitators in gas/vapor service and in light liquid service.* (1) The provisions of this section apply to each pump that is in light liquid service, and to each agitator in gas/vapor service or in light liquid service.


(2)(i) *Monitoring.* Each pump and agitator subject to this section shall be monitored quarterly to detect leaks by the method specified in § 63.180(b), except as provided in §§ 63.177, 63.178, paragraph (f) of this section, and paragraphs (c)(5) through (9) of this section. 


(ii) *Leak definition.* The instrument reading, as determined by the method as specified in § 63.180(b) of subpart H of this part, that defines a leak is:


(A) For agitators, an instrument reading of 10,000 parts per million or greater.


(B) For pumps, an instrument reading of 2,000 parts per million or greater.


(iii) *Visual inspections.* Each pump and agitator shall be checked by visual inspection each calendar week for indications of liquids dripping from the pump or agitator seal. If there are indications of liquids dripping from the seal at the time of the weekly inspection, the owner or operator shall follow the procedure specified in either paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section prior to the next weekly inspection. 


(A) The owner or operator shall monitor the pump or agitator by the method specified in § 63.180(b). If the instrument reading indicates a leak as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, a leak is detected. 


(B) The owner or operator shall eliminate the visual indications of liquids dripping.


(3) *Repair provisions.* (i) When a leak is detected pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(i), (c)(2)(iii)(A), (c)(5)(iv)(A), or (c)(5)(vi)(B) of this section, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section.


(ii) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after the leak is detected. First attempts at repair include, but are not limited to, the following practices where practicable:


(A) Tightening of packing gland nuts.


(B) Ensuring that the seal flush is operating at design pressure and temperature.


(4) *Calculation of percent leakers.* (i) The owner or operator shall decide no later than the end of the first monitoring period what groups of processes will be developed. Once the owner or operator has decided, all subsequent percent calculations shall be made on the same basis.


(ii) If, calculated on a 1-year rolling average, 10 percent or more of the pumps in a group of processes (or 3 pumps in a group of processes with fewer than 30 pumps) leak, the owner or operator shall monitor each pump once per month, until the calculated 1-year rolling average value drops below 10 percent (or three pumps in a group of processes with fewer than 30 pumps).


(iii) The number of pumps in a group of processes shall be the sum of all the pumps in organic HAP service, except that pumps found leaking in a continuous process within 1 quarter after startup of the pump shall not count in the percent leaking pumps calculation for that one monitoring period only.


(iv) Percent leaking pumps shall be determined using Equation 3 of this subpart:


(5) *Exemptions.* Each pump or agitator equipped with a dual mechanical seal system that includes a barrier fluid system and meets the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) through (vii) is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4)(iii) of this section, except as specified in paragraphs (c)(5)(iv)(A) and (vii) of this section. 


(i) Each dual mechanical seal system is:


(A) Operated with the barrier fluid at a pressure that is at all times greater than the pump/agitator stuffing box pressure; or


(B) Equipped with a barrier fluid degassing reservoir that is connected by a closed-vent system to a control device that complies with the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section; or


(C) Equipped with a closed-loop system that purges the barrier fluid into a process stream.


(ii) The barrier fluid is not in light liquid service.


(iii) Each barrier fluid system is equipped with a sensor that will detect failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both.


(iv) Each pump/agitator is checked by visual inspection each calendar week for indications of liquids dripping from the pump/agitator seal. If there are indications of liquids dripping from the pump or agitator seal at the time of the weekly inspection, the owner or operator shall follow the procedures specified in either paragraph (c)(5)(iv)(A) or (B) of this section prior to the next required inspection. 


(A) The owner or operator shall monitor the pump or agitator using the method specified in § 63.180(b) to determine if there is a leak of organic HAP in the barrier fluid. If the instrument reading indicates a leak, as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, a leak is detected. 


(B) The owner or operator shall eliminate the visual indications of liquids dripping. 


(v) Each sensor as described in paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section is observed daily or is equipped with an alarm unless the pump is located within the boundary of an unmanned plant site.


(vi)(A) The owner or operator determines, based on design considerations and operating experience, criteria applicable to the presence and frequency of drips and to the sensor that indicate failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both.


(B) If indications of liquids dripping from the pump/agitator seal exceed the criteria established in paragraph (c)(5)(vi)(A) of this section, or if, based on the criteria established in paragraph (c)(5)(vi)(A) of this section, the sensor indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both, a leak is detected.


(vii) When a leak is detected pursuant to paragraph (c)(5)(iv)(A) or (vi)(B) of this section, the leak must be repaired as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. 


(6) Any pump/agitator that is designed with no externally actuated shaft penetrating the pump/agitator housing is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section. 


(7) Any pump/agitator equipped with a closed-vent system capable of capturing and transporting any leakage from the seal or seals back to the process or to a control device that complies with the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) through (5) of this section.


(8) Any pump/agitator that is located within the boundary of an unmanned plant site is exempt from the weekly visual inspection requirement of paragraphs (c)(2)(iii) and (c)(5)(iv) of this section, and the daily requirements of paragraph (c)(5)(v) of this section, provided that each pump/agitator is visually inspected as often as practicable and at least monthly.


(9) If more than 90 percent of the pumps in a group of processes meet the criteria in either paragraph (c)(5) or (6) of this section, the group of processes is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (c)(4) of this section. 


(d) *Standards: open-ended valves or lines.* (1)(i) Each open-ended valve or line shall be equipped with a cap, blind flange, plug, or a second valve, except as provided in § 63.177 of subpart H of this part and paragraphs (d)(4) through (6) of this section.


(ii) The cap, blind flange, plug, or second valve shall seal the open end at all times except during operations requiring process fluid flow through the open-ended valve or line, or during maintenance or repair. The cap, blind flange, plug, or second valve shall be in place within 1 hour of cessation of operations requiring process fluid flow through the open-ended valve or line, or within 1 hour of cessation of maintenance or repair.


(2) Each open-ended valve or line equipped with a second valve shall be operated in a manner such that the valve on the process fluid end is closed before the second valve is closed.


(3) When a double block and bleed system is being used, the bleed valve or line may remain open during operations that require venting the line between the block valves but shall comply with paragraph (d)(1) of this section at all other times.


(4) Open-ended valves or lines in an emergency shutdown system which are designed to open automatically in the event of a process upset are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.


(5) Open-ended valves or lines containing materials which would autocatalytically polymerize are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.


(6) Open-ended valves or lines containing materials which could cause an explosion, serious overpressure, or other safety hazard if capped or equipped with a double block and bleed system as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.


(e) *Standards: valves in gas/vapor service and in light liquid service.* (1) The provisions of this section apply to valves that are either in gas/vapor service or in light liquid service.


(2) For existing and new affected sources, all valves subject to this section shall be monitored, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section and in § 63.177 of subpart H of this part, by no later than 1 year after the compliance date.


(3) *Monitoring.* The owner or operator of a source subject to this section shall monitor all valves, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section and in § 63.177 of subpart H of this part, at the intervals specified in paragraph (e)(4) of this section and shall comply with all other provisions of this section, except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section and §§ 63.178 and 63.179 of subpart H of this part.


(i) The valves shall be monitored to detect leaks by the method specified in § 63.180(b) of subpart H of this part.


(ii) An instrument reading of 500 parts per million or greater defines a leak.


(4) *Subsequent monitoring frequencies.* After conducting the initial survey required in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the owner or operator shall monitor valves for leaks at the intervals specified below:


(i) For a group of processes with 2 percent or greater leaking valves, calculated according to paragraph (e)(6) of this section, the owner or operator shall monitor each valve once per month, except as specified in paragraph (e)(9) of this section.


(ii) For a group of processes with less than 2 percent leaking valves, the owner or operator shall monitor each valve once each quarter, except as provided in paragraphs (e)(4)(iii) through (v) of this section.


(iii) For a group of processes with less than 1 percent leaking valves, the owner or operator may elect to monitor each valve once every 2 quarters.


(iv) For a group of processes with less than 0.5 percent leaking valves, the owner or operator may elect to monitor each valve once every 4 quarters.


(v) For a group of processes with less than 0.25 percent leaking valves, the owner or operator may elect to monitor each valve once every 2 years.


(5) *Calculation of percent leakers.* For a group of processes to which this subpart applies, the owner or operator may choose to subdivide the valves in the applicable group of processes and apply the provisions of paragraph (e)(4) of this section to each subgroup. If the owner or operator elects to subdivide the valves in the applicable group of processes, then the provisions of paragraphs (e)(5)(i) through (viii) of this section apply.


(i) The overall performance of total valves in the applicable group of processes must be less than 2 percent leaking valves, as detected according to paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section and as calculated according to paragraphs (e)(6)(ii) and (iii) of this section.


(ii) The initial assignment or subsequent reassignment of valves to subgroups shall be governed by the provisions of paragraphs (e)(5)(ii) (A) through (C) of this section.


(A) The owner or operator shall determine which valves are assigned to each subgroup. Valves with less than 1 year of monitoring data or valves not monitored within the last 12 months must be placed initially into the most frequently monitored subgroup until at least 1 year of monitoring data have been obtained.


(B) Any valve or group of valves can be reassigned from a less frequently monitored subgroup to a more frequently monitored subgroup provided that the valves to be reassigned were monitored during the most recent monitoring period for the less frequently monitored subgroup. The monitoring results must be included with the less frequently monitored subgroup's monitoring event and associated next percent leaking valves calculation for that group.


(C) Any valve or group of valves can be reassigned from a more frequently monitored subgroup to a less frequently monitored subgroup provided that the valves to be reassigned have not leaked for the period of the less frequently monitored subgroup (e.g., for the last 12 months, if the valve or group of valves is to be reassigned to a subgroup being monitored annually). Nonrepairable valves may not be reassigned to a less frequently monitored subgroup.


(iii) The owner or operator shall determine every 6 months if the overall performance of total valves in the applicable group of processes is less than 2 percent leaking valves and so indicate the performance in the next Periodic report. If the overall performance of total valves in the applicable group of processes is 2 percent leaking valves or greater, the owner or operator shall revert to the program required in paragraphs (e)(2) through (4) of this section. The overall performance of total valves in the applicable group of processes shall be calculated as a weighted average of the percent leaking valves of each subgroup according to Equation 4 of this subpart:


(iv) *Records.* In addition to records required by paragraph (g) of this section, the owner or operator shall maintain records specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(iv)(A) through (D) of this section.


(A) Which valves are assigned to each subgroup,


(B) Monitoring results and calculations made for each subgroup for each monitoring period,


(C) Which valves are reassigned and when they were reassigned, and


(D) The results of the semiannual overall performance calculation required in paragraph (e)(5)(iii) of this section.


(v) The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator no later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the next monitoring period of the decision to subgroup valves. The notification shall identify the participating processes and the valves assigned to each subgroup.


(vi) *Semiannual reports.* In addition to the information required by paragraph (h)(3) of this section, the owner or operator shall submit in the Periodic reports the information specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(vi)(A) and (B) of this section.


(A) Valve reassignments occurring during the reporting period, and


(B) Results of the semiannual overall performance calculation required by paragraph (e)(5)(iii) of this section.


(vii) To determine the monitoring frequency for each subgroup, the calculation procedures of paragraph (e)(6)(iii) of this section shall be used.


(viii) Except for the overall performance calculations required by paragraphs (e)(5)(i) and (iii) of this section, each subgroup shall be treated as if it were a process for the purposes of applying the provisions of this section.


(6)(i) The owner or operator shall decide no later than the implementation date of this subpart or upon revision of an operating permit how to group the processes. Once the owner or operator has decided, all subsequent percentage calculations shall be made on the same basis.


(ii) Percent leaking valves for each group of processes or subgroup shall be determined using Equation 5 of this subpart:


(iii) When determining monitoring frequency for each group of processes or subgroup subject to monthly, quarterly, or semiannual monitoring frequencies, the percent leaking valves shall be the arithmetic average of the percent leaking valves from the last two monitoring periods. When determining monitoring frequency for each group of processes or subgroup subject to annual or biennial (once every 2 years) monitoring frequencies, the percent leaking valves shall be the arithmetic average of the percent leaking valves from the last three monitoring periods.


(iv)(A) Nonrepairable valves shall be included in the calculation of percent leaking valves the first time the valve is identified as leaking and nonrepairable and as required to comply with paragraph (e)(6)(iv)(B) of this section. Otherwise, a number of nonrepairable valves (identified and included in the percent leaking calculation in a previous period) up to a maximum of 1 percent of the total number of valves in organic HAP service at a process may be excluded from calculation of percent leaking valves for subsequent monitoring periods.


(B) If the number of nonrepairable valves exceeds 1 percent of the total number of valves in organic HAP service at a process, the number of nonrepairable valves exceeding 1 percent of the total number of valves in organic HAP service shall be included in the calculation of percent leaking valves.


(7) *Repair provisions.* (i) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but no later than 15 calendar days after the leak is detected, except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section.


(ii) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected.


(iii) When a leak is repaired, the valve shall be monitored at least once within the first 3 months after its repair. Days that the valve is not in organic HAP service shall not be considered part of this 3-month period. The monitoring required by this paragraph is in addition to the monitoring required to satisfy the definitions of “repaired” and “first attempt at repair.” 


(A) The monitoring shall be conducted as specified in § 63.180(b) and (c) as appropriate, to determine whether the valve has resumed leaking. 


(B) Periodic monitoring required by paragraphs (e)(2) through (4) of this section may be used to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (e)(7)(iii) of this section, if the timing of the monitoring period coincides with the time specified in paragraph (e)(7)(iii) of this section. Alternatively, other monitoring may be performed to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (e)(7)(iii) of this section, regardless of whether the timing of the monitoring period for periodic monitoring coincides with the time specified in paragraph (e)(7)(iii) of this section. 


(C) If a leak is detected by monitoring that is conducted pursuant to paragraph (e)(7)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator shall follow the provisions of paragraphs (e)(7)(iii)(C)(*1*) and (*2*) of this section to determine whether that valve must be counted as a leaking valve for purposes of paragraph (e)(6) of this section. 


(*1*) If the owner or operator elects to use periodic monitoring required by paragraphs (e)(2) through (4) of this section to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (e)(7)(iii) of this section, then the valve shall be counted as a leaking valve. 


(*2*) If the owner or operator elects to use other monitoring prior to the periodic monitoring required by paragraphs (e)(2) through (4) of this section to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (e)(7)(iii) of this section, then the valve shall be counted as a leaking valve unless it is repaired and shown by periodic monitoring not to be leaking. 


(8) First attempts at repair include, but are not limited to, the following practices where practicable:


(i) Tightening of bonnet bolts,


(ii) Replacement of bonnet bolts,


(iii) Tightening of packing gland nuts, and


(iv) Injection of lubricant into lubricated packing.


(9) Any equipment located at a plant site with fewer than 250 valves in organic HAP service in the affected source is exempt from the requirements for monthly monitoring specified in paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section. Instead, the owner or operator shall monitor each valve in organic HAP service for leaks once each quarter, or comply with paragraph (e)(4)(iii), (iv), or (v) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section. 


(f) *Unsafe to monitor, difficult-to-monitor, and inaccessible equipment.* (1) Equipment that is designated as unsafe-to-monitor, difficult-to-monitor, or inaccessible is exempt from the requirements as specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section provided the owner or operator meets the requirements specified in paragraph (f)(2), (3), or (4) of this section, as applicable. All equipment, except connectors that meet the requirements in paragraph (f)(4) of this section, must be assigned to a group of processes. Ceramic or ceramic-lined connectors are subject to the same requirements as inaccessible connectors. 


(i) For pumps and agitators, paragraphs (c)(2), (3), and (4) of this section do not apply. 


(ii) For valves, paragraphs (e)(2) through (7) of this section do not apply. 


(iii) For connectors, § 63.174(b) through (e) and paragraphs (b)(3)(iii)(C) through (G) of this section do not apply. 


(iv) For closed-vent systems, § 63.172(f)(1), (f)(2), and (g) do not apply. 


(2) *Equipment that is unsafe-to-monitor.* (i) Valves, connectors, agitators, and any part of closed-vent systems may be designated as unsafe-to-monitor if the owner or operator determines that monitoring personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence of complying with the monitoring requirements identified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section, or the inspection requirements identified in paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section. 


(ii) The owner or operator of equipment that is designated as unsafe-to-monitor must have a written plan that requires monitoring of the equipment as frequently as practicable during safe-to-monitor times. For valves, connectors, and agitators, monitoring shall not be more frequent than the periodic monitoring schedule otherwise applicable to the group of processes in which the equipment is located. For closed-vent systems, inspections shall not be more frequent than annually. 


(3) *Equipment that is difficult-to-monitor.* (i) A valve, agitator, pump, or any part of a closed-vent system may be designated as difficult-to-monitor if the owner or operator determines that the equipment cannot be monitored or inspected without elevating the monitoring personnel more than 2 meters above a support surface or the equipment is not accessible in a safe manner when it is in organic HAP service; 


(ii) At a new affected source, an owner or operator may designate no more than 3 percent of valves as difficult-to-monitor. 


(iii) The owner or operator of valves, agitators, or pumps designated as difficult-to-monitor must have a written plan that requires monitoring of the equipment at least once per calendar year or on the periodic monitoring schedule otherwise applicable to the group of processes in which the equipment is located, whichever is less frequent. For any part of a closed-vent system designated as difficult-to-monitor, the owner or operator must have a written plan that requires inspection of the closed-vent system at least once every 5 years. 


(4) *Inaccessible, ceramic, or ceramic-lined connectors.* (i) A connector may be designated as inaccessible if it is: 


(A) Buried; 


(B) Insulated in a manner that prevents access to the equipment by a monitor probe; 


(C) Obstructed by equipment or piping that prevents access to the equipment by a monitor probe; 


(D) Unable to be reached from a wheeled scissor-lift or hydraulic-type scaffold which would allow access to equipment up to 7.6 meters above the ground; or 


(E) Not able to be accessed at any time in a safe manner to perform monitoring. Unsafe access includes, but is not limited to, the use of a wheeled scissor-lift on unstable or uneven terrain, the use of a motorized man-lift basket in areas where an ignition potential exists, or access would require near proximity to hazards such as electrical lines, or would risk damage to equipment. 


(F) Would require elevating the monitoring personnel more than 2 meters above a permanent support surface or would require the erection of scaffold. 


(ii) At a new affected source, an owner or operator may designate no more than 3 percent of connectors as inaccessible. 


(iii) If any inaccessible, ceramic, or ceramic-lined connector is observed by visual, audible, olfactory, or other means to be leaking, the leak shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but no later than 15 calendar days after the leak is detected, except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section. 


(iv) Any connector that is inaccessible or that is ceramic or ceramic-lined is exempt from the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section. 


(g) *Recordkeeping requirements.* (1) An owner or operator of more than one group of processes subject to the provisions of this section may comply with the recordkeeping requirements for the groups of processes in one recordkeeping system if the system identifies with each record the program being implemented (e.g., quarterly monitoring) for each type of equipment. All records and information required by this section shall be maintained in a manner that can be readily accessed at the plant site. This could include physically locating the records at the plant site or accessing the records from a central location by computer at the plant site.


(2) *General recordkeeping.* Except as provided in paragraph (g)(5) of this section, the following information pertaining to all equipment subject to the requirements in this section shall be recorded:


(i)(A) A list of identification numbers for equipment (except instrumentation systems) subject to the requirements of this section. Connectors, except those subject to paragraph (f) of this section, need not be individually identified if all connectors in a designated area or length of pipe subject to the provisions of this section are identified as a group, and the number of subject connectors is indicated. The list for each type of equipment shall be completed no later than the completion of the initial survey required for that component. The list of identification numbers shall be updated, if needed, to incorporate equipment changes within 15 calendar days of the completion of each monitoring survey for the type of equipment component monitored.


(B) A schedule for monitoring connectors subject to the provisions of § 63.174(a) of subpart H of this part and valves subject to the provisions of paragraph (e)(4) of this section.


(C) Physical tagging of the equipment is not required to indicate that it is in organic HAP service. Equipment subject to the provisions of this section may be identified on a plant site plan, in log entries, or by other appropriate methods.


(ii)(A) A list of identification numbers for equipment that the owner or operator elects to equip with a closed-vent system and control device, subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b)(4)(iv) or (c)(7) of this section or § 63.164(h).


(B) A list of identification numbers for compressors that the owner or operator elects to designate as operating with an instrument reading of less than 500 parts per million above background, under the provisions of § 63.164(i) of subpart H of this part.


(iii)(A) A list of identification numbers for pressure relief devices subject to the provisions in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section.


(B) A list of identification numbers for pressure relief devices equipped with rupture disks, subject to the provisions of paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(B) of this section.


(iv) Identification of instrumentation systems subject to the provisions of this section. Individual components in an instrumentation system need not be identified.


(v) The following information shall be recorded for each dual mechanical seal system:


(A) Design criteria required by paragraph (c)(5)(vi)(A) of this section and § 63.164(e)(2) of subpart H of this part, and an explanation of the design criteria; and


(B) Any changes to these criteria and the reasons for the changes.


(vi) A list of equipment designated as unsafe-to-monitor or difficult-to-monitor under paragraph (f) of this section and a copy of the plan for monitoring this equipment. 


(vii) A list of connectors removed from and added to the process, as described in § 63.174(i)(1) of subpart H of this part, and documentation of the integrity of the weld for any removed connectors, as required in § 63.174(j) of subpart H of this part. This is not required unless the net credits for removed connectors is expected to be used.


(viii) For batch processes that the owner or operator elects to monitor as provided under § 63.178(c) of subpart H of this part, a list of equipment added to batch product processes since the last monitoring period required in § 63.178(c)(3)(ii) and (iii) of subpart H of this part. This list must be completed for each type of equipment within 15 calendar days of the completion of the each monitoring survey for the type of equipment monitored.


(3) *Records of visual inspections.* For visual inspections of equipment subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c)(2)(iii) and (c)(5)(iv) of this section, the owner or operator shall document that the inspection was conducted and the date of the inspection. The owner or operator shall maintain records as specified in paragraph (g)(4) of this section for leaking equipment identified in this inspection, except as provided in paragraph (g)(5) of this section. These records shall be retained for 5 years.


(4) *Monitoring records.* When each leak is detected as specified in paragraphs (c) and (e) of this section and §§ 63.164, 63.169, 63.172, and 63.174 of subpart H of this part, the owner or operator shall record the information specified in paragraphs (g)(4)(i) through (ix) of this section. All records shall be retained for 5 years, in accordance with the requirements of § 63.10(b)(1) of subpart A of this part.


(i) The instrument and the equipment identification number and the operator name, initials, or identification number.


(ii) The date the leak was detected and the date of first attempt to repair the leak.


(iii) The date of successful repair of the leak.


(iv) If postrepair monitoring is required, maximum instrument reading measured by Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, after it is successfully repaired or determined to be nonrepairable.


(v) “Repair delayed” and the reason for the delay if a leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak.


(A) The owner or operator may develop a written procedure that identifies the conditions that justify a delay of repair. The written procedures must be maintained at the plant site. Reasons for delay of repair may be documented by citing the relevant sections of the written procedure.


(B) If delay of repair was caused by depletion of stocked parts, there must be documentation that the spare parts were sufficiently stocked onsite before depletion and the reason for depletion.


(vi) If repairs were delayed, dates of process shutdowns that occur while the equipment is unrepaired.


(vii)(A) If the alternative in § 63.174(c)(1)(ii) of subpart H of this part is not in use for the monitoring period, identification, either by list, location (area or grouping), or tagging of connectors disturbed since the last monitoring period required in § 63.174(b) of subpart H of this part, as described in § 63.174(c)(1) of subpart H of this part.


(B) The date and results of follow-up monitoring as required in § 63.174(c) of subpart H of this part. If identification of disturbed connectors is made by location, then all connectors within the designated location shall be monitored.


(viii) The date and results of the monitoring required in § 63.178(c)(3)(i) of subpart H of this part for equipment added to a batch process since the last monitoring period required in § 63.178(c)(3)(ii) and (iii) of subpart H of this part. If no leaking equipment is found in this monitoring, the owner or operator shall record that the inspection was performed. Records of the actual monitoring results are not required.


(ix) Copies of the periodic reports as specified in paragraph (h)(3) of this section, if records are not maintained on a computerized data base capable of generating summary reports from the records.


(5) *Records of pressure tests.* The owner or operator who elects to pressure test a process equipment train and supply lines between storage and processing areas to demonstrate compliance with this section is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (g)(2), (3), (4), and (6) of this section. Instead, the owner or operator shall maintain records of the following information:


(i) The identification of each product, or product code, produced during the calendar year. It is not necessary to identify individual items of equipment in the process equipment train.


(ii) Records demonstrating the proportion of the time during the calendar year the equipment is in use in the process that is subject to the provisions of this subpart. Examples of suitable documentation are records of time in use for individual pieces of equipment or average time in use for the process unit. These records are not required if the owner or operator does not adjust monitoring frequency by the time in use, as provided in § 63.178(c)(3)(iii) of subpart H of this part.


(iii) Physical tagging of the equipment to identify that it is in organic HAP service and subject to the provisions of this section is not required. Equipment in a process subject to the provisions of this section may be identified on a plant site plan, in log entries, or by other appropriate methods.


(iv) The dates of each pressure test required in § 63.178(b) of subpart H of this part, the test pressure, and the pressure drop observed during the test.


(v) Records of any visible, audible, or olfactory evidence of fluid loss.


(vi) When a process equipment train does not pass two consecutive pressure tests, the following information shall be recorded in a log and kept for 2 years:


(A) The date of each pressure test and the date of each leak repair attempt.


(B) Repair methods applied in each attempt to repair the leak.


(C) The reason for the delay of repair.


(D) The expected date for delivery of the replacement equipment and the actual date of delivery of the replacement equipment.


(E) The date of successful repair.


(6) *Records of compressor and pressure relief device compliance tests.* The dates and results of each compliance test required for compressors subject to the provisions in § 63.164(i) and the dates and results of the Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, monitoring following a pressure release for each pressure relief device subject to the provisions in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section. The results shall include:


(i) The background level measured during each compliance test.


(ii) The maximum instrument reading measured at each piece of equipment during each compliance test.


(7) *Records for closed-vent systems.* The owner or operator shall maintain records of the information specified in paragraphs (g)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section for closed-vent systems and control devices subject to the provisions of paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section. The records specified in paragraph (g)(7)(i) of this section shall be retained for the life of the equipment. The records specified in paragraphs (g)(7)(ii) and (iii) of this section shall be retained for 5 years.


(i) The design specifications and performance demonstrations specified in paragraphs (g)(7)(i)(A) through (D) of this section.


(A) Detailed schematics, design specifications of the control device, and piping and instrumentation diagrams.


(B) The dates and descriptions of any changes in the design specifications.


(C) The flare design (i.e., steam assisted, air assisted, or nonassisted) and the results of the compliance demonstration required by § 63.11(b) of subpart A of this part.


(D) A description of the parameter or parameters monitored, as required in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, to ensure that control devices are operated and maintained in conformance with their design and an explanation of why that parameter (or parameters) was selected for the monitoring.


(ii) Records of operation of closed-vent systems and control devices.


(A) Dates and durations when the closed-vent systems and control devices required in paragraph (c) of this section and §§ 63.164 through 63.166 of subpart H of this part are not operated as designed as indicated by the monitored parameters, including periods when a flare pilot light system does not have a flame.


(B) Dates and durations during which the monitoring system or monitoring device is inoperative.


(C) Dates and durations of startups and shutdowns of control devices required in paragraph (c) of this section and §§ 63.164 through 63.166 of subpart H of this part.


(iii) Records of inspections of closed-vent systems subject to the provisions of § 63.172 of subpart H of this part.


(A) For each inspection conducted in accordance with the provisions of § 63.172(f)(1) or (2) of subpart H of this part during which no leaks were detected, a record that the inspection was performed, the date of the inspection, and a statement that no leaks were detected.


(B) For each inspection conducted in accordance with the provisions of § 63.172(f)(1) or (f)(2) of subpart H of this part during which leaks were detected, the information specified in paragraph (g)(4) of this section shall be recorded.


(8) *Records for components in heavy liquid service.* Information, data, and analysis used to determine that a piece of equipment or process is in heavy liquid service shall be recorded. Such a determination shall include an analysis or demonstration that the process fluids do not meet the criteria of “in light liquid or gas/vapor service.” Examples of information that could document this include, but are not limited to, records of chemicals purchased for the process, analyses of process stream composition, engineering calculations, or process knowledge.


(9) *Records of exempt components.* Identification, either by list, location (area or group), or other method of equipment in organic HAP service less than 300 hr/yr subject to the provisions of this section.


(10) *Records of alternative means of compliance determination.* Owners and operators choosing to comply with the requirements of § 63.179 of subpart H of this part shall maintain the following records:


(i) Identification of the process(es) and the organic HAP they handle.


(ii) A schematic of the process, enclosure, and closed-vent system.


(iii) A description of the system used to create a negative pressure in the enclosure to ensure that all emissions are routed to the control device.


(11) *Records of pressure releases to the atmosphere from pressure relief devices.* For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service subject to paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section, keep records of each pressure release to the atmosphere, including the following information:


(i) The source, nature, and cause of the pressure release.


(ii) The date, time, and duration of the pressure release.


(iii) The quantity of total HAP emitted during the pressure release and the calculations used for determining this quantity.


(iv) The actions taken to prevent this pressure release.


(v) The measures adopted to prevent future such pressure releases.


(h) *Reporting Requirements.* (1) Each owner or operator of a source subject to this section shall submit the reports listed in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) A Notification of Compliance Status report described in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, and


(ii) Periodic reports described in paragraph (h)(3) of this section.


(2) *Notification of compliance status report.* Each owner or operator of a source subject to this section shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (h)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section in the Notification of Compliance Status report described in § 63.1368(f). For pressure relief devices subject to the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator shall submit the information listed in paragraph (h)(2)(iv) of this section in the Notification of Compliance Status within 150 days after the first applicable compliance date for pressure relief device monitoring. Section 63.9(j) of subpart A of this part shall not apply to the Notification of Compliance Status report.


(i) The notification shall provide the information listed in paragraphs (h)(2)(i)(A) through (C) of this section for each group of processes subject to the requirements of paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section.


(A) Identification of the group of processes.


(B) Approximate number of each equipment type (e.g., valves, pumps) in organic HAP service, excluding equipment in vacuum service.


(C) Method of compliance with the standard (for example, “monthly leak detection and repair” or “equipped with dual mechanical seals”).


(ii) The notification shall provide the information listed in paragraphs (h)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section for each process subject to the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section and § 63.178(b) of subpart H of this part.


(A) Products or product codes subject to the provisions of this section, and


(B) Planned schedule for pressure testing when equipment is configured for production of products subject to the provisions of this section.


(iii) The notification shall provide the information listed in paragraphs (h)(2)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section for each process subject to the requirements in § 63.179 of subpart H of this part.


(A) Process identification.


(B) A description of the system used to create a negative pressure in the enclosure and the control device used to comply with the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.


(iv) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service, a description of the device or monitoring system to be implemented, including the pressure relief devices and process parameters to be monitored (if applicable), a description of the alarms or other methods by which operators will be notified of a pressure release, and a description of how the owner or operator will determine the information to be recorded under paragraphs (g)(11)(ii) and (iii) of this section (i.e., the duration of the pressure release and the methodology and calculations for determining of the quantity of total HAP emitted during the pressure release).


(3) *Periodic reports.* The owner or operator of a source subject to this section shall submit Periodic reports.


(i) A report containing the information in paragraphs (h)(3)(ii) through (v) of this section shall be submitted semiannually. The first Periodic report shall be submitted no later than 240 days after the date the Notification of Compliance Status report is due and shall cover the 6-month period beginning on the date the Notification of Compliance Status report is due. Each subsequent Periodic report shall cover the 6-month period following the preceding period.


(ii) For equipment complying with the provisions of paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section, the Periodic report shall contain the summary information listed in paragraphs (h)(3)(ii)(A) through (L) of this section for each monitoring period during the 6-month period.


(A) The number of valves for which leaks were detected as described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the percent leakers, and the total number of valves monitored;


(B) The number of valves for which leaks were not repaired as required in paragraph (e)(7) of this section, identifying the number of those that are determined nonrepairable;


(C) The number of pumps and agitators for which leaks were detected as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the percent leakers, and the total number of pumps and agitators monitored;


(D) The number of pumps and agitators for which leaks were not repaired as required in paragraph (c)(3) of this section;


(E) The number of compressors for which leaks were detected as described in § 63.164(f) of subpart H of this part;


(F) The number of compressors for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 63.164(g) of subpart H of this part;


(G) The number of connectors for which leaks were detected as described in § 63.174(a) of subpart H of this part, the percent of connectors leaking, and the total number of connectors monitored;


(H) The number of connectors for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 63.174(d) of subpart H of this part, identifying the number of those that are determined nonrepairable;


(I) The facts that explain any delay of repairs and, where appropriate, why a process shutdown was technically infeasible.


(J) The results of all monitoring to show compliance with §§ 63.164(i) and 63.172(f) conducted within the semiannual reporting period.


(K) If applicable, the initiation of a monthly monitoring program under either paragraph (c)(4)(ii) or paragraph (e)(4)(i)(A) of this section.


(L) If applicable, notification of a change in connector monitoring alternatives as described in § 63.174(c)(1) of subpart H of this part.


(iii) For owners or operators electing to meet the requirements of § 63.178(b) of subpart H of this part, the Periodic report shall include the information listed in paragraphs (h)(3)(iii) (A) through (E) of this section for each process.


(A) Product process equipment train identification;


(B) The number of pressure tests conducted;


(C) The number of pressure tests where the equipment train failed either the retest or two consecutive pressure tests;


(D) The facts that explain any delay of repairs; and


(E) The results of all monitoring to determine compliance with § 63.172(f) of subpart H of this part.


(iv) Any change in the information submitted under paragraph (h)(2) of this section shall be provided in the next Periodic report.


(v) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service, Periodic Reports must include the information specified in paragraphs (h)(3)(v)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service subject to paragraph (b)(4) of this section, report confirmation that all monitoring to show compliance was conducted within the reporting period.


(B) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP gas or vapor service subject to paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, report any instrument reading of 500 ppm above background or greater, more than 5 calendar days after the pressure release.


(C) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service subject to paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section, report each pressure release to the atmosphere, including the following information:


(*1*) The source, nature, and cause of the pressure release.


(*2*) The date, time, and duration of the pressure release.


(*3*) The quantity of total HAP emitted during the pressure release and the method used for determining this quantity.


(*4*) The actions taken to prevent this pressure release.


(*5*) The measures adopted to prevent future such pressure releases.



---

[N] [64 FR 33589, June 23, 1999, as amended at 67 FR 59345, Sept. 20, 2002; 79 FR 17372, Mar. 27, 2014]




