# § 75.18   Specific provisions for monitoring emissions from common and by-pass stacks for opacity.

(a) *Unit using common stack.* When an affected unit utilizes a common stack with other affected units or nonaffected units, the owner or operator shall comply with the applicable monitoring provision in this paragraph, as determined by existing Federal, State, or local opacity regulations.


(1) Where another regulation requires the installation of a continuous opacity monitoring system upon each affected unit, the owner or operator shall install, certify, operate, and maintain a continuous opacity monitoring system meeting Performance Specification 1 in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter (referred to hereafter as a “certified continuous opacity monitoring system”) upon each unit.


(2) Where another regulation does not require the installation of a continuous opacity monitoring system upon each affected unit, and where the affected source is not subject to any existing Federal, State, or local opacity regulations, the owner or operator shall install, certify, operate, and maintain a certified continuous opacity monitoring system upon each common stack for the combined effluent.


(b) *Unit using bypass stack.* Where any portion of the flue gases from an affected unit can be routed so as to bypass the installed continuous opacity monitoring system, the owner or operator shall install, certify, operate, and maintain a certified continuous opacity monitoring system on each bypass stack flue, duct, or stack gas stream unless either:


(1) An applicable Federal, State, or local opacity regulation or permit exempts the unit from a requirement to install a continuous opacity monitoring system in the bypass stack; or


(2) A continuous opacity monitoring system is already installed and certified at the inlet of the add-on emissions controls.


(3) The owner or operator monitors opacity using method 9 of appendix A of part 60 of this chapter whenever emissions pass through the bypass stack. Method 9 shall be used in accordance with the applicable State regulations.



---

[N] [58 FR 3701, Jan. 11, 1993, as amended at 60 FR 26524, May 17, 1995; 60 FR 40296, Aug. 8, 1995; 61 FR 59158, Nov. 20, 1996]




