# § 106.101   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this part. Defined terms are capitalized wherever they appear.


(a) *Cosponsor* means an entity or individual designated in § 106.201 that has signed a written Cosponsorship Agreement with SBA and who actively and substantially participates in planning and conducting an agreed upon Cosponsored Activity.


(b) *Cosponsored Activity* means an activity, event, project or initiative, designed to provide assistance for the benefit of small business as authorized by section 4(h) of the Small Business Act, which has been set forth in an approved written Cosponsorship Agreement. The Cosponsored Activity must be planned and conducted by SBA and one or more Cosponsors. Assistance for purposes of Cosponsored Activity does not include grant or any other form of financial assistance. A Participant Fee may be charged by SBA or another Cosponsor at any Cosponsored Activity.


(c) *Cosponsorship Agreement* means an approved written document (as outlined in §§ 106.203 and 106.204 which has been duly executed by SBA and one or more Cosponsors. The Cosponsorship Agreement shall contain the parties' respective rights, duties and responsibilities regarding implementation of the Cosponsored Activity.


(d) *Donor* means an individual or entity that provides a Gift, bequest or devise (in cash or in-kind) to SBA.


(e) An *Eligible Entity* is a potential Cosponsor. An Eligible Entity must be a for-profit or not-for-profit entity, or a Federal, State or local government official or entity.


(f) *Fee Based SBA-Sponsored Activity Record* (Fee Based Record) means a written document, as outlined in § 106.302, describing a Fee Based SBA-Sponsored Activity and approved in writing pursuant to § 106.303.


(g) *Fee Based SBA-Sponsored Activity* means an activity, event, project or initiative designed to provide assistance for the benefit of small business, as authorized by section 4(h) of the Small Business Act, at which SBA may charge a Participant Fee. Assistance for purposes of Fee Based SBA-Sponsored Activity does not include grant or any other form of financial assistance. A Fee Based SBA-Sponsored Activity must be planned, conducted, controlled and sponsored solely by SBA.


(h) *Gift* (including a bequest or a device) is the voluntary transfer to SBA of something of value without the Donor receiving legal consideration.


(i) *Non-Fee Based SBA-Sponsored Activity Record* (Non-Fee Based Record) means a written document describing a Non-Fee Based SBA-Sponsored Activity which has been approved pursuant to § 106.403.


(j) *Non-Fee Based SBA-Sponsored Activity* means an activity, event, project or initiative designed to provide assistance directly to small business concerns as authorized by section 8(b)(1)(A) of the Small Business Act. Assistance for purposes of a Non-Fee Based SBA-Sponsored Activity does not include grant or any other form of financial assistance. A Non-Fee Based SBA-Sponsored Activity must be planned, conducted, controlled and sponsored solely by SBA. No fees including Participant Fees may be charged for a Non-Fee Based SBA-Sponsored Activity.


(k) *Participant Fee* means a minimal fee assessed against a person or entity that participates in a Cosponsored Activity or Fee Based SBA-Sponsored Activity and is used to cover the direct costs of such activity.


(l) *Responsible Program Official* is an SBA senior management official from the originating office who is accountable for the solicitation and/or acceptance of a Gift to the SBA; a Cosponsored Activity; a Fee Based SBA-Sponsored Activity; or a Non-Fee Based SBA-Sponsored Activity. If the originating office is a district or branch office, the Responsible Program Official is the district director or their deputy. In headquarters, the Responsible Program Official is the management board member or their deputy with responsibility for the relevant program area.




