# § 25.149   Minimum control speed.

(a) In establishing the minimum control speeds required by this section, the method used to simulate critical engine failure must represent the most critical mode of powerplant failure with respect to controllability expected in service. 


(b) V_MC_ is the calibrated airspeed at which, when the critical engine is suddenly made inoperative, it is possible to maintain control of the airplane with that engine still inoperative and maintain straight flight with an angle of bank of not more than 5 degrees.


(c) *V*_MC_ may not exceed 1.13 *V*_SR_ with—


(1) Maximum available takeoff power or thrust on the engines; 


(2) The most unfavorable center of gravity; 


(3) The airplane trimmed for takeoff; 


(4) The maximum sea level takeoff weight (or any lesser weight necessary to show *V*_MC_); 


(5) The airplane in the most critical takeoff configuration existing along the flight path after the airplane becomes airborne, except with the landing gear retracted; 


(6) The airplane airborne and the ground effect negligible; and 


(7) If applicable, the propeller of the inoperative engine—


(i) Windmilling; 


(ii) In the most probable position for the specific design of the propeller control; or 


(iii) Feathered, if the airplane has an automatic feathering device acceptable for showing compliance with the climb requirements of § 25.121. 


(d) The rudder forces required to maintain control at *V*_MC_ may not exceed 150 pounds nor may it be necessary to reduce power or thrust of the operative engines. During recovery, the airplane may not assume any dangerous attitude or require exceptional piloting skill, alertness, or strength to prevent a heading change of more than 20 degrees. 


(e) V_MCG_, the minimum control speed on the ground, is the calibrated airspeed during the takeoff run at which, when the critical engine is suddenly made inoperative, it is possible to maintain control of the airplane using the rudder control alone (without the use of nosewheel steering), as limited by 150 pounds of force, and the lateral control to the extent of keeping the wings level to enable the takeoff to be safely continued using normal piloting skill. In the determination of V_MCG_, assuming that the path of the airplane accelerating with all engines operating is along the centerline of the runway, its path from the point at which the critical engine is made inoperative to the point at which recovery to a direction parallel to the centerline is completed may not deviate more than 30 feet laterally from the centerline at any point. V_MCG_ must be established with—


(1) The airplane in each takeoff configuration or, at the option of the applicant, in the most critical takeoff configuration; 


(2) Maximum available takeoff power or thrust on the operating engines; 


(3) The most unfavorable center of gravity; 


(4) The airplane trimmed for takeoff; and 


(5) The most unfavorable weight in the range of takeoff weights. 


(f) V_MCL_, the minimum control speed during approach and landing with all engines operating, is the calibrated airspeed at which, when the critical engine is suddenly made inoperative, it is possible to maintain control of the airplane with that engine still inoperative, and maintain straight flight with an angle of bank of not more than 5 degrees. V_MCL_ must be established with— 


(1) The airplane in the most critical configuration (or, at the option of the applicant, each configuration) for approach and landing with all engines operating;


(2) The most unfavorable center of gravity;


(3) The airplane trimmed for approach with all engines operating;


(4) The most favorable weight, or, at the option of the applicant, as a function of weight;


(5) For propeller airplanes, the propeller of the inoperative engine in the position it achieves without pilot action, assuming the engine fails while at the power or thrust necessary to maintain a three degree approach path angle; and


(6) Go-around power or thrust setting on the operating engine(s).


(g) For airplanes with three or more engines, V_MCL-2_, the minimum control speed during approach and landing with one critical engine inoperative, is the calibrated airspeed at which, when a second critical engine is suddenly made inoperative, it is possible to maintain control of the airplane with both engines still inoperative, and maintain straight flight with an angle of bank of not more than 5 degrees. V_MCL-2_ must be established with—


(1) The airplane in the most critical configuration (or, at the option of the applicant, each configuration) for approach and landing with one critical engine inoperative;


(2) The most unfavorable center of gravity;


(3) The airplane trimmed for approach with one critical engine inoperative;


(4) The most unfavorable weight, or, at the option of the applicant, as a function of weight;


(5) For propeller airplanes, the propeller of the more critical inoperative engine in the position it achieves without pilot action, assuming the engine fails while at the power or thrust necessary to maintain a three degree approach path angle, and the propeller of the other inoperative engine feathered;


(6) The power or thrust on the operating engine(s) necessary to maintain an approach path angle of three degrees when one critical engine is inoperative; and


(7) The power or thrust on the operating engine(s) rapidly changed, immediately after the second critical engine is made inoperative, from the power or thrust prescribed in paragraph (g)(6) of this section to—


(i) Minimum power or thrust; and


(ii) Go-around power or thrust setting.


(h) In demonstrations of V_MCL_ and V_MCL-2_—


(1) The rudder force may not exceed 150 pounds;


(2) The airplane may not exhibit hazardous flight characteristics or require exceptional piloting skill, alertness, or strength;


(3) Lateral control must be sufficient to roll the airplane, from an initial condition of steady flight, through an angle of 20 degrees in the direction necessary to initiate a turn away from the inoperative engine(s), in not more than 5 seconds; and


(4) For propeller airplanes, hazardous flight characteristics must not be exhibited due to any propeller position achieved when the engine fails or during any likely subsequent movements of the engine or propeller controls.



---

[N] [Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-42, 43 FR 2321, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29774, July 20, 1990; 55 FR 37607, Sept. 12, 1990; Amdt. 25-84, 60 FR 30749, June 9, 1995; Amdt. 25-108, 67 FR 70827, Nov. 26, 2002]




