# § 385.102   Definitions (Rule 102).

For purposes of this part—


(a) *Decisional authority* means the Commission or Commission employee that, at the time for decision on a question, has authority or responsibility under this chapter to decide that particular question.


(b) *Participant* means:


(1) Any party; or


(2) Any employee of the Commission assigned to present the position of the Commission staff in a proceeding before the Commission.


(c) *Party* means, with respect to a proceeding:


(1) A person filing any application, petition, tariff or rate filing, complaint, or any protest under section 19a(i) of the Interstate Commerce Act (49 U.S.C. 19a(i));


(2) Any respondent to a proceeding; or


(3) Any person whose intervention in a proceeding is effective under Rule 214.


(d) *Person* means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, joint stock company, public trust, an organized group of persons, whether incorporated or not, a receiver or trustee of the foregoing, a municipality, including a city, county, or any other political subdivision of a State, a State, the District of Columbia, any territory of the United States or any agency of any of the foregoing, any agency, authority, or instrumentality of the United States (other than the Commission), or any corporation which is owned directly or indirectly by the United States, or any officer, agent, or employee of any of the foregoing acting as such in the course of his or her official duty. The term also includes a foreign government or any agency, authority, or instrumentality thereof.


(e) *Presiding officer* means:


(1) With respect to any proceeding set for hearing under subpart E of this part, one or more Members of the Commission, or any administrative law judge, designated to preside at such hearing, or, if no Commissioner or administrative law judge is designated, the Chief Administrative Law Judge; or 


(2) With respect to any proceeding not set for hearing under subpart E, any employee designated by rule or order to conduct the proceeding.


(f) *Respondent* means any person:


(1) To whom an order to show cause or notice of tariff or rate examination is issued by the Commission;


(2) Against whom a complaint is directed; or


(3) Designated as a respondent by the Commission or by the terms of this chapter.



---

[N] [Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 606, 64 FR 44405, Aug. 16, 1999]




