# ยง 305.6   Allowable methods of procurement for construction services.

(a) Recipients shall seek EDA's prior written approval to use alternate construction procurement methods to the traditional design/bid/build procedures (including lump sum or unit price-type construction contracts). These alternate methods may include design/build, construction management at risk, and force account. If an alternate method is used, the Recipient shall submit to EDA for approval a construction services procurement plan and the Recipient must use a design professional to oversee the process. The Recipient shall submit the plan to EDA prior to advertisement for bids and shall include the following, as applicable:


(1) Justification for the proposed method for procurement of construction services, including a brief analysis of the appropriateness and benefits of using the method to successfully execute the Project and the Recipient's experience in using the method;

(2) The scope of work with cost estimates and schedules;


(3) A copy of the proposed construction contract;


(4) The name and qualifications of the selected design professional; and


(5) Procedures to be used to ensure full and open competition, including the selection criteria.


(b) For all procurement methods, the Recipient must comply with the procedures and standards set forth in 2 CFR part 200.



---

[N] [71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 62866, Oct. 22, 2008; 79 FR 76131, Dec. 19, 2014; 82 FR 57054, Dec. 1, 2017]




