# ยง 49.4261-2   Application of tax.

(a) *Tax on total amount paid.* The tax imposed by section 4261(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) is measured by the total amount paid for taxable transportation, whether paid in cash or in kind.


(b) *Tax on transportation of each person.* The taxes imposed by section 4261(b) and (c) of the Code are head taxes and, therefore, apply on a per-passenger basis. The taxes apply to each passenger for whom an amount is paid, regardless of whether the payment is made as a single lump sum or is made individually for each passenger. In the case of charter flights for which a fixed amount is paid, the section 4261(b) and (c) taxes are computed by multiplying the applicable rate of tax by the number of passengers transported on the aircraft.


(c) *Charges for nontransportation services.* Where a payment covers charges for nontransportation services as well as for transportation of a person, such as charges for meals, hotel accommodations, etc., the charges for the nontransportation services may be excluded in computing the tax payable with respect to such payment, provided such charges are separable and are shown in the exact amounts thereof in the records pertaining to the transportation charge. If the charges for nontransportation services are not separable from the charge for transportatinon of the person, the tax must be computed upon the full amount of the payment.


(d) *Applicability date.* Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section apply to amounts paid on and after January 19, 2021. For rules that apply before that date, *see* 26 CFR part 49, revised as of April 1, 2020.



---

[N] [T.D. 6430, 24 FR 9665, Dec. 3, 1959, as amended by T.D. 6518, 25 FR 13134, Dec. 21, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6618, 27 FR 11222, Nov. 14, 1962; T.D. 9948, 86 FR 5001, Jan. 19, 2021]




