# ยง 11.4   Purpose and scope.

(a) *Purpose.* The purpose of this subpart is to implement 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 31 U.S.C. 3716, which authorize the collection by salary or administrative offset of debts owed by persons, organizations, or entities to the federal government. This subpart is consistent with the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) regulations on salary offset, codified at 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, and with regulations on administrative offset contained within the Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS), 31 CFR part 901.


(b) *Scope.* (1) This subpart establishes Departmental procedures for the collection of certain debts owed the government.


(2) This subpart applies to collections by the Department from:


(i) Federal employees who are indebted to the Department;


(ii) Employees of the Department who are indebted to other agencies; and


(iii) Other persons, organizations, or entities that are indebted to the Department.


(3) This subpart does not apply:


(i) To debts or claims arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 *et seq.*), the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301 *et seq.*), or the tariff laws of the United States;


(ii) To a situation to which the Contract Disputes Act (41 U.S.C. 601 *et seq.*) applies; or 


(iii) In the case where collection of a debt is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute. The provisions of ยง 11.8 of this subpart do not apply to salary offset to recover travel advances under 5 U.S.C. 5705 or employee training expenses under 5 U.S.C. 4108.


(4) Nothing in this subpart precludes the compromise, suspension, or termination of collection actions where appropriate under the FCCS.


(5) This subpart does not govern debt collection procedures implemented by other agencies.



---

[N] [Order No. 1625-92, 57 FR 44107, Sept. 24, 1992, as amended by Order No. 3089-2009, 74 FR 35117, July 20, 2009; AG Order 3689-2016, 81 FR 43944, July 6, 2016]




