# § 304.3   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this program:


(a) *Academic year* means—


(1) A full-time course of study—


(i) Taken for a period totaling at least nine months; or


(ii) Taken for the equivalent of at least two semesters, two trimesters, or three quarters; or


(2) For a part-time scholar, the accumulation of periods of part-time courses of study that is equivalent to an “academic year” under paragraph (a)(1) of this definition.


(b) *Act* means the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, as amended, 20 U.S.C. 1400 *et seq.*

(c) *Early intervention services* means early intervention services as defined in section 632(4) of the Act and includes early intervention services to infants and toddlers with disabilities, and as applicable, to infants and toddlers at risk for disabilities under sections 632(1) and 632(5)(b) of the Act.


(d) *Full-time,* for purposes of determining whether an individual is employed full-time in accordance with § 304.30 means a full-time position as defined by the individual's employer or by the agencies served by the individual.


(e) *Related services* means related services as defined in section 602(26) of the Act.


(f) *Repayment* means monetary reimbursement of scholarship assistance in lieu of completion of a service obligation.


(g) *Scholar* means an individual who is pursuing a degree, license, endorsement, or certification related to special education, related services, or early intervention services and who receives scholarship assistance under section 662 of the Act.


(h) *Scholarship* means financial assistance to a scholar for training under the program and includes all disbursements or credits for tuition, fees, stipends, books, and travel in conjunction with training assignments.


(i) *Service obligation* means a scholar's employment obligation, as described in section 662(h) of the Act and § 304.30.


(j) *Special education* means special education as defined in section 602(29) of the Act.


