# § 226.25   Other provisions.

(a) *Grant closeout procedures.* Grant closeout procedures for the Program shall be in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, as applicable.


(b) *State requirements.* Nothing contained in this part shall prevent a State agency from imposing additional requirements for participation in the Program which are not inconsistent with the provisions of this part; however, any additional requirements shall be approved by FNSRO and may not deny the Program to an eligible institution.


(c) *Value of assistance.* The value of assistance to participants under the Program shall not be considered to be income or resources for any purposes under any Federal or State laws, including, but not limited to laws relating to taxation, welfare, and public assistance programs.


(d) *Maintenance of effort.* Expenditure of funds from State and local sources for the maintenance of food programs for children shall not be diminished as a result of funds received under the Act.


(e) *Fraud penalty.* Whoever embezzles, willfully misapplies, steals, or obtains by fraud any funds, assets, or property that are the subject of a grant or other form of assistance under this part, whether received directly or indirectly from the Department or whoever receives, conceals, or retains such funds, assets, or property to his use or gain, knowing such funds, assets, or property have been embezzled, willfully misapplied, stolen, or obtained by fraud shall, if such funds, assets, or property are of the value of $100 or more, be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than five years, or both, or, if such funds, assets, or property are of value of less than $100, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.


(f) *Claims adjustment authority.* The Secretary shall have the authority to determine the amount of, to settle, and to adjust any claim arising under the Program, and to compromise or deny such claim or any part thereof. The Secretary shall also have the authority to waive such claims if the Secretary determines that to do so would serve the purposes of the program. This provision shall not diminish the authority of the Attorney General of the United States under section 516 of title 28, U.S. Code, to conduct litigation on behalf of the United States.


(g) *Data collection related to organizations.* (1) Each State agency must collect data related to institutions that have an agreement with the State agency to participate in the program for each of Federal fiscal years 2006 through 2009, including those institutions that participated only for part of the fiscal year. Such data shall include:


(i) The name of each institution;


(ii) The city in which each participating institution was headquartered and the name of the state;


(iii) The amount of funds provided to the participating organization, i.e., the sum of the amount of federal funds reimbursed for operating and, where applicable, administrative costs; and


(iv) The type of participating organization, e.g., government agency, educational institution, for-profit organization, non-profit organization/secular, non-profit organization/faith-based, and “other.”


(2) On or before August 31, 2007, and each subsequent year through 2010, State agencies must report to FNS data as specified in paragraph (g)(1) of this section for the prior Federal fiscal year. State agencies must submit this data in a format designated by FNS.


(h) *Program evaluations.* States, State agencies, institutions, facilities and contractors must cooperate in studies and evaluations conducted by or on behalf of the Department, related to programs authorized under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966.


(i) *Drinking water.* A child care institution or facility must offer and make potable drinking water available to children throughout the day.


(j) *Fines.* (1) An institution that is a school food authority may be subject to fines. The State agency may establish an assessment when it has determined that the institution or its facility has:


(i) Failed to correct severe mismanagement of the Program;


(ii) Disregarded a Program requirement of which the institution or its facility had been informed; or


(iii) Failed to correct repeated violations of Program requirements.


(2) FNS may direct the State agency to establish a fine against any institution when it has determined that the institution or its facility has committed one or more acts under paragraph (j)(1) of this section.


(3) Funds used to pay a fine established under this paragraph must be derived from non-Federal sources. In calculating an assessment, the State agency must calculate the fine based on the amount of Program reimbursement earned by the institution or its facility for the most recent fiscal year for which full year data is available, provided that the fine does not exceed the equivalent of:


(i) For the first fine, 1 percent of the amount of meal reimbursement earned for the fiscal year;


(ii) For the second fine, 5 percent of the amount of meal reimbursement earned for the fiscal year; and


(iii) For the third or subsequent fine, 10 percent of the amount of meal reimbursement earned for the fiscal year.


(4) The State agency must inform FNS at least 30 days prior to establishing the fine under this paragraph. The State agency must send the institution written notification of the fine established under this paragraph and provide a copy of the notification to FNS. The notification must:


(i) Specify the violations or actions which constitute the basis for the fine and indicate the amount of the fine;


(ii) Inform the institution that it may appeal the fine and advise the institution of the appeal procedures established under § 226.6(k);


(iii) Indicate the effective date and payment procedures should the institution not exercise its right to appeal within the specified timeframe.


(5) Any institution subject to a fine under paragraph (j)(1) of this section may appeal the State agency's determination. In appealing a fine, the institution must submit to the State agency any pertinent information, explanation, or evidence addressing the Program violations identified by the State agency. Any institution seeking to appeal the State agency determination must follow State agency appeal procedures.


(6) The decision of the State agency review official is final and not subject to further administrative or judicial review. Failure to pay a fine established under this paragraph may be grounds for suspension or termination.


(7) Money received by the State agency as a result of a fine established under this paragraph against an institution and any interest charged in the collection of these fines must be remitted to FNS, and then remitted to the United States Treasury.



---

[N] [47 FR 36527, Aug. 20, 1982, as amended at 53 FR 52597, Dec. 28, 1988; 54 FR 13049, Mar. 30, 1989; 69 FR 53547, Sept. 1, 2004; 71 FR 39519, July 13, 2006; 72 FR 24183, May 2, 2007; 76 FR 37982, June 29, 2011; 81 FR 24383, Apr. 25, 2016; 81 FR 66492, Sept. 28, 2016; 88 FR 57858, Aug. 23, 2023]




