# ยง 3000.110   Processing fees on a case-by-case basis.

(a) Fees in this subchapter are designated either as case-by-case fees or as fixed fees. The fixed fees are established in this subchapter for specified types of documents. However, if the BLM decides at any time that a particular document designated for a fixed fee will have a unique processing cost, such as the preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement, the BLM may set the fee under the case-by-case procedures in this section.


(b) For case-by-case fees, the BLM measures the ongoing processing cost for each individual document and considers the factors in section 304(b) of FLPMA on a case-by-case basis according to the following procedures:


(1) The applicant may request the BLM's approval to do all or part of any study or other activity according to standards the BLM specifies, thereby reducing the BLM's costs for processing the document, in accordance with all other applicable laws and regulations.


(2) Before performing any case processing, the BLM will give the applicant a written estimate of the proposed fee for reasonable processing costs after the BLM considers the FLPMA section 304(b) factors.


(3) The applicant may comment on the proposed fee.


(4) The BLM will then give the applicant the final estimate of the processing fee amount after considering the applicant's comments and any BLM-approved work that the applicant will do.


(i) If the BLM encounters higher or lower processing costs than anticipated, the BLM will re-estimate the reasonable processing costs following the procedure in *paragraphs (b)(1) through (4)* of this section, but the BLM will not stop ongoing processing unless the applicant does not pay in accordance with *paragraph (b)(5)* of this section.


(ii) If the fee the applicant would pay under this *paragraph (b)(4)* is less than the BLM's actual costs as a result of consideration of the FLPMA section 304(b) factors, and the BLM is not able to process the document promptly because of the unavailability of funding or other resources, the applicant will have the option to pay the BLM's actual costs to process the document.


(iii) Once processing is complete, the BLM will refund to the applicant any money that the BLM did not spend on processing costs.


(5)(i) The BLM will periodically estimate what its reasonable processing costs will be for a specific period and will bill the applicant for that period. Payment is due to the BLM 30 days after the applicant receives its bill. The BLM will stop processing the document if the applicant does not pay the bill by the date payment is due.


(ii) If a periodic payment turns out to be more or less than the BLM's reasonable processing costs for the period, the BLM will adjust the next billing accordingly or make a refund. Do not deduct any amount from a payment without the BLM's prior written approval.


(6) The applicant must pay the entire fee before the BLM will issue the final document.


(7) The applicant may appeal the BLM's estimated processing costs in accordance with the regulations in 43 CFR part 4, subpart E. The applicant may also appeal any determination the BLM makes under *paragraph (a)* of this section that a document designated for a fixed fee will be processed as a case-by-case fee. The BLM will not process the document further until the appeal is resolved, in accordance with *paragraph (b)(5)(i)* of this section, unless the applicant pays the fee under protest while the appeal is pending. If the appeal results in a decision changing the proposed fee, the BLM will adjust the fee in accordance with *paragraph (b)(5)(ii)* of this section.






