# § 2606.301   Requests to amend records.

(a) *Amendment request.* A data subject seeking to amend a record or records that pertain to him in a system of records must submit his request in writing in accordance with the following procedures, unless this requirement is waived by the appropriate system manager. Records not subject to the Privacy Act will not be amended in accordance with these provisions. 


(b) *Addresses*—(1) *Records in an OGE Governmentwide system of records.* A request to amend a record in an OGE Governmentwide system of records should be sent to the appropriate system manager as follows: 


(i) *Records filed directly with OGE by non-OGE employees:* The Deputy Director, Office of Agency Programs, Office of Government Ethics, Suite 500, 1201 New York Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20005-3917; 


(ii) *Records filed with a Designated Agency Ethics Official (DAEO) or the head of a department or agency:* The DAEO at the department or agency concerned; or 


(iii) *Records filed with the Federal Election Commission by candidates for President or Vice President:* The General Counsel, Office of General Counsel, Federal Election Commission, 999 E Street, NW., Washington, DC 20463.


(2) *Records in an OGE internal system of records.* A request to amend a record in an OGE internal system of records should include the words “Privacy Act Amendment Request” on both the envelope and at the top of the request letter, and should be sent to the Deputy Director, Office of Administration and Information Management, Office of Government Ethics, Suite 500, 1201 New York Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20005-3917.


(c) *Contents of request.* (1) A request to amend a record in an OGE Governmentwide system of records or an OGE internal system of records should include the words “Privacy Act Amendment Request” on both the envelope and at the top of the request letter.


(2) The name of the system of records and a brief description of the record(s) proposed for amendment must be included in any request for amendment. In the event the request to amend the record(s) is the result of the data subject's having gained access to the record(s) in accordance with the provisions concerning access to records as set in subpart B of this part, copies of previous correspondence between the requester and OGE or the agency will serve in lieu of a separate description of the record.


(3) The exact portion of the record(s) the data subject seeks to have amended should be indicated clearly. If possible, proposed alternative language should be set forth, or, at a minimum, the reasons why the data subject believes his record is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete should be set forth with enough particularity to permit OGE or the other agency concerned not only to understand the data subject's basis for the request, but also to make an appropriate amendment to the record.


(d) *Burden of proof.* The data subject has the burden of proof when seeking the amendment of a record. The data subject must furnish sufficient facts to persuade the appropriate system manager of the inaccuracy, irrelevance, untimeliness, or incompleteness of the record.


(e) *Identification requirement.* When the data subject's identity has been previously verified pursuant to § 2606.203, further verification of identity is not required as long as the communication does not suggest a need for verification. If the data subject's identity has not been previously verified, the appropriate system manager may require identification validation as described in § 2606.203.




