# 38.101   General.

(a) The Federal Supply Schedule program, pursuant to 41 U.S.C. 152(3), provides Federal agencies with a simplified process of acquiring commercial supplies and commercial services in varying quantities while obtaining volume discounts. Indefinite-delivery contracts are awarded using competitive procedures to firms. The firms provide supplies and services at stated prices for given periods of time, for delivery within a stated geographic area such as the 48 contiguous states, the District of Columbia, Alaska, Hawaii, and overseas. The schedule contracting office issues Federal Supply Schedule publications that contain a general overview of the Federal Supply Schedule (FSS) program and address pertinent topics.


(b) Each schedule identifies agencies that are required to use the contracts as primary sources of supply. 


(c) Federal agencies not identified in the schedules as mandatory users may issue orders under the schedules. Contractors are encouraged to accept the orders. 


(d) Although GSA awards most Federal Supply Schedule contracts, it may authorize other agencies to award schedule contracts and publish schedules. For example, the Department of Veterans Affairs awards schedule contracts for certain medical and nonperishable subsistence items. 


(e) When establishing Federal Supply Schedules, GSA, or an agency delegated that authority, is responsible for complying with all applicable statutory and regulatory requirements (*e.g.,* Parts 5, 6, and 19). The requirements of parts 5, 6, and 19 apply at the acquisition planning stage prior to issuing the schedule solicitation and, generally, do not apply to orders and BPAs placed under resulting schedule contracts except see 8.404 and 8.405-5.



---

[N] [65 FR 36025, June 6, 2000, as amended at 69 FR 34239, June 18, 2004; 76 FR 14559, Mar. 16, 2011; 76 FR 68036, Nov. 2, 2011; 79 FR 24213, Apr. 29, 2014; 86 FR 61030, Nov. 4, 2021]




