# § 1407.3   Providing performance and technical data to purchasers by labeling.

(a) *Notice to purchasers.* Manufacturers of portable generators shall give notification of performance and technical data related to performance and safety to prospective purchasers of such products at the time of original purchase and to the first purchaser of such product for purposes other than resale, in the manner set forth below.


(1) *On-product label.* The CO poisoning hazard label shown in fig. 1 shall be used on the product. A different representation of the generator may be substituted for accuracy if consumers are more likely to recognize the substituted representation as the generator to which this label is affixed. Alternate-language versions of this label may appear on the product in addition to the label specified in figure 1. If the product label is also provided by the manufacturer in additional language(s), it shall appear adjacent to or below the English-language version of the product label, and shall be no larger than the English-language version of the label. Versions of the product label that are in a language other than English may appear without the pictograms that appear in the English-language versions.


(i) The signal word “DANGER” shall be in letters not less than 0.15 inch (3.8 mm) high. The remaining text shall be in type whose uppercase letters are not less than 0.1 inch (2.5 mm) high.


(ii) The signal word “DANGER” shall appear in white letters on a safety red background. The safety alert symbol shown in fig. 2 shall appear immediately before and next to the signal word and be no smaller than the height of the signal word with the base of the triangle on the same horizontal line as the base of the signal word. The solid portion of the triangle (within the lines of the triangle, around the exclamation mark) shall be white and the exclamation mark shall be safety red. The prohibition circle-slash symbols shall be opaque.


(iii) The on-product hazard label shown in fig. 1 shall be located:


(A) On a part of the portable generator that cannot be removed without the use of tools, and


(B) On a location that is prominent and conspicuous to an operator while performing at least two of the following actions: Filling the fuel tank, accessing the receptacle panel, and starting the engine.


(iv) The on-product hazard label shown in fig. 1 shall be designed to remain permanently affixed, intact, legible, and largely unfaded in the environment in which the product is expected to be operated and stored over the life of the product.


(2) *Carbon monoxide poisoning hazard label for package.* The CO poisoning hazard label shown in fig. 3 shall be affixed to the principal display panel(s) of the package, as well as the surface containing the top flaps of the package. The principal display panel(s) of the package is the portion(s) of the outer packaging that is designed to be most prominently displayed, shown, presented, or examined under conditions of retail sale. Any panel of the package that includes text in a language other than English shall also include a CO poisoning hazard label in that language. Alternate-language versions of the label, in addition to the label specified in figure 3, may also appear on the top flaps of the package as long as they are physically separate from one another. A different representation of the generator may be substituted for accuracy if consumers are more likely to recognize the substituted representation as the generator contained within the packaging.


(i) The signal word “DANGER” shall be in letters not less than 0.15 inch (3.8 mm) high. The remaining text shall be in type whose uppercase letters are not less than 0.1 inch (2.5 mm) high.


(ii) The signal word “DANGER” shall appear in white letters on a safety red background. The safety alert symbol shown in fig. 2 shall appear immediately before and next to the signal word and be no smaller than the height of the signal word with the base of the triangle on the same horizontal line as the base of the signal word. The solid portion of the triangle (within the lines of the triangle, around the exclamation mark) shall be white and the exclamation mark shall be safety red. The prohibition circle-slash symbols shall be opaque.


(b) [Reserved] 



---

[N] [72 FR 1450, Jan. 12, 2007, as amended at 72 FR 2184, Jan. 18, 2007]





