# § 1.1503(d)-1   Definitions, special rules, and filings.

(a) *In general.* This section and §§ 1.1503(d)-2 through 1.1503(d)-8 provide rules concerning the determination and use of dual consolidated losses pursuant to section 1503(d). Paragraph (b) of this section provides definitions that apply for purposes of this section and §§ 1.1503(d)-2 through 1.1503(d)-8. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules for a domestic consenting corporation. Paragraph (d) of this section provides rules for disregarded payment losses. Paragraph (e) of this section provides relief for certain compliance failures due to reasonable cause, and a signature requirement for filings. Paragraph (f) of this section provides an anti-avoidance rule.


(b) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply for purposes of this section and §§ 1.1503(d)-2 through 1.1503(d)-8:


(1) *Domestic corporation* means an entity classified as a domestic corporation under section 7701(a)(3) and (4) or otherwise treated as a domestic corporation by the Internal Revenue Code, including, but not limited to, sections 269B, 953(d), 1504(d), and 7874. However, solely for purposes of section 1503(d), the term domestic corporation shall not include a regulated investment company as defined in section 851, a real estate investment trust as defined in section 856, or an S corporation as defined in section 1361.


(2) *Dual resident corporation* means—


(i) A domestic corporation that is subject to an income tax of a foreign country on its worldwide income or on a residence basis. A corporation is taxed on a residence basis if it is taxed as a resident under the laws of the foreign country;


(ii) A foreign insurance company that makes an election to be treated as a domestic corporation pursuant to section 953(d) and is treated as a member of an affiliated group for purposes of chapter 6, even if such company is not subject to an income tax of a foreign country on its worldwide income or on a residence basis. See section 953(d)(3); and


(iii) A domestic consenting corporation (as defined in § 301.7701-3(c)(3)(i) of this chapter), as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)(41) for an example illustrating the application of section 1503(d) to a domestic consenting corporation.


(3) *Hybrid entity* means an entity that is not taxable as an association for Federal tax purposes, but is subject to an income tax of a foreign country as a corporation (or otherwise at the entity level) either on its worldwide income or on a residence basis.


(4) *Separate unit*—(i) *In general.* The term *separate unit* means either of the following that is carried on or owned, as applicable, directly or indirectly, by a domestic corporation (including a dual resident corporation):


(A) Except to the extent provided in paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section, a business operation outside the United States that, if carried on by a U.S. person, would constitute a foreign branch as defined in § 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1) (foreign branch separate unit).


(B) An interest in a hybrid entity (hybrid entity separate unit).


(ii) *Separate unit combination rule.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, if a domestic owner, or two or more domestic owners that are members of the same consolidated group, have two or more separate units (individual separate units), then all such individual separate units that are located (in the case of a foreign branch separate unit) or subject to an income tax either on their worldwide income or on a residence basis (in the case of a hybrid entity an interest in which is a hybrid entity separate unit) in the same foreign country shall be treated as one separate unit (combined separate unit). See § 1.1503(d)-7(c) *Example 1.* Separate units of a foreign insurance company that is a dual resident corporation under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, however, shall not be combined with separate units of any other domestic corporation. Except as specifically provided in this section or §§ 1.1503(d)-2 through 1.1503(d)-8, any individual separate unit composing a combined separate unit loses its character as an individual separate unit.


(iii) *Business operations that do not constitute a permanent establishment.* A business operation carried on by a domestic corporation that is not a dual resident corporation shall not constitute a foreign branch separate unit, provided the business operation:


(A) Is not carried on indirectly through a hybrid entity or a transparent entity; and


(B) Is conducted in a country with which the United States has entered into an income tax convention and is not treated as a permanent establishment pursuant to that convention, or is not otherwise subject to tax on a net basis under that convention. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c) *Example 2.*

(iv) *Foreign branch separate units held by dual resident corporations or hybrid entities in the same foreign country.* A foreign branch separate unit may be owned by a dual resident corporation, or through a hybrid entity (an interest in which is a separate unit), even where the foreign branch is located in the same foreign country that subjects such dual resident corporation or hybrid entity to tax on its worldwide income or on a residence basis. But see the rule under paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section that combines certain same-country hybrid entity separate units and foreign branch separate units. See also § 1.1503(d)-7(c) *Example 1.*

(5) *Dual consolidated loss* means—


(i) In the case of a dual resident corporation, and except to the extent provided in § 1.1503(d)-5(b), the net operating loss (as defined in section 172(c) and the related regulations) incurred in a year in which the corporation is a dual resident corporation; and


(ii) In the case of a separate unit, the net loss attributable to the separate unit under § 1.1503(d)-5(c) through (e).


(6) *Subject to tax.* For purposes of determining whether a domestic corporation or another entity is subject to an income tax of a foreign country on its income, the fact that it has no actual income tax liability to the foreign country for a particular taxable year shall not be taken into account.


(7) *Foreign country* includes any U.S. territory (as defined in § 1.1502-1(l)).


(8) *Consolidated group* has the meaning provided in § 1.1502-1(h).


(9) *Domestic owner* means—


(i) A domestic corporation (including a dual resident corporation) that has one or more separate units or interests in a transparent entity; and


(ii) In the case of a combined separate unit, a domestic corporation (including a dual resident corporation) that has one or more individual separate units that are treated as part of the combined separate unit under paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section.


(10) *Affiliated dual resident corporation* and *affiliated domestic owner* mean a dual resident corporation and a domestic owner, respectively, that is a member of a consolidated group.


(11) *Unaffiliated dual resident corporation*, *unaffiliated domestic corporation*, and *unaffiliated domestic owner* mean a dual resident corporation, domestic corporation, and domestic owner, respectively, that is not a member of a consolidated group.


(12) *Domestic affiliate* means—


(i) A member of an affiliated group, without regard to the exceptions contained in section 1504(b) (other than section 1504(b)(3)) relating to includible corporations;


(ii) A domestic owner;


(iii) A separate unit; or


(iv) An interest in a transparent entity, as defined in paragraph (b)(16) of this section.


(13) *Domestic use.* See § 1.1503(d)-2.


(14) *Foreign use.* See § 1.1503(d)-3.


(15) *Grantor trust* means a trust, any portion of which is treated as being owned by the grantor or another person under subpart E of subchapter J of this chapter.


(16) *Transparent entity*—(i) *In general.* The term *transparent entity* means an entity described in this paragraph (b)(16) where all or a portion of its interests are owned, directly or indirectly, by a domestic corporation. An entity is described in this paragraph (b)(16) if the entity—


(A) Is not taxable as an association for Federal tax purposes;


(B) Is not subject to income tax in a foreign country as a corporation (or otherwise at the entity level) either on its worldwide income or on a residence basis; and


(C) Is not a pass-through entity under the laws of the applicable foreign country. For purposes of applying the preceding sentence, the applicable foreign country is the foreign country in which the relevant foreign branch separate unit is located, or the foreign country that subjects the relevant hybrid entity (an interest in which is a separate unit) or dual resident corporation to an income tax either on its worldwide income or on a residence basis.


(ii) *Example.* A U.S. limited liability company (LLC) does not elect to be taxed as an association for Federal tax purposes and is not subject to income tax in a foreign country as a corporation (or otherwise at the entity level) either on its worldwide income or on a residence basis. The LLC is owned by a hybrid entity (an interest in which is a separate unit) that is the relevant hybrid entity. Provided the LLC is not treated as a pass-through entity by the applicable foreign country that subjects the relevant hybrid entity to an income tax either on its worldwide income or on a residence basis, the LLC would qualify as a transparent entity. See also § 1.1503(d)-7(c) *Example 26.*

(17) *Disregarded entity* means an entity that is disregarded as an entity separate from its owner, under §§ 301.7701-1 through 301.7701-3 of this chapter, for Federal tax purposes.


(18) *Partnership* means an entity that is classified as a partnership, under §§ 301.7701-1 through 301.7701-3 of this chapter, for Federal tax purposes.


(19) *Indirectly*, when used in reference to ownership, means ownership through a partnership, a disregarded entity, or a grantor trust, regardless of whether the partnership, disregarded entity, or grantor trust is a U.S. person.


(20) *Certification period* means the period of time up to and including the fifth taxable year following the year in which the dual consolidated loss that is the subject of a domestic use agreement (as described in § 1.1503(d)-6(d)(1)) was incurred.


(c) *Treatment of domestic consenting corporation as a dual resident corporation*—(1) *Rule.* A domestic consenting corporation is treated as a dual resident corporation under paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section for a taxable year if, on any day during the taxable year, the following requirements are satisfied:


(i) Under the tax law of a foreign country where a specified foreign tax resident is tax resident, the specified foreign tax resident derives or incurs (or would derive or incur) items of income, gain, deduction, or loss of the domestic consenting corporation (because, for example, the domestic consenting corporation is fiscally transparent under such tax law).


(ii) The specified foreign tax resident bears a relationship to the domestic consenting corporation that is described in section 267(b) or 707(b). See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)(41) for an example illustrating the application of paragraph (c) of this section.


(2) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply for purposes of this paragraph (c).


(i) The term *fiscally transparent* means, with respect to a domestic consenting corporation or an intermediate entity, fiscally transparent as determined under the principles of § 1.894-1(d)(3)(ii) and (iii), without regard to whether a specified foreign tax resident is a resident of a country that has an income tax treaty with the United States.


(ii) The term *specified foreign tax resident* means a body corporate or other entity or body of persons liable to tax under the tax law of a foreign country as a resident.


(d) *Disregarded payment loss (DPL) rules*—(1) *In general.* The disregarded payment loss rules of this paragraph (d) only apply to a domestic corporation (including a dual resident corporation) that directly or indirectly owns an interest in a disregarded entity, regardless of whether the disregarded entity is domestic or foreign (such a domestic corporation, a *disregarded payment entity owner,* or *DPE owner*). If these rules apply to a DPE owner, then the DPE owner determines disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss of its disregarded payment entities (if any) described in paragraph (d)(5)(i)(A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section in accordance with paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section and, in the case of a disregarded payment loss for which a triggering event occurs under paragraph (d)(3) of this section, includes an amount equal to the DPL inclusion amount in gross income and establishes a suspended deduction in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section. The inclusion required under this paragraph (d)(1) and paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section is included in the taxable year of the DPE owner in which the triggering event occurs, and the corresponding suspended deduction under this paragraph (d)(1) and paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section is established in the subsequent taxable year of the DPE owner. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)(42) for an example illustrating the application of the disregarded payment loss rules.


(2) *DPL amounts*—(i) *DPL inclusion amount.* A *DPL inclusion amount* means, with respect to a disregarded payment loss as to which a triggering event occurs during the DPL certification period, an amount equal to the disregarded payment loss. Such amount is reduced (but not below zero) to the extent of the balance in the DPL cumulative register of the disregarded payment entity if the certification requirement under paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section is satisfied.


(ii) *Suspended deduction.* With respect to a DPL inclusion amount, a DPE owner establishes a suspended deduction in an amount equal to the DPL inclusion amount. The suspended deduction is allowed as a deduction under the principles of § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(6) by treating the suspended deduction as if it were a reconstituted net operating loss that becomes deductible only to the extent of disregarded payment income derived in the taxable year in which the suspended deduction is established or subsequent taxable years (as measured by the disregarded payment entity's DPL cumulative register), provided that the certification requirement under paragraph (d)(4)(iv) of this section is satisfied.


(iii) *DPL cumulative register.* The term *DPL cumulative register* means, with respect to the disregarded payment entity, an account the balance of which is computed at the end of each foreign taxable year of the entity, and which is—


(A) Increased by the amount of disregarded payment income of the entity for the foreign taxable year, and then, after determining the DPL inclusion amount for the year,


(B) Decreased by the amount of the cumulative register balance that is used under paragraph (d)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(iv) *Character and source*—(A) *DPL inclusion amount.* A DPE owner's income inclusion for a DPL inclusion amount is, for all U.S. tax purposes, treated as ordinary income, and characterized and sourced, including for purposes of sections 904(d) and 907, in the same manner as if the disregarded payment entity were a foreign corporation and the amount were interest or royalty income paid by the foreign corporation (taking into account, for example, section 904(d)(3) if such foreign corporation would be a controlled foreign corporation). For these purposes, the DPL inclusion amount is considered comprised of interest or royalty income based on the proportion of interest or royalty deductions taken into account, respectively, in computing the disregarded payment loss relative to all the deductions taken into account in computing the disregarded payment loss. Further, for these purposes, a deduction attributable to a structured payment or a deduction with respect to equity is treated as an interest deduction.


(B) *Suspended deduction.* A DPE owner's deduction with respect to a suspended deduction is, for all U.S. tax purposes, characterized and sourced in the same manner as the income for the DPL inclusion amount to which it relates. If the income from the DPL inclusion amount is assigned to multiple statutory and residual groupings, the deduction is allocated and apportioned to each grouping in the same proportions as the DPL inclusion amount.


(3) *Triggering events.* An event described in paragraph (d)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section is a triggering event with respect to a disregarded payment loss of a disregarded payment entity.


(i) *Foreign use.* A foreign use of the disregarded payment loss. For this purpose, a foreign use is determined under the principles of § 1.1503(d)-3 (including the exceptions in § 1.1503(d)-3(c)), by treating the disregarded payment loss as a dual consolidated loss, treating the disregarded payment entity as a separate unit (or, in the case of a disregarded payment entity that is a dual resident corporation, by treating the disregarded payment entity as a dual resident corporation), and, in § 1.1503(d)-3(a)(1)(i) and (ii), only taking into account a person that is related to the DPE owner of the disregarded payment entity. Thus, for example, a foreign use of a disregarded payment loss occurs if, under a relevant foreign tax law, any portion of the foreign law deduction taken into account in computing the disregarded payment loss is made available (including by reason of a foreign consolidation regime or similar regime, or a sale, merger, or similar transaction) to offset an item of income that, for U.S. tax purposes, is an item of a foreign corporation, but only if such foreign corporation is related to the DPE owner of the disregarded payment entity. When applying the principles of the deemed ordering rule in § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(3), items of income or gain are taken into account only to the extent such items are described in paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(D) of this section; thus, for example, such items include items of income that are or would be taken into account in determining the amount of disregarded payment loss or disregarded payment income, and exclude items that are regarded for U.S. tax purposes.


(ii) *Failure to comply with certification requirements.* A failure by the DPE owner of the disregarded payment entity to comply with the certification requirements of paragraphs (d)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(4) *Certification requirements.* Except as otherwise provided in publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, a DPE owner of a disregarded payment entity is subject to the certification requirements of this paragraph (d)(4) with respect to a disregarded payment loss of the disregarded payment entity.


(i) For its taxable year that includes the date on which the foreign taxable year in which a disregarded payment loss is incurred ends, the DPE owner must attach with its timely filed tax return a certification labeled “Initial Disregarded Payment Loss Certification Under Section 1503(d),” which must contain—


(A) The information set forth in § 1.1503(d)-6(c)(2)(ii) (determined by substituting the phrase “disregarded payment entity” for the phrase “separate unit”);


(B) A statement of the amount of the disregarded payment loss; and


(C) A statement that a foreign use of the disregarded payment loss has not occurred during the DPL certification period.


(ii) During the DPL certification period, for each of its taxable years after the taxable year described in paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section that includes a date on which a foreign taxable year ends, the DPE owner must attach with its timely filed tax return a certification labeled “Annual Disregarded Payment Loss Certification Under Section 1503(d)” and satisfying the requirements of this paragraph (d)(4)(ii). Certifications with respect to multiple disregarded payment losses may be combined in a single certification, but each disregarded payment loss must be separately identified. To satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (d)(4)(ii), the certification must—


(A) Identify the disregarded payment loss to which it pertains by setting forth the foreign taxable year in which the disregarded payment loss was incurred and the amount of such disregarded payment loss;


(B) State that there has been no foreign use of the disregarded payment loss; and


(C) Warrant that arrangements have been made to ensure that there will be no foreign use of the disregarded payment loss and that the DPE owner will be informed of any such foreign use.


(iii) If a disregarded payment entity has a balance in its DPL cumulative register upon a DPL triggering event and the DPE owner includes in gross income a DPL inclusion amount that is less than the amount of the disregarded payment loss, the DPE owner of the disregarded payment entity must attach a statement labeled “Reduction of Disregarded Payment Loss Amount Under Section 1503(d)” to its income tax return for the taxable year in which the triggering event occurs and provide any other information as requested by the Commissioner. The statement must show the disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss of the disregarded payment entity for each foreign taxable year (other than a foreign taxable year where the entity or branch is not a disregarded payment entity) up to and including the foreign taxable year with respect to which the triggering event occurs.


(iv) If a DPE owner claims an allowed deduction with respect to a suspended deduction, the DPE owner must attach a statement labeled “Release of Suspended Deduction Under Section 1503(d)” to the income tax return for the taxable year in which the deduction is allowed and provide any other information as requested by the Commissioner, including in regulations, forms, instructions or other guidance. The statement must describe the DPE owner's DPL inclusion amount to which the suspended deduction relates and show the disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss of the disregarded payment entity for each foreign taxable year up to and including the foreign taxable year during which the deduction is allowed.


(5) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply for purposes of this paragraph (d).


(i) The term *disregarded payment entity* means, with respect to a DPE owner, any entity, foreign branch, or dual resident corporation described in paragraph (d)(5)(i)(A), (B), (C) or (D) of this section.


(A) A disregarded entity that is a foreign tax resident and related to the DPE owner, provided that the DPE owner directly or indirectly owns interests in the disregarded entity.


(B) A foreign branch of the DPE owner and a foreign branch of an entity that is related to the DPE owner and in which the DPE owner directly or indirectly owns an interest.


(C) An entity that is treated as a partnership for U.S. tax purposes that is a foreign tax resident and related to the DPE owner, provided that the DPE owner directly or indirectly owns an interest in the entity.


(D) The DPE owner itself if it is a dual resident corporation.


(ii) The terms *disregarded payment income* and *disregarded payment loss* have the meanings set forth in this paragraph (d)(5)(ii). For purposes of computing the disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss of a disregarded payment entity, a DPE owner takes into account the disregarded payment income or disregarded payments loss of each disregarded payment entity for each foreign taxable year that ends with or within its U.S. taxable year and an item is taken into account only if it gives rise to income or a deduction under the relevant foreign tax law during the portion of the foreign taxable year in which the entity or foreign branch is a disregarded payment entity; for purposes of allocating an item to a period, the principles of § 1.1502-76(b) apply. Thus, for example, if a DPE owner with a calendar U.S. taxable year becomes subject to the disregarded payment loss rules for the U.S. taxable year beginning on January 1, 2026, the disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss of a disregarded payment entity of the DPE owner with a foreign taxable year ending on June 30, 2026, excludes items allocated (under the principles of § 1.1502-76(b)) to the pre-January 1, 2026, portion of that foreign taxable year. Items taken into account in computing disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss are calculated in the currency used to determine tax under the relevant foreign tax law. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)(46) for an example illustrating items that are taken into account in determining disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss.


(A) *Disregarded payment income.* Disregarded payment income means, with respect to a disregarded payment entity and a foreign taxable year of the entity, the excess (if any) of the sum of the items described in paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(D) of this section over the sum of the items described in paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(C) of this section.


(B) *Disregarded payment loss.* Subject to the de minimis rule set forth in paragraph (d)(6)(vii) of this section, a disregarded payment loss means, with respect to a disregarded payment entity and a foreign taxable year of the entity, the excess (if any) of the sum of the items described in paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(C) of this section over the sum of the items described in paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(D) of this section.


(C) *Items of deduction.* With respect to a disregarded payment entity and a foreign taxable year of the entity, an item is described in this paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(C) to the extent that it satisfies all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (d)(5)(ii)(C)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section. In addition, an item of a disregarded payment entity described in paragraph (d)(5)(i)(A) of this section is described in this paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(C) if, under the relevant foreign tax law, it is a deduction with respect to equity (including deemed equity) allowed to the entity in such taxable year (for example, a notional interest deduction) or a deduction for an imputed interest payment with respect to a debt instrument (such as a deduction for an imputed interest payment with respect to an interest-free loan).


(*1*) Under the relevant foreign tax law, the disregarded payment entity is allowed a deduction in such taxable year for the item.


(*2*) The payment, accrual, or other transaction giving rise to the item is disregarded for U.S. tax purposes as a transaction between a disregarded entity and its tax owner or between disregarded entities with the same tax owner (for example, a payment by a disregarded entity to its tax owner or to another disregarded entity owned by its tax owner, a payment from a dual resident corporation or partnership to a disregarded entity it owns, or a payment from the home office of a foreign branch to a disregarded entity the home office owns that is attributable to the foreign branch).


(*3*) If the payment, accrual, or other transaction were regarded for U.S. tax purposes, it would be interest, a structured payment, or a royalty within the meaning of § 1.267A-5(a)(12), (b)(5)(ii), or (a)(16), respectively.


(D) *Items of income.* With respect to a disregarded payment entity and a foreign taxable year of the entity, an item is described in this paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(D) to the extent that it satisfies all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (d)(5)(ii)(D)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section.


(*1*) Under the relevant foreign tax law, the disregarded payment entity includes the item in income in such taxable year.


(*2*) The payment, accrual, or other transaction giving rise to the item is disregarded for U.S. tax purposes as a transaction between a disregarded entity and its tax owner or between disregarded entities with the same tax owner (for example, because it is a payment to a disregarded entity from the disregarded entity's tax owner or from another disregarded entity of its tax owner, a payment to a dual resident corporation or partnership from a disregarded entity it owns, or a payment from a disregarded entity to the home office of a foreign branch that is attributable to the foreign branch).


(*3*) If the payment, accrual, or other transaction were regarded for U.S. tax purposes, it would be interest, a structured payment, or a royalty with the meaning of § 1.267A-5(a)(12), (b)(5)(ii), or (a)(16), respectively.


(E) *Translation into U.S. dollars.* The amount of disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss with respect to a foreign taxable year of a disregarded payment entity is translated into U.S. dollars using the yearly average exchange rate (within the meaning of § 1.987-1(c)(2)) for that foreign taxable year.


(F) *Royalties under pre-August 6, 2024 licenses excluded.* Royalties paid or accrued pursuant to a license agreement entered into before August 6, 2024, are not taken into account when determining the amount of disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss. The preceding sentence ceases to apply with respect to any such agreement upon the significant modification of any terms of the agreement, such as a change in the licensor or licensee or a significant modification of the rights in consideration for which the royalties are paid. In such case, any amounts paid or accrued on or after the date of the significant modification are taken into account when determining the amount of disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss. Termination of a license agreement and re-entry into a license agreement between the same parties and with the same terms (other than the term governing the period covered by the agreement), an extension of the period covered by a license agreement without modification of other terms, or an alteration of a legal right or obligation that occurs by operation of the terms of the license agreement (for example, where the license agreement provides for updating the royalty based on updated transfer pricing studies), will not be considered a significant modification of the first license agreement. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(F), a combined disregarded payment entity is treated as a single licensor or licensee, as the case may be.


(iii) The term *DPL certification period* includes, with respect to a disregarded payment loss, the foreign taxable year in which the disregarded payment loss is incurred, any prior foreign taxable years, and, except as provided in paragraph (d)(6)(iii) of this section, the 60-month period following the foreign taxable year in which the disregarded payment loss is incurred.


(iv) The term *foreign branch* means a branch (within the meaning of § 1.267A-5(a)(2)) that gives rise to a taxable presence under the tax law of the foreign country where the branch is located.


(v) The term *foreign taxable year* means, with respect to a disregarded payment entity, the entity's taxable year for purposes of a relevant foreign tax law.


(vi) The term *foreign tax resident* means a tax resident (within the meaning of § 1.267A-5(a)(23)(i)) of a foreign country.


(vii) The term *related* has the meaning provided in this paragraph (d)(5)(vii). A person is related to a DPE owner if the person is a related person within the meaning of section 954(d)(3) and the regulations thereunder, determined by treating the person as the “controlled foreign corporation” referred to in that section. In addition, for purposes of determining relatedness, a disregarded entity is treated as a corporation.


(viii) The term *relevant foreign tax law* means, with respect to a disregarded payment entity, any tax law of a foreign country of which the entity is a tax resident (within the meaning of § 1.267A-5(a)(23)(i)) or, in the case of a disregarded payment entity that is a foreign branch, the tax law of the foreign country where the branch is located.


(ix) The term *DPE owner* has the meaning provided in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, and includes any successor to the corporation described paragraph (d)(1) of this section.


(6) *Special rules*—(i) *Disregarded payment entity combination rule.* For purposes of this paragraph (d), disregarded payment entities for which the relevant foreign tax law is the same (for example, because the entities are tax residents of the same foreign country) are combined and treated as a combined disregarded payment entity under the principles of paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, provided that the entities have the same foreign taxable year and are owned, or interests in which are directly or indirectly owned, either by the same DPE owner or by DPE owners that are members of the same consolidated group. However, this paragraph (d)(6)(i) does not apply with respect to a dual resident corporation treated as a disregarded payment entity pursuant to paragraph (d)(5)(i)(D) of this section. In determining the disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss of a combined disregarded payment entity, the principles of § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(ii) apply. Thus, for example, if multiple individual disregarded payment entities are treated as a combined disregarded payment entity pursuant to this paragraph (d)(6)(i), then the combined disregarded payment entity has either a single amount of disregarded payment income or a single amount of disregarded payment loss.


(ii) *Partial ownership of disregarded payment entity.* If a DPE owner of a disregarded payment entity indirectly owns through a partnership less than all the interests in that disregarded payment entity, then the rules of this paragraph (d) are applied based on the DPE owner's proportionate interest in the disregarded payment entity. In such a case, as to the DPE owner, only a proportionate share of the disregarded payment entity's items of deduction or income are taken into account in computing disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss of the entity. In addition, with respect to the disregarded payment loss as so computed, the DPE owner must comply with the certification requirements of paragraph (d)(4) of this section and, upon a triggering event, directly include in gross income an amount equal to the DPL inclusion amount.


(iii) *Termination of DPL certification period.* With respect to a disregarded payment loss of a disregarded payment entity, the DPL certification period does not include any date after the end of the DPE owner's taxable year during which the DPE owner, or a person related to the DPE owner, no longer owns directly or indirectly any of the interests in the disregarded payment entity, or, in the case of a disregarded payment entity that is a foreign branch, substantially all of the assets of the foreign branch. In such a case, the DPE owner ceases to be subject to the rules of paragraph (d) of this section with respect to the disregarded payment loss; thus, for example, after the end of such taxable year the DPE owner is not subject to the certification requirements of paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section with respect to the loss, and will not be required to include in gross income the DPL inclusion amount with respect to such loss. The DPL certification period will also terminate with respect to a disregarded payment loss upon a DPE owner's inclusion of the DPL inclusion amount attributable to the disregarded payment loss.


(iv) *Agent for a consolidated group.* If a DPE owner is a member of a consolidated group, see § 1.1502-77 for agent of the group rules (generally treating the common parent as the agent of its consolidated group).


(v) *Coordination with foreign hybrid mismatch rules.* Whether a disregarded payment entity is allowed a deduction under a relevant foreign tax law is determined with regard to hybrid mismatch rules, if any, under the relevant foreign tax law. Thus, for example, if a relevant foreign tax law denies a deduction for an item to prevent a deduction/no-inclusion outcome (that is, a payment that is deductible for the payer jurisdiction and is not included in the ordinary income of the payee), the item is not taken into account for purposes of computing the amount of disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss. For this purpose, the term *hybrid mismatch rules* has the meaning provided in § 1.267A-5(a)(10).


(vi) *DPL inclusion amount and suspended deduction not taken into account for dual consolidated loss purposes.* A DPL inclusion amount included in the gross income of a DPE owner, and any allowed amount of a suspended deduction attributable to a DPL inclusion amount, are not taken into account for purposes of determining the income or dual consolidated loss of the dual resident corporation, or the income or dual consolidated loss attributable to the separate unit, under § 1.1503(d)-5(b) or (c).


(vii) *De minimis rule.* A disregarded payment entity will be deemed to have no disregarded payment loss with respect to a foreign taxable year in which the conditions in paragraphs (d)(6)(vii)(A) and (B) of this section are satisfied.


(A) The items that compose the disregarded payment loss are incurred in connection with the conduct of an active trade or business (within the meaning of § 1.367(a)-2(d)(2) and (3), but for this purpose treating the disregarded payment entity as the foreign corporation referenced therein) carried on by the disregarded payment entity. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the determination of whether items are incurred in connection with an active trade or business is made under § 1.367(a)-2(d)(5), but for this purpose by treating the property received by the disregarded payment entity pursuant to the arrangement that gave rise to the item (such as cash or the rights to use the intangible property) as the property described in such section.


(B) The amount of the disregarded payment loss is less than the lesser of $3 million or 10 percent of the aggregate amount of all the items of the disregarded payment entity for the foreign taxable year that satisfy the condition described in paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(C)(1) of this section. For this purpose, the items of the disregarded payment entity may include, for example, items that are regarded for both U.S. and foreign tax purposes, or foreign law items that if regarded for U.S. tax purposes would not be treated as interest, a structured payment, or a royalty within the meaning of § 1.267A-5(a)(12), (b)(5)(ii), or (a)(16), respectively.


(e) *Special rules for filings.*—(1) *Reasonable cause exception.* A person that is permitted or required to file an election, agreement, statement, rebuttal, computation, or other information pursuant to this section and §§ 1.1503(d)-2 through 1.1503(d)-8, that fails to make such filing in a timely manner, shall be considered to have satisfied the timeliness requirement with respect to such filing if the person is able to demonstrate, to the Area Director, Field Examination, Small Business/Self Employed or the Director of Field Operations, Large and Mid-Size Business (Director) having jurisdiction of the taxpayer's tax return for the taxable year, that such failure was due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect. In determining whether the taxpayer has reasonable cause, the Director shall consider whether the taxpayer acted reasonably and in good faith. In general, the taxpayer must demonstrate that it exercised ordinary care and prudence in meeting its tax obligations but nonetheless did not comply with the prescribed duty within the prescribed time. Whether the taxpayer acted reasonably and in good faith will be determined after considering all the facts and circumstances. The Director shall notify the person in writing within 120 days of the filing if it is determined that the failure to comply was not due to reasonable cause, or if additional time will be needed to make such determination. For this purpose, the 120-day period shall begin on the date the taxpayer is notified in writing that the request has been received and assigned for review. If, once such period commences, the taxpayer is not again notified within 120 days, then the taxpayer shall be deemed to have established reasonable cause. The reasonable cause exception of this paragraph (d) shall only apply if, once the person becomes aware of its failure to file the election, agreement, statement, rebuttal, computation or other information in a timely manner, the person complies with the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(2) *Requirements for reasonable cause relief*—(i) *Time of submission.* Requests for reasonable cause relief will only be considered if once the person becomes aware of the failure to file the election, agreement, statement, rebuttal, computation or other information, the person attaches all the documents that should have been filed, as well as a written statement setting forth the reasons for the failure to timely comply, to an amended return that amends the return to which the documents should have been attached pursuant to the rules of this section and §§ 1.1503(d)-2 through 1.1503(d)-8.


(ii) *Notice requirement.* In addition to the requirements of paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, the taxpayer must provide a copy of the amended return and all required attachments to the Director as follows:


(A) If the taxpayer is under examination for any taxable year when the taxpayer requests relief, the taxpayer must provide a copy of the amended return and attachments to the personnel conducting the examination.


(B) If the taxpayer is not under examination for any taxable year when the taxpayer requests relief, the taxpayer must provide a copy of the amended return and attachments to the Director having jurisdiction of the taxpayer's return.


(3) *Signature requirement.* When an election, agreement, statement, rebuttal, computation, or other information is required pursuant to this section and §§ 1.1503(d)-2 through 1.1503(d)-8 to be attached to and filed by the due date (including extensions) of a U.S. tax return and signed under penalties of perjury by the person who signs the return, the attachment and filing of an unsigned copy is considered to satisfy such requirement, provided the taxpayer retains the original in its records in the manner specified by § 1.6001-1(e).


(f) *Anti-avoidance rule*—(1) *In general.* Except to the extent provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, if a transaction, series of transactions, plan, or arrangement is engaged in with a view to avoid the purposes of the rules in this section and §§ 1.1503(d)-2 through 1.1503(d)-8, then appropriate adjustments will be made. A transaction, series of transactions, plan, or arrangement (including an arrangement to reflect, or not reflect, items on books and records) is engaged in with a view to avoid the purposes of this section and §§ 1.1503(d)-2 through 1.1503(d)-8 only if it results in a double deduction or similar outcome (for example, by putting an item of deduction or loss that composes (or would compose) a dual consolidated loss to both a domestic use and a foreign use (determined under §§ 1.1503(d)-2 and 1.1503(d)-3, respectively) or putting a foreign law item of deduction or loss that is disregarded for U.S. tax purposes to a foreign use). The appropriate adjustments may include adjustments to disregard the transaction, series of transactions, plan, or arrangement, or adjustments to modify the items that are taken into account for purposes of determining the income or dual consolidated loss of or attributable to a dual resident corporation or a separate unit, or for purposes of determining income or loss of an interest in a transparent entity under § 1.1503(d)-5. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)(43) through (45) for examples illustrating the application of this paragraph (f).


(2) *Exceptions.* The anti-avoidance rule in paragraph (f)(1) of this section does not apply to a reduction or elimination of a dual consolidated loss solely by reason of intercompany transactions as described in § 1.1502-13, items of income arising from the ownership of stock and taken into account under § 1.1503(d)-5(b)(1) or (c)(4)(iv), or the attribution to a hybrid entity separate unit or an interest in a transparent entity of items that have not been and will not be reflected on the entity's books and records. The anti-avoidance rule in paragraph (f)(1) of this section also does not apply with respect to the application of the dual consolidated loss rules to the GloBE Model Rules, or to cause a foreign use of a dual consolidated loss to occur solely in a period before the taxable year in which such loss was incurred.



---

[N] [T.D. 9315, 72 FR 12914, Mar. 19, 2007, as amended by T.D. 9896, 85 FR 19855, Apr. 8, 2020; T.D. 10018, 89 FR 106878, Dec. 30, 2024; T.D. 10026, 90 FR 3014, Jan. 14, 2025]




