# ยง 301.7409-1   Action to enjoin flagrant political expenditures of section 501(c)(3) organizations.

(a) *Letter to organization.* When the Assistant Commissioner (Employee Plans and Exempt Organizations) concludes that a section 501(c)(3) organization has engaged in flagrant political intervention and is likely to continue to engage in political intervention that involves political expenditures, the Assistant Commissioner (Employee Plans and Exempt Organizations) shall send a letter to the organization providing it with the facts based on which the Service believes that the organization has been engaging in flagrant political intervention and is likely to continue to engage in political intervention that involves political expenditures. The organization will have 10 calendar days after the letter is sent to respond by establishing that it will immediately cease engaging in political intervention, or by providing the Service with sufficient information to refute the Service's evidence that it has been engaged in flagrant political intervention. The Internal Revenue Service will not proceed to seek an injunction under section 7409 until after the close of this 10-day response period. 


(b) *Determination by Commissioner.* If the organization does not respond within 10 calendar days to the letter under paragraph (a) of this section in a manner sufficient to dissuade the Assistant Commissioner (Employee Plans and Exempt Organizations) of the need for an injunction, the file will be forwarded to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue will personally determine whether to forward to the Department of Justice a recommendation that it immediately bring an action to enjoin the organization from making further political expenditures. The Commissioner may also recommend that the court action include any other action that is appropriate in ensuring that the assets of the section 501(c)(3) organization are preserved for section 501(c)(3) purposes. The authority of the Commissioner to make the determinations described in this paragraph may not be delegated to any other persons. 


(c) *Flagrant political intervention.* For purposes of this section, *flagrant political intervention* is defined as participation in, or intervention in (including the publication and distribution of statements), any political campaign by a section 501(c)(3) organization on behalf of (or in opposition to) any candidate for public office in violation of the prohibition on such participation or intervention in section 501(c)(3) and the regulations thereunder if the participation or intervention is flagrant. 


(d) *Effective date.* This section is effective December 5, 1995.



---

[N] [T.D. 8628, 60 FR 62213, Dec. 5, 1995]


