# § 328.101   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart:


*Advertisement* means a commercial message, in any medium, that is designed to attract public attention or patronage to a product, business, or service.


*Appropriate Federal Banking Agency* has the meaning set forth in section 3(q) of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(q)).


*Consumer* means any current or potential depositor, including natural persons, organizations, corporate entities, and governmental bodies.


*Deposit* has the same meaning as set forth under section 3(l) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1813(l).


*FDI Act* means the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1811 *et seq.*

*FDIC* means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.


*FDIC-Associated Images* means the Seal of the FDIC, alone or within the letter C of the term FDIC; the Official Sign and Symbol of the FDIC, as set forth in § 328.2; the FDIC Official Digital Sign and Digital Symbol set forth in § 328.5; the Official Advertising Statement, as set forth in § 328.6; any similar images; and any other signs and symbols that may represent or imply that any deposit, liability, obligation certificate, or share is insured or guaranteed in whole or in part by the FDIC.


*FDIC-Associated Terms* means the abbreviation “FDIC,” and the following words or phrases: “Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation,” “Federal Deposit,” “Federal Deposit Insurance,” “FDIC-insured,” “FDIC insurance,” “insured by FDIC,” “member FDIC;” any similar words or phrases; or any other terms that may represent or imply that any deposit, liability, obligation certificate, or share is insured or guaranteed by the FDIC.


*Federal Banking Agency* has the meaning set forth in section 3(z) of the FDI Act, 12 U.S.C. 1813(z).


*General Counsel* means the General Counsel of the FDIC or his or her designee.


*Hybrid Product* has the same meaning as set forth under § 328.1.


*Institution-Affiliated Party (IAP*) has the same meaning as set forth under section 3(u) of the FDI Act, 12 U.S.C. 1813(u).


*Insured Deposit* has the same meaning as set forth under section 3(m) of the FDI Act, 12 U.S.C. 1813(m).


*Insured Depository Institution* has the same meaning as set forth under section 3(c)(2) of the FDI Act, 12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(2).


*Non-Deposit Product* means any product that is not a “deposit”, including, but not limited to: insurance products, annuities, mutual funds, securities, and crypto-assets. For purposes of this definition, credit products and safe deposit box services are not Non-Deposit Products.


*Person* means a natural person, sole proprietor, partnership, corporation, unincorporated association, trust, joint venture, pool, syndicate, agency or other entity, association, or organization, including a “Regulated Institution” as defined in this section.


*Regulated Institution* means any institution for which the FDIC, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System is the “appropriate Federal banking agency” under section 3(q) of the FDI Act, 12 U.S.C. 1813(q).


*Third-Party Publisher* means any party that publishes, places, distributes, or circulates advertising or marketing materials, regardless of the platform or media used for distribution, containing FDIC-Associated Images, FDIC-Associated Terms, or other claims regarding FDIC insurance or guarantees. Third-Party Publishers include, but are not limited to: Publishers and distributors of written, visual, or print advertising; broadcasters of video or audio advertisements; telemarketers; internet or web-based distributors, including internet service providers, and email marketers; and direct mail marketers and distributors.


*Uninsured Financial Product* means any Non-Deposit Product, Hybrid-Product, investment, security, obligation, certificate, share, crypto-asset or financial product other than an “Insured Deposit” as defined in this section.



---

[N] [87 FR 33420, June 2, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 3531, Jan. 18, 2024]






