# ยง 3280.806   Receptacle outlets.

(a) All receptacle outlets shall be: 


(1) Of grounding type; 


(2) Installed according to Article 406.3 of the National Electrical Code, NFPA No. 70-2005.


(3) Except when supplying specific appliances, be parallel-blade, 15-ampere, 125-volt, either single or duplex. 


(b) All 125-volt, single-phase, 15- and 20-ampere receptacle outlets installed outdoors, or in compartments accessible from outside the manufactured home, and in bathrooms, including receptacles in light fixtures, must have ground-fault circuit-interrupter protection for personnel. Ground-fault circuit-interrupter protection for personnel must be provided for receptacles serving countertops in kitchens and receptacle outlets located within 6 feet of a wet bar sink, except for receptacles installed for appliances in dedicated spaces, such as dishwashers, disposals, refrigerators, freezers, and laundry equipment.


(c) There shall be an outlet of the grounding type for each cord-connected fixed appliance installed. 


(d) *Receptacle outlets required.* Except in the bath, closet, and hall areas, receptacle outlets must be installed at wall spaces 2 feet or more wide, so that no point along the floor line is more than 6 feet, measured horizontally, from an outlet in that space. Receptacle outlets in floors shall not be counted as part of the required number of receptacle outlets, unless located within 18 inches of the wall. In addition, a receptacle outlet must be installed in the following locations:


(1) Over or adjacent to counter tops in the kitchen (at least one on each side of the sink if counter tops are on each side and 12 inches or over in width). 


(2) Adjacent to the refrigerator and free-standing gas-range space. A duplex receptacle may serve as the outlet for a countertop and a refrigerator. 


(3) At counter top spaces for built-in vanities. 


(4) At counter top spaces under wall-mounted cabinets. 


(5) In the wall, at the nearest point where a bar type counter attaches to the wall. 


(6) In the wall at the nearest point where a fixed room divider attaches to the wall. 


(7) In laundry areas within 6 feet of the intended location of the appliance(s). 


(8) At least one receptacle outlet shall be installed outdoors. 


(9) At least one wall receptacle outlet shall be installed in bathrooms within 36 inches (914 mm) of the outside edge of each basin. The receptacle outlet must be located on a wall that is adjacent to the basin location. This receptacle is in addition to any receptacle that is part of a lighting fixture or appliance. The receptacle must not be enclosed within a bathroom cabinet or vanity.


(10) On the underside of the home for the connection of pipe heating cable(s) or heat tape(s), and the outlet must:


(i) Be located within 2 feet of the cold water inlet;


(ii) Be connected to an interior branch circuit, other than a small appliance branch circuit;


(iii) Be located on a circuit where all of the outlets are on the load side of the ground-fault circuit-interrupter protection for personnel; and


(iv) Not be considered as the receptacle outlet required by paragraph (8) of this section.


(11) Receptacle outlets are not required in the following locations:


(i) Wall space occupied by built-in kitchen or wardrobe cabinets,


(ii) Wall space behind doors which may be opened fully against a wall surface,


(iii) Room dividers of the lattice type, less than 8 feet long, not solid within 6 inches of the floor,


(iv) Wall space afforded by bar type counters. 


(e) Receptacle outlets shall not be installed in or within reach (30 inches) of a shower or bathtub space. 


(f) Receptacle outlets shall not be installed above electric baseboard heaters. 


(g) Receptacles must not be in a face-up position in any countertop.



---

[N] [40 FR 58752, Dec. 18, 1975. Redesignated at 44 FR 20679, Apr. 6, 1979, as amended at 58 FR 55020, Oct. 25, 1993; 70 FR 72052, Nov. 30, 2005; 78 FR 73991, Dec. 9, 2013]




