# ยง 161.2   Enforcement for other agencies.

(a) *Laws enforced by Customs Service for administering agencies.* Some of the laws enforced in whole or in part by the Customs Service for administering agencies are: 


(1) Importations and exportations of arms, ammunition, implements of war, helium gas, and other munitions of war are governed by laws administered by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and Department of State; 


(2) Importations and exportations of controlled substances are governed by laws administered by the Drug Enforcement Administration of the Department of Justice; 


(3) Importations, exportations, and transactions involving identified goods, services, and technology with any of those countries designated as subject to economic sanctions under the laws and regulations administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury. 


(4) Importations and exportations of atomic energy source material, fissionable material, and equipment and devices for utilizing or producing fissionable material are subject to laws administered by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission; and 


(5) The exportation of articles, other than those previously mentioned herein, are subject to requirements of laws administered by the Department of Commerce. 


(b) *Seizure for violation of law.* When articles are imported or are intended to be, are being, or have been exported from the United States in violation of law, such articles and any vessel, vehicle, or aircraft knowingly used in their transportation shall be seized and proceeded against. 



---

[N] [T.D. 72-211, 37 FR 16487, Aug. 15, 1972, as amended by T.D. 76-21, 41 FR 2383, Jan. 16, 1976; T.D. 78-329, 43 FR 43456, Sept. 26, 1978; T.D. 91-77, 56 FR 46115, Sept. 10, 1991; T.D. 96-42, 61 FR 24889, May 17, 1996]




