# § 165.535   Safety Zone: Atlantic Ocean, Vicinity of Cape Henlopen State Park, Delaware.

(a) *Location.* The following area is a safety zone: All waters of the Atlantic Ocean within the area bounded by a line drawn north from the tip of Cape Henlopen located at latitude 38°48.2′ N, longitude 75°05.5′ W, to a point located at latitude 38°49.4′ N, longitude 75°05.5′ W; thence east to a point located at latitude 38°49.4′ N, longitude 75°01.4′ W; thence south to a point located at latitude 38°43.0′ N, longitude 75°01.4′ W; thence west to a point on the shoreline located at latitude 38°43.0′ N, longitude 75°04.5′ W; thence north following the shoreline, to a point located at latitude 38°48.2′ N, longitude 75°05.5′ W. All coordinate refer to Datum: NAD 1983.


(b) *Regulation.* The general regulations governing safety zones contained in § 165.23 apply. Vessels may not enter the safety zone without first obtaining permission from the Captain of the Port (COTP) Delaware Bay.


(c) *Dates.* This section is enforced annually on the second Saturday in May and the following day.


(d) *General information.* (1) Those times during which hazardous conditions exist inside the safety zone will be announced by Broadcast Notice to Mariners. General permission to enter the safety zone will be broadcast during non-hazardous times.


(2) You can gain access to the safety by calling Sector Field Office Atlantic City command center at telephone number (609) 677-2222 and on VHF channel 13 or 16.


(3) The COTP Delaware Bay may authorize and designate any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer to act on his behalf in enforcing this safety zone.



---

[N] [CGD05-98-043, 69 FR 28827, May 19, 2004]




