# § 984.67   Exemptions.

(a) *Exemptions from assessments and quality regulations*—(1) *Sales by growers direct to consumers.* Any walnut grower may handle walnuts of his production free of the regulatory and assessment provisions of this part if he sells such walnuts in the area of production directly to consumers under the following types of exemptions:


(i) At roadside stands and farmers' markets;


(ii) In quantities not exceeding an aggregate of 500 pounds of inshell walnuts or 200 pounds of shelled walnuts during any marketing year (at locations other than those specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section); and


(iii) If shipped by parcel post or express in quantities not exceeding 10 pounds of inshell walnuts or 4 pounds of shelled walnuts to any one consumer in any one calendar day.


(2) *Green walnuts.* Walnuts which are green and which are so immature that they cannot be used for drying and sale as dried walnuts may be handled without regard to the provisions of this part.


(3) *Noncompetitive outlets.* Any person may handle walnuts, free of the provisions of this part, for use by charitable institutions, relief agencies, governmental agencies for school lunch programs, and diversion to animal feed or oil manufacture pursuant to an authorized governmental diversion program.


(b) *Rules and modifications.* The Board may establish, with the approval of the Secretary, such rules, regulations and safeguards and such modifications as will promote the objectives of this subpart.



---

[N] [27 FR 9094, Sept. 13, 1962, as amended at 41 FR 31544, July 29, 1976; 73 FR 11339, Mar. 3, 2008; 85 FR 27109, May 7, 2020; 88 FR 56749, Aug. 21, 2023]




