# § 707.21   Requests for access to or copies of records.

(a) *How to submit.* An individual may request access to or copies of records maintained by DFC that are retrieved by an individual's personal identifier. To make a request for records a requester must submit a written request to the Director of Human Resources Management either by mail or delivery to US International Development Finance Corporation, 1100 New York Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20527 or electronic mail to *privacy@dfc.gov.* The envelope or subject line should read “Privacy Act Request” to ensure proper routing. Access to records maintained by DFC will be provided only by appointment. No officer or employee of DFC shall provide an individual with any records under this part until a written request as described in paragraph (b) of this section is provided and the identity of the individual is verified as described in paragraph (c) of this section.


(b*) Information to include.* All requests under this section must:


(1) Be in writing and be signed by the requester. Unless the requester is a current officer or employee of DFC, the letter must also be duly acknowledged before a notary public or other authorized public official or signed under 28 U.S.C. 1746, a law that permits statements to be made under penalty of perjury as a substitute for notarization;


(2) Provide information sufficient to verify the identity of the requester, including the requester's full name, current address, date of birth, place of birth, or the system of record identification name or number. Also include a clearly legible copy of a valid form of identification. If the request is being made by a parent or guardian on behalf of another, also include the same information for the individual who is the subject of the request along with a court order, birth certificate, or similar document proving the guardianship. DFC will review the sufficiency of identity evidence under paragraph (c) of this section;


(3) Provide information sufficient to accurately identify the records or information so that DFC staff can locate the records with a reasonable amount of effort. At minimum this should include the full name, the system of record identification name, or the system identification number for the individual who is the subject of the records. Provision of a social security number is optional. If possible, also include a description of the records as well as providing a record creation time range and the name of the systems that should be searched. A description of DFC's system of records can be located in the “Privacy Act Compilation” published by the National Archives and Records Administration's Office of the Federal Register. Each system of records is also published in the _Federal Register_;


(4) Specify whether the individual wishes access to or copies of the information pertaining to him. If access is requested, provide at least one preferred date and hour for which an appointment is requested during regular business hours as provided in paragraph (a) of this section. DFC encourages appointments to be made at least one week in advance and for a requester to provide at least three preferred appointment times; and


(5) Include an agreement to pay fees or an agreement to pay fees up to a specified amount under § 707.27. A request that does not include an agreement to pay fees will be considered an agreement to pay fees up to $25.00.


(c) *Verification of identity.* Prior to providing any requested information about an individual, the Director of Human Resources Management shall verify the identity of the individual. If the requester is acting as the guardian of the individual who is the subject of the records, the Director will also verify the identity of the individual who is the subject of the records, the relationship between the requester and the subject individual, and that the requester is acting on behalf of the subject individual. In order to verify identity, the Director shall require the individual to provide reasonable proof of identity such as a valid driver's license, identification card, passport, employee identification card, or any other identifying information. The Director shall deny any request where she determines, at her sole discretion, that the evidence offered to verify the identity of an individual is insufficient to conclusively establish the identity of the individual.


(d) *Release of records.* Originals and record copies will not be released from the files of DFC. Individuals will not be permitted to disturb any record files or to remove records from designated place of examination. If copies were requested in the request letter, copies will be furnished upon payment of the fees prescribed in § 707.27.


(e) *Denial of request.* If the Director of Human Resources Management declines any request submitted under this section, the denial will be made in writing and contain a brief description of the denial. Denials include a determination that an individual has not provided adequate evidence to verify identity under paragraph (c) of this section, a determination that the record cannot be located, and a withholding of a record in whole or in part. In the event of a denial, the requester may file a written appeal within thirty days of the date of notification, following the procedures in § 707.25.



---

[N] [79 FR 8614, Feb. 13, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 37752, Aug. 2, 2019]




