# § 721.11641   Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-hydro-.omega.-hydroxy-, mono-C12-14-alkyl ethers, phosphates, sodium salts.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-hydro-.omega.-hydroxy-, mono-C12-14-alkyl ethers, phosphates, sodium salts (PMN P-19-48; CAS No. 1548592-90-0) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(3) through (5), (b), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10. For purposes of §  721.63(b), the concentration is set at 1.0%.


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (f), (g)(1), and (g)(5). For purposes of §  721.72(e), the concentration is set at 1.0%. For purposes of § 721.72(g)(1), this substance may cause: skin irritation; specific target organ toxicity. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (h) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.





---

[N] [87 FR 59004, Sept. 29, 2022]










