# § 2.221   Definitions.

(a) *Act.* As used in this subpart, “Act” means section 3 of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a.


(b) *Bureau.* For purposes of this subpart, a “bureau” is any constituent bureau or office of the Department, including the Office of the Secretary and any other Departmental office.


(c) *Individual.* As used in this subpart, “individual” means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.


(d) *Maintain.* As used in this subpart, the term “maintain” includes maintain, collect, use or disseminate.


(e) *Record.* As used in this subpart, “record” means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by the Department or a bureau thereof, including, but not limited to, education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history and that contains the individual's name, or the identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as a finger or voice print, or a photograph.


(f) *System of records.* As used in this subpart, “System of records” means a group of any records under the control of the Department or a bureau thereof from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual.


(g) *Medical records.* As used in this subpart, “medical records” means records which relate to the identification, prevention, cure or alleviation of any disease, illness or injury including psychological disorders, alcoholism and drug addiction.


(h) *Office of Personnel Management personnel records.* As used in the subpart, “Office of Personnel Management personnel records” means records maintained for the Office of Personnel Management by the Department and used for personnel management programs or processes such as staffing, employee development, retirement, and grievances and appeals.


(i) *Statistical records.* As used in this subpart, “statistical records” means records in a system of records maintained for statistical research or reporting purposes only and not used in whole or in part in making any determination about an identifiable individual.


(j) *Routine use.* As used in this subpart, “routine use” means a use of a record for a purpose which is compatible with the purpose for which it was collected.


(k) *System notice.* As used in this subpart, “system notice” means the notice describing a system of records required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4) to be published in the _Federal Register_ upon establishment or revision of the system of records.


(l) *System manager.* As used in this subpart, “system manager” means the official designated in a system notice as having administrative responsibility for a system of records.


(m) *Departmental Privacy Act Officer.* As used in this subpart, “Departmental Privacy Act Officer” means the official in the Office of the Assistant Secretary—Policy, Budget and Administration charged with responsibility for assisting the Assistant Secretary—Policy, Budget and Administration in carrying out the functions assigned in this subpart and for coordinating the activities of the bureaus of the Department in carrying out the functions which they are assigned in this subpart.


(n) *Bureau Privacy Act Officer.* As used in this subpart, “Bureau Privacy Act Officer” means the official within each bureau assigned responsibility for bureau implementation of the Act and the regulations of this subpart.


(o) *Working day.* As used in this subpart, “working day” means a regular Federal work day. It does not include Saturdays, Sundays or public legal holidays.



---

[N] [40 FR 44505, Sept. 26, 1975, as amended at 47 FR 38327, Aug. 31, 1982; 48 FR 56583, Dec. 22, 1983; 53 FR 3749, Feb. 9, 1988]




