# § 575.6   Requirements.

(a)(1) At the time a motor vehicle is delivered to the first purchaser for purposes other than resale, the manufacturer of that vehicle shall provide the Uniform Tire Quality Grading information required by § 575.104(d)(1)(iii) in the owner's manual of each vehicle it produces. The vehicle manufacturer shall also provide to the purchaser, in writing and in the English language, the information specified in § 575.103 of this part that is applicable to that vehicle. The information provided with a vehicle may contain more than one table, but the document must either:


(i) Clearly and unconditionally indicate which of the tables apply to the vehicle with which it is provided, or


(ii) Contain a statement on its cover referring the reader to the vehicle certification label for specific information concerning which of the tables apply to that vehicle. If the manufacturer chooses option in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, the vehicle certification label shall include such specific information. 


(2)(i) At the time a motor vehicle manufactured on or after September 1, 1990 is delivered to the first purchaser for purposes other than resale, the manufacturer shall provide to the purchaser, in writing in the English language and not less than 10 point type, the following statement in the owner's manual, or, if there is no owner's manual, on a one-page document:


(ii) The manufacturer shall specify in the table of contents of the owner's manual the location of the statement in 575.6(a)(2)(i). The heading in the table of contents shall state “Reporting Safety Defects.”


(3) For vehicles manufactured prior to September 1, 2000, at the time a motor vehicle is delivered to the first purchaser for purposes other than resale, the manufacturer of that vehicle shall provide the purchaser, in writing and in the English language, the information specified in §§ 575.103 and 575.104 of this part that is applicable to that vehicle and its tires. The document provided with a vehicle may contain more than one table, but the document must either clearly and unconditionally indicate which of the tables apply to the vehicle with which it is provided, or contain a statement on its cover referring the reader to the vehicle certification label for specific information concerning which of the tables apply to that vehicle. If the manufacturer chooses option (a)(2) of this section, the vehicle certification label shall include such specific information. 


(4) When a motor vehicle that has a GVWR of 10,000 pounds or less, except a motorcycle or low speed vehicle, and that is manufactured on or after September 1, 2005, is delivered to the first purchaser for purposes other than resale, the manufacturer shall provide to the purchaser, in writing in the English language and not less than 10 point type, a discussion of the items specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (v) of this section in the owner's manual, or, if there is no owner's manual, in a document:


(i) Tire labeling, including a description and explanation of each marking on the tires provided with the vehicle, and information about the location of the Tire Identification Number (TIN); 


(ii) Recommended tire inflation pressure, including a description and explanation of: 


(A) Recommended cold tire inflation pressure, 


(B) The vehicle placard and tire inflation pressure label specified in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 110 and their location in the vehicle, 


(C) Adverse safety consequences of underinflation (including tire failure), and 


(D) Measuring and adjusting air pressure to achieve proper inflation; 


(iii) Glossary of tire terminology, including “cold tire pressure,” “maximum inflation pressure,” and “recommended inflation pressure,” and all non-technical terms defined in S3 of FMVSS Nos. 110 & 139; 


(iv) Tire care, including maintenance and safety practices; 


(v) Vehicle load limits, including a description and explanation of: 


(A) Locating and understanding load limit information, total load capacity, seating capacity, towing capacity, and cargo capacity, 


(B) Calculating total and cargo load capacities with varying seating configurations including quantitative examples showing/illustrating how the vehicle's cargo and luggage capacity decreases as the combined number and size of occupants increases, 


(C) Determining compatibility of tire and vehicle load capabilities, 


(D) Adverse safety consequences of overloading on handling and stopping and on tires. 


(5) When a motor vehicle that has a GVWR of 10,000 pounds or less, except a motorcycle or low speed vehicle, and that is manufactured on or after September 1, 2005, is delivered to the first purchaser for purposes other than resale, the manufacturer shall provide to the purchaser, in writing in the English language and not less than 10 point type, the following verbatim statement, as applicable, in the owner's manual, or, if there is no owner's manual, in a document:


(i) For vehicles except trailers: “Steps for Determining Correct Load Limit—


(*1*) Locate the statement “The combined weight of occupants and cargo should never exceed XXX kg or XXX lbs.” on your vehicle's placard.


(*2*) Determine the combined weight of the driver and passengers that will be riding in your vehicle.


(*3*) Subtract the combined weight of the driver and passengers from XXX kg or XXX lbs.


(*4*) The resulting figure equals the available amount of cargo and luggage load capacity. For example, if the “XXX” amount equals 1400 lbs. and there will be five 150 lb passengers in your vehicle, the amount of available cargo and luggage load capacity is 650 lbs. (1400-750 (5 × 150) = 650 lbs.)


(*5*) Determine the combined weight of luggage and cargo being loaded on the vehicle. That weight may not safely exceed the available cargo and luggage load capacity calculated in Step 4.


(*6*) If your vehicle will be towing a trailer, load from your trailer will be transferred to your vehicle. Consult this manual to determine how this reduces the available cargo and luggage load capacity of your vehicle.”


(ii) For trailers: “Steps for Determining Correct Load Limit—


(*1*) Locate the statement “The weight of cargo should never exceed XXX kg or XXX lbs.” on your vehicle's placard.


(*2*) This figure equals the available amount of cargo and luggage load capacity.”


(*3*) Determine the combined weight of luggage and cargo being loaded on the vehicle. That weight may not safely exceed the available cargo and luggage load capacity.


(b) At the time a motor vehicle tire is delivered to the first purchaser for a purpose other than resale, the manufacturer of that tire, or in the case of a tire marketed under a brand name, the brand name owner, shall provide to that purchaser the information specified in subpart B of this part that is applicable to that tire.


(c) Each manufacturer of motor vehicles, each brand name owner of tires, and each manufacturer of tires for which there is no brand name owner shall provide for examination by prospective purchasers, at each location where its vehicles or tires are offered for sale by a person with whom the manufacturer or brand name owner has a contractual, proprietary, or other legal relationship, or by a person who has such a relationship with a distributor of the manufacturer or brand name owner concerning the vehicle or tire in question, the information specified in subpart B of this part that is applicable to each of the vehicles or tires offered for sale at that location. The information shall be provided without charge and in sufficient quantity to be available for retention by prospective purchasers or sent by mail to a prospective purchaser upon his request. With respect to newly introduced vehicles or tires, the information shall be provided for examination by prospective purchasers not later than the day on which the manufacturer or brand name owner first authorizes those vehicles or tires to be put on general public display and sold to consumers.


(d)(1)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, in the case of all sections of subpart B other than § 575.104, as they apply to information submitted prior to new model introduction, each manufacturer of motor vehicles shall submit to the Administrator 2 copies of the information specified in subpart B of this part that is applicable to the vehicles offered for sale, at least 90 days before information on such vehicles is first provided for examination by prospective purchasers pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.


(ii) Where an unforeseen preintroduction modification in vehicle design or equipment results in a change in vehicle performance for a characteristic included in subpart B of this part, a manufacturer of motor vehicles may revise information previously furnished under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section by submission to the Administrator of 2 copies of the revised information reflecting the performance changes, at least 30 days before information on such vehicles is first provided to prospective purchasers pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.


(2)(i) In the case of § 575.104, each brand name owner of tires, and each manufacturer of tires for which there is no brand name owner shall submit to the Administrator 2 copies of the information specified in Subpart B of this part that is applicable to the tires offered for sale, at least 30 days before it is first provided for examination by prospective purchasers pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.


(ii) In the case of all other sections of Subpart B of this Part as they apply to post-introduction changes in information submitted for the current model year, each manufacturer of motor vehicles, each brand name owner of tires, and each manufacturer of tires for which there is no brand name owner shall submit to the Administrator 2 copies of the information specified in Subpart B of this part that is applicable to the vehicles or tires offered for sale, at least 30 days before it is first provided for examination by prospective purchasers pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.



---

[N] [39 FR 1039, Jan. 4, 1974, as amended at 41 FR 13923, Apr. 1, 1976; 45 FR 47153, July 14, 1980; 47 FR 7258, Feb. 18, 1982; 52 FR 27810, July 24, 1987; 54 FR 48749, Nov. 27, 1989; 64 FR 27924, May 24, 1999; 67 FR 69631, Nov. 18, 2002; 69 FR 31320, June 3, 2004; 70 FR 35557, June 21, 2005]




