# § 520.905b   Fenbendazole granules.

(a) *Specifications.* Each gram of granules contains 222 milligrams (mg) fenbendazole.


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 000061 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(c) *Special considerations.* See § 500.25 of this chapter.


(d) *Conditions of use*—(1) *Horses*—(i) *Amount.* 5 mg/kilogram (kg) for large strongyles, small strongyles, and pinworms; 10 mg/kg for ascarids.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For the control of infections of large strongyles (*Strongylus edentatus, S. equinus, S. vulgaris*), small strongyles, pinworms (*Oxyuris equi*), and ascarids (*Parascaris equorum*).


(iii) *Limitations.* Sprinkle the appropriate amount of drug on a small amount of the usual grain ration. Prepare for each horse individually. Withholding feed or water is not necessary. Retreat in 6 to 8 weeks if required. Do not use in horses intended for food. 


(2) *Dogs*—(i) *Amount.* 50 mg/kg daily for 3 consecutive days.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For the treatment and control of ascarids (*Toxocara canis, Toxascaris leonina*), hookworms (*Ancylostoma caninum, Uncinaria stenocephala*), whipworms (*Trichuris vulpis*), and tapeworms (*Taenia pisiformis*).


(iii) *Limitations.* Mix the appropriate amount of drug with a small amount of the usual food; dry dog food may require slight moistening to facilitate mixing. Medicated food must be fully consumed. 


(3) *Zoo and wildlife animals*—(i) *Amount.* 10 mg/kg per day for 3 days.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For control of internal parasites of *Felidae* and *Ursidae* as follows:


(A) Lion (*Panthera leo*) and Tiger (*Panthera tigris*): Ascarid (*Toxocara cati, Toxascaris leonina*), Hookworm (*Ancylostoma* spp.).


(B) Cheetah (*Acinonyx jubatus*): Ascarid (*Toxocara cati, Toxascaris leonina*).


(C) Puma (*Felis concolor*), Panther (*Panthera* spp.), Leopard (*Panthera pardus*), Jaguar (*Panthera onca*): Ascarid (*Toxocara cati, Toxascaris leonina*), Hookworm (*Ancylostoma* spp.), Tapeworm (*Taenia hydatigena, T. krabbei, T. taeniaeformis*).


(D) Black Bear (*Ursus americanus*): Ascarid (*Baylisascaris transfuga, Toxascaris leonina*), Hookworm (*Ancylostoma caninum*), Tapeworm (*Taenia hydatigena, T. krabbei*).


(E) Polar Bear (*Ursus maritimus*) and Grizzly Bear (*Ursus horribilis*): Ascarid (*Baylisascaris transfuga, Toxascaris leonina*).


(iii) *Limitations.* Top dress or mix with a small portion of food. Must be fully consumed prior to feeding. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian. Do not use 14 days before or during the hunting season.



---

[N] [44 FR 1375, Jan. 5, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 15327, Apr. 9, 1982; 48 FR 50528, Nov. 2, 1983; 59 FR 35252, July 11, 1994; 66 FR 47960, Sept. 17, 2001; 67 FR 47450, July 19, 2002; 71 FR 19429, Apr. 14, 2006; 74 FR 61516, Nov. 25, 2009] 




