# ยง 42.505   Administrative requirements for recipients.

(a) *Remedial action.* If the Department finds that a recipient has discriminated against persons on the basis of handicap in violation of section 504 or this subpart, the recipient shall take the remedial action the Department considers necessary to overcome the effects of the discrimination. This may include remedial action with respect to handicapped persons who are no longer participants in the recipient's program or activity but who were participants in the program when such discrimination occurred, and with respect to handicapped persons who would have been participants in the program had the discrimination not occurred. 


(b) *Voluntary action.* A recipient may take steps, in addition to the requirements of this subpart, to increase the participation of qualified handicapped persons in the recipient's program or activity. 


(c) *Self-evaluation.* (1) A recipient shall, within one year of the effective date of this subpart, evaluate and modify its policies and practices that do not meet the requirements of this subpart. During this process the recipient shall seek the advice and assistance of interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons. During this period and thereafter the recipient shall take any necessary remedial steps to eliminate the effects of discrimination that resulted from adherence to these policies and practices. 


(2) A recipient employing fifty or more persons and receiving Federal financial assistance from the Department of $25,000 or more shall, for at least three years following completion of the evaluation required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, maintain on file, make available for public inspection, and provide to the Department on request:


(i) A list of the interested persons consulted,


(ii) A description of areas examined and problems identified, and


(iii) A description of modifications made and remedial steps taken.


(d) *Designation of responsible employee.* A recipient employing fifty or more persons and receiving Federal financial assistance from the Department of $25,000 or more shall designate at least one person to coordinate compliance with this subpart.


(e) *Adoption of grievance procedures.* A recipient employing fifty or more persons and receiving Federal financial assistance from the Department of $25,000 or more shall adopt grievance procedures that incorporate due process standards (*e.g.* adequate notice, fair hearing) and provide for the prompt and equitable resolution of complaints alleging any action prohibited by this subpart. Such procedures need not be established with respect to complaints from applicants for employment. An employee may file a complaint with the Department without having first used the recipient's grievance procedures.


(f) *Notice.* (1) A recipient employing fifty or more persons and receiving Federal financial assistance from the Department of more than $25,000 shall, on a continuing basis, notify participants, beneficiaries, applicants, employees and unions or professional organizations holding collective bargaining or professional agreements with the recipient that it does not discriminate on the basis of handicap in violation of section 504 and this subpart. The notification shall state, where appropriate, that the recipient does not discriminate in its programs or activities with respect to access, treatment or employment. The notification shall also include identification of the person responsible for coordinating compliance with this subpart and where to file section 504 complaints with the Department and, where applicable, with the recipient. A recipient shall make the initial notification required by this paragraph within 90 days of the effective date of this subpart. Methods of initial and continuing notification may include the posting of notices, publication in newspapers and magazines, placement of notices in recipients' publication, and distribution of memoranda or other written communications.


(2) Recruitment materials or publications containing general information that a recipient makes available to participants, beneficiaries, applicants, or employees shall include a policy statement of nondiscrimination on the basis of handicap.


(g) The Department may require any recipient with fewer than fifty employees and receiving less than $25,000 in Federal financial assistance to comply with paragraphs (c)(2) and (d) through (f) of this section.


(h) The obligation to comply with this subpart is not affected by any State or local law or requirement or limited employment opportunities for handicapped persons in any occupation or profession.




