# ยง 63.1443   When do I have to comply with this subpart?

(a) If you have an existing affected source, you must comply with each emission limitation, work practice standard, design standard, and operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart that applies to you no later than June 13, 2005, except as specified in table 4 to this subpart.


(b) If you have a new affected source and its initial startup date is on or before June 12, 2002, you must comply with each emission limitation, work practice standard, design standard, and operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart that applies to you by June 12, 2002, except as specified in table 4 to this subpart.


(c) If you have a new affected source and its initial startup date is after June 12, 2002, you must comply with each emission limitation, work practice standard, design standard, and operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart that applies to you upon initial startup, except as specified in in table 4 to this subpart.


(d) If your primary copper smelter is an area source that becomes a major source of HAP (see ยง 63.1441), the compliance dates listed in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section apply to you.


(1) Any portion of the existing primary copper smelter that is a new affected source or a new reconstructed source must be in compliance with this subpart upon startup.


(2) All other parts of the primary copper smelter must be in compliance with this subpart no later than 3 years after it becomes a major source (see ยง 63.1441).


(e) You must meet the notification and schedule requirements in ยง 63.1454. Several of these notifications must be submitted before the compliance date for your affected source.






