# § 1.43-1   The enhanced oil recovery credit—general rules.

(a) *Claiming the credit*—(1) *In general.* The enhanced oil recovery credit (the “credit”) is a component of the section 38 general business credit. A taxpayer that owns an operating mineral interest (as defined in § 1.614-2(b)) in a property may claim the credit for qualified enhanced oil recovery costs (as described in § 1.43-4) paid or incurred by the taxpayer in connection with a qualified enhanced oil recovery project (as described in § 1.43-2) undertaken with respect to the property. A taxpayer that does not own an operating mineral interest in a property may not claim the credit. To the extent a credit included in the current year business credit under section 38(b) is unused under section 38, the credit is carried back or forward under the section 39 business credit carryback and carryforward rules.


(2) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the principles of this paragraph (a).


(b) *Amount of the credit.* A taxpayer's credit is an amount equal to 15 percent of the taxpayer's qualified enhanced oil recovery costs for the taxable year, reduced by the phase-out amount, if any, determined under paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Phase-out of the credit as crude oil prices increase*—(1) *In general.* The amount of the credit (determined without regard to this paragraph (c)) for any taxable year is reduced by an amount which bears the same ratio to the amount of the credit (determined without regard to this paragraph (c)) as—


(i) The amount by which the reference price determined under section 29(d)(2)(C) for the calendar year immediately preceding the calendar year in which the taxable year begins exceeds $28 (as adjusted under paragraph (c)(2) of this section); bears to


(ii) $6.


(2) *Inflation adjustment*—(i) *In general.* For any taxable year beginning in a calendar year after 1991, an amount equal to $28 multiplied by the inflation adjustment factor is substituted for the $28 amount under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section.


(ii) *Inflation adjustment factor.* For purposes of this paragraph (c), the inflation adjustment factor for any calendar year is a fraction, the numerator of which is the GNP implicit price deflator for the preceding calendar year and the denominator of which is the GNP implicit price deflator for 1990. The “GNP implicit price deflator” is the first revision of the implicit price deflator for the gross national product as computed and published by the Secretary of Commerce. As early as practicable, the inflation adjustment factor for each calendar year will be published by the Internal Revenue Service in the Internal Revenue Bulletin.


(3) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the principles of this paragraph (c).


(d) *Reduction of associated deductions*—(1) *In general.* Any deduction allowable under chapter 1 for an expenditure taken into account in computing the amount of the credit determined under paragraph (b) of this section is reduced by the amount of the credit attributable to the expenditure.


(2) *Certain deductions by an integrated oil company.* For purposes of determining the intangible drilling and development costs that an integrated oil company must capitalize under section 291(b), the amount allowable as a deduction under section 263(c) is the deduction allowable after paragraph (d)(1) of this section is applied. See § 1.43-4(b)(2) (extent to which integrated oil company intangible drilling and development costs are qualified enhanced oil recovery costs).


(e) *Basis adjustment.* For purposes of subtitle A, the increase in the basis of property which would (but for this paragraph (e)) result from an expenditure with respect to the property is reduced by the amount of the credit determined under paragraph (b) of this section attributable to the expenditure.


(f) *Passthrough entity basis adjustment*—(1) *Partners' interests in a partnership.* To the extent a partnership expenditure is not deductible under paragraph (d)(1) of this section or does not increase the basis of property under paragraph (e) of this section, the expenditure is treated as an expenditure described in section 705(a)(2)(B) (concerning decreases to basis of partnership interests). Thus, the adjusted bases of the partners' interests in the partnership are decreased (but not below zero).


(2) *Shareholders' stock in an S corporation.* To the extent an S corporation expenditure is not deductible under paragraph (d)(1) of this section or does not increase the basis of property under paragraph (e) of this section, the expenditure is treated as an expenditure described in section 1367(a)(2)(D) (concerning decreases to basis of S corporation stock). Thus, the bases of the shareholders' S corporation stock are decreased (but not below zero).


(g) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the principles of paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section.



---

[N] [T.D. 8448, 57 FR 54923, Nov. 23, 1992; 58 FR 7987, Feb. 11, 1993]




