# § 52.4682-2   Qualifying sales.

(a) *In general*—(1) *Special rules applicable to certain sales.* Special rules apply to sales of ODCs in the following cases:


(i) Under section 4682(d)(2), § 52.4682-1(c), and § 52.4682-4(b)(2)(v) (relating to ODCs used as a feedstock), ODCs sold in qualifying sales are not taxed.


(ii) Under section 4682(g), § 52.4682-1(d), and § 52.4682-4(d)(2) (relating to ODCs used in the manufacture of rigid foam insulation), ODCs sold in qualifying sales are not taxed in 1990 and are taxed at a reduced rate in 1991, 1992, and 1993.


(iii) Under section 4682(g)(4) and § 52.4682-1(g) (relating to ODCs used as medical sterilants), ODCs sold in qualifying sales are taxed at a reduced rate in 1993.


(iv) Under section 4682(g)(4) and § 52.4682-1(h) (relating to ODCs used as propellants in metered-dose inhalers), ODCs sold in qualifying sales are taxed at a reduced rate in years after 1992.


(2) *Qualifying sales.* A sale of ODCs is not a qualifying sale unless the requirements of this section are satisfied. Although registration with the Internal Revenue Service is not required to establish that a sale of ODCs is a qualifying sale, the certificates required by this section shall be made available for inspection by internal revenue agents and officers.


(b) *Requirements for qualification*—(1) *Use as a feedstock.* A sale of ODCs is a qualifying sale for purposes of §§ 52.4682-1(c) and 52.4682-4(b)(2)(v) if the manufacturer or importer of the ODCs—


(i) Obtains a certificate in substantially the form set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section from the purchaser of the ODCs; and


(ii) Relies on the certificate in good faith.


(2) *Use in the manufacture of rigid foam insulation.* A sale of ODCs is a qualifying sale for purposes of §§ 52.4682-1(d) and 52.4682-4(d)(2) if the manufacturer or importer of the ODCs—


(i) Obtains a certificate in substantially the form set forth in paragraph (d)(3) of this section from the purchaser of the ODCs; and


(ii) Relies on the certificate in good faith.


(3) *Use as medical sterilants.* A sale of ODCs is a qualifying sale for purposes of § 52.4682-1(g) if the manufacturer or importer of the ODCs—


(i) Obtains a certificate in substantially the form set forth in paragraph (d)(4) of this section from the purchaser of the ODCs; and


(ii) Relies on the certificate in good faith. 


(4) *Use as propellants in metered-dose inhalers.* A sale of ODCs is a qualifying sale for purposes of §§ 52.4682-1(h) and 52.4682-4(b)(2)(vii) if the manufacturer or importer of the ODCs—


(i) Obtains a certificate in substantially the form set forth in paragraph (d)(5) of this section from the purchaser of the ODCs; and


(ii) Relies on the certificate in good faith.


(c) *Good faith reliance*—(1) *In general.* The requirements of paragraph (b) of this section are not satisfied with respect to a sale of ODCs and the sale is not a qualifying sale if at the time of the sale—


(i) The manufacturer or importer has reason to believe that the purchaser will use the ODCs other than for the purpose set forth in the certificate; or


(ii) The Internal Revenue Service has notified the manufacturer or importer that the purchaser's right to provide a certificate has been withdrawn.


(2) *Withdrawal of right to provide a certificate.* The Internal Revenue Service may withdraw the right of a purchaser to provide a certificate to its supplier if such purchaser uses the ODCs to which its certificate applies other than for the purpose set forth in such certificate, or otherwise fails to comply with the terms of the certificate. The Internal Revenue Service may notify the supplier to whom the purchaser provided the certificate that the purchaser's right to provide a certificate has been withdrawn.


(d) *Certificate*—(1) *In general*—(i) *Rules relating to all certificates.* This paragraph (d) sets forth certificates that satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section. The certificate shall consist of a statement executed and signed under penalties of perjury by a person with authority to bind the purchaser. A certificate provided under paragraph (d)(2) or (5) of this section may apply to a single purchase or to multiple purchases and need not specify an expiration date. A certificate provided under paragraph (d)(3) or (4) of this section may apply to a single purchase or multiple purchases, and will expire as of December 31, 1993, unless an earlier expiration date is specified in the certificate. A new certificate must be given to the supplier if any information on the current certificate changes. The certificate may be included as part of any business records normally used to document a sale.


(ii) *Special rule relating to certificates executed before January 1, 1992.* Certificates provided under this paragraph (d)(2) and executed before January 1, 1992, satisfy the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section if they are in substantially the same form as certificates set forth in § 52.4682-2T.


(2) *Certificate relating to ODCs used as a feedstock*—(i) *ODCs that will be resold for use by the second purchaser as a feedstock.* If the purchaser will resell the ODCs to a second purchaser for use by such second purchaser as a feedstock, the certificate provided by the purchaser must be in substantially the following form:


(ii) *ODCs that will be used by the purchaser as a feedstock.* If the purchaser will use the ODCs as a feedstock, the certificate provided by the purchaser must be in substantially the following form:


(3) *Certificate relating to ODCs used in the manufacture of rigid foam insulation*—(i) *ODCs that will be resold to a second purchaser for use by the second purchaser in the manufacture of rigid foam insulation.* If the purchaser will resell the ODCs to a second purchaser for use by such second purchaser in the manufacture of rigid foam insulation, the certificate provided by the purchaser must be in substantially the following form:


(ii) *ODCs that will be used by the purchaser in the manufacture of rigid foam insulation.* If the purchaser will use the ODCs in the manufacture of rigid foam insulation, the certificate provided by the purchaser must be in substantially the following form:


(4) *Certificate relating to ODCs used as medical sterilants*—(i) *ODCs that will be resold for use by the second purchaser as medical sterilants.* If the purchaser will resell the ODCs to a second purchaser for use by such second purchaser as medical sterilants, the certificate provided by the purchaser must be in substantially the following form:


(ii) *ODCs that will be used by the purchaser as medical sterilants.* If the purchaser will use the ODCs as medical sterilants, the certificate provided by the purchaser must be in substantially the following form:


(5) *Certificate relating to ODCs used as propellants in metered-dose inhalers*—(i) *ODCs that will be resold for use by the second purchaser as propellants in metered-dose inhalers.* If the purchaser will resell the ODCs to a second purchaser for use by such second purchaser as propellants in metered-dose inhalers, the certificate provided by the purchaser must be in substantially the following form:


(ii) *ODCs that will be used by the purchaser as propellants in metered-dose inhalers.* If the purchaser will use the ODCs as propellants in metered-dose inhalers, the certificate provided by the purchaser must be in substantially the following form:



---

[N] [T.D. 8370, 56 FR 56308, Nov. 4, 1991, as amended by T.D. 8622, 60 FR 52850, Oct. 11, 1995]




