# § 74.793   Low power TV and TV translator station protection of broadcast stations.

(a) An application to construct a new low power TV or TV translator station or change the facilities of an existing station will not be accepted if it fails to meet the interference protection requirements in this section.


(b) Except as provided in this section, interference prediction analysis is based on the interference thresholds (D/U signal strength ratios) and other criteria and methods specified in § 73.620 of this chapter.


(c) The following D/U signal strength ratio (dB) shall apply to the protection of stations on the first adjacent channel. The D/U ratios correspond to the LPTV or TV translator station's specified out-of-channel emission mask.


(d) For analysis of predicted interference from digital low power TV and TV translator stations, the relative field strength values of the antenna vertical radiation pattern if provided by the applicant will be used instead of the doubled values in Table 8 in OET Bulletin 69 up to a value of 1.0.


(e) Protection to the authorized facilities of TV broadcast stations shall be based on not causing predicted interference to the population within the service area defined and described in § 73.619(c) of this chapter, except that a low power TV or TV translator station must not cause a loss of service to 0.5 percent or more of the population predicted to receive service from the authorized TV facilities.


(f) [Reserved]


(g) Protection to the authorized facilities of Class A TV stations shall be based on not causing predicted interference to the population within the service area defined and described in § 73.6010 of this chapter, respectively, except that a low power TV or TV translator station must not cause a loss of service to 0.5 percent or more of the population predicted to receive service from the authorized Class A TV facilities.


(h) Protection to the authorized facilities of low power TV and TV translator stations shall be based on not causing predicted interference to the population within the service area defined and described in § 74.792, except that a low power TV or TV translator station must not cause a loss of service to 2.0 percent or more of the population predicted to receive service from the authorized low power TV or TV translator station.



---

[N] [69 FR 69335, Nov. 29, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 44828, July 27, 2011; 87 FR 58206, Sept. 23, 2022; 89 FR 7265, Feb. 1, 2024]




