# ยง 767.154   Conveying easements, rights-of-way, and other interests in inventory property.

(a) *Appraisal of real property and real property interests.* The Agency will determine the value of real property and real property interests being transferred in accordance with ยง 761.7 of this chapter.


(b) *Easements and rights-of-way on inventory property.* (1) The Agency may grant or sell an easement or right-of-way for roads, utilities, and other appurtenances if the conveyance is in the public interest and does not adversely affect the value of the real property.


(2) The Agency may sell an easement or right-of-way by negotiation for market value to any purchaser for cash without giving public notice if:


(i) The sale would not prevent the Agency from selling the property; and


(ii) The sale would not decrease the value of the property by an amount greater than the price received.


(3) In the case of condemnation proceedings by a State or political subdivision, the transfer of title will not be completed until adequate compensation and damages have been determined and paid.


(c) *Disposal of other interests in inventory property.* (1) If applicable, the Agency will sell mineral and water rights, mineral lease interests, mineral royalty interests, air rights, and agricultural and other lease interests with the surface land except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) If the Agency sells the land in separate parcels, any rights or interests that apply to each parcel are included with the sale.


(3) The Agency will assign lease or royalty interests not passing by deed to the purchaser at the time of sale.


(4) Appraisals of property will reflect the value of such rights, interests, or leases.




