# ยง 111.45   Revocation by operation of law.

(a) *License and permit.* If a broker that is a partnership, association, or corporation fails to have, during any continuous period of 120 days, at least one member of the partnership or at least one officer of the association or corporation who holds a valid individual broker's license, that failure will, in addition to any other sanction that may be imposed under this part, result in the revocation by operation of law of the license and the national permit issued to the partnership, association, or corporation. If a broker that is a partnership, association, or corporation fails to employ, during any continuous period of 180 days, a licensed customs broker who is the national permit qualifier for the broker, that failure will, in addition to any other sanction that may be imposed under this part, result in the revocation by operation of law of the national permit issued to the partnership, association, or corporation. CBP will notify the broker in writing of an impending revocation by operation of law under this section thirty (30) calendar days before the revocation is due to occur, if the broker has provided advance notice to CBP of the underlying events that could cause a revocation by operation of law under this section. If the license or permit of a partnership, association, or corporation is revoked by operation of law, CBP will notify the organization of the revocation.


(b) *Annual broker permit fee.* If a broker fails to pay the annual permit user fee pursuant to ยง 111.96(c), the permit is revoked by operation of law. The processing Center will notify the broker in writing of the failure to pay and the revocation of the permit.


(c) *Publication.* Notice of any revocation under this section will be published in the _Federal Register_.

 


(d) *Applicability of other sanctions.* Notwithstanding the operation of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, each broker still has a continuing obligation to exercise responsible supervision and control over the conduct of its brokerage business and to otherwise comply with the provisions of this part. Any failure on the part of a broker to meet that continuing obligation during the 120 or 180-day period referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, or during any shorter period of time, may result in the initiation of suspension or revocation proceedings or the assessment of a monetary penalty under subpart D or subpart E of this part. 



---

[N] [T.D. 00-17, 65 FR 13891, Mar. 15, 2000, as amended by CBP Dec. 22-21, 87 FR 63318, Oct. 18, 2022]






