# ยง 423.1   Basis and scope.

(a) *Basis.* (1) This part is based on the indicated provisions of the following sections of the Social Security Act:


1106. Disclosure of Information in Possession of Agency.


1128J(d). Reporting and Returning of Overpayments.


1860D-1. Eligibility, enrollment, and information.


1860D-2. Prescription drug benefits.


1860D-3. Access to a choice of qualified prescription drug coverage.


1860D-4. Beneficiary protections for qualified prescription drug coverage.


1860D-11. PDP regions; submission of bids; plan approval.


1860D-12. Requirements for and contracts with prescription drug plan (PDP) sponsors.


1860D-13. Premiums; late enrollment penalty.


1860D-14. Premium and cost-sharing subsidies for low-income individuals.


1860D-14A. Medicare coverage gap discount program.


1860D-15. Subsidies for Part D eligible individuals for qualified prescription drug coverage.


1860D-16. Medicare Prescription Drug Account in the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund.


1860D-21. Application to Medicare Advantage program and related managed care programs.


1860D-22. Special rules for Employer-Sponsored Programs


1860D-23. State pharmaceutical assistance programs.


1860D-24. Coordination requirements for plans providing prescription drug coverage.


1860D-31. Medicare prescription drug discount card and transitional assistance program.


1860D-41. Definitions; treatment of references to provisions in Part C.


1860D-42. Miscellaneous provisions.


1860D-43. Condition for coverage of drugs under this part.


(2) The following specific sections of the Medicare Modernization Act also address the prescription drug benefit program:


Sec. 102 Medicare Advantage conforming amendments.


Sec. 103 Medicaid amendments.


Sec. 104 Medigap.


Sec. 109 Expanding the work of Medicare Quality Improvement Organizations to include Parts C and D.


(3) Section 1611 of Title 8 of the United States Code regarding individuals who are not lawfully present and ineligible for Federal public benefits.


(b) *Scope.* This part establishes standards for beneficiary eligibility, access, benefits, protections, and low-income subsidies in Part D, as well as establishes standards and sets forth requirements, limitations, procedures and payments for organizations participating in the Voluntary Medicare Prescription Drug Program.



---

[N] [70 FR 4525, Jan. 28, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 30683, May 28, 2008; 79 FR 29962, May 23, 2014; 80 FR 7962, Feb. 12, 2015]




