# § 660.211   Fixed gear fishery—definitions.

These definitions are specific to the limited entry fixed gear fisheries covered in this subpart. General groundfish definitions are found at § 660.11, subpart C.


*Daily Trip Limit (DTL) Fishery* means a sablefish fishery that occurs both north and south of 36° N. lat. that is subject to trip limit restrictions including daily and/or weekly and/or bimonthly trip limits.


*Limited entry fixed gear fishery* means the fishery composed of vessels registered to limited entry permits with longline and pot/trap endorsements.


*Sablefish primary fishery* means, for the limited entry fixed gear sablefish fishery north of 36° N. lat, the fishery where vessels registered to at least one limited entry permit with both a gear endorsement for longline or trap (or pot) gear and a sablefish endorsement fish up to a specified tier limit and when they are not eligible to fish in the DTL fishery.


*Sablefish primary season* means, for the limited entry fixed gear sablefish fishery north of 36° N. lat, the period when vessels registered to at least one limited entry permit with both a gear endorsement for longline or trap (or pot) gear and a sablefish endorsement, are allowed to fish in the sablefish primary fishery described at § 660.231 of this subpart.


*Tier limit* means a specified amount of sablefish that may be harvested by a vessel registered to a limited entry fixed gear permit(s) with a Tier 1, Tier 2, and/or Tier 3 designation; a gear endorsement for longline or trap (or pot) gear; and a sablefish endorsement.



---

[N] [75 FR 60897, Oct. 1, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 53838, Aug. 30, 2011]




