# § 209.3   Cancellation of Reserve Bank stock; mergers involving member banks.

(a) *Application for cancellation.* Any bank that desires to withdraw from membership in the Federal Reserve System (including a national bank that wants to convert into a nonmember bank), voluntarily liquidates or ceases business, is merged or consolidated into a nonmember bank, or is involuntarily liquidated by a receiver or conservator or otherwise, shall promptly file with its Reserve Bank an application for cancellation of all its Reserve Bank stock (or withdrawal of its deposit, as the case may be) and payment therefor in accordance with § 209.4.


(b) *Involuntary termination of membership.* If an application is not filed promptly after a cessation of business by a state member bank, a vote to place a member bank in voluntary liquidation, or the appointment of a receiver for (or a determination to liquidate the bank by a conservator of) a member bank, the Board may, after notice and an opportunity for hearing where required under Section 9(9) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 327), order the membership of the bank terminated and all of its Reserve Bank stock canceled.


(c) *Effective date of cancellation.* Cancellation in whole of a bank's Reserve Bank capital stock shall be effective, in the case of:


(1) Voluntary withdrawal from membership by a state bank, as of the date of such withdrawal;


(2) Merger into, consolidation with, or (for a national bank) conversion into, a nonmember bank, as of the effective date of the merger, consolidation, or conversion; and


(3) Involuntary termination of membership, as of the date the Board issues the order of termination.


(d) *Exchange of stock on merger or change in location; stock adjustment upon merger with a nonmember bank; reporting of total consolidated assets following merger*—(1) *Applications.* (i) Before a merger or consolidation of member banks, the nonsurviving member bank shall file an application with the appropriate Reserve Bank to cancel its shares of Reserve Bank stock (or in the case of a mutual savings bank not authorized to purchase Reserve Bank stock, shall file an application to transfer its deposit to the account of the surviving bank) and the surviving member bank shall file an application with the appropriate Reserve Bank for issue of a corresponding number of shares of Reserve Bank stock (or in the case of a mutual savings bank not authorized to purchase Reserve Bank stock, shall file an application to increase its deposit obligation).


(ii) Before a merger or consolidation of a member bank and a nonmember bank, a surviving member bank shall file an application with the appropriate Reserve Bank to adjust its Reserve Bank capital stock subscription to equal six percent of the member bank's anticipated post-merger capital and surplus, or, in the case of member bank that is a mutual savings bank, six-tenths of 1 percent of the member bank's anticipated post-merger total deposit liabilities. A mutual savings bank not authorized to purchase Reserve Bank stock shall file an application to adjust its deposit obligation in a like manner.


(2) *Merger of member banks in the same Federal Reserve District.* Upon a merger or consolidation of member banks located in the same Federal Reserve District, the Reserve Bank shall cancel the shares of the nonsurviving bank (or in the case of a mutual savings bank not authorized to purchase Reserve Bank stock, shall credit the deposit to the account of the surviving bank) and shall credit the appropriate number of shares on its books to (or in the case of a mutual savings bank not authorized to purchase Reserve Bank stock, shall accept an appropriate increase in the deposit of) the surviving bank, subject to paragraph (d)(3) of § 209.4.


(3) *Change of location or merger of member banks in different Federal Reserve Districts.* Upon a determination under paragraph (c)(2) of § 209.2 that a member bank is located in a Federal Reserve District other than the District of the Reserve Bank of which it is a member, or upon a merger or consolidation of member banks located in different Federal Reserve Districts,—


(i) The Reserve Bank of the member bank's former District, or of the nonsurviving member bank, shall cancel the bank's shares and transfer the amount paid in for those shares, plus accrued dividends (as specified in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of § 209.4) and subject to paragraph (d)(3) of § 209.4 (or, in the case of a mutual savings bank member not authorized to purchase Federal Reserve Bank stock, the amount of its deposit, adjusted in a like manner), to the Reserve Bank of the bank's new District or of the surviving bank; and


(ii) The Reserve Bank of the member bank's new District or of the surviving bank shall issue the appropriate number of shares by crediting the bank with the appropriate number of shares on its books (or, in the case of a mutual savings bank, by accepting the deposit or an appropriate increase in the deposit).


(4) *Merger with a nonmember bank.* Upon a merger or consolidation of a member bank and a nonmember bank, the Reserve Bank will adjust the surviving member bank's stock subscription to equal six percent of the member bank's capital and surplus, or, in the case of a member bank that is a mutual savings bank, six-tenths of 1 percent of the member bank's total deposit liabilities. If a mutual savings bank has a deposit with the appropriate Reserve Bank in lieu of Reserve Bank capital stock, its deposit obligation shall be adjusted in a like manner.


(5) *Statement of total consolidated assets.* When a member bank merges or consolidates with another bank and the surviving bank remains a Reserve Bank stockholder, the surviving stockholder must report whether its total consolidated assets exceed $12,841,000,000 in the application described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.


(e) *Voluntary withdrawal.* Any bank withdrawing voluntarily from membership shall give 6 months written notice, and shall not cause the withdrawal of more than 25 percent of any Reserve Bank's capital stock in any calendar year, unless the Board waives these requirements.



---

[N] [63 FR 37663, July 13, 1998, as amended by Reg. I, 81 FR 9087, Feb. 24, 2016; 82 FR 11502, Feb. 24, 2017; 82 FR 52174, Nov. 13, 2017; 83 FR 58467, Nov. 20, 2018; 84 FR 68326, Dec. 16, 2019; 85 FR 79390, Dec. 10, 2020; 86 FR 69579, Dec. 8, 2021; 87 FR 2030, Jan. 13, 2022; 87 FR 73635, Dec. 1, 2022; 88 FR 83318, Nov. 29, 2023; 89 FR 88878, Nov. 12, 2024]






