# § 172.25   Administration of State programs.

(a) *General.* State experimental use permit programs shall be consistent with the Federal experimental use permit program, as set forth in subpart A of 40 CFR part 172.


(b) *Procedures leading to issuance.* An application for an experimental use permit shall be made in writing, and shall contain sufficient information, including a confidential statement of formula for any new product, to enable the State to determine whether use pursuant to the permit would be in accordance with the purposes of FIFRA and this subpart.


(c) *Labeling.* (1) New products shall bear labeling satisfying the requirements of § 172.6(a), except that the prominent statement “For Distribution and Experimental Use Only Within (State)” shall be used in place of “For Experimental Use Only”. The designated State agency may approve, as directions for use on labeling, the experimental program, provided such program is to be distributed with the product.


(2) The designated State agency may permit an EPA or State registered pesticide to be used under an experimental use permit with supplemental labeling as approved by the State agency. In exercising this discretion, the designated State agency shall ensure that the supplemental labeling and the registered label together satisfy the requirements of § 172.6(a).


(d) *Duration.* State experimental use permits shall be issued for a specified period of time, not to exceed three years, depending upon the nature of the pest problem and the requirements of the testing program submitted. The designated State agency may renew, extend or amend the stated duration of a permit, if circumstances warrant.


(e) *Limitations.* The designated State agency shall impose such limitations in the permit as are necessary to protect health and the environment, including limitations on quantity, sites, area, disposal, and other aspects of pesticide use.


(f) *Program surveillance and reporting of data.* (1) The permittee shall supervise the test program and evaluate the results of testing at each site of application. The designated State agency shall require the permittee to report to it immediately any adverse effects resulting from use of, or exposure to, the pesticide.


(2) During the course of the program, the designated State agency shall require the permittee to submit such reports (both special and periodic) as are necessary to supervise effectively the progress of the program to prevent unreasonable adverse effects on man or the environment. The designated State agency shall also require the permittee to submit a final report at the conclusion of the program. Where applicable, such reports shall also be made available to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food Service and Quality Service (FSQS), as required by § 172.8(c).


(g) *Disposal.* All pesticides and pesticide containers, whether disposed of during the course of a State permit or remaining at the termination of a permit, must either be:


(1) Disposed of in accordance with a disposal plan approved as part of the experimental program; or


(2) Returned to the permittee for storage or disposal in accordance with the requirements of RCRA and rules there under; or


(3) If the product is currently registered, used in accordance with the registered label.



---

[N] [44 FR 41787, July 18, 1979, as amended at 60 FR 32097, June 19, 1995]




