# § 596.10   Specifications for the vehicle test device.

(a) *Explanation of usage.* The words “recommended,” “should,” “can be,” or “should be” appearing in sections of ISO 19206-3:2021 (incorporated by reference, see § 596.5), referenced in this section, are read as setting forth specifications that are used.


(b) *Explanation of usage.* The words “may be,” or “either,” used in connection with a set of items appearing in sections of ISO 19206-3:2021 (incorporated by reference, see § 596.5), referenced in this section, are read as setting forth the totality of items, any one of which may be selected by NHTSA for testing.


(c) *Dimensional specifications.* (1) The rear silhouette and the rear window are symmetrical about a shared vertical centerline.


(2) Representations of the taillamps, rear reflex reflectors, and tires are symmetrical about the surrogate's centerline.


(3) The license plate representation has a width of 300 ± 15 mm and a height of 150 ± 15 mm and mounted with a license plate holder angle within the range described in 49 CFR 571.108, S6.6.3.1.


(4) The vehicle test device representations are located within the minimum and maximum measurement values specified in columns 3 and 4 of Tables A.4 of ISO 19206-3:2021 Annex A (incorporated by reference, see § 596.5). The tire representations are located within the minimum and maximum measurement values specified in columns 3 and 4 of Tables A.3 of ISO 19206-3:2021 Annex A (incorporated by reference, see § 596.5). The terms “rear light” means “taillamp,” “retroreflector” means “reflex reflector,” and “high centre taillight” means “high-mounted stop lamp.”


(d) *Visual and near infrared specification.* (1) The vehicle test device rear representation colors are within the ranges specified in Tables B.2 and B.3 of ISO 19206-3:2021 Annex B (incorporated by reference, see § 596.5).


(2) The rear representation infrared properties of the vehicle test device are within the ranges specified in Table B.1 of ISO 19206-3:2021 Annex B (incorporated by reference, see § 596.5) for wavelengths of 850 to 950 nm when measured according to the calibration and measurement setup specified in paragraph B.3 of ISO 19206-3:2021 Annex B (incorporated by reference, see § 596.5).


(3) The vehicle test device rear reflex reflectors, and at least 50 cm
2 of the taillamp representations are grade DOT-C2 reflective sheeting as specified in 49 CFR 571.108, S8.2.


(e) *Radar reflectivity specifications.* (1) The radar cross section of the vehicle test device is measured with it attached to the carrier (robotic platform). The radar reflectivity of the carrier platform is less than 0 dBm
2 for a viewing angle of 180 degrees and over a range of 5 to 100 m when measured according to the radar measurement procedure specified in Section C.3 of ISO 19206-3:2021 Annex C (incorporated by reference, see § 596.5) for fixed-angle scans.


(2) The rear bumper area as shown in Table C.1 of ISO 19206-3:2021 Annex C (incorporated by reference, see § 596.5) contributes to the target radar cross section.


(3) The radar cross section is assessed using radar sensor that operates at 76 to 81 GHz and has a range of at least 5 to 100 m, a range gate length smaller than 0.6m, a horizontal field of view of 10 degrees or more (-3dB amplitude limit), and an elevation field of view of 5 degrees or more (-3dB amplitude).


(4) At least 92 percent of the filtered data points of the surrogate radar cross section for the fixed vehicle angle, variable range measurements are within the radar cross section boundaries defined in Section C.2.2.4 of ISO 19206-3:2021 Annex C (incorporated by reference, see § 596.5) for a viewing angle of 180 degrees when measured according to the radar measurement procedure specified in Section C.3 of ISO 19206-3:2021 Annex C (incorporated by reference, see § 596.5) for fixed-angle scans.


(5) Between 86 to 95 percent of the vehicle test device spatial radar cross section reflective power is with the primary reflection region defined in Section C.2.2.5 of ISO 19206-3:2021 Annex C (incorporated by reference, see § 596.5) when measured according to the radar measurement procedure specified in Section C.3 of ISO 19206-3:2021 Annex C (incorporated by reference, see § 596.5) using the angle-penetration method.
















