# § 299.421   Emergency roof access.

(a) *Number and dimensions.* Each passenger car shall have a minimum of two emergency roof access locations, each providing a minimum opening of 660 mm (26 inches) longitudinally (*i.e.,* parallel to the longitudinal axis of the car) by 610 mm (24 inches) laterally.


(b) *Means of access.* Emergency roof access shall be provided by means of a conspicuously marked structural weak point in the roof for access by properly equipped emergency response personnel.


(c) *Location.* Emergency roof access locations shall be situated so that when a car is on its side—


(1) One emergency access location is situated as close as practicable within each half of the roof as divided top from bottom; and


(2) One emergency access location is situated as close as practicable within each half of the roof as divided left from right. (*See* Figure 1 to this paragraph.)


(d) *Obstructions.* The ceiling space below each emergency roof access location shall be free from wire, cabling, conduit, and piping. This space shall also be free of any rigid secondary structure (*e.g.,* a diffuser or diffuser support, lighting back fixture, mounted PA equipment, or luggage rack) where practicable. It shall be permissible to cut through interior panels, liners, or other non-rigid secondary structures after making the cutout hole in the roof, provided any such additional cutting necessary to access the interior of the vehicle permits a minimum opening of the dimensions specified in paragraph (a) of this section to be maintained.


(e) *Marking instructions.* Each emergency roof access location shall be conspicuously marked with retroreflective material of contrasting color meeting the minimum requirements specified in § 299.423. Legible and understandable instructions shall be posted at or near each such location.




