# § 203.49   Rehabilitation of Hurricane and Shore Protection Projects.

(a) *Authority.* The Chief of Engineers is authorized to rehabilitate any Federally authorized hurricane or shore protection structure damaged or destroyed by wind, wave, or water action of an other than ordinary nature when, in the discretion of the Chief of Engineers, such rehabilitation is warranted for the adequate functioning of the project. 


(b) *Policies.* (1) Rehabilitation of HSPP's is limited to the repair/restoration of the HSPP to a pre-storm condition that allows for the adequate functioning of the project, provided that the damage was caused by an extraordinary storm. 


(2) To be eligible for Rehabilitation Assistance, HSPP's must be: 


(i) A completed element of a Federally authorized project; or, 


(ii) A portion of a Federally authorized project constructed by non-Federal interests when approval of such construction was obtained from the Commander, Headquarters, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (HQUSACE), or his designated representative; or, 


(iii) A portion of a Federally authorized project constructed by non-Federal interests and designated by an Act of Congress as a Federal project; and 


(3) Rehabilitation Assistance for sacrificial features will be limited to that necessary to reduce the immediate threat to life and property, or restoration to pre-storm conditions, whichever is less. 


(4) To be eligible for rehabilitation, the sacrificial features of an HSPP must be substantially eroded by wind, wave, or water action of an other than ordinary nature. The determination of whether a storm qualifies as extraordinary will be made by the Director of Civil Works, and may be delegated to the Chief, Operations Division, Directorate of Civil Works. 


(5) Rehabilitation will not be provided for uncompleted HSPP's. An HSPP (or separable portion thereof) is considered completed when transferred to the non-Federal sponsor for operation and maintenance. 


(6) *Definition of extraordinary storm.* An extraordinary storm is a storm that, due to prolongation or severity, creates weather conditions that cause significant amounts of damage to a Hurricane/Shore Protection Project. “Prolongation or severity” means a Category 3 or higher hurricane as measured on the Saffir-Simpson scale, or a storm that has an exceedance frequency equal to or greater than the design storm of the project. “Significant amounts of damage” have occurred when: 


(i) The cost of the construction effort to effect repair of the HSPP or separable element thereof (exclusive of dredge mobilization and demobilization costs) exceeds $1 million and is greater than two percent of the original construction cost (expressed in current day dollars) of the HSPP or separable element thereof; or, 


(ii) The cost of the construction effort to effect repair of the HSPP or separable element thereof (exclusive of dredge mobilization and demobilization costs) exceeds $6 million; or, 


(iii) More than one-third of the planned or historically placed sand for renourishment efforts for the HSPP (or separable element thereof) is lost. 


(c) *Procedural requirements.* Rehabilitation of HSPP'S will be done in accordance with § 203.45, except as modified by this section. 


(d) *Combined rehabilitation and periodic nourishment.* In some cases, the non-Federal sponsor may wish to fully restore the sacrificial features of a project where only a partial restoration is justifiable as Rehabilitation Assistance. In these cases, a cost allocation between Rehabilitation Assistance and periodic nourishment under the terms of the project PCA will be determined by the Director of Civil Works.




