# § 1207.3   Definitions.

(a) As used in this part 1207:


(1) *Aboveground pool slide ladder* means a slide ladder that is not anchored in the ground or support deck and that can be removed from the slide or hinged and locked so that unauthorized or unsupervised use of the slide is prevented.


(2) *Abrasion hazard* means a sharp or rough surface of a swimming pool slide that would scrape the skin upon casual contact.


(3) *Assembled product* means all parts, components, and fasteners as defined in and assembled according to the manufacturer's assembly and installation instructions.


(4) *Bracing* means members providing structural support to the assembled, installed slide.


(5) *Casual contact* means contact of any body part with the slide occurring by chance or nonchalant encounters.


(6) *Center of gravity* means the point that represents the mean position of the concentrated mass of a body.


(7) *Curved slide* means a slide whose runway curves out of the vertical plane at any point along the slide path.


(8) *Cutting hazard* means a slide surface that would cut the skin under casual contact.


(9) *Designated waterline* means the horizontal line through whichever of the following is applicable: (i) The midpoint of the operating range of the skimmers, or (ii) on pools with overflow systems, the height of the overflow rim.


(10) *Edge guards* means shields designed to cover sharp edges on slides.


(11) [Reserved]


(12) *Freestanding slide* means a slide designed for aboveground pools that is not fastened to the pool deck or the ground. This slide may have attachments to the aboveground pool to prevent misalignment.


(13) *Friction* means the force tending to reduce the velocity of the slider on the slide.


(14) [Reserved]


(15) *Intended use* means behavior on swimming pool slides as disclosed by the manufacturer, as specified in this part 1207, or to which the slide may be subjected by a reasonable user (including reasonably foreseeable misuse).


(16) *Ladder angle* means the angle of the ladder measured from a plumbline.


(17) *Ladder platform* means a platform built into the slide ladder.


(18) *Operational strength* means the strength of the slide and/or its components after installation according to the manufacturer's instructions.


(19) *Performance test* means a test to measure the functional or structural characteristics of the slide and may include:


(i) Observations and measurements of the slide's functioning in the “intended use” mode, installed according to the manufacturer's installation instructions, and/or


(ii) Observations and measurements of the slide's response to dynamic and static loads.


(20) [Reserved]


(21) *Pinching hazard* means any configuration of slide components that would pinch or entrap the fingers or toes of a child or an adult.


(22) *Puncture hazard* means any slide surface or protrusion that would puncture a child's skin under casual contact.


(23) *Runway* means the surface on which the user slides in the intended use of a slide.


(24) *Runway rail* means a raised edge or guard that keeps the slider on the runway.


(25) *Runway length* means the length of the runway measured along its centerline.


(26) *Slide width* means the width of the slide runway measured between the inside of the left and right runway rails.


(27) *Straight slide* means a slide whose runway curves only in the vertical plane.


(28) *Swimming pool slide* means any device used to enter a swimming pool by sliding down an inclined plane.


(29) *Tamperproof* means that tools are required to alter or remove portions of the slide such as guards, treads, etc.


(30) *Trajectory* means the path of a slider's center of gravity from start to finish.


(31) [Reserved]


(32) *Tread contact surface* means foot contact surfaces of ladder, step, stair, or ramp.



---

[N] [41 FR 2751, Jan. 19, 1976, as amended at 43 FR 58813, Dec. 18, 1978]




