# § 49.4263-6   Transportation outside the northern portion of the Western Hemisphere.

(a) *Transportation which leaves and re-enters the northern portion of the Western Hemisphere.* For purposes of the regulations in this subpart, transportation, any part of which is outside the northern portion of the Western Hemisphere (as defined in paragraph (c) of this section) shall, if the route of the transportation leaves and re-enters the northern portion of the Western Hemisphere, be considered to consist of transportation to the point outside such northern portion and of separate transportation thereafter. The amount paid for such transportation will be considered to be a payment made for two trips and the taxability of the payment will be determined accordingly. Thus, an amount paid for transportation from New York to San Francisco with a stop at Caracas, Venezuela, will be considered an amount paid for a trip from New York to Caracas and for a separate trip from Caracas to San Francisco, neither of which is taxable transportation.


(b) [Reserved]


(c) *Northern portion of the Western Hemisphere.* For purposes of the regulations in this subpart, the term “northern portion of the Western Hemisphere” means the area lying west of the 30th meridian west of Greenwich, east of the International Date Line, and north of the equator, but not including any country of South America.



---

[N] [T.D. 6430, 24 FR 9665, Dec. 3, 1959, as amended by T.D. 6618, 27 FR 11227, Nov. 14, 1962. Redesignated and amended by T.D. 9948, 86 FR 5007, Jan. 19, 2021]




