# § 721.10858   Fluorinated acid alkylester (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as fluorinated acid alkylester (PMN P-13-305) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of § 721.63(a)(4): Any NIOSH-certified air-purifying full facepiece respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters.


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f)(concentration set at 1.0 percent), (g)(1)(The PMN substance may cause central nervous system depression, liver effects, endocrine effects), (g)(2), and (g)(5). In addition a significant new use of the substances is any manner or method of manufacture or processing associated with any use of the substances without providing risk notification as follows:


(A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for the substances, the employer becomes aware that the substances may present a risk of injury to human health or the environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a SDS as described in § 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If the substance(s) are not being manufactured, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information to a SDS before the substance(s) are reintroduced into the workplace.


(B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN substance(s) from the employer, or who have received the PMN substance(s) from the employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, are provided an SDS containing the information required under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (g) and (o). It is a significant new use for any chemical substance manufactured using the PMN substance to contain residuals of the PMN substance above the level specified in the consent order. It is a significant new use to recover and convert, capture (destroy), recycle, or reuse the PMN substance below the overall efficiency specified in the consent order, when the PMN substance is used as an intermediate.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [80 FR 59606, Oct. 2, 2015]




