# § 1734.3   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*1996 Act* means the Federal Agriculture Improvement Act of 1996.


*Act* means the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 901 *et seq.*).


*Administrator* means the Administrator of the Rural Utilities Service, or designee or successor.


*Applicant* means an eligible organization that applies for financial assistance under this subpart.


*Approved purposes* means project purposes for which grant, loan, or combination loan and grant financial assistance may be expended.


*Broadband facilities* means facilities that transmit, receive, or carry voice, video, or data between the terminal equipment at each end of the circuit or path. Such facilities include microwave antennae, relay stations and towers, other telecommunications antennae, fiber-optic cables and repeaters, coaxial cables, communication satellite ground station complexes, copper cable electronic equipment associated with telecommunications transmissions, and similar items.


*Combination loan and grant* means a grant in combination with a loan made under the DLT program.


*Completed application* means an application that includes all those items specified in §§ 1734.125, 1734.134, and in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator.


*Consortium* means a combination or group of entities undertaking the purposes for which the distance learning and telemedicine financial assistance is provided. At least one of the entities in a consortium must meet the requirements of § 1734.4.


*Construct* means to acquire, construct, extend, improve, or install a facility or system.


*Distance learning* means a telecommunications link to an end user through the use of eligible equipment to provide educational programs, instruction, or information originating in one area, whether rural or not, to students and teachers who are located in rural areas.


*DLT borrower* means an entity that has an outstanding loan under the provisions of the DLT program.


*DLT program* means the Distance Learning and Telemedicine Loan and Grant Program administered by RUS.


*Economic useful life* as applied to equipment and facilities financed under the DLT program is calculated based on Internal Revenue Service depreciation rules or recognized telecommunications industry guidelines.


*Eligible equipment* means computer hardware and software, audio and video equipment, computer networking components, telecommunications terminal equipment, terminal equipment, inside wiring, interactive video equipment.


*Eligible facilities* means land, buildings, or building construction needed to carry out an eligible distance learning or telemedicine project for loan financial assistance only.


*End user* is one or more of the following:


(1) Rural elementary, secondary schools, and other educational institutions, such as institutions of higher education, vocational and adult training and educational centers, libraries and teacher training centers, and students, teachers and instructors using such rural educational facilities, that participate in distance learning telecommunications program through a project funded under this subpart;


(2) Rural hospitals, primary care centers or facilities, such as medical centers, nursing homes, and clinics, and physicians and staff using such rural medical facilities, that participants in a rural distance learning telecommunications program through a project funded under this part; and


(3) Other rural community facilities, institutions, or entities that receive distance learning or telemedicine services.


*End user site* means a facility that is part of a network or telecommunications system that is utilized by end users. An end user site can also be the residence of someone living in a rural area that is receiving telemedicine or distant learning services.


*Financial assistance* means a grant, combination loan and grant, or loan.


*GFR* means RUS telecommunications program General Field Representative.


*Grant documents* means the grant agreement, including any amendments and supplements thereto, between RUS and the grantee.


*Grantee* means a recipient of a grant from RUS to carry out the purposes of the DLT program.


*Guarantee* means a guarantee for a loan provided by a RUS borrower or other qualified third party.


*Hub* means a facility that is part of a network or telecommunications system that provides educational or medical services to end user sites.


*Instructional programming* means course material for teaching over the Distance Learning or Telemedicine network, including computer software.


*Interactive equipment* means equipment used to produce and prepare for transmission of audio and visual signals from at least two distant locations so that individuals at such locations can orally and visually communicate with each other. Such equipment includes, but is not limited to, monitors, other display devices, cameras or other recording devices, audio pickup devices, and other related equipment.


*Loan* means a loan made under the DLT program bearing interest at a rate equal to the then current cost-of-money to the government.


*Loan documents* mean the loan agreement, note, and security instrument, including any amendments and supplements thereto, between RUS and the DLT borrower.


*Local exchange carrier* (LEC) is a regulatory term in telecommunications for the local telephone company. In the United States, wireline telephone companies are divided into two large categories: Long distance (interexchange carrier, or IXCs) and local (local exchange carrier, or LECs). This structure is a result of 1984 divestiture of then regulated monopoly carrier American Telephone & Telegraph. Local telephone companies at the time of the divestiture are also known as Incumbent Local Exchange Carriers (ILEC).


*Matching contribution* means the applicant's contribution for approved purposes.


*Project* means approved purposes for which financial assistance has been provided.


*Project service area* means the area in which at least 90 percent of the persons to be served by the project are likely to reside.


*Recipient* means a grantee, borrower, or both of a DLT program grant, loan or combination loan and grant.


*Rural community facility* means a facility such as a school, library, learning center, training facility, hospital, or medical facility that provides benefits primarily to residents of rural areas.


*RUS* means the Rural Utilities Service, an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture, successor to the Rural Electrification Administration.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Agriculture.


*Technical assistance* means:


(1) Assistance in learning to manage, operate, or use equipment or systems; and


(2) Studies, analyses, designs, reports, manuals, guides, literature, or other forms of creating, acquiring, or disseminating information.


*Telecommunications carrier* means any provider of telecommunications services.


*Telecommunications or electric borrower* means an entity that has outstanding RUS electric or telecommunications loan or loan guarantee under the provisions of the Act.


*Telecommunications systems plan* means the plan submitted by an applicant in accordance with § 1734.25 for grants, § 1734.34 for a combination loan and grant, or § 1734.44 for loans.


*Telemedicine* means a telecommunications link to an end user through the use of eligible equipment which electronically links medical professionals at separate sites in order to exchange health care information in audio, video, graphic, or other format for the purpose of providing improved health care services primarily to residents of rural areas.




