# § 1.25a   Redelegations by the Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy.

(a) The Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy is redelegated authority to:


(1)(i) Redelegate and authorize successive redelegation of authority granted in this paragraph (a) to officials within the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy, except as limited by law or specific administrative reservation.


(ii) Publish, in appendix A of this part, redelegations made under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.


(2) Establish policy and maintain oversight of implementation of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, Pub. L. 91-190, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4321-4347) within the Department of Transportation.


(3) Oversee the implementation of 49 U.S.C. 303 (Policy on lands, wildlife and waterfowl refuges, and historic sites).


(4) Represent the Secretary of Transportation on various interagency boards, committees, and commissions to include the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board and the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation and the Trade Policy Review Group and the Trade Policy Staff Committee.


(5) Serve as the Department's designated principal conservation officer pursuant to section 656 of the Department of Energy Organization Act, Pub. L. 94-91 [ 42 U.S.C. 7266], and carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by section 656 of the Act, which pertains to planning and implementing energy conservation matters with the Department of Energy.


(6) Carry out the functions of section 42303 of 49 U.S.C., relating to the management of the Web site regarding the use of insecticides in passenger aircraft.


(7) In coordination with the General Counsel, carry out the duties of the Secretary under Executive Orders 12866 and 13563 to establish the value of statistical life in connection with assessing the costs and benefits of Departmental regulatory action.


(8) Carry out the duties of the Secretary under Executive Orders 12866 and 13563 to establish the value of time in connection with assessing the costs and benefits of Departmental regulatory action.


(b) The Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs is redelegated authority to:


(1)(i) Redelegate and authorize successive redelegation of authority granted in this paragraph (b) to officials within the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs, except as limited by law or specific administrative reservation.


(ii) Publish, in appendix A of this part, redelegations made under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.


(2) Carry out the functions of the Secretary pertaining to aircraft with respect to Transportation Order T-1 (44 CFR chapter IV) under the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended, Pub. L. 81-774, 64 Stat. 798 [50 U.S.C. App. 2061 *et seq.*] and Executive Order 10480, as amended (see also Executive Order 10773 and 12919).


(3) Serve as Department of Transportation member of the Interagency Group on International Aviation, and pursuant to Executive Order 11382, serve as Chair of the Group.


(4) Serve as second alternate representing the Secretary of Transportation to the Trade Policy Committee as mandated by Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1979 (5 U.S.C. App. at 1381), as amended, and Executive Order 12188.


(5) Represent the Department of Transportation at the Trade Policy Committee Review Group and the Trade Policy Staff Committee, which were established at 15 CFR part 2002 as subordinate bodies of the Trade Policy Committee.


(6) As supplemented by 14 CFR part 385, and except as provided in §§ 1.99 (RITA), and 1.27 (General Counsel), carry out the functions transferred to the Department from the Civil Aeronautics Board and other related functions and authority vested in the Secretary under the following provisions of Title 49, U.S.C.:


(i) Sections 40103(a)(2) (relating to the consultation with the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board before prescribing regulations or procedures that will have a significant impact on accessibility of commercial airports for handicapped individuals), and (c) (relating to foreign aircrafts); 40105 (relating to international negotiations, agreements, and obligations); 40109(a), (c), (g), 46301(b) (smoke alarm penalty), (d), (f), (g) (relating to the authority to exempt certain air carriers) and (h); 40113(a) and (c); 40114(a) (relating to reports and records); 40115 (relating to the withholding of information from public disclosure; and 40116 (relating to the Anti-Head Tax Act);


(ii) The following chapters of title 49, U.S.C., except as related to departmental regulation of airline consumer protection and civil rights which is delegated to the General Counsel at § 1.27:


(A) Chapter 411, relating to air carrier certification;


(B) Chapter 413, relating to foreign air transportation;


(C) Chapter 415, relating to pricing;


(D) Chapter 417, relating to the operations of air carriers, except section 41721-41723;


(E) Chapter 419, and 39 U.S.C. 5402, relating to the transportation of mail;


(iii) Section 42111 of title 49, U.S.C. with respect to mutual aid agreements as it relates to foreign air transportation;


(iv) Chapters 461 and 463 of title 49, U.S.C., relating to aviation investigations, proceedings, and penalties under Part A of 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII except for those sections delegated to the General Counsel under § 1.27, and to the Federal Aviation Administrator under § 1.83;


(v) Chapter 473 of title 49, U.S.C., relating to international airport facilities.


(vi) Section 11 of the Clayton Act, Pub. L. 63-212 [15 U.S.C. 21], relating to air carriers and foreign air carriers.


(vii) Section 3 of An Act to Encourage Travel in the United States, and for other purposes, Pub. L. 76-755, 54 Stat. 773 [16 U.S.C. 18b].


(viii) Sections 108(a)(4), 621(b)(5), 704(a)(5), and 814(b)(5) of the Consumer Credit Protection Act, Pub. L. 90-321 [15 U.S.C. 1607(a)(4), 1681s(b)(5), 1691c(a)(5), and 1692l(b)(5)].


(7) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 44907(b)(1), (c), and (e) related to the security of foreign airports in coordination with the General Counsel, the Federal Aviation Administrator, and the Assistant Secretary for Administration.


(8) Carry out section 101(a)(2) of the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act, Pub. L. 107-42 [49 U.S.C. 40101 note], as delegated to the Secretary of Transportation by the President pursuant to the Presidential Memorandum dated September 25, 2001, 3 CFR, 2001 Comp., p. 911.


(9) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 47129, relating to resolution of disputes over the reasonableness of fees imposed upon air carriers.




