# ยง 1018.29   Payments.

(a) *Payment in full.* The Board shall make every effort to collect a claim in full before it becomes delinquent. The Board shall impose charges for interest, penalties, and administrative costs as specified in ยง 1018.30. 


(b) *Payment in installments.* If a debtor furnishes satisfactory evidence of inability to pay a claim in one lump sum, payment in regular installments may be arranged. Evidence may consist of a financial statement or a signed statement certified under penalty of perjury to be true and correct that application for a loan to enable the debtor to pay the claim in full was rejected. Except for a claim described at 5 U.S.C. 5514, all installment payment arrangements must be in writing and require the payment of interest and administrative charges. 


(1) Installment note forms including confess-judgement notes may be used. The written installment agreement must contain a provision accelerating the debt payment in the event the debtor defaults. If the debtor's financial statement discloses the ownership of assets which are free and clear of liens or security interests, or assets in which the debtor owns equity, the debtor may be asked to secure the payment of an installment note by executing a Security Agreement and Financial Statement transferring to the United States a security interest in the assets until the debt is discharged.


(2) If the debtor owes more than one debt and designates how a voluntary installment payment is to be applied among those debts, the Board shall follow that designation. If the debtor does not designate the application of the payment, the Board shall apply the payment to the various debts in accordance with the best interest of the United States as determined by the facts and circumstances of the particular case.


(c) *To whom payment is made.* Payment of a debt is made by check, money order, or credit card payable to the Surface Transportation Board and mailed or delivered to the Section of Financial Services, Surface Transportation Board, Washington, DC 20423, unless payment is:


(1) Made pursuant to arrangements with the GAO or DOJ;


(2) Ordered by a Court of the United States; or


(3) Otherwise directed in any other part of this chapter.



---

[N] [58 FR 7749, Feb. 9, 1993, as amended at 64 FR 53267, Oct. 1, 1999]




