# § 50.33   Contents of applications; general information.

Each application shall state:


(a) Name of applicant;


(b) Address of applicant;


(c) Description of business or occupation of applicant;


(d)(1) If applicant is an individual, state citizenship.


(2) If applicant is a partnership, state name, citizenship and address of each partner and the principal location where the partnership does business.


(3) If applicant is a corporation or an unincorporated association, state:


(i) The state where it is incorporated or organized and the principal location where it does business;


(ii) The names, addresses and citizenship of its directors and of its principal officers;


(iii) Whether it is owned, controlled, or dominated by an alien, a foreign corporation, or foreign government, and if so, give details.


(4) If the applicant is acting as agent or representative of another person in filing the application, identify the principal and furnish information required under this paragraph with respect to such principal.


(e) The class of license applied for, the use to which the facility will be put, the period of time for which the license is sought, and a list of other licenses, except operator's licenses, issued or applied for in connection with the proposed facility.


(f) Except for an electric utility applicant for a license to operate a utilization facility of the type described in § 50.21(b) or § 50.22, information sufficient to demonstrate to the Commission the financial qualification of the applicant to carry out, in accordance with regulations in this chapter, the activities for which the permit or license is sought. As applicable, the following should be provided:


(1) If the application is for a construction permit, the applicant shall submit information that demonstrates that the applicant possesses or has reasonable assurance of obtaining the funds necessary to cover estimated construction costs and related fuel cycle costs. The applicant shall submit estimates of the total construction costs of the facility and related fuel cycle costs, and shall indicate the source(s) of funds to cover these costs.




(2) If the application is for an operating license, the applicant shall submit information that demonstrates the applicant possesses or has reasonable assurance of obtaining the funds necessary to cover estimated operation costs for the period of the license. The applicant shall submit estimates for total annual operating costs for each of the first five years of operation of the facility. The applicant shall also indicate the source(s) of funds to cover these costs. An applicant seeking to renew or extend the term of an operating license need not submit the financial information that is required in an application for an initial license. 








(3) If the application is for a combined license under subpart C of part 52 of this chapter, the applicant shall submit the information described in paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section.


(4) Each application for a construction permit, operating license, or combined license submitted by a newly-formed entity organized for the primary purpose of constructing and/or operating a facility must also include information showing:


(i) The legal and financial relationships it has or proposes to have with its stockholders or owners;


(ii) The stockholders' or owners' financial ability to meet any contractual obligation to the entity which they have incurred or proposed to incur; and


(iii) Any other information considered necessary by the Commission to enable it to determine the applicant's financial qualification.


(5) The Commission may request an established entity or newly-formed entity to submit additional or more detailed information respecting its financial arrangements and status of funds if the Commission considers this information appropriate. This may include information regarding a licensee's ability to continue the conduct of the activities authorized by the license and to decommission the facility.




(g)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, if the application is for an operating license or combined license for a nuclear power reactor, or if the application is for an early site permit and contains plans for coping with emergencies under § 52.17(b)(2)(ii) of this chapter, the applicant shall submit the radiological emergency response plans of State and local governmental entities in the United States that are wholly or partially within the plume exposure pathway emergency planning zone (EPZ),
1 as well as the plans of State governments wholly or partially within the ingestion pathway EPZ.
2 If the application is for an early site permit that, under 10 CFR 52.17(b)(2)(i), proposes major features of the emergency plans describing the EPZs, then the descriptions of the EPZs must meet the requirements of this paragraph. Generally, the plume exposure pathway EPZ for nuclear power reactors shall consist of an area about 10 miles (16 km) in radius and the ingestion pathway EPZ shall consist of an area about 50 miles (80 km) in radius. The exact size and configuration of the EPZs surrounding a particular nuclear power reactor shall be determined in relation to the local emergency response needs and capabilities as they are affected by such conditions as demography, topography, land characteristics, access routes, and jurisdictional boundaries. The size of the EPZs also may be determined on a case-by-case basis for gas-cooled reactors and for reactors with an authorized power level less than 250 MW thermal. The plans for the ingestion pathway shall focus on such actions as are appropriate to protect the food ingestion pathway.


(2) Small modular reactor, non-light-water reactor, or non-power production or utilization facility applicants complying with § 50.160 who apply for a construction permit or an operating license under this part, or small modular reactor or non-light-water reactor applicants complying with § 50.160 who apply for a combined license or an early site permit under part 52 of this chapter, must submit as part of the application the analysis used to determine whether the criteria in § 50.33(g)(2)(i)(A) and (B) are met and, if they are met, the size of the plume exposure pathway EPZ.


(i) The plume exposure pathway EPZ is the area within which:


(A) Public dose, as defined in § 20.1003 of this chapter, is projected to exceed 10 mSv (1 rem) total effective dose equivalent over 96 hours from the release of radioactive materials from the facility considering accident likelihood and source term, timing of the accident sequence, and meteorology; and


(B) Pre-determined, prompt protective measures are necessary.


(ii) If the application is for an operating license or combined license or if the application is for an early site permit and contains plans for coping with emergencies under § 52.17(b)(2)(ii) of this chapter, and if the plume exposure pathway EPZ extends beyond the site boundary:


(A) The applicant shall submit radiological emergency response plans of State, local, and participating Tribal governmental entities in the United States that are wholly or partially within the plume exposure pathway EPZ.


(B) The exact configuration of the plume exposure pathway EPZ surrounding the facility shall be determined in relation to the local emergency response needs and capabilities as they are affected by such conditions as demography, topography, land characteristics, access routes, and jurisdictional boundaries.


(iii) If the application is for an early site permit that, under § 52.17(b)(2)(i) of this chapter, proposes major features of the emergency plans and describes the EPZ, and if the EPZ extends beyond the site boundary, then the exact configuration of the plume exposure pathway EPZ surrounding the facility shall be determined in relation to the local emergency response needs and capabilities as they are affected by such conditions as demography, topography, land characteristics, access routes, and jurisdictional boundaries.






(h) If the applicant, other than an applicant for a combined license, proposes to construct or alter a production or utilization facility, the application shall state the earliest and latest dates for completion of the construction or alteration.


(i) If the proposed activity is the generation and distribution of electric energy under a class 103 license, a list of the names and addresses of such regulatory agencies as may have jurisdiction over the rates and services incident to the proposed activity, and a list of trade and news publications which circulate in the area where the proposed activity will be conducted and which are considered appropriate to give reasonable notice of the application to those municipalities, private utilities, public bodies, and cooperatives, which might have a potential interest in the facility.


(j) If the application contains Restricted Data or classified National Security Information, it shall be prepared in such manner that all Restricted Data and classified National Security Information are separated from the unclassified information.


(k)(1) For an application for an operating license or combined license for a production or utilization facility, information in the form of a report, as described in § 50.75, indicating how reasonable assurance will be provided that funds will be available to decommission the facility.


(2) On or before July 26, 1990, each holder of an operating license for a production or utilization facility in effect on July 27, 1990, shall submit information in the form of a report as described in § 50.75 of this part, indicating how reasonable assurance will be provided that funds will be available to decommission the facility.



---

[N] [21 FR 355, Jan. 19, 1956, as amended at 35 FR 19660, Dec. 29, 1970; 38 FR 3956, Feb. 9, 1973; 45 FR 55408, Aug. 19, 1980; 49 FR 35752, Sept. 12, 1984; 53 FR 24049, June 27, 1988; 69 FR 4448, Jan. 30, 2004; 72 FR 49490, Aug. 28, 2007; 88 FR 80074, Nov. 16, 2023; 89 FR 57719, July 16, 2024; 89 FR 106250, Dec. 30, 2024]














