# ยง 1719.6   Agency review.

(a) *General.* Loans made under this program will be made only when the Administrator finds and certifies that in his or her judgment there is reasonably adequate security and the loan will be repaid within the time agreed.


(b) *Eligibility for other loans.* RUS will not include any debt incurred by a borrower under this program in the calculation of the debt-equity ratios of the borrower for purposes of eligibility for loans under the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 901 *et seq.*).


(c) *Letter of intent.* RUS will consider complete Letters of intent in the order they are received. In reviewing Letters of intent, RUS will be assessing:


(1) *Applicant eligibility.* Applicant's eligibility to participate in the program.


(2) *Project eligibility.* Eligibility of the proposed EE Program or project.


(3) *Financial status.* The financial status of the RESP applicant to determine the Applicant's likelihood to complete a loan application and successfully repay a RESP loan.


(d) *Loan application.* Prudent lending practices require that the Administrator make certain findings prior to approving a RESP loan. RESP applicants must provide the evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator, to be able to make such findings. In making loans under this Section, the Administrator will consider, including, but not limited to, the following factors:


(1) *Loan feasibility.* The RESP applicant's ability to repay the loan in full as scheduled and all other obligations of the borrower will be met.


(2) *RESP applicant's character.* The RESP applicant's past performance and determination to satisfy its obligations; evidenced by such factors as credit history, previous experience addressing adversity, and manner of conducting business.


(3) *RESP applicant's equity.* The financial resources retained by the RESP applicant to provide a cushion against unexpected losses.


(4) *Overall condition of RESP applicant and project.* Verification that the proposed EE Program meets all the requirements of the Rural Energy Savings Program and an assessment of those factors that may affect the RESP applicant's ability to repay the RESP loan or implement the EE Program as proposed.


(5) *Loan security.* The RESP applicant's assets pledged to secure the loan. Collateral will be assessed for each applicant taking into consideration asset value, lien position, credit risk and borrower's profile. Collateral pledged should be adequate to protect the Government's interest. RUS reserves the right to require an asset appraisal.


(6) *EE program implementation and measurement and verification.* RESP applicant's IWP must be based on reasonable assumptions and adequate supporting data and the M&V plan reasonably complies with ยง 1719.10. However, the Administrator, in his or her sole discretion, may deem this requirement satisfied upon finding that the IWP and M&V plan from an existing EE Program as of April 8, 2014 is consistent with the purpose of the Rural Energy Savings Program. A RESP applicant with an existing EE Program as of April 8, 2014, may submit the M&V plan previously established to fulfill this requirement.






