# ยง 98.83   Calculating GHG emissions.

You must calculate and report the annual process CO_2_ emissions from each kiln using the procedure in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.


(a) For each cement kiln that meets the conditions specified in ยง 98.33(b)(4)(ii) or (b)(4)(iii), you must calculate and report under this subpart the combined process and combustion CO_2_ emissions by operating and maintaining a CEMS to measure CO_2_ emissions according to the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology specified in ยง 98.33(a)(4) and all associated requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources).


(b) For each kiln that is not subject to the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section, calculate and report the process and combustion CO_2_ emissions from the kiln by using the procedure in either paragraph (c) or (d) of this section.


(c) Calculate and report under this subpart the combined process and combustion CO_2_ emissions by operating and maintaining a CEMS to measure CO_2_ emissions according to the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology specified in ยง 98.33(a)(4) and all associated requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources).


(d) Calculate and report process and combustion CO_2_ emissions separately using the procedures specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(4) of this section.


(1) Calculate CO_2_ process emissions from all kilns at the facility using equation H-1 to this section:


(2) *CO*_2_*emissions from clinker production.* Calculate CO_2_ emissions from each kiln using Equations H-2 through H-5 of this section.


(i) *Kiln-Specific Clinker Emission Factor.* (A) Calculate the kiln-specific clinker emission factor using Equation H-3 of this section.


(B) Non-calcined CaO is CaO that remains in the clinker in the form of CaCO_3_ and CaO in the clinker that entered the kiln as a non-carbonate species. Non-calcined MgO is MgO that remains in the clinker in the form of MgCO_3_ and MgO in the clinker that entered the kiln as a non-carbonate species.


(ii) *Kiln-Specific CKD Emission Factor.* (A) Calculate the kiln-specific CKD emission factor for CKD not recycled to the kiln using Equation H-4 of this section.


(B) Non-calcined CaO is CaO that remains in the CKD in the form of CaCO_3_ and CaO in the CKD that entered the kiln as a non-carbonate species. Non-calcined MgO is MgO that remains in the CKD in the form of MgCO_3_ and MgO in the CKD that entered the kiln as a non-carbonate species.




(3) *CO*_2_* emissions from raw materials from each kiln.* Calculate CO_2_ emissions from raw materials using equation H-5 to this section:


(4) Calculate and report under subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources) the combustion CO_2_ emissions from the kiln according to the applicable requirements in subpart C.



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 66461, Oct. 28, 2010; 89 FR 31905, Apr. 25, 2024]




