# § 1.1502-5   Estimated tax.

(a) *General rule*—(1) *Consolidated estimated tax.* If a group files a consolidated return for two consecutive taxable years, it must make payments of estimated tax on a consolidated basis for each subsequent taxable year until separate returns are filed. When filing on a consolidated basis, the group is generally treated as a single corporation for purposes of section 6655 (relating to payment of estimated tax by corporations). If separate returns are filed by the members for a taxable year, the amount of any estimated tax payments made with respect to a consolidated estimated tax for the year is credited against the separate tax liabilities of the members in any reasonable manner designated by the common parent.


(2) *First two consolidated return years.* For its first two consolidated return years, a group may make payments of estimated tax on either a consolidated or a separate member basis. The amount of any separate estimated tax payments is credited against the consolidated tax liability of the group.


(b) *Addition to tax for failure to pay estimated tax under section 6655*—(1) *Consolidated return filed.* For its first two consolidated return years, a group may compute the amount of the penalty (if any) under section 6655 on a consolidated basis or a separate member basis, regardless of the method of payment. Thereafter, the group must compute the penalty for any consolidated return year on a consolidated basis.


(2) *Computation of penalty on consolidated basis*—(i) *In general.* This paragraph (b)(2) provides rules for computing the penalty under section 6655 on a consolidated basis.


(ii) *Preceding taxable year.* The tax shown on the return for the preceding taxable year referred to in section 6655(d)(1)(B)(ii) is, if a consolidated return was filed for that preceding year, the tax shown on the consolidated return for that preceding year or, if a consolidated return was not filed for that preceding year, the aggregate of the taxes shown on the separate returns of the common parent and any other corporation that was a member of the same affiliated group as the common parent for that preceding year.


(iii) *Aggregate of payments made by all members.* If estimated tax was not paid on a consolidated basis, the amount of the group's payments of estimated tax for the taxable year is the aggregate of the payments made by all members for the year.


(iv) *Required annual payment rule.* If the common parent is otherwise eligible to use the section 6655(d)(1)(B)(ii) required annual payment rule, that rule applies only if the group's consolidated return, or each member's separate return if the group did not file a consolidated return, for the preceding taxable year was a taxable year of 12 months.


(3) *Computation of penalty on separate member basis.* To compute any penalty under section 6655 on a separate member basis, for purposes of section 6655(d)(1)(B)(i), the “tax shown on the return” for the taxable year is the portion of the tax shown on the consolidated return allocable to the member under paragraph (b)(6) of this section. If the member was included in the consolidated return filed by the group for the preceding taxable year, for purposes of section 6655(d)(1)(B)(ii), the “tax shown on the return” for the preceding taxable year for any member is the portion of the tax shown on the consolidated return for the preceding year allocable to the member under paragraph (b)(6) of this section.


(4) *Consolidated payments if separate returns filed.* If the group does not file a consolidated return for the taxable year but makes payments of estimated tax on a consolidated basis, for purposes of section 6655(b)(1)(B), the “amount (if any) of the installment paid” by any member is an amount apportioned to the member in any reasonable manner designated by the common parent. If a member was included in the consolidated return filed by the group for the preceding taxable year, the amount of the member's penalty under section 6655 is computed on the separate member basis described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(5) *Tax defined.* For purposes of this section, the term *tax* means the excess of—


(i) The sum of—


(A) The consolidated tax imposed by section 11 or subchapter L of chapter 1, whichever applies;


(B) The tax imposed by section 55(a); plus


(C) The tax imposed by section 59A; over


(ii) The credits against tax provided by part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code.


(6) *Allocation of consolidated tax liability for determining earnings and profits.* For purposes of this section, the tax shown on a consolidated return is allocated to the members of the group by allocating any tax described in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section, net of allowable credits under paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section, under the method that the group has elected pursuant to section 1552 and § 1.1502-33(d).


(c) *Examples.* The provisions of this section are illustrated by the following examples.


(1) *Example 1.* Corporations P and S1 file a consolidated return for the first time for calendar year 2021. P and S1 also file consolidated returns for calendar year 2022 and calendar year 2023. Under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, for the 2021 and 2022 taxable years, P and S1 may pay estimated tax on either a separate or consolidated basis. Under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, for the 2023 taxable year, the group must pay its estimated tax on a consolidated basis. In determining whether P and S1 come within the exception provided in section 6655(d)(1)(B)(ii) for 2023, the “tax shown on the return” is the tax shown on the consolidated return for the 2022 taxable year.


(2) *Example 2.* Corporations P, S1, and S2 file a consolidated return for the first time for calendar year 2021 and file their second consolidated return for calendar year 2022. S2 ceases to be a member of the group on September 15, 2023. Under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, in determining whether the group (which no longer includes S2) comes within the exception provided in section 6655(d)(1)(B)(ii) for 2023, the “tax shown on the return” is the tax shown on the consolidated return for calendar year 2022.


(3) *Example 3.* Corporations P and S1 file a consolidated return for the first time for calendar year 2021 and file their second consolidated return for calendar year 2022. Corporation S2 becomes a member of the group on July 1, 2023, and joins in the filing of the consolidated return for calendar year 2023. Under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, in determining whether the group (which now includes S2) comes within the exception provided in section 6655(d)(1)(B)(ii) for 2023, the “tax shown on the return” is the tax shown on the consolidated return for calendar year 2022. Any tax of S2 for any separate return year is not included as a part of the “tax shown on the return” for purposes of applying section 6655(d)(1)(B)(ii).


(4) *Example 4.* Corporations X and Y file consolidated returns for the calendar years 2021 and 2022 and separate returns for calendar year 2023. Under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, in determining whether X or Y comes within the exception provided in section 6655(d)(1)(B)(ii) for 2023, the “tax shown on the return” is the amount of tax shown on the consolidated return for 2022 allocable to X and to Y in accordance with paragraph (b)(6) of this section.


(d) *Cross-references*—(1) For provisions relating to quick refunds of corporate estimated tax payments, *see* §§ 1.1502-78 and 1.6425-1 through 1.6425-3.


(2) For provisions relating to depositing estimated taxes, *see* § 1.6302-1(b).


(e) *Applicability date.* This section applies to any taxable year for which the due date of the income tax return (without regard to extensions) is after December 30, 2024. For prior years, *see* § 1.1502-5 (as contained in the 26 CFR edition revised as of April 1, 2024).





---

[N] [T.D. 10018, 89 FR 106852, Dec. 30, 2024]




