# ยง 206.34   Request for utilization of Department of Defense (DOD) resources.

(a) *General.* During the immediate aftermath of an incident which may ultimately qualify for a Presidential declaration of a major disaster or emergency, when threats to life and property are present which cannot be effectively dealt with by the State or local governments, the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate may direct DOD to utilize DOD personnel and equipment for removal of debris and wreckage and temporary restoration of essential public facilities and services.


(b) *Request process.* The Governor of a State, or the Acting Governor in his/her absence, may request such DOD assistance. The Governor should submit the request to the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate through the appropriate Regional Administrator to ensure prompt acknowledgment and processing. The request must be submitted within 48 hours of the occurrence of the incident. Requests made after that time may still be considered if information is submitted indicating why the request for assistance could not be made during the initial 48 hours. The request shall include:


(1) Information describing the types and amount of DOD emergency assistance being requested;


(2) Confirmation that the Governor has taken appropriate action under State law and directed the execution of the State emergency plan;


(3) A finding that the situation is of such severity and magnitude that effective response is beyond the capabilities of the State and affected local governments and that Federal assistance is necessary for the preservation of life and property;


(4) A certification by the Governor that the State and local government will reimburse FEMA for the non-Federal share of the cost of such work; and


(5) An agreement:


(i) To provide all lands, easements and rights-of-way necessary to accomplish the approved work without cost to the United States;


(ii) To hold and save the United States free from damages due to the requested work, and to indemnify the Federal government against any claims arising from such work; and


(iii) To assist DOD in all support and local jurisdictional matters.


(c) *Processing the request.* Upon receipt of the request, the Regional Administrator shall gather adequate information to support a recommendation and forward it to the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate. If the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate determines that such work is essential to save lives and protect property, he/she will issue a mission assignment to DOD authorizing direct Federal assistance to the extent deemed appropriate.


(d) *Implementation of assistance.* The performance of emergency work may not exceed a period of 10 days from the date of the mission assignment.


(e) *Limits.* Generally, no work shall be approved under this section which falls within the statutory authority of DOD or another Federal agency. However, where there are significant unmet needs of sufficient severity and magnitude, not addressed by other assistance, which could appropriately be addressed under this section of the Stafford Act, the involvement of other Federal agencies would not preclude the authorization of DOD assistance by the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate.


(f) *Federal share.* The Federal share of assistance under this section shall be not less than 75 percent of the cost of eligible work.


(g) *Project management.* DOD shall ensure that the work is completed in accordance with the approved scope of work, costs, and time limitations in the mission assignment. DOD shall also keep the Regional Administrator and the State advised of work progress and other project developments. It is the responsibility of DOD to ensure compliance with applicable Federal, State and local legal requirements. A final report will be submitted to the Regional Administrator upon termination of all direct Federal assistance work. Final reports shall be signed by a representative of DOD and the State. Once the final eligible cost is determined, DOD will request reimbursement from FEMA and FEMA will submit a bill to the State for the non-Federal share of the mission assignment.


(h) *Reimbursement of DOD.* Reimbursement will be made in accordance with ยง 206.8 of these regulations.




