# ยง 260.9   Reports by natural gas pipeline companies on service interruptions and damage to facilities.

(a)(1) Every natural gas company must report to the Director, Division of Pipeline Certificates, at the earliest feasible time:


(i) Damage to any jurisdictional natural gas facilities other than liquefied natural gas facilities caused by a hurricane, earthquake or other natural disaster or terrorist activity that results in a loss of or reduction in pipeline throughput or storage deliverability; and


(ii) Serious interruptions of service to any shipper involving jurisdictional natural gas facilities other than liquefied natural gas facilities. Such serious interruptions of service shall include interruptions of service to communities, major government installations and large industrial plants outside of communities or any other interruptions which are significant in the judgment of the pipeline company. Interruptible service interrupted in accordance with the provisions of filed tariffs, interruptions of service resulting from planned maintenance or construction and interruptions of service of less than three hours duration need not be reported.


(2) In the event of damage to a natural gas company's jurisdictional natural gas facilities other than liquefied natural gas facilities by reason other than hurricane, earthquake or other natural disaster or terrorist activity, the natural gas company should report such damage if, in the natural gas company's judgment, such damage creates the potential for serious delivery problems on its own system or the pipeline grid.


(b) Any report of damage to facilities required by paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, any report of service interruption required by paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section and any report made pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section in a natural gas company's discretion must be submitted by the natural gas company by e-mail to *pipelineoutage@ferc.gov* or by facsimile transmission to the Director, Division of Pipeline Certificates, Office of Energy Projects at FAX number (202) 208-2853.


(1) Reports required by paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) or made in a natural gas company's discretion pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) shall be made at the earliest feasible time and must state:


(i) The location and cause of the service interruption or damage to natural gas pipeline or storage facilities;


(ii) The nature of any damage to pipeline or storage facilities;


(iii) Specific identification of any facilities damaged;


(iv) The time the service interruption or damage to facilities occurred;


(v) The customers affected by the interruption of service or damage to facilities;


(vi) Emergency actions taken to maintain service; and


(vii) Company contact and telephone number.


(2) Following a report required by paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section of damage to natural gas facilities resulting in loss of pipeline throughput or storage deliverability or a report pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section in a natural gas company's discretion, the natural gas company shall report to the Director, Division of Pipeline Certificates, at the earliest feasible time when pipeline throughput or storage deliverability has been restored.


(c) If so directed by the Commission or the Director, Division of Pipeline Certificates, the company must provide any supplemental information so as to provide a full report of the circumstances surrounding the occurrence. 


(d) In any instance in which an incident or damage report involving jurisdictional natural gas facilities is required by Department of Transportation reporting requirements under the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, a copy of such report shall be submitted to the Director, Division of Pipeline Certificates, within 30 days of the reportable incident.


(e) When a report of damage to facilities is required by paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section or a report of service interruption is required by paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, a copy of the e-mail or facsimile report required pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section must be sent to each State commissions for the States in which the reported service interruptions or damage has occurred.



---

[N] [Order 401, 35 FR 7413, May 13, 1970, as amended by Order 508, 53 FR 45901, Nov. 15, 1988; Order 581, 60 FR 53071, Oct. 11, 1995; Order 621, 65 FR 80307, Dec. 21, 2000; Order 682, 71 FR 51104, Aug. 29, 2006]




