# ยง 460.9   Definitions.

*Approved Insurance Provider (AIP)* means a legal entity that has entered into a reinsurance agreement with the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation (FCIC) for the applicable reinsurance year and is authorized to sell and service policies or plans of insurance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act.


*Crop insurance policy* means an insurance policy reinsured by FCIC under the provisions of the Federal Crop Insurance Act, as amended. It does not include private plans of insurance.


*Crop year* means the period within which the insured crop is normally grown and is designated by the calendar year in which the insured crop is normally harvested.


*Eligible insured acres* means insured acres on which the producer planted a qualifying cover crop after June 15, 2021, during the 2021 crop year, or during the 2022 crop year, as reported on the Farm Service Agency's (FSA) common land unit(s) (CLU) to FSA via a completed and signed Form 578-Report of Acreage on or before March 15, 2022, or May 31, 2022, for 2022 crop year qualifying cover crops planted after March 15, 2022, which may be prior to FSA's acreage reporting date, and reported the same CLU(s) on their crop insurance acreage report by the applicable Federal crop insurance acreage reporting date for a 2022 crop year crop insurance policy for a first insured crop.


*Eligible WFRP acres* means acres on which a person with a 2022 crop year WFRP policy planted a qualifying cover crop after June 15, 2021, during the 2021 crop year, or during the 2022 crop year, as reported on the CLU(s) to FSA via a completed and signed Form 578-Report of Acreage on or before March 15, 2022, or May 31, 2022, for 2022 crop year qualifying cover crops planted after March 15, 2022, which may be prior to FSA's acreage reporting date.


*Eligible producer* means a producer meeting all of the eligibility requirements for PCCP.


*FCIC* means the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, a wholly owned Government Corporation of USDA that administers the Federal crop insurance program.


*First insured crop* means, with respect to a single crop year and any specific crop acreage, the first instance that an agricultural commodity is planted for harvest or prevented from being planted and is insured under the authority of the Federal Crop Insurance Act.


*FSA* means the Farm Service Agency, USDA.


*FSA Common Land Unit (CLU)* means the smallest unit of land that has a permanent, contiguous boundary, common land cover and land management, common owner, and common producer association.


*Insured acres* means the participant's share of insurable acreage that is insured in accordance with a crop insurance policy purchased from an AIP.


*Insured crop* means a crop for which the participant has purchased a crop insurance policy from an AIP.


*MOU* means Memorandum of Understanding.


*PCCP* means Pandemic Cover Crop Program.


*Person* means a person as defined in 7 CFR 457.8(1).


*Qualifying cover crop* means any of the four types of cover crops:


(1) Cereals and other grasses;


(2) Legumes;


(3) Brassicas; and


(4) Other non-legume broadleaves, and mixtures of two or more cover crop species planted at the same time. An insured crop is not considered a qualifying cover crop.


*RMA* means the Risk Management Agency, USDA.


*USDA* means United States Department of Agriculture.


*WFRP* means Whole Farm Revenue Protection.



---

[N] [87 FR 7929, Feb. 12, 2022, as amended at 87 FR 15839, Mar. 21, 2022]




