# ยง 57.802   Request for waiver.

(a) *General.* (1) Each smelter owner requesting a waiver shall complete, sign, and submit appendix A (Test for Eligibility for Interim Waiver). Copies of appendix A may be obtained from any EPA Regional Administrator, or from the Director, Stationary Source Compliance Division (EN-341), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460. Claims of confidentiality shall be made as provided in ยง 57.203.


(2) The smelter owner shall append to the completed and signed appendix A full copies of all documents, test results, studies, reports, scientific literature and assessments required by appendix A. To the extent that the material consists of generally available published material, the smelter owner may cite to the material in lieu of appending it to appendix A. The smelter owner shall specifically designate those portions of any documents relied upon and the facts or conclusions in appendix A to which they relate.


(b) *Effect of submitting incomplete application.* (1) The Administrator, or a person designated by him to review applications for waivers, may advise the smelter owner in writing whenever he determines that additional information is needed in order to make the waiver eligibility determinations required by section 119(d)(2) of the Act. The smelter owner shall promptly supply such information. All additional information requested under this paragraph and filed in the manner required by paragraph (d) shall be deemed part of appendix A.


(2) Failure to comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b)(1) of this section shall be grounds for denial of the requested waiver.


(c) *Time for requesting waivers.* Any request for a waiver must be submitted to the Administrator by the smelter owner at the time of the application for an NSO from the State or the Administrator, as the case may be. Where a smelter was issued a second period NSO by a State before these regulations went into effect, a request for a waiver shall be made and a completed appendix A shall be submitted, within sixty days of the effective date of these regulations, unless an extension is granted by the Administrator, or his designee, for good cause.


(d) *Submission of request.* A copy of appendix A (plus attachments) which has been completed for the purpose of requesting a waiver of constant control requirements shall be filed with the Administrator, addressed as follows: Director, Stationary Source Compliance Division (EN-341), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460, Attn: Confidential Information Unit.


(e) *Eligibility.* A smelter shall be eligible for consideration under this subpart only if it establishes that (1) its existing strong stream controls, if any, lack the capacity while in full operation to treat all strong stream sulfur dioxide emissions and (2) bypass of strong stream controls due to excess strong stream sulfur dioxide emissions cannot be avoided with improved operation and maintenance of existing strong stream controls and process equipment.


(f) *Criteria for decision.* The Administrator shall grant or approve a waiver, whichever is appropriate, for any eligible smelter as to which he finds, in accordance with the methods and procedures specified in appendix A, that:


(1) The higher of the two net present values of future cash flows completed under the two alternative sets of assumptions set forth in the instructions to schedule D.6 in appendix A in less than liquidation (salvage) value; or


(2) The smelter's average variable costs at all relevant levels of production (after installation of interim constant control equipment) would exceed the weighted average price of smelter output for one year or more.




