# § 14.252   What definitions do I need to know?

In addition to the definitions contained in part 10 of this subchapter, and unless the context otherwise requires, in this subpart:


*Breed* means to facilitate propagation or reproduction (whether intentionally or negligently) or to fail to prevent propagation or reproduction.


*Date of enactment of the BCPSA* means December 20, 2022.


*Direct contact* or *direct physical contact* means any situation in which any individual may potentially touch or otherwise come into physical contact with any live specimen of the prohibited wildlife species.


*Licensed entity* means any individual, facility, agency, or other entity that holds a valid Class “C” license from and is inspected by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) under the Animal Welfare Act (AWA) (7 U.S.C. 2131 *et seq.*) (See definition of “*Class “C” licensee* (exhibitor)” in 9 CFR 1.1.), holds such license in good standing, and meets the requirements in § 14.254.


*Prohibited wildlife species* (also referred to as “big cats”) means a specimen of any of the following eight species: lion (*Panthera leo*), tiger (*Panthera tigris*), leopard (*Panthera pardus*), snow leopard (*Uncia uncia*), clouded leopard (*Neofelis nebulosa*), jaguar (*Panthera onca*), cheetah (*Acinonyx jubatus*), and cougar (*Puma concolor*) or any hybrids resulting from the breeding of any of these species, for example, a liger (a male lion and a female tiger) or a tiglon (a male tiger and a female lion), whether naturally or artificially produced.


*Propagation* or *reproduction* means to allow or facilitate the production of offspring of any of the prohibited wildlife species, by any means.


*Public contact* means the same as direct contact.


*Registered pre-BCPSA owner* (also referred to as “registrant”) means an entity or individual that at the date of enactment of the BCPSA was in possession of any prohibited wildlife species that was born before the date of enactment of the BCPSA and that meets the requirements in § 14.255.


*Registered Federal facility* means any Federal facility that exhibits animals and is registered with and inspected by APHIS under the AWA (See definition of “registrant” in 9 CFR 1.1.), holds such registration in good standing, and meets the requirements in § 14.254.


*Wildlife sanctuary* means a facility that cares for live specimens of one or more of the prohibited wildlife species, is a corporation that is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and described in sections 501(c)(3) and 170(b)(1)(A)(vi) of such Code, and meets the requirements of § 14.256.






