# § 754.202   Penalty determination.

(a) *First violation.* If the Director or Director's designee determines, after OPM provides the procedural rights in § 754.203, that an employee of an agency has violated 5 U.S.C. 9202 and part 920 of this chapter, the Director or Director's designee shall issue to the employee a written warning that includes a description of the violation and the additional penalties that may apply for subsequent violations; and direct the agency to file such warning in the employee's official personnel record file.


(b) *Subsequent violations.* If the Director or Director's designee determines, after OPM provides the procedural rights in § 754.203, that an employee of an agency has committed a subsequent violation of 5 U.S.C. 9202 and part 920 of this chapter, the Director or Director's designee may take the following action:


(1) For a second violation, order a suspension of the employee for a period of not more than 7 days.


(2) For a third violation, order a suspension of the employee for a period of more than 7 days.


(3) For a fourth violation—


(i) Order a suspension of the employee for a period of more than 7 days; and


(ii) Order the employee's agency to collect a civil penalty against the employee in an amount that is not more than $250, and remit the penalty amount to the U.S. Department of Treasury for deposit in the Treasury.


(4) For a fifth violation—


(i) Order a suspension of the employee for a period of more than 7 days; and


(ii) Order the employee's agency to collect a civil penalty against the employee in an amount that is not more than $500, and remit the penalty amount to the U.S. Department of Treasury for deposit in the Treasury.


(5) For any subsequent violation—


(i) Order a suspension of the employee for a period of more than 7 days; and


(ii) Order the employee's agency to collect a civil penalty against the employee in an amount that is not more than $1,000, and remit the penalty amount to the U.S. Department of Treasury for deposit in the Treasury.


(c) *Duration of suspension and penalty amount.* The Director or Director's Designee has discretion to determine the duration of a suspension and the amount of a penalty under this section, subject only to the minimum and maximum durations and amounts specified in this section.


(d) *Agency responsibilities.* An agency shall carry out an order of the Director to suspend an employee, or to collect and remit a civil penalty, pursuant to processing and recordkeeping instructions issued by OPM.


(1) The agency shall carry out the order of the Director to suspend the employee as soon as practicable.


(2) The agency shall carry out the order of the Director to collect and remit a civil penalty as soon as practicable, unless the employee timely appeals the action under § 754.204, in which case the agency shall collect and remit the civil penalty as soon as practicable after the Merit Systems Protection Board issues a final decision sustaining the action.


(e) *Administrative law judges.* Paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section do not apply if the Director or Director's designee believes that an administrative law judge has violated 5 U.S.C. 9202 and part 920 of this chapter. In any such case the Director or Director's designee shall file a complaint with the Merit Systems Protection Board proposing an action set forth in 5 U.S.C. 9204 and describing with particularity the facts that support the proposed agency action, and the Board will determine whether the action is for good cause under its regulations in 5 CFR part 1201, subpart D.






