# § 447.510   Requirement and penalties for manufacturers.

(a) *Quarterly reports.* A manufacturer must report product and pricing information for covered outpatient drugs to CMS not later than 30 days after the end of the rebate period. The quarterly pricing report must include the following:


(1) AMP, calculated in accordance with § 447.504.


(2) Best price, calculated in accordance with § 447.505.


(3) Customary prompt pay discounts, which are reported as an aggregate dollar amount for each covered outpatient drug at the nine-digit NDC level, provided to all wholesalers in the rebate period.


(4) Prices that fall within the nominal price exclusion, which are reported as an aggregate dollar amount and include all sales of single source and innovator multiple source drugs to the entities listed in § 447.508(a) for the rebate period.


(b) *Reporting revised quarterly AMP, best price, customary prompt pay discounts, or nominal prices.* (1) A manufacturer must report to CMS any revision to AMP, best price, customary prompt pay discounts, or nominal prices for a period not to exceed 12 quarters from the quarter in which the data were due. Any revision request that exceeds 12 quarters will not be considered, except for the following reasons:


(i) The change is a result of the drug category change or a market date change.


(ii) The change is an initial submission for a product.


(iii) The change is due to termination of a manufacturer from the MDR program for failure to submit pricing data and must submit pricing data to reenter the program.


(iv) The change is due to a technical correction; that is, not based on any changes in sales transactions or pricing adjustments from such transactions.


(v) The change is to address specific rebate adjustments to States by manufacturers, as required by CMS or court order, or under an internal investigation as defined at § 447.502, or an Office of Inspector General (OIG) or Department of Justice investigation.




(vi) The change is a result of a VBP arrangement, as defined in § 447.502, requiring the manufacturer to make changes outside of the 12-quarter rule in this paragraph (b), when the outcome must be evaluated outside of the 12-quarter period.




(2) A manufacturer must report revised AMP within the 12-quarter time period, except when the revision would be solely as a result of data pertaining to lagged price concessions.


(c) *Base date AMP report*—(1) *Reporting period.* A manufacturer may report a revised Deficit Reduction Act (DRA) base date AMP to CMS within the first 4 full calendar quarters following July 17, 2007.


(2) *Recalculation of the DRA base date AMP.* (i) A manufacturer's recalculation of the DRA base date AMP must only reflect the revisions to AMP as provided for in § 447.504 in effect from October 1, 2007 to December 14, 2010.


(ii) A manufacturer may choose to recalculate the DRA base date AMP on a product-by-product basis.


(iii) A manufacturer must use actual and verifiable pricing records in recalculating the DRA base date AMP.


(3) *Reporting a revised Affordable Care Act base date AMP.* A manufacturer may report a revised Affordable Care Act base date AMP to CMS within the first 4 full calendar quarters following April 1, 2016.


(4) *Recalculation of the Affordable Care Act base date AMP.* (i) A manufacturer's recalculation of the Affordable Care Act base date AMP must only reflect the revisions to AMP as provided for in § 447.504.


(ii) A manufacturer may choose to recalculate the Affordable Care Act base date AMP on a product-by-product basis.


(iii) A manufacturer must use actual and verifiable pricing records in recalculating the Affordable Care Act base date AMP.


(d) *Monthly AMP*—(1) *Definition.* Monthly AMP means the AMP that is calculated on a monthly basis. A manufacturer must submit a monthly AMP to CMS not later than 30 days after the last day of each prior month.


(2) *Calculation of monthly AMP.* Monthly AMP is calculated based on § 447.504, except the period covered is based on monthly, as opposed to quarterly, sales.


(i) The monthly AMP is calculated based on the weighted average of prices for all the manufacturer's package sizes of each covered outpatient drug sold by the manufacturer during a month.


(ii) It is calculated as net sales divided by number of units sold, excluding goods or any other items specifically excluded in the statute or regulations. Monthly AMP is calculated based on the best data available to the manufacturer at the time of submission.


(iii) In calculating monthly AMP, a manufacturer must estimate the impact of its lagged AMP-eligible price concessions using a 12-month rolling percentage in accordance with the methodology described in this paragraph (d)(2).


(A) For each NDC-9 with at least 12 months of AMP-eligible sales, after adjusting for sales excluded from AMP, the manufacturer calculates a percentage equal to the sum of the price concessions for the most recent 12-month period (inclusive of the current reporting period) available associated with sales subject to the AMP reporting requirement divided by the total in dollars for the sales subject to the AMP reporting requirement for the same 12-month period.


(B) For each NDC-9 with less than 12 months of AMP-eligible sales, the calculation described in paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(A) of this section is performed for the time period equaling the total number of months of AMP-eligible sales.


(iv) The manufacturer multiplies the applicable percentage described in paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section by the total in dollars for the sales subject to the AMP reporting requirement (after adjusting for sales excluded from AMP) for the month being submitted. The result of this multiplication is then subtracted from the total in dollars for the sales subject to the AMP reporting requirement (after adjusting for sales excluded from AMP) for the month being submitted.


(v) The manufacturer uses the result of the calculation described in paragraph (d)(2)(iv) of this section as the numerator and the number of units sold in the month (after adjusting for sales excluded from AMP) as the denominator to calculate the manufacturer's AMP for the NDC for the month being submitted.


(vi) *Example.* After adjusting for sales excluded from AMP, the total lagged price concessions over the most recent 12-month period available associated with sales for NDC 12345-6789 subject to the AMP reporting requirement equal $200,000, and the total in dollars for the sales subject to the AMP reporting requirement for the same period equals $600,000. The lagged price concessions percentage for this period equals 200,000/600,000 = 0.33333. The total in dollars for the sales subject to the AMP reporting requirement for the month being reported equals $50,000 for 10,000 units sold. The manufacturer's AMP calculation for this NDC for this month is: $50,000−(0.33333 × $50,000) = $33,334 (net total sales amount); $33,334/10,000 = $3.33340 (AMP).


(3) *Timeframe for reporting revised monthly AMP.* A manufacturer must report to CMS revisions to monthly AMP for a period not to exceed 36 months from the month in which the data were due, except as allowed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(4) *Exception.* A manufacturer must report revisions to monthly AMP within the 36-month time period, except when the revision would be solely as a result of data pertaining to lagged price concessions.


(5) *Terminated products.* A manufacturer must not report a monthly AMP for a terminated product beginning with the first month after the expiration date of the last lot sold.


(6) *Monthly AMP units.* A manufacturer must report the total number of units that are used to calculate the monthly AMP in the same unit type as used to compute the AMP to CMS not later than 30 days after the last day of each month.


(e) *Certification of pricing reports.* Each report submitted under paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section must be certified by one of the following:


(1) The manufacturer's chief executive officer (CEO).


(2) The manufacturer's chief financial officer (CFO).


(3) An individual other than a CEO or CFO, who has authority equivalent to a CEO or a CFO; or


(4) An individual with the directly delegated authority to perform the certification on behalf of an individual described in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.


(f) *Recordkeeping requirements.* (1) A manufacturer must retain records (written or electronic) for 10 years from the date the manufacturer reports data to CMS for that rebate period.


(i) The records must include these data and any other materials from which the calculations of the AMP, the best price, customary prompt pay discounts, and nominal prices are derived, including a record of any assumptions made in the calculations.


(ii) The 10-year timeframe applies to a manufacturer's quarterly and monthly submissions of pricing data, as well as any revised pricing data subsequently submitted to CMS.


(2) A manufacturer must retain records beyond the 10-year period if all of the following circumstances exist:


(i) The records are the subject of an audit, or of a government investigation related to pricing data that are used in AMP, best price, customary prompt pay discounts, or nominal prices of which the manufacturer is aware.


(ii) The audit findings or investigation related to the AMP, best price, customary prompt pay discounts, or nominal price have not been resolved.


(g) *Data reporting format.* All product and pricing data, whether submitted on a quarterly or monthly basis, must be submitted to CMS in an electronic format designated by CMS.


(h) *Suspension of manufacturer's NDRA for late reporting of drug pricing and drug product information.*

(1) If a manufacturer fails to timely provide information required to be reported to the agency under section 1927(b)(3)(A) of the Act, and paragraphs (a) and (d) of this section, the agency will provide written notice to the manufacturer of failure to provide timely information. If such information is not reported within 90 calendar days of the date of the notice communicated to the manufacturer electronically and in writing by the agency, such failure by the manufacturer to report such information in a timely manner shall result in suspension of the manufacturer's rebate agreement for all covered outpatient drugs furnished after the end of the 90-day calendar period. The rebate agreement will remain suspended until the date the information is reported to the agency in full and certified, and the agency reviews for completeness, but not for a period of fewer than 30 calendar days. Continued suspension of the rebate agreement could result in termination for cause. Suspension of a manufacturer's rebate agreement under this section applies for Medicaid purposes only and does not affect manufacturer obligations and responsibilities under the 340B Program or reimbursement under Medicare Part B during the period of the suspension.


(2) During the period of the suspension, the covered outpatient drugs of the manufacturer are not eligible for FFP. The agency will notify the States 30 calendar days before the beginning of the suspension period for the manufacturer's rebate agreement and any applicable associated labeler rebate agreements.


(i) *Manufacturer audits of State-provided information.* A manufacturer may only initiate a dispute, request a hearing, or seek an audit of a State regarding State drug utilization data, during a period not to exceed 12 quarters from the last day of the quarter from the State invoice postmark date.





---

[N] [81 FR 5347, Feb. 1, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 87103, Dec. 31, 2020; 89 FR 79084, Sept. 26, 2024]








