# ยง 902.69   PHA right of petition and appeal.

(a) *Appeal of troubled performer designation and petition for removal of troubled performer designation.* A PHA may take any of the following actions:


(1) Appeal its troubled performer designation (including Capital Fund program troubled performer designation);


(2) Appeal its final overall PHAS score;


(3) Petition for removal of troubled performer designation;


(4) Appeal any refusal of a petition to remove troubled performer designation; and


(5) Appeal actions under ยง 902.66.


(b) *Appeal of PHAS score.* (1) If a PHA believes that an objectively verifiable and material error(s) exists in any of the scores for its PHAS indicators, which, if corrected, will result in a significant change in the PHA's PHAS score and its designation (i.e., as troubled performer, substandard performer, standard performer, or high performer), the PHA may appeal its PHAS score in accordance with the procedures of paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section. A significant change in a PHAS score is a change that would cause the PHA's PHAS score to increase, resulting in a higher PHAS designation for the PHA (i.e., from troubled performer to substandard performer or standard performer, or from standard performer to high performer).


(2) A PHA may not appeal its PHAS score, physical condition score, or both, based on the subsequent correction of deficiencies identified as a result of a project's physical inspection or the denial of a technical review request.


(3) A PHA may not appeal its PHAS score, Capital Fund program score, or both, based on the fact that it did not submit its Capital Fund program information to eLOCCS by the submission due date.


(c) *Appeal and petition procedures.* (1) To appeal a troubled performer designation or a final overall PHAS score, a PHA must submit a request in writing to the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Real Estate Assessment Center, which must be received by HUD no later than 30 days following the issuance of the overall PHAS score to the PHA. To petition the removal of a troubled performer designation, a PHA must submit its request in writing to the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Real Estate Assessment Center.


(2) To appeal the denial of a petition to remove a troubled performer designation, a PHA must submit a written request to the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Real Estate Assessment Center, which must be received by HUD no later than 30 days after HUD's decision to refuse to remove the PHA's troubled performer designation.


(3) To appeal the petition for the removal of a troubled performer designation, or appeal the denial of a petition to remove a troubled performer designation, a PHA shall submit its request in writing to the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Real Estate Assessment Center.


(4) An appeal of a troubled performer designation, the petition for removal of a troubled performer designation, or the appeal of a refusal of a petition to remove a troubled performer designation must include the PHA's supporting documentation and reasons for the appeal or petition. An appeal of a PHAS score must be accompanied by the PHA's evidence that a material error occurred. An appeal or petition submitted to HUD without supporting documentation will not be considered and will be returned to the PHA.


(d) *Denial, withholding, or rescission.* A PHA that disagrees with the basis for denial, withholding, or rescission of its designation under ยง 902.66 may make a written request for reinstatement within 30 days of notification by HUD of the denial or rescission of the designation to the Assistant Secretary, and the request shall include reasons for the reinstatement.


(e) *Consideration of petitions and appeals.* (1) Consideration of a petition or the appeal of a final overall PHAS score, of a troubled performer designation, or of a petition to remove troubled performer designation. Upon receipt of such an appeal or a petition from a PHA, HUD will evaluate the appeal and its merits for purposes of determining whether a reassessment of the PHA is warranted. HUD will review the PHA's file and the evidence submitted by the PHA to determine whether an error occurred.


(2) Consideration of an appeal of refusal to remove a troubled performer designation. Upon receipt of an appeal of refusal to remove a troubled performer designation, HUD will evaluate the appeal and its merits for the purposes of determining whether a reassessment of the PHA is warranted. The HUD staff initially evaluating an appeal of refusal to remove a troubled performer designation will not be the same HUD staff who evaluated the PHA's petition to remove the troubled performer designation. The Assistant Secretary will render the final determination of such an appeal.


(f) *Notice and finality of decisions.* (1) If HUD determines that one or more objectively verifiable and material error has occurred, HUD will undertake a new inspection of the project, arrange for audit services, adjust the PHA's score, or perform other reexamination of the financial, management, or Capital Fund program information, as appropriate in light of the nature of the error that occurred. A new score will be issued and an appropriate performance designation made by HUD. HUD's decision on appeal of a PHAS score, issuance of a troubled performer designation, or refusal to remove a troubled performer designation will be final agency action. No reconsideration will be given by HUD of such decisions.


(2) HUD will issue a written decision on all appeals and petitions made under this section.




