# ยง 36.27   Fuel-supply system.

(a) *Fuel tank.* (1) The fuel tank shall not leak and shall be fabricated of metal at least 
1/16 inch thick, welded at all seams, except that tanks of 5 gallons or less capacity may have thinner walls which shall be preformed or reinforced to provide good resistance to deflection. A drain plug (not a valve or petcock) shall be provided and locked in position. A vent opening shall be provided in the fuel filler cap of such design that atmospheric pressure is maintained inside the tank. The size of the vent opening shall be restricted to prevent fuel from splashing through it. The filler opening shall be so arranged that fuel can be added only through a self-closing valve at least 1 foot from the exhaust manifold of the engine, preferably below it. The self-closing valve shall constitute a fuel-tight closure when fuel is not being added. Any part of the self-closing valve that might become detached during the addition of fuel shall be secured to the tank by a chain or other fastening to prevent loss. 


(2) The fuel tank shall have a definite position in the equipment assembly, and no provision shall be made for attachment of separate or auxiliary fuel tanks. 


(3) Capacity of the fuel tank shall not exceed the amount of fuel necessary to operate the engine continuously at full load for approximately four hours. 


(b) *Fuel lines.* All fuel lines shall be installed to protect them against damage in ordinary use and they shall be designed, fabricated, and secured to resist breakage from vibration. 


(c) *Valve in fuel line.* A shutoff valve shall be provided in the fuel system, installed in a manner acceptable to MSHA. 


