# § 265.2   What definitions apply to this part?

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, the general TANF definitions at §§ 260.30 through 260.33 and the definitions of a work-eligible individual and the work activities in § 261.2 of this chapter apply to this part.


(b) For data collection and reporting purposes only, family means:


(1) All individuals receiving assistance as part of a family under the State's TANF or separate State program (including noncustodial parents, where required under § 265.5(g)); and


(2) The following additional persons living in the household, if not included under paragraph (b)(1) of this section:


(i) Parent(s) or caretaker relative(s) of any minor child receiving assistance;


(ii) Minor siblings of any child receiving assistance; and


(iii) Any person whose income or resources would be counted in determining the family's eligibility for or amount of assistance.


(c) For purposes of the Work Outcomes of TANF Exiters Report and the Secondary School Diploma or its Recognized Equivalent Attainment Rate, exit is the date that a family with a work-eligible individual ceases to receive assistance (as defined in § 260.31) from the TANF program. The last day of assistance cannot be determined until 90 days have elapsed since the participant last received assistance.


(d) For purposes of the Work Outcomes of TANF Exiters Report, unsubsidized employment means full- or part-time employment in the private or public sector after exiting the TANF program.


(e) For purposes of the Secondary School Diploma or its Recognized Equivalent Attainment Rate:


(1) A secondary school diploma is a “regular high school diploma” as that term is defined in 21 U.S.C. 7801(43), the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (ESEA), as amended by the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA).


(2) A recognized equivalent to a secondary school diploma is a certification recognized by a State that signifies that a student has completed the State's requirements for a high school education.



---

[N] [71 FR 37482, June 29, 2006, as amended at 89 FR 53876, June 28, 2024]




