# § 211.7   Arrangements for entry and handling in foreign country.

(a) *Costs at discharge ports.* Except as otherwise agreed upon by AID/W and provided in the applicable shipping contract or in paragraph (d) and (e) of this section, the cooperating sponsor shall be responsible for all costs, other than those assessed by the delivering carrier either in accordance with its applicable tariff for delivery to the discharge port or the applicable charter or booking contract. The cooperating sponsor shall be responsible for all costs related to 


(1) Distributing the commodity to end users, as provided in the approved Operational Plan or TA; 


(2) Demurrage, detention, and overtime; 


(3) Obtaining independent discharge survey reports as provided in § 211.9 under which the cooperating sponsor will be reimbursed for the costs of obtaining independent survey reports as provided in § 211.9(c)(1)(iv); and 


(4) Wharfage, taxes, dues, and port charges assessed and collected by local authorities from the consignee, lighterage (when not a custom of the port), and lightening costs when assessed as a charge separate from the freight rate. 


(b) *Duty, taxes, and consular invoices.* Except for commodities which are to be monetized (sold) under an approved Operational Plan or TA, commodities shall be admitted duty free and exempt from all taxes. Consular or legalization invoices shall not be required unless specific provision is made in the Operational Plan or TA. If required, they shall be issued without cost to the cooperating sponsor or to the Government of the United States. The cooperating sponsor shall be responsible for ensuring prompt entry and transit in the foreign country(ies) and for obtaining all necessary import permits, licenses or other appropriate approvals for entry and transit, including phytosanitary, health and inspection certificates. 


(c) *Storage facilities and transportation in foreign countries.* The cooperating sponsors shall provide assurance to USAID or the Diplomatic Post that all necessary arrangements for receiving the commodities have been made, and shall assume full responsibility for storage and maintenance of the commodities from time of delivery at port of entry abroad or, when authorized, at other designated points of entry abroad agreed upon between the cooperating sponsor and A.I.D. Before recommending approval of a program to AID/W, USAID or the Diplomatic Post shall obtain, from the cooperating sponsor, assurance that provision has been made for internal transportation, and for storage and handling which are adequate by local commercial standards. The cooperating sponsor shall be responsible for the maintenance of the commodities in such manner as to assure distribution of the commodities in good condition to recipient agencies or eligible recipients. 


(d) *Inland transportation in intermediate countries.* In the case of landlocked countries, transportation in the intermediate country to a designated inland point of entry in the recipient country shall be arranged by the cooperating sponsor unless otherwise provided in the Operational Plan or TA. Nongovernmental cooperating sponsors shall handle claims arising from loss or damage in the intermediate country, in accordance with § 211.9(e). Governmental cooperating sponsors shall assign any rights that they may have to any claims that arise in the intermediate country to USAID or the Diplomatic Post which shall pursue and retain the proceeds of such claims. 


(e) *Authorization for reimbursement of costs.* If, because of packaging damage, a cooperating sponsor determines that commodities must be repackaged to ensure that the commodities arrive at the distribution point in a wholesome condition, the cooperating sponsor may incur expenses for such repackaging up to $500 and such costs will be reimbursed by CCC. If costs will exceed $500, the authority to repackage and incur the costs must be approved by USAID or the Diplomatic Post in advance of repackaging unless such prior approval is specifically waived, in writing, by USAID or the Diplomatic Post. For losses in transit, the $500 limitation shall apply to all commodities which are shipped on the same voyage of the same vessel to the same port of destination, irrespective of the kinds of commodities shipped or the number of different bills of lading issued by the carrier. For other losses, the $500 limitation shall apply to each loss situation, e.g., if 700 bags are damaged in a warehouse due to an earthquake, the $500 limitation applies to the total cost of repackaging the 700 bags. Shipments may not be artificially divided in order to avoid the limitation of $500 or for obtaining prior approval to incur repackaging costs. 


(f) *Method of reimbursement.* (1) Costs of repackaging required because of damage occurring prior to or during discharge from the ocean carrier should be included, as a separate item, in claims filed against the ocean carrier. (See § 211.9(c).) Full reimbursement of such costs up to $500 will be made by CCC upon receipt of invoices or other documents to support such costs. For amounts expended in excess of $500, reimbursement will be made upon receipt of supporting invoices or other documents establishing the costs of repackaging and showing the prior approval of USAID or the Diplomatic Post to incur the costs, unless approval is waived under § 211.7(e). 


(2) Costs of repackaging required because of damage caused after discharge of the cargo from the ocean carrier will be reimbursed to the cooperating sponsor by CCC (USDA-ASCS Fiscal Division, 14th & Independence Avenue, Washington, DC 20250) upon receipt of supporting invoices or other documentation. 




