# § 721.9502   Siloxanes and silicones, aminoalkyl, fluorooctyl, hydroxy-terminated salt (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as siloxanes and silicones, aminoalkyl, fluorooctyl, hydroxy-terminated salt (PMN P-00-1132 and SNUN S-11-5) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(y)(1). A significant new use is any use of the chemical substance other than in graffiti systems, as surface treatment and additive for coatings, adhesives, sealants, paste, insulation and textiles for porous, non-porous, ceramic, metal, glass, plastic, wood and leather surfaces or a surface treatment agent for inorganic filler particles.


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section. 


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [68 FR 15088, Mar. 28, 2003, as amended at 80 FR 37165, June 30, 2015]




