# § 423.2018   Submitting evidence.

(a) *All appeals.* An enrollee must submit any written or other evidence that he or she wishes to have considered.


(1) An ALJ or attorney adjudicator will not consider any evidence submitted regarding a change in condition of an enrollee after the appealed coverage determination or at-risk determination was made.


(2) An ALJ or attorney adjudicator will remand a case to the Part D IRE where an enrollee wishes evidence on his or her change in condition after the coverage determination or at-risk determination to be considered.


(b) *Non-expedited appeals.* (1) Except as provided in this paragraph, a represented enrollee must submit all written or other evidence he or she wishes to have considered with the request for hearing, by the date specified in the request for hearing in accordance with § 423.2014(a)(2), or, if a hearing is scheduled, within 10 calendar days of receiving the notice of hearing.


(2) If a represented enrollee submits written or other evidence later than 10 calendar days after receiving the notice of hearing, any applicable adjudication period specified in § 423.2016 is extended by the number of calendar days in the period between 10 calendar days after receipt of the notice of hearing and the day the evidence is received.


(3) The requirements of paragraph (b) of this section do not apply to unrepresented enrollees.


(c) *Expedited appeals.* (1) Except as provided in this section, an enrollee must submit all written or other evidence he or she wishes to have considered with the request for hearing, by the date specified in the request for hearing pursuant to § 423.2014(a)(2), or, if an expedited hearing is scheduled, within 2 calendar days of receiving the notice of the expedited hearing.


(2) If an enrollee submits written or other evidence later than 2 calendar days after receiving the notice of expedited hearing, any applicable adjudication period specified in § 423.2016 is extended by the number of calendar days in the period between 2 calendar days after receipt of the notice of expedited hearing and the day the evidence is received.


(d) *When this section does not apply.* The requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section do not apply to oral testimony given at a hearing.



---

[N] [82 FR 5130, Jan. 17, 2017, as amended at 83 FR 16754, Apr. 16, 2018]




