# § 842.802   Definitions.

In this subpart—


*Agency head* means, for the executive branch agencies, the head of an executive agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105; for the legislative branch, the Secretary of State, the Clerk of the House of Representatives, or the head of any other legislative branch agency; for the judicial branch, the Director of the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts; for the Postal Service, the Postmaster General; and for any other independent establishment that is an entity of the Federal Government, the head of the establishment. For the purpose of an approval of coverage under this subpart, *agency head* is also deemed to include the designated representative of the head of an executive department as defined in 5 U.S.C. 101, except that, for provisions dealing with law enforcement officers and firefighters, the designated representative must be a department headquarters-level official who reports directly to the executive department head, or to the deputy department head, and who is the sole such representative for the entire department. For the purpose of a denial coverage under this subpart, *agency head* is also deemed to include the designated representative of the *agency head*, as defined in the first sentence of this definition, at any level within the agency.


*Air traffic controller* means a civilian employee of the Department of Transportation or the Department of Defense in an air traffic control facility or flight service station facility who is actively engaged in the separation and control of air traffic or in providing preflight, inflight, or airport advisory service to aircraft operators, or who is the immediate supervisor of such an employee, as provided by 5 U.S.C. 8401(35)(A). Also included in this definition is a civilian employee of the Department of Transportation or the Department of Defense who is the immediate supervisor of a person described under 5 U.S.C. 2109(1)(B) (*i.e.*, a second-level supervisor), as provided by 5 U.S.C. 8401(35)(B).


*Detention duties* means duties that require frequent direct contact in the detention, direction, supervision, inspection, training, employment, care, transportation, or rehabilitation of individuals suspected or convicted of offenses against the criminal laws of the United States or the District of Columbia or offenses against the punitive articles of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code). (See 5 U.S.C. 8401(17).)


*Employee* means an employee as defined by 5 U.S.C. 8401(11).


*Firefighter* means an employee occupying a rigorous position, whose primary duties are to perform work directly connected with the control and extinguishment of fires, as provided in 5 U.S.C. 8401(14). Also included in this definition is an employee occupying a rigorous firefighter position who moves to a supervisory or administrative position and meets the conditions of § 842.803(b).


*First-level supervisors* are employees classified as supervisors who have direct and regular contact with the employees they supervise. First-level supervisors do *not* have subordinate supervisors. A first-level supervisor may occupy a rigorous position or a secondary position if the appropriate definition is met.


*Frequent direct contact* means personal, immediate, and regularly-assigned contact with detainees while performing detention duties, which is repeated and continual over a typical work cycle.


*Law enforcement officer* means an employee occupying a rigorous position, whose primary duties are the investigation, apprehension, or detention of individuals suspected or convicted of offenses against the criminal laws of the United States, or the protection of officials of the United States against threats to personal safety, as provided in 5 U.S.C. 8401(17). Also included in this definition is an employee occupying a rigorous law enforcement officer position who moves to a supervisory or administrative position and meets the conditions of § 842.803(b). *Law enforcement officer* also includes, as required by 5 U.S.C. 8401(17)(B), an employee of the Department of the Interior or the Department of the Treasury who occupies a position that, but for enactment of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, would be subject to the District of Columbia Police and Firefighters' Retirement System, as determined by the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of the Treasury, as appropriate. Except as provided above, the definition does not include an employee whose primary duties involve maintaining order, protecting life and property, guarding against or inspecting for violations of law, or investigating persons other than those who are suspected or convicted of offenses against the criminal laws of the United States.


*Primary duties* means those duties of a position that—


(a) Are paramount in influence or weight; that is, constitute the basic reasons for the existence of the position;


(b) Occupy a substantial portion of the individual's working time over a typical work cycle; and 


(c) Are assigned on a regular and recurring basis. 


Duties that are of an emergency, incidental, or temporary nature cannot be considered “primary” even if they meet the substantial portion of time criterion. In general, if an employee spends an average of at least 50 percent of his or her time performing a duty or group of duties, they are his or her primary duties.


*Rigorous position* means a position the duties of which are so rigorous that employment opportunities should, as soon as reasonably possible, be limited (through establishment of a maximum entry age and physical qualifications) to young and physically vigorous individuals whose primary duties are— 


(a) To perform work directly connected with controlling and extinguishing fires; or


(b) Investigating, apprehending, or detaining individuals suspected or convicted of offenses against the criminal laws of the United States or protecting the personal safety of United States officials. 


*Secondary position* means a position that—


(a) Is clearly in the law enforcement or firefighting field;


(b) Is in an organization having a law enforcement or firefighting mission; and


(c) Is either—


(1) Supervisory; that is, a position whose primary duties are as a first-level supervisor or law enforcement officers or firefighters in rigorous positions; or


(2) Administrative; that is, an executive, managerial, technical, semiprofessional, or professional position for which experience in a rigorous law enforcement or firefighting position, or equivalent experience outside the Federal Government, is a mandatory prerequisite.



---

[N] [52 FR 2069, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 32689, July 23, 1992; 60 FR 3339, Jan. 17, 1995; 66 FR 38525, July 25, 2001; 70 FR 32710, June 6, 2005; 70 FR 42254, July 22, 2005]




