# § 28.2   Definitions.

(a) *Accessory structure* means any development which is located on the same lot as the principal building or use and is customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal building or use. Accessory structure may include a storage shed, dock, deck, patio, swimming pool, or tennis court but does not include a garbage or bicycle rack and the single primary access walk. Accessory structure includes a guest house without cooking facilities used for overnight habitation.


(b) *Act* means the Fire Island National Seashore Act of September 11, 1964, (16 U.S.C. 459e), as amended.


(c) *Building* means an enclosed structure having a roof supported by columns, walls, or cantilevers. (If a structure is separated by a party wall without openings, it is considered two separate “buildings.”)


(d) *Developed property* means any property which has been altered from its natural state by the construction or erection of materials located in, upon, or attached to something located in or upon the ground. Such alterations may include a building, deck, swimming pool, storage shed, patio, dock, tennis court, septic system or leaching field, walkway, groin, fence or sign (except dune protection fences and signs), road, retaining wall, grading, artificial fill, or other structure or material excluding live vegetation.


(e) *Development* means any activity, action, alteration, structure or use which changes undeveloped property into developed property.


(f) *Exception to a zoning ordinance* means any development or change in use of developed property which is not authorized by the zoning ordinance or the variance procedures of the zoning authority or, if authorized by the zoning authority, fails to conform to the ordinance approved by the Secretary or to the Federal standards.


(g) *Guest house* means an accessory structure on the same lot as the principal building that does not contain cooking facilities and is used for the temporary accommodation of guests of a resident living in the principal building.


(h) *Improved property* is developed property defined by the Act to mean any building, the construction of which was begun prior to July 1, 1963, together with such amount of land on which said building is situated as the Secretary considers reasonably necessary to the use of said building not, however, to exceed 2 acres in the case of a residence and 10 acres in the case of a commercial use. The Secretary may exclude from such “improved property” any beach or waters, as well as land adjoining such beach or waters, which the Secretary deems necessary for public access thereto.


(i) *Local ordinance* means a State, town, or village law applicable to the development or use of real property.


(j) *Lot* means a parcel of land which meets the minimum acreage and frontage requirements of the zoning authority and is occupied or capable of being legally occupied by one (1) principal building or main building, and the accessory structures or uses including such open spaces as are required by these standards, but in no case does a lot include lands below the toe of the natural foredune line.


(k) *Non-conforming use* means any use or development that, if commenced after the effective date of these standards, fails to conform to these standards; or, if commenced prior to October 17, 1984, failed to conform to Federal standards in effect at the time of construction or fails to conform to these standards, whether or not the use or development was first commenced in compliance with the local ordinance.


(l) *Single-family home* means a building which contains no more than one kitchen or cooking facility. An exterior barbecue does not constitute a cooking facility for the purposes of this regulation.


(m) *Undeveloped property* means property which has not been altered from its natural state with the exception of dune protection measures such as snow fencing, beach nourishment, dune grass planting, or other approved biological or ecological sand-enhancing or stabilization methods.


(n) *Zoning authority* means the Town of Brookhaven, the Town of Islip, the Village of Saltaire, the Village of Ocean Beach and/or any other legally incorporated village or political subdivision hereafter created and the officials authorized by local ordinance to make rulings and determinations on zoning in said towns and villages.



---

[N] [56 FR 42790, Aug. 29, 1991, as amended at 62 FR 30235, June 3, 1997]




