# ยง 20.12   Mediation.

(a) DOC will refer to a mediation service designated by the Secretary all sufficient complaints that:


(1) Fall within the jurisdiction of the Act and these regulations, unless the age distinction complained of is clearly within an exception; and


(2) Contain all information necessary for further processing.


(b) Both the complainant and the recipient shall participate in the mediation process to the extent necessary to reach an agreement or to make an informed judgment that an agreement is not possible.


(c) If the complainant and the recipient reach an agreement, the mediator shall prepare a written statement of the agreement and have the complainant and the recipient sign it. The mediator shall send a copy of the agreement to DOC. DOC will take no further action on the complaint unless the complainant or the recipient fails to comply with the agreement.


(d) The mediator is required to protect the confidentiality of all information obtained in the course of the mediation process. No mediator shall testify in any adjudicative proceeding, produce any document, or otherwise disclose any information obtained, in the course of the mediation process without prior approval of the head or the mediation service.


(e) The mediation will proceed for a maximum of 60 days after a complaint is filed with DOC. Mediation ends if:


(1) 60 days elapse from the time DOC receives the complaint; *or*

(2) Prior to the end of that 60-day period, an agreement is reached; *or*

(3) Prior to the end of that 60-day period, the mediator determines that an agreement cannot be reached.


(f) The mediator shall return unresolved complaints to DOC.




