# § 65.84   Operating requirements.

(a) *Closed vent systems or process piping.* An owner or operator of a transfer rack shall operate it in such a manner that emissions are routed through the equipment specified in either paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section. 


(1) A closed vent system which routes the regulated material vapors to a control device as provided in § 65.83(a)(1) and (2). 


(2) Process piping which routes the regulated material vapors to a process or a fuel gas system as provided in § 65.83(a)(4) or to a vapor balance system as provided in § 65.83(a)(3). 


(b) *Control device operation.* Whenever regulated material emissions are vented to a control device used to comply with the provisions of this subpart, such control device shall be operating. 


(c) *Tank trucks and railcars.* The owner or operator shall load regulated material only into tank trucks and railcars that meet one of the following two requirements and shall maintain the records specified in § 65.87: 


(1) Have a current certification in accordance with the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) pressure test requirements of 49 CFR part 180 for tank trucks and 49 CFR 173.31 for railcars; or 


(2) Have been demonstrated to be vapor-tight within the preceding 12 months as determined by the procedures in § 65.85(a). Vapor-tight means that the pressure in a truck or railcar tank will not drop more than 750 pascals (0.11 pound per square inch) within 5 minutes after it is pressurized to a minimum of 4,500 pascals (0.65 pound per square inch). 


(d) *Pressure relief device.* The owner or operator of a transfer rack subject to the provisions of this subpart shall ensure that no pressure relief device in the loading equipment of each tank truck or railcar shall begin to open to the atmosphere during loading. Pressure relief devices needed for safety purposes are not subject to paragraph (d) of this section. 


(e) *Compatible system.* The owner or operator of a transfer rack subject to the provisions of this subpart shall load regulated material only to tank trucks or railcars equipped with a vapor collection system that is compatible with the transfer rack's closed vent system or process piping. 


(f) *Loading while systems connected.* The owner or operator of a transfer rack subject to this subpart shall load regulated material only to tank trucks or railcars whose collection systems are connected to the transfer rack's closed vent systems or process piping. 




