# § 35.6280   Payments.

(a) *General.* In addition to the following requirements, the recipient must comply with the requirements regarding payment described in 2 CFR 200.305.


(1) *Assignment of payment.* The recipient cannot assign the right to receive payments under the recipient's Cooperative Agreement. EPA will make payments only to the payee identified in the Cooperative Agreement.


(2) *Interest.* The interest a recipient earns on an advance of EPA funds is subject to the requirements of 2 CFR 200.305.


(b) *Payment method*—(1) *Letter of credit.* In order to receive payment by the letter of credit method, the recipient must comply with the requirements regarding letter of credit described in 2 CFR 200.305. The recipient must identify and charge costs to specific sites, activities, and operable units, as applicable, for drawdown purposes as specified in the Cooperative Agreement.


(2) *Reimbursement.* If the recipient is unable to meet letter of credit requirements, EPA will pay the recipient by reimbursement. The recipient must comply with the requirements regarding reimbursement described in 2 CFR 200.305.


(3) *Working capital advances.* If the recipient is unable to meet the criteria for payment by either letter of credit or reimbursement, EPA may provide cash on a working capital advance basis. Under this procedure EPA shall advance cash to the recipient to cover its estimated disbursement needs for an initial period generally geared to the recipient's disbursing cycle. Thereafter, EPA shall reimburse the recipient for its actual cash disbursements. In such cases, the recipient must comply with the requirements regarding working capital advances described in 2 CFR 200.305.



---

[N] [72 FR 24504, May 2, 2007, as amended at 79 FR 76060, Dec. 19, 2014]




