# § 223.4   Request for, scheduling and conduct of public hearing; determination.

(a) *Request for hearing.* Within thirty (30) days of the date of the dissemination of any notice required by § 223.2(b), any person may request the Administrator or Regional Administrator, as appropriate, to hold a public hearing on the proposed revision, revocation or limitation by submitting a written request containing the following:


(1) Identification of the person requesting the hearing and his interest in the proceeding;


(2) A statement of any objections to the proposed revision, revocation or limitation or to any facts or reasons identified as supporting such revision, revocation or limitation; and 


(3) A statement of the issues which such person proposes to raise for consideration at such hearing.


(b) *Grant or denial of hearing; notification.* Whenever (1) a written request satisfying the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section has been received, and the Administrator or Regional Administrator, as appropriate, determines that such request presents genuine issues, or (2) the Administrator or Regional Administrator, as the case may be, determines in his discretion that a public hearing is necessary or appropriate, the Administrator or Regional Administrator, as the case may be, will set a time and place for a public hearing in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section and will give notice of such hearing by publication in accordance with § 223.3(c). In the event the Administrator or the Regional Administrator, as the case may be, determines that a request filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section does not comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) or that such request does not present genuine issues, he shall advise, in writing, the person requesting the hearing of his determination.


(c) *Time and place of hearing.* Any hearing authorized pursuant to this Section by the Administrator or Regional Administrator, as the case may be, shall be held in the city in which the Environmental Protection Agency Regional Office which issued the permit is located, whenever practicable, and shall be set for the earliest practicable date, but in no event less than thirty (30) days after the receipt of an appropriate request for a hearing or a determination by the Administrator or the Regional Administrator, as the case may be, to hold such a hearing without such a request.


(d) *Presiding Officer.* Any hearing convened pursuant to this part shall be conducted by a Presiding Officer, who shall be either a Regional Judicial Officer or a person having the qualifications of the members of the Environmental Appeals Board (described in 40 CFR 1.25(e)) if assigned by the Administrator or the qualifications of a Regional Judicial Officer if assigned by the Regional Administrator, as appropriate. Such person shall be an attorney who is a permanent or temporary employee of the Agency, who is not employed by the Region's or Headquarters' enforcement offices, and who has had no connection with the preparation or presentation of evidence for any hearing in which he participates as Judicial Officer.


(e) *Conduct of the public hearing.* The Presiding Officer shall be responsible for the expeditious conduct of the hearing. The hearing shall be an informal public hearing, not an adversary proceeding, and shall be conducted so as to allow the presentation of public comments. When the Presiding Officer determines that it is necessary or appropriate, he shall cause a suitable record, which may include a verbatim transcript, of the proceedings to be made. Any person may appear at a public hearing convened pursuant to this section whether or not he requested the hearing, and may be represented by counsel or any other authorized representative. The Presiding Officer is authorized to set forth reasonable restrictions on the nature or amount of documentary material or testimony presented at a public hearing, giving due regard to the relevancy of any such information, and to the avoidance of undue repetitiveness of information presented.


(f) *Recommendations of Presiding Officer.* Within 30 days following the adjournment of a public hearing convened pursuant to this section or within such additional period as the Administrator or the Regional Administrator, as the case may be, may grant to the Presiding Officer for good cause shown, and after full consideration of the comments received at the hearing, the Presiding Officer will prepare and forward to the Administrator or to the Regional Administrator, as the case may be, written recommendations relating to the revision, revocation or limitation of the permit and the record of the hearing, if any. Such recommendations shall contain a brief statement of the basis therefor, including a description of evidence relied upon (1) to support any finding made pursuant to § 223.3(a); (2) to justify any proposed revision, revocation or limitation of the permit; and (3) to justify any proposed revision, revocation or limitation which differs from that set forth in the notice issued pursuant to § 223.3(b). Copies of the Presiding Officer's recommendations shall be provided to any interested person on request, without charge. Copies of the record will be provided in accordance with 40 CFR part 2. 


(g) *Determination of the Administrator or Regional Administrator.* Upon receipt of the Presiding Officer's recommendations or, where no hearing has been held, upon termination of the thirty (30)-day period for requesting a hearing provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the Administrator or the Regional Administrator, as the case may be, shall make a determination with respect to the modification, revocation or suspension of the permit. Such determination shall include a description of the permit revision, revocation or limitation, the basis therefor, and the effective date. A copy of such determination shall be mailed to the permittee and each person who registered his attendance at the hearing by providing his name and mailing address.



---

[N] [42 FR 60702, Nov. 28, 1977, as amended at 57 FR 5346, Feb. 13, 1992; 84 FR 31514, July 2, 2019]




