# ยง 1600.5   Quorum and voting requirements.

(a) *Quorum requirements.* A quorum of the Board for the transaction of business shall consist of three Members; provided, however, that if the number of Board Members in office is fewer than three, a quorum shall consist of the number of Members in Office, subject to the limitations on the authority of a single-Member Board set forth in this section and in Board Orders adopted by the Board; and provided further that on any matter of business as to which the number of Members in office, minus the number of Members who have disqualified themselves from consideration of such matter is two, two Members shall constitute a quorum for purposes of such matter. Once a quorum is constituted, a simple majority of voting Members is required to approve an item of the Board's business. A tie vote results in no action. If the Board consists of only a single Member (whether the Chairperson or another Member), that single Member may not transact Board business or take any action that requires approval by the Board, except as provided in Board Orders adopted by the Board.










(b) *Voting.* The Board votes on items of business in meetings conducted pursuant to the Government in the Sunshine Act. Alternatively, whenever a Member of the Board is of the opinion that joint deliberation among the members of the Board upon any matter at a meeting is unnecessary in light of the nature of the matter, impracticable, or would impede the orderly disposition of agency business, such matter may be disposed of by employing notation voting procedures. A written notation of the vote of each participating Board member shall be recorded by the General Counsel who shall retain it in the records of the Board. If a Board member votes to calendar a notation item in accordance with applicable Board Orders, the Board must consider the calendared notation item at a public meeting of the Board within 90 days of the date on which the item is calendared. This section does not permit a notation item to be calendared other than as provided in applicable Board Orders. A notation vote to schedule a public meeting or a special meeting may not be calendared. The Chairperson shall add any calendared notation item to the agenda for the next CSB public meeting if one is to occur within 90 days or schedule a special meeting to consider any calendared notation item no later than 90 days from the calendar action. Any disagreement about whether a notation item has been calendared effectively in accordance with applicable Board Orders shall be decided by the Board.






(c) *Public meetings and agendas.* The Chairperson, or in the absence of a chairperson, a member designated by the Board, shall schedule a minimum of four public meetings per year in Washington, DC, to take place during the months of October, January, April, and July.


(1) *Agenda.* The Chairperson, or in the absence of a chairperson, a member designated by the Board, shall be responsible for preparation of a final meeting agenda. The final agenda may not differ in substance from the items published in the Sunshine Act notice for that meeting. Any member may submit agenda items related to CSB business for consideration at any public meeting, and the Chairperson shall include such items on the agenda. At a minimum, each quarterly meeting shall include the following agenda items:


(i) Consideration and vote on any notation items calendared since the date of the last public meeting; and


(ii) A review by the Board of the schedule for completion of all open investigations, studies, and other important work of the Board.








(2) *Publication of agenda information.* The Chairperson shall be responsible for posting information related to any agenda item that is appropriate for public release on the CSB Web site no less than two days prior to a public meeting.



---

[N] [68 FR 65403, Nov. 20, 2003, as amended at 80 FR 46824, Aug. 6, 2015; 88 FR 36256, June 2, 2023]




