# § 750.32   Suits under the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA).

(a) *Venue.* Venue is proper only in the judicial district where the plaintiff resides or where the act or omission complained of occurred. 28 U.S.C. 1402.


(b) *Jury trial.* There is no right to trial by jury in suits brought under the FTCA. 28 U.S.C. 2402.


(c) *Settlement.* The Attorney General of the United States, or designee, may arbitrate, compromise, or settle any action filed under the FTCA. 28 U.S.C. 2677.


(d) *Litigation support*—(1) *Who provides.* The adjudicating authority holding a claim at the time suit is filed shall be responsible for providing necessary assistance to the Department of Justice official or U.S. Attorney responsible for defending the Government's interests.


(2) *Litigation report.* A litigation report, including a legal memorandum emphasizing anticipated issues during litigation, shall be furnished to the appropriate Department of Justice official or U.S. Attorney.


(3) *Pretrial discovery.* Complete and timely responses to discovery requests are vital to the effective defense of tort litigation. Subject to existing personnel and resources available, appropriate assistance shall be provided. The Judge Advocate General should be notified promptly when special problems are encountered in providing the requested assistance.


(4) *Preservation of evidence.* Tort litigation is often accomplished over an extended period of time. Every effort shall be made to preserve files, documents, and other tangible evidence that may bear on litigation. Destruction of such evidence, even in accordance with routine operating procedures, undermines defense of a case.




