# ยง 101-30.201   General.

(a) This subpart describes the cataloging handbooks and manuals prepared by the Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense, in coordination with GSA.


(b) The following basic cataloging handbooks and manuals are available for purchase from the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402. The requirements of these publications shall be followed by all cataloging activities participating in the Federal Catalog System.


(1) *Federal Catalog System Policy Manual (DOD 4130.2-M).* This hard copy manual prescribes the operating policies and instructions covering the maintenance of a uniform catalog system.


(2) *Defense Integrated Data Systems (DIDS) Procedures Manual (DOD 4100.39-M).* This hard copy manual prescribes the procedures covering the maintenance of a uniform catalog system.


(3) *Federal Supply Classification (Cataloging Publication H2 Series).* This microfiche publication includes the listings and indexes necessary for using the commodity classification system (grouping related items of supply) as prescribed by the Federal Catalog System Policy Manual.


(4) *Federal Supply Code for Manufacturers (Cataloging Publication H4 Series).* This microfiche publication includes a comprehensive listing of the names and addresses of manufacturers who have supplied or are currently supplying items of supply used by the Federal Government and the applicable 5-digit code assigned to each.


(5) *Federal Item Name Directory (FIND) for Cataloging (Cataloging Publication H6 Series).* This microfiche publication includes names of supply items with definitions, item name codes, and other related data required to prepare item identifications for inclusion in the Federal Catalog System.



---

[N] [29 FR 16004, Dec. 1, 1964, as amended at 42 FR 36254, July 14, 1977; 46 FR 35645, July 10, 1981]




