# § 391.49   Alternative physical qualification standards for the loss or impairment of limbs.

(a) A person who is not physically qualified to drive under § 391.41(b)(1) or (2) and who is otherwise qualified to drive a commercial motor vehicle, may drive a commercial motor vehicle if FMCSA has granted a Skill Performance Evaluation (SPE) Certificate to that person.


(b)(1) *Application.* A letter of application for an SPE certificate may be submitted jointly by the person (driver applicant) who seeks an SPE certificate and by the motor carrier that will employ the driver applicant, if the application is accepted.


(2) *Application address.* The application must be addressed to the SPE Certificate Program at the applicable FMCSA service center for the State in which the co-applicant motor carrier's principal place of business is located. The address of each, and the States serviced, are listed in § 390.27 of this chapter.


(3) *Exception.* A letter of application for an SPE certificate may be submitted unilaterally by a driver applicant. The application must be addressed to the field service center, FMCSA, for the State in which the driver has legal residence. The driver applicant must comply with all the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section except those in (c)(1)(i) and (iii). The driver applicant shall respond to the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2)(i) to (v) of this section, if the information is known.


(c) A letter of application for an SPE certificate shall contain: 


(1) Identification of the applicant(s): 


(i) Name and complete address of the motor carrier co-applicant;


(ii) Name and complete address of the driver applicant;


(iii) The U.S. DOT Motor Carrier Identification Number, if known; and 


(iv) A description of the driver applicant's limb impairment for which SPE certificate is requested. 


(2) Description of the type of operation the driver will be employed to perform: 


(i) State(s) in which the driver will operate for the motor carrier co-applicant (if more than 10 States, designate general geographic area only);


(ii) Average period of time the driver will be driving and/or on duty, per day; 


(iii) Type of commodities or cargo to be transported; 


(iv) Type of driver operation (*i.e.,* sleeper team, relay, owner operator, etc.); and 


(v) Number of years experience operating the type of commercial motor vehicle(s) requested in the letter of application and total years of experience operating all types of commercial motor vehicles. 


(3) Description of the commercial motor vehicle(s) the driver applicant intends to drive: 


(i) Truck, truck tractor, or bus make, model, and year (if known); 


(ii) Drive train; 


(A) Transmission type (automatic or manual—if manual, designate number of forward speeds); 


(B) Auxiliary transmission (if any) and number of forward speeds; and 


(C) Rear axle (designate single speed, 2 speed, or 3 speed). 


(iii) Type of brake system; 


(iv) Steering, manual or power assisted; 


(v) Description of type of trailer(s) (*i.e.,* van, flatbed, cargo tank, drop frame, lowboy, or pole); 


(vi) Number of semitrailers or full trailers to be towed at one time; 


(vii) For commercial motor vehicles designed to transport passengers, indicate the seating capacity of commercial motor vehicle; and 


(viii) Description of any modification(s) made to the commercial motor vehicle for the driver applicant; attach photograph(s) where applicable. 


(4) Otherwise qualified: 


(i) The co-applicant motor carrier must certify that the driver applicant is otherwise qualified under the regulations of this part;


(ii) In the case of a unilateral application, the driver applicant must certify that he/she is otherwise qualified under the regulations of this part.


(5) Signature of applicant(s): 


(i) Driver applicant's signature and date signed; 


(ii) Motor carrier official's signature (if application has a co-applicant), title, and date signed. Depending upon the motor carrier's organizational structure (corporation, partnership, or proprietorship), the signer of the application shall be an officer, partner, or the proprietor.


(d) The letter of application for an SPE certificate shall be accompanied by: 


(1) A copy of the Medical Examination Report Form, MCSA-5875, documenting the results of the medical examination performed pursuant to § 391.43;


(2) A copy of the Medical Examiner's Certificate, Form MCSA-5876, completed pursuant to § 391.43(h);


(3) A medical evaluation summary completed by either a board qualified or board certified physiatrist (doctor of physical medicine) or orthopedic surgeon. The co-applicant motor carrier or the driver applicant shall provide the physiatrist or orthopedic surgeon with a description of the job-related tasks the driver applicant will be required to perform;


(i) The medical evaluation summary for a driver applicant disqualified under § 391.41(b)(1) shall include: 


(A) An assessment of the functional capabilities of the driver as they relate to the ability of the driver to perform normal tasks associated with operating a commercial motor vehicle; and 


(B) A statement by the examiner that the applicant is capable of demonstrating precision prehension (*e.g.,* grasping and manipulating knobs and switches using the fingers/thumb) and power grasp prehension (*e.g.,* grasping, holding, and maneuvering the steering wheel using a hand) with each hand separately. Prior to applying for an SPE certificate, an applicant with loss of a hand or arm must be fitted and proficient with a proper prosthesis that enables the applicant to demonstrate precision prehension and power grasp prehension with each hand separately. This requirement does not apply to an individual who was granted a waiver, absent a prosthetic device, prior to January 6, 1986, the effective date of the requirement. 


(ii) The medical evaluation summary for a driver applicant disqualified under § 391.41(b)(2) shall include: 


(A) An explanation as to how and why the impairment interferes with the ability of the applicant to perform normal tasks associated with operating a commercial motor vehicle; 


(B) An assessment and medical opinion of whether the condition will likely remain medically stable over the lifetime of the driver applicant; and 


(C) A statement by the examiner that the applicant is capable of demonstrating precision prehension (*e.g.,* grasping and manipulating knobs and switches using the fingers/thumb) and power grasp prehension (*e.g.,* grasping, holding, and maneuvering the steering wheel using a hand) with each hand separately. Prior to applying for an SPE certificate, an applicant with upper limb impairment must be fitted and proficient with a proper prosthesis or orthotic device, if the applicant is not capable of demonstrating precision prehension and power grasp prehension with each hand separately without a prosthesis or orthotic device. This requirement does not apply to an individual who was granted a waiver, absent an orthotic device, prior to January 6, 1986, the effective date of the requirement. 


(4) A description of the driver applicant's prosthetic or orthotic device worn, if any; 


(5) Road test: 


(i) A copy of the driver applicant's road test administered by the motor carrier co-applicant and the certificate issued pursuant to § 391.31(b) through (g); or


(ii) A unilateral applicant shall be responsible for having a road test administered by a motor carrier or a person who is competent to administer the test and evaluate its results. 


(6) Application for employment: 


(i) A copy of the driver applicant's application for employment completed pursuant to § 391.21; or 


(ii) A unilateral applicant shall be responsible for submitting a copy of the last commercial driving position's employment application he/she held. If not previously employed as a commercial driver, so state. 


(7) A copy of the driver applicant's SPE certificate of certain physical defects issued by the individual State(s), where applicable; and


(8) A copy of the driver applicant's State Motor Vehicle Driving Record for the past 3 years from each State in which a motor vehicle driver's license or permit has been obtained. 


(e) A motor carrier that employs a driver with an SPE certificate agrees to: 


(1) File promptly (within 30 days of the involved incident) with the SPE Certificate Program, FMCSA service center, such documents and information as may be required about driving activities, accidents, arrests, license suspensions, revocations, or withdrawals, and convictions which involve the driver applicant. This paragraph (e)(1) applies whether the driver SPE certificate is a unilateral one or has a co-applicant motor carrier;


(i) A motor carrier who is a co-applicant must file the required documents with the SPE Certificate Program, FMCSA service center, for the State in which the carrier's principal place of business is located; or


(ii) A motor carrier who employs a driver who has been issued a unilateral SPE certificate must file the required documents with the SPE Certificate Program, FMCSA service center, for the State in which the driver has legal residence.


(2) Evaluate the driver with a road test using the trailer the motor carrier intends the driver to transport or, in lieu of, accept a certificate of a trailer road test from another motor carrier if the trailer type(s) is similar, or accept the trailer road test done during the Skill Performance Evaluation if it is a similar trailer type(s) to that of the prospective motor carrier. Job tasks, as stated in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, are not evaluated in the Skill Performance Evaluation; 


(3) Evaluate the driver for those nondriving safety related job tasks associated with whatever type of trailer(s) will be used and any other nondriving safety related or job related tasks unique to the operations of the employing motor carrier; and 


(4) Use the driver to operate the type of commercial motor vehicle defined in the SPE certificate only when the driver is in compliance with the conditions and limitations of the SPE certificate. 


(f) The driver shall supply each employing motor carrier with a copy of the SPE certificate. 


(g) FMCSA may require the driver applicant to demonstrate his or her ability to safely operate the commercial motor vehicle(s) the driver intends to drive to an agent of FMCSA. The SPE certificate form will identify the power unit (bus, truck, truck tractor) for which the SPE certificate has been granted. The SPE certificate forms will also identify the trailer type used in the Skill Performance Evaluation; however, the SPE certificate is not limited to that specific trailer type. A driver may use the SPE certificate with other trailer types if a successful trailer road test is completed in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section. Job tasks, as stated in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, are not evaluated during the Skill Performance Evaluation.


(h) FMCSA may deny the application for SPE certificate or may grant it totally or in part and issue the SPE certificate subject to such terms, conditions, and limitations as deemed consistent with the public interest. The SPE certificate is valid for a period not to exceed 2 years from date of issue, and may be renewed 30 days prior to the expiration date.


(i) The SPE certificate renewal application shall be submitted to the SPE Certificate Program, FMCSA service center, for the State in which the driver has legal residence, if the SPE certificate was issued unilaterally. If the SPE certificate has a co-applicant, then the renewal application is submitted to the SPE Certificate Program, FMCSA service center, for the State in which the co-applicant motor carrier's principal place of business is located. The SPE certificate renewal application shall contain the following: 


(1) Name and complete address of motor carrier currently employing the applicant; 


(2) Name and complete address of the driver; 


(3) Effective date of the current SPE certificate; 


(4) Expiration date of the current SPE certificate; 


(5) Total miles driven under the current SPE certificate; 


(6) Number of accidents incurred while driving under the current SPE certificate, including date of the accident(s), number of fatalities, number of injuries, and the estimated dollar amount of property damage; 


(7) A current Medical Examination Report Form, MCSA-5875;


(8) A medical evaluation summary pursuant to paragraph (d)(3) of this section, if an unstable medical condition exists. All handicapped conditions classified under § 391.41(b)(1) are considered unstable. Refer to paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section for the condition under § 391.41(b)(2) which may be considered medically stable. 


(9) A copy of driver's current State motor vehicle driving record for the period of time the current SPE certificate has been in effect; 


(10) Notification of any change in the type of tractor the driver will operate; 


(11) Driver's signature and date signed; and 


(12) Motor carrier coapplicant's signature and date signed. 


(j)(1) Upon granting an SPE certificate, FMCSA will notify the driver applicant and co-applicant motor carrier (if applicable) by letter. The terms, conditions, and limitations of the SPE certificate will be set forth. A motor carrier shall maintain a copy of the SPE certificate in its driver qualification file. A copy of the SPE certificate shall be retained in the motor carrier's file for a period of 3 years after the driver's employment is terminated. The driver applicant shall have the SPE certificate (or a legible copy) in his/her possession whenever on duty.


(2) Upon successful completion of the skill performance evaluation, FMCSA must notify the driver by letter and enclose an SPE certificate substantially in the following form:


(k) FMCSA may revoke an SPE certificate after the person to whom it was issued is given notice of the proposed revocation and has been allowed a reasonable opportunity to appeal.


(l) Falsifying information in the letter of application, the renewal application, or falsifying information required by this section by either the applicant or motor carrier is prohibited. 



---

[N] [65 FR 25287, May 1, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 59380, Oct. 5, 2000; 67 FR 61824, Oct. 2, 2002; 78 FR 58483, Sept. 24, 2013; 86 FR 57075, Oct. 14, 2021; 89 FR 90623, Nov. 18, 2024]




